00:00:00.200 - 00:00:24.182, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of Deliberate refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Asano. It's the 3 February 2024. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So, apologies for missing yesterday's episode, everyone. But as you'll notice, I'm doing a special Saturday episode to make up for it. So I guess, like, without further ado, let's get into the news from yesterday mostly, or the day before, I guess you should say the last 24, 36 hours there.
00:00:24.182 - 00:01:15.458, Speaker A: So the first bit of news was a kind of recap thread here from Tim Baiko. Now, I don't think I covered this yet. No, I wouldn't have covered this year because this happened yesterday. So this was basically an all core devs call kind of recap again. But the most interesting part of the recap was that Tim mentioned in his thread that they're going to be setting a mainnet date for, or Mainnet fork date for Den Kun next week after or next week on Thursday's all core devs core. Now, the reason obviously, that this is interesting is because, like, that will be the date that Denkun gets activated on main net and will be decided just like less than a week from now, right? Next Thursday is less than a week from now. And I think that the fact that they're going to be deciding on that call, right, which is February and whole ski is forking on February 7, means that we're not going to have to wait that extra week like I said we would.
00:01:15.458 - 00:01:41.634, Speaker A: Which means that we may see this, see Den kun go live in basically early to mid March instead of late. Sorry, mid to late March, which is great. I mean, it's probably like a week earlier than otherwise anticipated here, which is great to see. But we'll know the exact date, obviously, next week. But this has been a long time coming, guys. I mean, it's been almost a year now since Chappelle went live on the network, and then kun was delayed. I mean, delayed, I guess, like using that term loosely, from the expected November date to.
00:01:41.634 - 00:02:03.232, Speaker A: To now, March. But it's finally here, and it's finally only, you know, five weeks away or whatever it is whenever it gets scheduled there. So. And then, you know, I think most of the l two s are actually ready for ERP 48, 44 at this stage as well. They've got all of their kind of ducks in a row. It's going to be curious to see which ones start using 48, 44. Start using blobs straight away and which ones? Maybe wait a day or so.
00:02:03.232 - 00:02:43.816, Speaker A: And it's going to be curious to see what that fee market looks like, because as I've described before, that fee market, the blob fee market could get spammed with things like inscriptions, because it's this new thing for people to speculate on. Right. And I'm just curious to see, like, if that happens straight away, if it. If, you know, if it happens like, a week or two after, what's that? You know, what effect is that going to have on what the roll ups do? Like, are they going to store their data on blobs still, or they just kind of change between blobs and core data on the fly? I don't even know if they. If the. The Altoons l two teams or the roll up teams have put that ability in or put that functionality in to their code to allow them to do that. I'm sure it's not very hard to do that, but it might just add extra overhead.
00:02:43.816 - 00:03:23.592, Speaker A: It might be hard to balance between the two because, you know, you basically have to start speculating on when you should. You know, when you should kind of post your data as core data versus posting it as blobs, and it gets messy. Right. So we're not going to know until it goes live. I think the main concern right now, for me, at least, is that I really hope that it's not just spam with inscription stuff out of some kind of speculative activity or something, because what that means is that the roll ups won't be able to use it, or they'll use it and it'll just be more expensive and those kind of, I guess, like, fee. Fee reductions that we expect on the roll ups wouldn't flow down to users as quickly as we would like them to. But that really is just the nature of kind of a limited resource, right, where you.
00:03:23.592 - 00:03:53.688, Speaker A: You can optimize it for certain use cases, and there are, you know, concepts like local kind of fee markets and things like that. But at the end of the day, they can still get spammed. I use a term spammed kind of loosely here, but they can get spammed like speculative activity, which drives out the thing that it was actually made for. So for an example of blobs, it could get spammed with inscriptions, even though blobs are made for roll ups to store their data there, not for inscriptions. And it's kind of funny with the inscription stuff, because they expire. The blobs expire after 18 days. Right.
00:03:53.688 - 00:04:21.861, Speaker A: Um, I think it's 18 days, um, which means they're temporary. And I at least think, I thought that the whole point of inscriptions was that they don't expire, that they're. That they're actually permanent. That's what people get really excited about them with bitcoin, when it came to like nfts, where it was actually fully on chain and it didn't expire there, or didn't get kind of like lost in the air, lost in the noise there. But we're going to have to see what people kind of do with it there. But yeah, that's the latest update on, on den kun. The thread, as usual, will be found in the YouTube description below for you to give it a read.
00:04:21.861 - 00:04:51.853, Speaker A: It's got a bunch of information about other things such as verkle trees and so on and so forth, and kind of specking out what the Petra upgrade is going to look like. It seems like all the Verkultree stuff is going to be pushed to 2025. So the next upgrade is called Osaka, I believe, in 2025. So that will be the. Where the verkle stuff gets pushed through. In terms of what's going to go into Petra, I mean, it's still in flux, right? But there is a, there is a bunch of things that will go in, such as EOF, which has been a long time coming. Actually, this EOf has been punted two times now.
00:04:51.853 - 00:05:27.932, Speaker A: I think it was supposed to go live as part of Chappelle, but it didn't. And then it was supposed to go live as part of Deng kun and it didn't. So I think EOf should be ready for Petra by the end of the year here. But yeah, the vocal stuff seems to be kind of getting pushed out to 2025 because it probably won't be ready in time for Petra, which means that it would delay Petra from being able to be delivered by the end of this year into next year anyway, and it would just be a messy thing from there. But anyway, you can go give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Now, of course, speaking about vocal trees, we have another update here from Josh Rudolph, who tweeted today that there's a new vertical test net up.
00:05:27.932 - 00:05:44.812, Speaker A: Stateless clients are not too far behind. So you can go visit this link. I'll link it in the YouTube description below to see the progress of. Sorry. To see where all the links are to kind of check on the progress of this testnet, all the relevant links. You can actually be part of this as well. I think if you kind of go through these links here.
00:05:44.812 - 00:06:16.300, Speaker A: You can look at the Explorer if you just want to kind of see what's going on here. But really, I mean, for most of us, this is probably rather meaningless to kind of look at this because we're not doing any of the Debbie testing. But the reason why I bring this up is because, because it's really great to see that this stuff is continuing to make a lot of progress here. And honestly, if you want to follow someone that is basically on top of all the, the verkle tree stuff, you should definitely follow Josh. Yeah, I'll link his tweet in the YouTube description below. You can go follow him. But also Julian and I think Barnaby here, these three guys, I think they're working on vertical trees.
00:06:16.300 - 00:07:03.326, Speaker A: I know Julian has been working on it for quite a while now as part of like the Geth team here. Josh just works on it as part of, he's in the research and development part department at the Ethereum foundation. But yeah, Josh, definitely the best follower when it comes to verkle trees. And also, as I've discussed before, there's that kind of information site called Verkle Dot in Fo, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you guys, again, which has basically all the information that you would, you could need about verkle trees and statelessness. And as I said before, this is going to get probably pushed out to 2025. But as we go go towards the end of the year, as the, as kind of like Petra starts ossifying, then the devs and a lot of the chatter will move on to vocal trees and that will be the main theme of 2025. And vertical trees give us so much, guys, it unlocks so much, as I've discussed before, it unlocks, you know, potential l one.
00:07:03.326 - 00:07:41.918, Speaker A: Scalability benefits and unlocks things like lite clients or sets the groundwork for light clients, no statelessness and state expiry and basically allows us to make a much more scalable chain while keeping the chain, you know, easily runnable on consumer hardware. Like that's the goal of Ethereum, obviously. And that's always been the goal of Ethereum and we're basically getting towards that very soon. Like, I mean, 2025 is not that far away now. This is something that has been in the works for quite a while. Like, I think, I mean, I don't know exactly how many years, but it's been a long time. I think Vitalik has blog posts about this going back like as probably 2018, I would say maybe, maybe it could be earlier than that.
00:07:41.918 - 00:08:20.962, Speaker A: I just don't remember exactly right now, but it has been a long time coming. This is not anything new. It's just that it is a big undertaking, is a big task, and it is something that needed to be worked on and needed to be worked on properly for us to be able to kind of put this in, because it is a pretty major change to the network, or at least to the execution layer side of things from my knowledge here of how this all works, but it does give us a lot of benefits. So that's why we've been pursuing it. But anyway, you can go check out this, all this stuff for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Buddha has shared a new update here on Twitter today, saying due to demand, Sonic has updated the El client diversity website.
00:08:20.962 - 00:08:57.112, Speaker A: The latest version allows you to simulate client distribution for each node operator and its effects on the total client distribution. This is really cool because as I've said before, guys, like, if you actually just look at who the biggest node operators are, like Coinbase and Lido, if they switched off of the super majority client, which is geth, they would move the needle a lot here. Now you can actually put hard numbers on this and actually simulate this yourself by playing around with this kind of our website here. So if I go here and I kind of like say, okay, well, I want to add nethermine to this and I want to slide it. So that get is 50%. Sorry, Coinbase is 50% get and 50%. Never mind.
00:08:57.112 - 00:09:08.736, Speaker A: Now you can see what the total looks like. That. So, okay, let's start from the start again. Actually 100% get. What does the total look like? Well, get is at 72.8% here. So that's coinbase at 100% get.
00:09:08.736 - 00:09:42.844, Speaker A: So what would they have to switch off to get? Get below 666 percent? Not much. You can see here at six, to get down to 65% on the overall network, Coinbase would only have to get rid of, I think, 28% of their, of their geth usage and basically use nethermind or another client to do that. So really, I mean, if Coinbase switches off, we've basically solved this issue. That's how relatively easy this issue is to solve. And it also shows like, just how bit much of a market share Coinbase has here. They are the second largest stake, obviously, Lido is. Is larger at 32%, but Coinbase is at 15%.
00:09:42.844 - 00:10:01.508, Speaker A: And they are the single largest entity by far. I think the next single largest entity behind them. You know, obviously because Lido has, you know, 36 node operators. I think I said 38 the other day, it's actually 36. 36. They have 36 node operators. But yeah, Coinbase as a single entity, that's a single node operator, they are the biggest.
00:10:01.508 - 00:10:29.186, Speaker A: They have 15%, almost 15% market share. The second, sorry, the third largest is binance at 4%. So Coinbase is just way ahead here in terms of market share for a single node operator. And that's why, you know, them switching off of this has such a large impact here. But you can kind of play around with this to your heart's content, really, with all the different node operators here. But if you're talking about moving the needle in a really big way, coinbase and Lido are definitely the top two to watch here. But yeah, definitely go check out this site.
00:10:29.186 - 00:10:54.454, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. I don't think Lido is actually listed here. I think they're probably in the unlisted entities section. And this is basically saying like kind of unknown, which. Yeah, I mean, as I've discussed before, it's really hard to kind of get the actual coverage here. Like, okay, let me take a step back here for a second. I've discussed this before on the refill, but basically the reason why it's so hard to know which client is being used is because there's not really any in protocol way to know this.
00:10:54.454 - 00:11:23.864, Speaker A: And as far as I know, none of the clients have flags inbuilt, or at least not all of them have flags inbuilt in order to signal which client that you're using here. So really a lot of them are ba. A lot of the data is based on network crawling, which is notoriously unreliable. And the second dataset, which the client diversity website uses, is basically just asking the node operators what they're using. Now, there is an element of trust here. You know, you're trusting that they're actually not using the client that they say they're not using. So for example, if they're saying that they're not using Geth, you're trusting them.
00:11:23.864 - 00:11:52.272, Speaker A: But I mean, I don't really see any reason for them to lie. Like, unless they, like, I don't know, wanted to hurt Ethereum in some way. But the problem with that logic is that they're actually hurting themselves by doing that. So it just doesn't seem like, like the incentives don't line up there. So, you know, there is a little bit of trust involved in that. But I don't think that it's not, it's a big deal there. And obviously, the ultimate test of this would be if there was a bug in geth, and we, you know, we would see the network go absolutely haywire there.
00:11:52.272 - 00:12:28.232, Speaker A: But we have, we have seen kind of similar things recently with Nethermind having their bug and Baesu having their bug, and then you can see what percentage of the network basically goes offline, and then that gives you a really, really good estimate, or basically the best you're gonna get of what the makeup of the network looks like there. But we can't rely on that, right? We can't just say, okay, well, let's wait till the next bug, and then we can kind of see what the network looks like. No, because what happens if that bug is in geth? Like, not a good thing. Right, as I've discussed before. So, yeah, anyway, as I said, it's an imperfect thing, but it's the only data we have to work with. So that's the data we have to go off of. And we know for a fact that the bigger players out there use geth.
00:12:28.232 - 00:12:44.004, Speaker A: Like Coinbase, we know for a fact uses 100% get. Right. Now, that's not something that's debatable, I think. And with the lighter node operators, they're all very transparent. They tell us what they're using. Majority Geth still, I think, for most of them. And some of these other providers are also using Geth as well.
00:12:44.004 - 00:13:16.610, Speaker A: But really, that's coming down, I think, in the next month or so, this, this is just basically going to be a solved issue, and then we're just going to be vigilant about it not creeping up again. And I don't think it will because, you know, unless there's, like, I don't know, like, let's just say, you know, you go to a different client, and then what's the reason to switch back to Geth? Maybe the reason is that you saw better performance under Geth and it materially kind of moves the needle here. Maybe it's not just like a 0.1% difference in your staking returns. Um, you know, it's. It's, you know, 0.5% or something like that, which isn't actually the case from what I've seen, all the metrics that I've seen here.
00:13:16.610 - 00:14:01.878, Speaker A: So other than that, I don't really see a reason to switch back, other than maybe bugs happening. But then again, bugs happening is, like, the whole reason why we want to make sure the client diversity, uh, is as diverse as possible, so that even if a bug happens, it's not really a big deal there. And as I said before, you can always have fallback clients, right? You can always have fallback nodes that either trigger automatically or require manual triggering. And really, at the end of the day, if it requires manual triggering, you could trigger it within like ten minutes or less. Like that. You have like as a, as a large node operator through your DevOps pipeline, you basically have a standard operating procedure for this stuff already where the right people are notified at, you know, no matter what time it is, doesn't matter if they're sleeping and they're able to get online in under ten minutes and they're able to affect change that way. So.
00:14:01.878 - 00:14:57.340, Speaker A: Yeah, but that's on, I guess, like Coinbase and the lighter node operators and other node operators to sort out, but they definitely have the tools at the disposal, at their disposable to do this. All right, moving on. So Eigen Da has announced that it now works with arbitrum orbit. So thanks to alt layers fork of arbitrum nitro roll up, teams can now use Eigen da to scale orbit chains far beyond the Ethereum block size limit without sacrificing decentralization. Now, of course, as you guys know, arbitram orbit is basically arbitram's answer to validiums, where essentially people can build arbitram orbit chains and store their data elsewhere. Traditionally, it has been storing it as part of a data availability committee, like Arbitrum nova, for example. But once Eigen da goes live, you will be able to essentially store your data as an arbitrum orbit chain on Eigen da, which, as I talked about, not yesterday, the day before, I said that it's basically the gold standard of Da, in my opinion.
00:14:57.340 - 00:15:25.212, Speaker A: Uh, you know, obviously not. So the gold standard is ethereum l one, but it's like the closest you'll get to the Ethereum l one in terms of Da layers out there. But yes, it's not live yet. So obviously, you know, I'm saying that kind of based on when it is live. But yeah, it's just great to see that all but chains are working with it here. And, you know, I know I talked about this a lot the other day, but I do want to reiterate here that I do strongly believe that the DA stuff is a race to zero. Like, it's all going to come down to which Da chain offers the cheapest cost.
00:15:25.212 - 00:16:33.006, Speaker A: Because the entire purpose of using Da chain is to lower your costs, right? So if you can get them as low as possible, then you're going to go with, with that chain. So it's going to be very, very curious to see like how cheap Eigen DAA is compared to Celestia is compared to avail is compared to other DA layers and then also comp as compared to Ethereum L1, because there are certain chains out there that I would expect to never actually use off chain dA. So for example, Albatrum one, if they started using off chain DA, I'd be very concerned because arbitram one and I guess like op mainnet and base and a few others out there, they're supposed to be proper roll ups, right? They're not supposed to use off chain DA, they're supposed to use Ethereum l one da. And l one DA is actually becoming more abundant, obviously with blobs, going live in with AIP 4844 and then working towards increasing the sizes of blobs and increasing the number of blobs and then working towards full dank sharding. So in my opinion, if you are a big chain, if you're a lot, if you have a lot of defi activity, you should not be using these off chain DA solutions. It's just strictly less secure. And you can afford to be using Ethereum l one for DA.
00:16:33.006 - 00:17:21.090, Speaker A: But at the same time I kind of, I mean, I ponder this question a lot of, okay, well, what happens when, you know, there's a community governance kind of module behind these roll ups and they decentralized, they're in stage two, and then the token holders are like, well, why are we spending so much on ethereum l one Da when we could use off chain Da and then keep a lot of these fees for ourselves sort of thing. You know, let's just say there's something like arb staking and then if you stake your arb, you get like a share of the fear revenue, um, and then obviously the fear. And you would go up if you weren't spending a lot on uh, securing yourself with Ethereum l one da. So I wonder what the community would do in that respect. Because at the end of the day, you're giving up a lot of security for a little bit of profit. And that to me is not a long term sustainable or secure or reliable way of doing things. And that to me is not the right path for certain chains.
00:17:21.090 - 00:17:54.556, Speaker A: Like I feel like the biggest l two s should never use off chain da. The biggest l two s, that and biggest tier. I mean, to, so if I'm talking about like biggest in terms of like value settled and value kind of on the l two, I feel like they should never use off chain da. They should always use ethereum l one da. And they can afford to, because they are the biggest, right? They are the ones that are generating the most fair revenue. They can afford to use ethereum l one da instead of going off chain. But as I said, there are certain circumstances where that kind of goes out the window, because then it just depends on how selfish are the token holders.
00:17:54.556 - 00:18:27.316, Speaker A: Like how much do they want to get for themselves? So, and if they're able to get that, that extra fear revenue for themselves, maybe they'll do it, even if it's just like a short term thing. So again, it comes back to, like, what the community actually is aligned on in terms of sustainability and what they actually see as valuable. Like, to me, I see the obvious kind of value in a roll up, especially one that has a lot of defi activity not storing its data off chain. And when it, you know, if it's storing its data off chain, it technically isn't a roll up anymore. Well, it literally isn't a roll up anymore. And as well as technically. But yeah, there's economics involved here.
00:18:27.316 - 00:19:17.124, Speaker A: It's not just a technical thing, it's the economics of it. There are different parties involved, there are daos involved. So it can get a little bit messy, but then you can kind of say, okay, well then ultimately the goal would be to have the enshrined Zke EVM, when we eventually have that on ethereum l one, be like the ultra secure. It's not technically an l two, but like be the ultra secure l two. I mean, I would call it an l two because in my, from my understanding, an enshrined Zkvm is tightly coupled with the protocol, with the layer one protocol, which means that it technically is not a L2, because it can't actually operate independently of the l one protocol. It is at the mercy of the l one protocols governance, and it can't, from my understanding, store its data off chain either, because it won't work with the protocol. You know, the protocol rules won't allow it to do that.
00:19:17.124 - 00:20:02.254, Speaker A: But there are different designs here. Remains to be seen how this is all going to shake out. But still, I think that off chain DA has a purpose for a lot of use cases, such as low value use cases, such as things like payments, for example, like just settling low value payments. And then you can kind of bundle that up and you can still put that on ethereum l one. You know, maybe, maybe for example, you settled to ethereum l one once a day, you know, you do your payments thing and then once every 24 hours you put a, you know, you roll up those transactions, right? And you settle that onto ethereum one. And that's just one transaction and that's just one fee you have to pay rather than doing it like every minute or something or every block even. Right? But for other use cases, it makes a lot more sense to just use ethereum l one da because you're settling high value transactions there.
00:20:02.254 - 00:20:35.852, Speaker A: But anyway, that's enough talk about da. I know I talked a lot about the other day. I've got ten minutes left here and there are a few things I wanted to go through with regards to l two s in particular. So you guys know two of my favorite websites for tracking l two growth at growthepie Xyz and l two b. So I just wanted to remind you guys about these websites if you wanted to go view them. But the reason why I'm bringing them up as well today is because basically the l two growth is still going very, very strong. So if we go through each of the kind of metrics here, which I'm going to asterisk this and add some nuance here, that all of these metrics are flawed, all of these metrics are imperfect.
00:20:35.852 - 00:21:02.164, Speaker A: They should not be taken in a vacuum. They should not be taken as any kind of signal without diversity deeper into why these things are happening. But at the same time, if you take them all together, it does begin to paint a nice picture here. And if you take them over longer periods of time as well, at least the year, like, I wouldn't actually be looking at anything shorter than a year. Then you get to see better, better metrics here. But like let's look at active addresses, for example. You can say over the last year, things have been growing really, really nicely.
00:21:02.164 - 00:21:24.842, Speaker A: If you see it stacked, it's basically been up. Only Zksync era has a lot here. But then, as I said, there is nuance. You can keep in mind that Zksync hasn't done their token yet. So there's probably a lot of airdrop farming going on here. That's not a necessarily a bad thing. Like, I actually don't actually think that's a bad thing at all because people said that there was a lot of airdrop farming going on with arbitrum and then arbitrary continued to grow after they did their token.
00:21:24.842 - 00:22:02.872, Speaker A: So I don't think it's necessarily a bad thing, but it's good to keep in mind that there is, you know, a lot of, definitely a lot of airdrop farming on chains that haven't done than tokens here yet. But regardless, the other chains are continuing to grow on this metric as well. Transaction count as well. I mean, transaction count is imperfect for other reasons, such as the fact that not every l two does transactions the same way and gas is meted differently. So comparing the l two s to each other is probably not the best thing to do. But as a trajectory, they seem to be going up nicely over time. But what's really been interesting is to see stable coins going up only basically on these l two s.
00:22:02.872 - 00:22:35.588, Speaker A: And why this is interesting is because stable coins are basically the money of the crypto ecosystem. So the more stable coins you have on your chain, I think the more real users are on that chain, right. Because no one's speculating on stable coins, right? Like by, by their very nature they're non speculative vehicles, but people are using stable coins to speculate on other things, right. People are using stable coins to do things like payments on Altus because it's cheaper. So to see this continue to go up only across the board, basically, I think is really, really great. You can see here that arbitram leads with $2.1 billion.
00:22:35.588 - 00:23:00.320, Speaker A: I think op main that at $600 million base at 300 million. And then you got the, you know, the kind of long tail there as well. And some of them aren't even highlighted here, but you can see that there. But yeah, there are so many other metrics here on growthepie xyz that you can go check out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so here. Um, l two bait. I think, as I've said before, most of the value of l two b comes from a lot of the other stuff outside of the metrics.
00:23:00.320 - 00:23:43.210, Speaker A: They do have various metrics here. But I think for l two b, what I like to look at is the stuff like, you know, the risk analysis that they have. So if you go here, you can actually, as I've described before, see all the l two s compared to each other and see all the risks associated with, with each of them. I'm a really big fan of the liveness page and also tracking like the 30 day anomalies of the, of the liveness and seeing kind of, uh, the l two s compared to each other. Really big fan of the finality page as well, because you get to actually see what the time to finality looks like for each of these l two s, and, and they've got, like, notes here around this, and they're going to be adding more l two s over time. And also the activity tab is pretty cool, too, because it goes back pretty far. Like, it goes back, I think, to, yeah, 2019 even.
00:23:43.210 - 00:24:12.050, Speaker A: And then l two start coming onto the scene, you know, in about like 2021, obviously, with arbitrum and op mainnet launching back then. And then it's just continued to kind of grow up here. You can actually see this big red spike in activity. This is when inscriptions, we're kind of taking off on the l two s very briefly. And I remember saying at the time that it was a very brief thing. And that's why I like that with grow the pie, they average out the metrics here. So if you actually look at kind of maybe transaction counts, you can see inscriptions.
00:24:12.050 - 00:24:33.490, Speaker A: This is what this is. This was inscriptions here around here. But this is seven day rolling average. So it kind of looks less pronounced than it does on or not on l two beat here, I think. I don't think they average out to seven days. I think that they just kind of look at the last seven days and kind of measure it against each other here. But, yeah, I mean, there are different ways to measure these metrics.
00:24:33.490 - 00:24:58.784, Speaker A: And then obviously you can see metrics such as, like the max daily tps of each of these networks and so on and so forth. So, yeah, those two sites, definitely go check them out. I'll link them in the YouTube description below. And then last up here was the ultrasound money website. You know, I know the ultrasound money meme has fallen out of favor in recent times. A lot of people are saying that it is a meme that we shouldn't be kind of perpetuating anymore. It's immature, it's something that is rather meaningless, blah, blah, blah, so on and so forth.
00:24:58.784 - 00:25:25.260, Speaker A: As I've said to you guys before, I think the ultrasound money meme is a really good insider Ethereum meme. It's not something that we should perpetuate outside of Ethereum, and I don't think we have been doing that, really. But. But definitely, I still think it's, it describes exactly what kind of ethereum is. Right. It is ultrasound money because of the fact that we are net deflationary since the merge, and it seems like we're always going to be net deflationary. I mean, I know I say that now, but if you look at this, we need to basically go like.
00:25:25.260 - 00:25:44.116, Speaker A: I mean, if you look here since I guess, like we've been net deflationary. Not since the merge. I should be technically correct here. Since January 23. So over a year now, and it has really just been down only. Yes. There's been periods where it starts to creep up again when the gas fees are relatively low, but we burn, as I've described it before, we burn ETH much easier than we issue it.
00:25:44.116 - 00:26:20.852, Speaker A: Right. It's much easier to burn, Ethan, is to issue it because of the fact that even when gas fees are low, we're still burning ETH. Right. Like, even at 17 Gwei, which is below the ultrasound barrier, which is the current gas price, we're still burning ETH. And what do you think's gonna happen in the bull market, the full blown retail bull market? What's gonna happen is that we're gonna burn a lot of ETH in a short period of time, and then even if for, like, two years, we don't, we aren't net deflationaries and we're not above the ultrasound barrier. It won't matter because we have burnt so much during the really active period that it makes up for the fact that we're not gonna be burning as much during that time. So, as I said, it's much easier to burn ETH than it is to issue it.
00:26:20.852 - 00:26:59.534, Speaker A: But the reason I bring up the ultrasound money website is not for the deflationary stuff, but it's for the fact that it, by far, still has the best information about the use of the ethereum l one. And. And that information doesn't just include the burn across different intervals. It also includes, like, which, I guess, like, which apps and kind of like, which contracts are causing the most ETH to be burned. And the reason why I like looking at this is because if you look at over the last 30 days, remember when I used to show this, and you could see that the top burners were not l two s, like the top ten. There weren't l two s really in there. Now, in the top five, there are two l two s.
00:26:59.534 - 00:27:37.036, Speaker A: Both arbitrum and linear are in the top five for ETH burned, only behind Uniswap, ETH transfers and tether, which are the obvious ones because Uniswap is the most used decks. ETH transfers, it's. I mean, you know, ETH transfers, the thing that happens most in the ethereum network, and tether is the most popular stable coin. Right. But then you can see that there's arbitram, linear Zksync error, and a few others down here, like optimism down here as well. So this has evolved over time. But why I like looking at this is because it basically fits in with the thesis that a lot of us have been talking about where we said that l one block space is just going to be used by l two s.
00:27:37.036 - 00:28:39.950, Speaker A: Now, I know of course, that this is going to change post 48 44 because obviously the fees are going to be lower and then that means they're going to be burning less, ethan, they're going to not be in the leaderboard as much. But the whole point of scaling out and the whole point of giving more space for these l two s is that we believe that it's going to increase the scalability, increase the activity, which is going to on net, if you kind of like what's the word I'm looking for? If you kind of take it as old altogether, basically it adds up to this again and it basically leads to a stronger burn here. So yeah, it's another reason why I like the ultrasound money website. They also track the total value secured by the Ethereum network and things like NFT leaderboard and also the monetary premium of Ethereum, such as how much is being staked, how much is in DeFi, how much is being burned, validator rewards as well like issuance tips and Mev estimate and so on and so forth. There's a lot of really great information on this website besides the burn stuff. So yeah, if you haven't checked it out recently, you should definitely go check it out there. But I think that's going to be it for today because I'm at time now.
00:28:39.950 - 00:28:55.054, Speaker A: So I hope you enjoyed today's special Saturday episode. I know you guys have been asking for another episode with Eric, so another daily grade drive through episode with Eric Connor. Just scheduling stuff. I can. I'm going to ask him if he wants to come on and like when he's free so that we can do another episode. I know it's been a while. It's been months.
00:28:55.054 - 00:29:13.652, Speaker A: And I know we used to say that we wouldn't rug again, but it seems like we have at this point. But I mean, yeah, we definitely still have a lot to talk about. So I'm going to ask him and see if he's free for an episode anytime soon. So no promises, but hopefully we can do one soon there. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:29:13.652 - 00:29:19.004, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all on Monday. Thanks, everyone.
