00:00:03.880 - 00:00:22.414, Speaker A: Hey, guys. I'm here today with Eugene Chen, known on Twitter as zero xshitttrader. Eugene is somebody who's been in crypto for a little while now, has very good thoughts, I think, on the space, and also has become somewhat of a personal friend. So, Eugene, you want to give a little background and tell everybody what you do.
00:00:22.534 - 00:01:00.066, Speaker B: Thanks for having me on Gort. Yeah. I'm co founder at Ellipsis Labs. We build products in DeFi, specifically high performance Defi products like Phoenix on Solana. I have a pretty standard background. Spent some time in high frequency trading, more time in product engineering, studied math in school, came to crypto during the pandemic, spent a lot of time looking at Defi, and, yeah, I was not too happy with what I saw. And so my co founder and I started the company in late 2022, and here we are.
00:01:00.250 - 00:01:13.762, Speaker A: Nice. So was Phoenix or Ellipsis Labs, which is your company. Was this the first work you did in Defi, or were you doing stuff before you founded this? Were you actually writing code before that, or. No.
00:01:13.858 - 00:01:26.300, Speaker B: Depends what you mean by work. In crypto, we call ourselves independent researchers, which usually just means unemployed. So that was me for quite a. A while in crypto, sort of exploring few and trying to figure out what's going on.
00:01:26.412 - 00:01:55.124, Speaker A: Got it. Yeah, I think that's what I would put myself in that category as well, although I don't know how much research I do, but. Okay, interesting. So you spent a little time in hypergytrading. I would assume this is what brought you to looking at how markets function in DeFi, and eventually to the conclusion that Defi needed a very, uh, efficient order book. Is this like, would. Would you agree with this? And then also, what was sort of like, your.
00:01:55.124 - 00:02:06.976, Speaker A: Your view on how trading was occurring? Um, yeah, like, the structure, and then, like, how you thought that you could, like, potentially present a solution. Yeah.
00:02:07.000 - 00:03:03.142, Speaker B: So I came to crypto in 2021 and spent a lot of time looking at what was going on in DeFi. And there was this whole xy equals k thing, which I guess, very soon after I got into crypto, was replaced with uniswap v three, the concentrated liquidity amm. And this is just so foreign to someone with a little bit more of a tradfi background. And there are all these papers saying things like, if you provide liquidity on the Xy equals k amm, you're going to make money. And it sort of just did not make very much sense to me. And then as all the coins were going up, I kept thinking, okay, I must have something wrong here. All these positions are making tons of money, despite being really, really unsophisticated liquidity providers.
00:03:03.142 - 00:03:53.996, Speaker B: Because coming from the more traditional side, electronic market making is extremely, extremely competitive industry, where you have these high frequency trading firms. Electronic market makers who have been in the business for decades at this point, spent tens of billions of dollars on R and D to compete in providing really, really good liquidity, which means tight spreads and lots of depth. And this one click, xy equals k. Liquidity provisioning just seemed like there's no way it should be able to compete with that. And I think that's pretty much borne out to be true. It became much more clear when the prices started going down. And you still see this in crypto today, where on chain, especially with amms, the spreads tend to be wider and the liquidity providers tend to not make money, tend to lose money.
00:03:53.996 - 00:04:56.824, Speaker B: In fact, oftentimes they have to be compensated with liquidity mining rewards. And I think I have a lot more respect for the AMM today than I did maybe like a year or two ago. I think it really makes sense as a liquidity bootstrapping mechanism, where the onboarding costs for a market maker to start providing liquidity on a new coin can be relatively high. And this does give like a one click way for someone who is not particularly concerned with making money on providing liquidity and more concerned with liquidity existing at all. For example, a team that is deploying a token. So I think there is a real use case there, but it does seem relatively fringe. And if Defi is to compete with gradfi, which I think should be the goal, I don't think the goal should just be DeFi is for people who don't have access to binance or defis for trading coins that, you know, Coinbase won't list.
00:04:56.824 - 00:05:10.652, Speaker B: So for DeFi to be able to compete with tradfi, you actually need to also compete on products. You need to compete on efficiency. You need to build really good products for market makers so they can provide really good liquidity to the end user.
00:05:10.828 - 00:05:52.962, Speaker A: Yeah. And you've been pretty vocal about amms, I would say, at least from what I've seen on your Twitter, you've long been sort of critical of the model, or at least like you've voiced what you've just said now. So you say that you've sort of had a change of opinion. But I want to ask you specifically, do you think that amms are, I dont want to say useless, but not nearly as useful when it starts to come to assets that are not on this long tail. Do you see a future where a and Ms are useful for these very, very liquid, large market cap assets? Or do you think that at that point youre saying were going to just be trading exclusively on order books in that capacity?
00:05:53.108 - 00:07:17.754, Speaker B: I think they're likely to continue existing in some capacity more as like the liquidity of last resort, the backbone liquidity, where there are times where market makers don't want to provide. And so generally, the way this works on centralized venues, whether it's in tradfi or in crypto, is someone, whether it's the exchange or a token team, is going to strike a deal with a market maker to guarantee that there's going to be some liquidity at some depth, like 99% of the time, or almost 100% of the time, even when it might be not profitable directly on the market making. And maybe you can replace that with some sort of AMm like construct. But the AMm is really not designed to be the super general thing in my mind. It's designed to have some form of completely on chain liquidity in an environment where, one, there's no guarantee there's going to be sophisticated market makers who want to show up and onboard onto your system, and two, when the whole blockchain, like the entire global state does, call it 15 or 20 transactions per second, it's just not conducive to any sort of active market making activity. So you do need a new primitive for that environment. So, for example, I think order books will never make sense on Ethereum mainnet unless Ethereum mainnet someday scales to 100,000 tps.
00:07:18.414 - 00:07:52.750, Speaker A: Yeah, and that's basically been the rationale, at least since the inception of Amms, is that you realistically can't have these very high frequency order books on top of a blockchain that moves every 12 seconds. To that end, what were you looking for when you started building out features Phoenix? What was in your mind, what you needed to do? And then also we can, I suppose, move on to Solana as a whole. And how you felt that Solana specifically would enable what you were looking to do?
00:07:52.902 - 00:08:46.302, Speaker B: Yeah, in my mind, Phoenix is very far from a completed product. It's just a naive vanilla order book implementation on top of Solana with spot trading only. Yeah, it's really a proof of concept where first we needed to prove out the product thesis that active liquidity can be competitive with passive liquidity on an environment like Solana. And it's not obvious that this is going to be the case, because providing liquidity on chain is very different from providing liquidity on a centralized venue. I think the most important piece is you have to pay gas. The market maker has to pay gas anytime they want to place an on chain order, anytime they want to cancel an on chain order. And, yeah, that number might be very small, but if you're placing and canceling orders very rapidly, you know, those costs just add up.
00:08:46.302 - 00:09:21.632, Speaker B: And so you need enough volume to make up for that. And then the second piece is, these active market makers really care about being profitable. They're like sophisticated entities. They know how to measure the profitability of a strategy. They're not looking at some big green number on the screen that says 800% APY and thinking, okay, that's probably good to go. So liquidity providers are more sophisticated and more sensitive to profitability than a passive liquidity provider. And the environment is significantly worse than it is providing on a centralized venue.
00:09:21.632 - 00:10:08.976, Speaker B: So it's, I think, like, not obvious at priori that active liquidity is even viable on chain. And so we had to prove that at first, I think, at least in the current market conditions, or the market conditions over the last year, which have obviously changed quite a bit. Yeah, the market makers make money on Phoenix. They make quite a bit of money and are able to provide tighter spreads than the amms. Now that we've proven that active liquidity can outperform passive liquidity, we still need to make the core underlying primitive better, because the goal isn't to provide better liquidity than uniswap. The goal is to provide better liquidity than Coinbase or binance, or in the long run, like the New York Stock Exchange.
00:10:09.160 - 00:10:39.810, Speaker A: Yeah. And this is something that Anatoly, the founder of Solana, is very fixated on. I mean, this has been one of his selling points on Solana. He says, I think we can create this global state that competes with finance, competes with Coinbase. First of all, is this realistic? Second of all, just out of curiosity, a little bit, on your last question, you said that market makers are profitable in Phoenix. Do you think this is a function of the flow being primarily non toxic? I don't know. I actually don't know if it is.
00:10:39.810 - 00:10:49.202, Speaker A: Or, I mean, is this like a long run, profitable market making strategy for them, or is this, like you said, under current market conditions? So there's kind of two questions, but you can answer how you want.
00:10:49.298 - 00:11:35.294, Speaker B: I'll answer the second one first. I think it is always very difficult to make a long run general statement, which is why I'm always going to hedge with something like, in the current market conditions, there's a lot of non toxic flow on Solana today, although the market makers were still profitable when the volumes were 1% of what they are today. And there definitely are, shall we say, toxic actors. I don't mean toxic in a derogatory way. I mean it just in the nature of the flow, and they're making money as well. And as a market maker, your job is basically, you want to provide to the non toxic flow while losing as little as possible to the toxic flow. And so sort of the ratio of how much non toxic flow to toxic flow there is matters quite a bit.
00:11:35.294 - 00:13:11.844, Speaker B: And, yeah, in the market conditions from six months ago, when the volumes are 1% of what they are today, and also in the current market conditions, the market makers are profitable, and of course, they're adjusting strategies, given the volumes, given the nature of the flow, very actively monitoring, as opposed to, again, a passive liquidity provider. And then, on your first question, one thing I've always respected about Toli and his vision for Solana is it's extremely ambitious. I think global shared state makes a ton of sense for deFi specifically. I think we look at the roll up landscape today, the l two landscape, and there's so much fragmentation, and it really limits the usability and usefulness of a lot of these applications, or really these pieces of infra, where one of the biggest benefits of doing things on chain is the shared state, where you have this notion of composability assets that can be used across apps in a very, very seamless way. And I think at some point, you need to probably have some opinion on what pieces of state need to be shared and what can have more, like asynchronous composability. So, for example, I think it makes a lot of sense for, in the long run, all of defi to live on the same shared state, whether that's Solana or somewhere else. But maybe that doesn't need to be the same place as NFTs or DPin or whatever else is going on in crypto.
00:13:12.814 - 00:13:34.190, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that. I think a lot of people are realizing this at this point. Okay, so I want to ask you more specifically about Solana. What are you seeing right now with, like. Well, transactions are very hard to land on chain, as you probably know. And there's, like, you have done a lot of research on this. I would actually.
00:13:34.190 - 00:13:50.094, Speaker A: I don't know. I'm probably just talking you up right now. But I think it's also true that you're like, one of the foremost experts on the Solana fee structures. You have some strong opinions. What's Solana doing right? What's Solana doing wrong? Like, what are the issues? And, like, how rectifiable are these? Didn't just ramble however you want.
00:13:50.674 - 00:14:53.660, Speaker B: Yeah, there's a lot of problems with Solana today. I think the most important thing, though, is, like, Solana kind of works. It mostly works, and it works at quite high throughput with very credible levels of decentralization, which is extremely differentiated in the market today. And one mental model for Solana is basically, since Mainnet beta launched in March, I think March of 2020, Solana has basically been putting out fires the entire time, where things are just completely breaking on the engineering side or on the business side or whatever. Over the last year, there's been a ton of time to pay down some of this technical debt, think through some of the more long term research problems, which Solana just hasn't really had the luxury of being able to deal with. All has been in this survival firefighting mode. And, yeah, again, the mission is extremely ambitious.
00:14:53.660 - 00:16:11.212, Speaker B: You're building this massive distributed system that's permissionless, permissionless to participate in, whether it's as a validator, you know, contributing to consensus, or as like, a user or application developer, and that's just an extremely hard problem. So I think Solana was founded in 2017 or 2018, and the output since then has just been extremely impressive. And I think it's super unrealistic to expect that Solana would look anything like a completed product today. So, yeah, I mentioned that volumes have picked up by about 100 x in the last six to eight months and spread a lot of problems to the chain. There's definitely some. Some of these, like, long term issues that need to be addressed, some of which are on the engineering side, like the, what we call the networking layer on Solana, which is really just part of the client implementation, as some issues were. Effectively, every validator has these ports that are exposed to the rest of the world, and there's trading opportunities, very directly profitable opportunities, to span this layer with massive amounts of traffic.
00:16:11.212 - 00:17:05.554, Speaker B: And it's a very difficult engineering problem to figure out. Okay, how are we going to throttle this? How are we going to assign bandwidth to different types of users or rpcs or stake? So there's a lot of engineering problems. There are plenty of research problems as well. I think Solana historically has not focused very much on incentive compatibility, very different from the Ethereum side. And I think it's worked out quite well for Solana, just really focusing on engineering, really focusing on performance, and sort of kicking the can down the road on some of these thorny or research problems, which we'll need to get addressed at some point, but actually have not been a significant issue to date. On the topic of fees. Yeah, I think like, the fee model in Solana just doesn't make a ton of sense right now, where there's a couple things you're optimizing for with fees.
00:17:05.554 - 00:18:47.250, Speaker B: First, you have some limit on block space, and so you can't increase supply infinitely, and that means you need some mechanism for throttling the demand, which is almost always going to be on something like price. And one really good way to do this is with a global fee model where you also care about the UX. And we saw this with Ethereum 1559, where, yeah, there was the burn and all that, but actually much more important, in my opinion, was the UX improvement, where you basically know, I can send a transaction with some, you know, like small tip, and then I'm just going to pay the base fee, whatever it is, and I know it can't increase by like 100 x in the next block. There's a max escalation, and you're just going to get your transaction in with quite high probability in most market conditions. Not all market conditions, but most market conditions. And this type of mechanism is really, really good for the UX, where the user doesn't need to spend time or the wallet doesn't need to make a decision on behalf of the user of how much fee do I think I need to bid to get in in some sort of, like, first price auction mechanism? Solana also has continuous block building, so any sort of first price auction is still going to have inefficiency, where I think you could make an argument for the efficiency being just as good with the first price auction on ethereum as a 1559 like model, or probably superior, I think the mechanism designers would say, yeah, okay.
00:18:47.282 - 00:19:49.936, Speaker A: Also, I wanted to ask you, so Geedo recently did away with their mempool. I think you had talked about how bad sandwiches were getting on Solana. What do you think of this? Is this one of the incentive compatibility problems that you're talking about, or the others? I actually, like, wanted to ask more what you think the incentive incompatibilities are. And then, yeah, so what is the situation like with, with MeV now? Where is it headed? Is somebody going to step in and like, just take a, take judo's place and then also, sorry, I keep like, just thrusting questions at you. But the other thing I was going to ask is just, like, if you could, like, synthesize the difference between MeV that exists on, like, amms that we see versus order books, and, like, if order books eventually are just going to sort of look like traditional stat arb, or if there's, like, you talked about the difficulties of market making, or the differences, but market making on something like binance versus Phoenix. So, yeah, like, I hope you remember all those things and. Because I'm not sure that I do, but, yeah, you can just address any of those.
00:19:49.936 - 00:19:50.464, Speaker A: Sure.
00:19:50.504 - 00:20:31.346, Speaker B: Let's start with Jito. I think removing the mempool was a really, really good decision. And it is another example of Solana prioritizing. I mean, Solana here in this very vague, nebulous sense of it's comprised of a bunch of different actors, of which Jitto is one. And it's another example of Solana prioritizing the user experience over incentive compatibility. Because, yeah, in the long run, let's say Solana makes no changes moving forward. On the engineering and consensus side of things.
00:20:31.346 - 00:21:35.448, Speaker B: Yeah, the long run, you lose continuous block building, you end up with something that looks like PBS. You might even end up with something that looks like four slot PBS, because leaders on Solana get four slots in a row. And you also definitely end up in this PBS construction with some sort of front running capability. And that's just really bad for the user. Where you have these today, the main use case on Solana, I would say, on any blockchain, is playing the shitcoin game. And a big part of shitcoin game is you want to place a market order. Market order really only makes sense in a world where you have this first in, first out type ordering, because when you come into the market and you say, I'll take literally any price, or I'll take up to 50% slippage or 99% slippage, if that order is not executed right away, if someone else gets to look at it first, then you're going to get front run, you're going to get the worst possible execution, which is just a terrible outcome for the end user.
00:21:35.448 - 00:22:10.564, Speaker B: And yeah, there's sort of ways around this with private order flow, we're seeing this game start to play out. Or actually, it's played out quite a bit on the ethereum side, where some of the largest block builders, three main blockbuilders, and a couple of them have exclusive order flow deals with some of these large senders of market order, shall we say, these telegram trading apps where users are relatively execution, insensitive. And it's quite centralizing at the block building layer, of course, where if you have more market share today.
00:22:13.384 - 00:22:13.872, Speaker A: You'Re able.
00:22:13.888 - 00:22:56.824, Speaker B: To provide better guarantees to the incremental order flow. So the cost to serve the order flow is lower for you. And, yeah, if you play everything out to the equilibrium, you end up with something very, very similar. On Solana, I think judo turning off the mempool is not some permanent fix. I don't think it's ever been marketed like that, certainly not by the judo team. And what it does do is buy a little bit of time where, yeah, sort of going to have to figure out how to do market order on chain if, if you're going to be able to support some sort of shitcoin economy. And you can do this with like a trusted sequencer, which is what the L2s do today.
00:22:56.824 - 00:23:04.652, Speaker B: But if you want the sequencer set to be fully permissionless, then you're going to need a better long term solution.
00:23:04.828 - 00:23:55.324, Speaker A: So now I have two questions, and I'm going to remember which ones they are. Okay, so the first one is, you have observed, and honestly, I would say, very well informed on Ethereum Mev, and you've watched what sort of unfolded in that, in that domain. What are your thoughts on, just, like, the general direction of MeV on Ethereum? And, like, do you think that, so, like, obviously there's been some, I mean, there's been a lot of opinions on this, but there's been some opinions that Ethereum has in some ways, like, attempted to maximize the MeV. Well, actually, this is sort of a stated goal, right? The MeV accelerationist, whatever you want to call it, they've said, look, we're going to, like, maximize it, and then we're going to work out the kinks. But then there's people who. Okay, well, it's not so clear we're working out the kinks, and it seems just, like, be accelerating. So I want to know, like, what your general view is on Ethereum Mev.
00:23:55.324 - 00:24:35.888, Speaker A: And then the other thing is how much of this, because this is something that totally talks about a lot, and there's also different opinions on this, how much of Mev, like, just functionally is solved by blockchains going really, really fast? Like, is there a way to, uh, is there a way to quantify that, like, such that you can. I I know that, you know, like, it's the difference between on chain prices and off chain prices. Like, this is, like, a lot of what contributes to me be on Ethereum, for example. But is there a way for you to say, like, we can push MeV down to a negligible amount with x speed, or, you know, like the blockchain going this fast in your mind? So those were two. Two specific questions, but, okay, I'll try.
00:24:35.896 - 00:25:28.684, Speaker B: To answer them in order this time. So the first was on Ethereum MeV. I think Ethereum has not had the luxury that Solana has had in addressing the MEV problem, where I think it was another case of oh, shit is on fire, and we need to address this right away. I think this was starting in late 2019, early 2020, as Defi really started to pick up, and there are all these mempool games getting played. You had all these failed transactions landing on chain, which is much more painful on Ethereum than it is on Solana because the block space is so constrained and because there were like, so few mining pools that were contributing, like, a large market share of mining, and there's sort of no way to kick them out. You can't, like, slash them. There's actually no option to.
00:25:28.684 - 00:26:32.444, Speaker B: And I don't think Ethereum would have considered this anyway, but there wasn't really a way to nicely ask a miner to not do the profit maximizing thing. And in that market, we saw Ethereum miners spinning up deals with searchers sort of under the table. We saw some mining pools attempt to extract mev on their own. And so this democratization angle, I think, made a lot of sense in that proof of work world. And you actually had to, you probably had to enable sandwiching front running, because all the order flow was public at the time. Maybe you could have just gone the private order flow route. I think the real issue is moving towards proof of stake and PBS.
00:26:35.264 - 00:26:35.744, Speaker A: Really.
00:26:35.824 - 00:27:50.754, Speaker B: Having an emphasis on this incentive compatibility, really having this focus on the solo staker being able to make as much yield as the institutional staker, which is never actually going to be the case, but the goal is to at least decrease the gap and hope that, I don't know, solo staker airdrops will make up for the difference or more than make up for the difference. And to contrast with Solana, the MEV infrastructure just didn't really exist and only started to get built out during this market when there was very, very little activity on Solana. And so the actors extract mev, I would say, in general, are less sophisticated on the Solana side than on the Ethereum side, which is just a function of the market sizing. And I think that will not be true. In the medium to long run, Jito has a very strong position in this market, and I think they are able to influence, for better or for worse, where the MEV markets go on. Solana today, they have more than 70% of the stake, I believe, which is not them owning the stake. It's just 70% of the stake running the Jito Solana client.
00:27:50.754 - 00:28:20.084, Speaker B: And, yeah, I think removing the mempool is one thing that, I mean, well, to be fair, they added it in the first place. There's no mem pool by default on Solana. Transactions are sent directly to the leaders. There's no p two p gossip of pending transactions. Yeah, I think removing that was just clearly a good decision. And then your second question was good, but I forgot what it was.
00:28:20.704 - 00:28:59.446, Speaker A: My second question was just, I mean, you started to move that direction, but it was just, if you make it really, really fast, if you make a blockchain really, really fast, can you decrease Mev to, I don't know, a negligible amount? I don't know if that's really a stated goal or, I mean, how much does just making it really fat? Because this is something like Anatoly says, right? Like, this is like, one of his big points is like, you make it really fast. There's less than me v. It's just like, period, end of story. And I wanted to hear your take on that. Like, coming from, like, the more looking at this as, like, somebody building an application top Solana. And, yeah, you can run with it from there.
00:28:59.630 - 00:29:37.536, Speaker B: Sure. Yeah. I guess my first point here is the application developer really needs to care about Mev, because you can think of an application sort of as this closed system. So on Phoenix, for example, you have, like, market makers and you have takers. You have two sides of the flow. And then what Mev sort of is, is this, like, extraction from this closed system. And so if you're trying to build something that is sustainable, you want to minimize that in the same way that, you know, if you're doing any sort of market design, you want to minimize the toxic flow relative to the non toxic flow, with the understanding that you'll never be able to get to zero toxic flow.
00:29:37.536 - 00:30:20.946, Speaker B: And that's okay. Running the blockchain faster definitely reduces some types of MeV. Increasing amount of block space also increases the protocol design space. And so there's more things the application developer can do to mitigate MeV. At the end of the day, though, what you really care about is the proposer or whoever has the right to insert and order the transactions. What really matters is how much agency they have. On Ethereum, they have this not easy, but relatively easy problem.
00:30:20.946 - 00:31:26.760, Speaker B: Okay, you have, call it 150 transactions, and you have 12 seconds to jam it into a block and nab the shit out of all the retail trades. And on Solana is like, you have 1.6 seconds across your four slots and far more transactions. So it's a little bit harder to mev it. No matter what, though, the most sophisticated MEV actors are going to be smarter and have more compute capability than the weakest validator. And so if you're an l one and you care about someone being able to run a node on a raspberry PI or be a validator, with spending less than $1,000 a month on compute and cloud hosting, the most sophisticated searchers are going to have much more capabilities. And basically the only thing you can do here is reduce how much agency the proposer has, which will have other effects, like the transaction.
00:31:26.760 - 00:32:30.474, Speaker B: Ordering will be less efficient in the economic sense, which I think might be okay, because, like, the max efficiency means max extraction, which is bad for the users and bad for the applications. There's this interesting proposal on Solana from Toli. I think it's called concurrent block proposers, or something like that, where instead of having a single proposer per slot, you have multiple proposers. And let's pretend there's two proposers. They each have a right to call it half the block space, and then they pick some set of transactions that are going to put in that block space, and then the consensus mechanism finds a way to merge them into a single block. And so you're going to lose a lot of efficiency here, because two independent parties packing blocks are going to be less efficient than one. You're going to have probably more failed transactions.
00:32:30.474 - 00:33:49.846, Speaker B: Because if I build a transaction, if I send a transaction, I don't know, at execution time or, sorry, at the time it's inserted into the block, you don't know if it's going to revert or not, because execution depends on ordering. And so, yeah, you just lose efficiency in all these places, but you also reduce the amount of agency that proposers have, which reduces the amount of extraction there can be. So if you can run a system like that really, really fast, where you have a ton of block space, and we're just going to eat the failed transactions, and it's not a huge deal, I could see something like that mitigating some of the problem in the medium to long run. It's a huge engineering lift to get there. And there's also some trade offs where today on Solana, you get pre confirmations for free, because the leader is streaming out the block as they're building it. And that is not just was your transaction included or not, it's the state transition that comes with the transaction. And once you separate transaction inclusion from transaction execution, then you have to wait for a consensus and these multiple partial blocks to get merged to know what the state transition is.
00:33:49.846 - 00:33:55.444, Speaker B: So there's going to be trade offs all over the place here, but that's the nature of this distributed permissionless system.
00:33:56.344 - 00:34:31.046, Speaker A: I wanted to ask your personal opinion. You don't have to speak on party lines here. I want to ask your personal opinion on the level of, I don't know, I guess, decentralization. I can't think of a better word right now. But what do you think the ideal chain looks like in terms of, do people need to be able to run a raspberry PI? Or is it this idea of hundreds of data centers around the world? I don't know. What should we strive for in this capacity?
00:34:31.150 - 00:34:59.520, Speaker B: Well, it depends on what the end goal is. So, for example, if your goal is for the chain to be resilient to an event like World War Three, then you're also going to want to be robust to things like massive data center censorship. If your goal is to build a financial system that runs on chain and provides really good outcomes to users, then your hardware requirements might look a little bit different.
00:34:59.712 - 00:35:38.234, Speaker A: Going off that a little bit, what is your view on the sole token? This isn't financial advice, obviously. I'm just thinking, as the token used on Solana, what is the long term vision for this? I think because I've talked Toli and what he says is what we're trying to do is build a platform. And if Solana, if the sole token is like the hundredth largest by market cap, I think token on Solana, then we've done a good job because we've optimized for applications. Right. Does this work in your mind, in terms of. Yeah, like developing a sustainable fee and validator structure.
00:35:38.694 - 00:36:36.744, Speaker B: So the L1 token price matters if you care about economic security, and I think it's not actually super clear how important economic security is. But you can imagine a world where, let's say the Sol token was extremely cheap, there's no demand whatsoever, call it like $1 or one cent, and then that means some actor can come in and buy up, like a massive chunk of it. Are they able to force an invalid state transition? Answer is still no, which I think is Toli's argument. You see one honest node to go out to the world and say, hey, this guy with 99% of the stake is doing something that's fucked up, so we need to fork the chain. And I think that's all quite reasonable. The L1's, I think, have the best argument for why the application actually needs a token. It makes a lot of sense in the proof of work context.
00:36:36.744 - 00:37:26.104, Speaker B: It makes a lot of sense in the proof of state context, whereas I think a lot of other, shall we say, like applications with the token or sort of fishing for a reason to have a token doesn't actually make sense for a product. More makes sense as like a capital generation mechanism, shall we say. Yeah, I just don't really see any reason why, if the sol token is the hundredth largest by market cap on Solana, why the chain doesn't function. I think the economic security arguments don't make a ton of sense. I think it's quite unrealistic, though. Maybe the way the tokens trade will change in the future. Today they very obviously do not trade on any sort of fundamental basis.
00:37:26.104 - 00:37:38.054, Speaker B: If you ascribe to that, then the fee model and the revenue model don't actually matter for the valuation of the token. But I think it's CBD if that will continue in perpetuity.
00:37:38.434 - 00:37:45.322, Speaker A: Yeah. So you kind of ascribe to the economic security is a meme category.
00:37:45.498 - 00:37:50.054, Speaker B: I wouldn't say, I wouldn't put it that strongly, but I think it is overrated.
00:37:51.034 - 00:38:05.236, Speaker A: Yeah, I think. And also, as you can tell, totally goes way out of his way to troll about this. Right. With the Chihuahua chain stuff. He's clearly performance art. You know, it's crafty, but it also does like, it certainly does make. It definitely makes you think.
00:38:05.236 - 00:38:06.424, Speaker A: Let's put that way.
00:38:08.844 - 00:38:38.244, Speaker B: The main point that he has is the honest minority can always fork out. And yeah, it's going to be extremely costly, but if you have a dishonest majority, that's the only thing you can do. And yeah, definitely if you're, if like, that's part of the, the plan against some. Yeah. Very large actor that accumulates a ton of stake, then yeah, I think economic security matters a lot less than, than most people in crypto think.
00:38:38.584 - 00:39:20.134, Speaker A: Yeah, 100% agree. And also the thing is, part of the premise of proof of stake is that you can fork out malicious actors. Ascribing some not like amount that can be denominated as economic security is like somewhat of a frivolous endeavor because like, the end of the day, like, it's the. It's the notion that their state could be forked out that should, in theory, deter any dishonest actors, like, at least, at least in the model. So I do kind of wonder about that myself. But anyways, okay, I want to, like, zoom out now, or, I don't know, zoom out, but just like, take us a slightly different direction. Um, we can start with, like, okay, so in five years.
00:39:20.134 - 00:39:47.796, Speaker A: Okay, you can start with five years, and then after that I'm going to push you to 15 years. What are we using Phoenix for? What are we trading? Um, like, give me the. Give me, like, the hyper bullish outcome, not like, for investment reason. Just give me the hyper bullish outcome on trading on chain, uh, with Phoenix specifically, and then we'll move to, like, defi as a whole. But, like, what. Where. Where's Phoenix headed? And, like, what is your hope for what you're building?
00:39:47.940 - 00:40:54.992, Speaker B: In five years, we should be able to get to a point where trading on chain is as good or maybe even a significantly better experience in trading on a centralized crypto exchange. And concretely, what that means is the product experience is better, the liquidity is as good or better. Plus you have these guarantees around auditability, transparency, permissionless access, permissionless innovation on top of it, which don't exist with centralized exchanges or at least don't today. 15 years onboarding of a significant chunk of non digital assets onto these crypto rails, I don't know what those. I don't know what those onboarding mechanisms are going to look like. But by that point, I think if we haven't been able to build a system that is defi as a whole, better than tradfi, I would view that as a pretty significant failure.
00:40:55.168 - 00:41:04.324, Speaker A: Yeah. So in 15 years, are we trading Apple and Amazon shares on Phoenix specifically? No, but just on chain?
00:41:05.164 - 00:41:06.144, Speaker B: I think so.
00:41:06.764 - 00:41:34.832, Speaker A: Okay. That's quite optimistic. Uh, all right, so then, like, sort of adjacent to this question, uh, what is, like, just your overall view on defi and maybe blockchain as a whole? Like, what is it very useful for? Like, so you seem to think that it can be very useful for trading, obviously building a trading application. What else is, like, what is the future for this industry? And, like, what is this stuff really good for? And I'm going to press you, so be prepared. Yeah, so I.
00:41:34.832 - 00:42:41.690, Speaker B: For don't think about the philosophy of crypto all too much. I'm really, really focused on the defi side. I'm not super imaginative when it comes to what the future of NFTs or crypto gaming might look like where those applications are. I think there is this sober realization that needs to be had, which is that not everything belongs on chain. You have to think about what are the costs and what are the benefits of putting something on chain. So the costs are extremely high, where any application you put on chain is going to be, from a developer perspective, much less ergonomic, much more expensive, much more expensive from the user point of view, because you're eating this overhead of thousands of nodes coming to consensus and sharing the state, rather than a single copy in AWS in Virginia or something like that. And then the benefits are around permissionless access or censorship resistance.
00:42:41.690 - 00:43:04.124, Speaker B: They're around composability and permissionless innovation. And this is why, like, finance, I think, makes a ton of sense for crypto, where you have this massive tradfi system, which I think is mostly been built by well meaning actors, or at the very least, profit seeking actors.
00:43:06.104 - 00:43:06.416, Speaker A: But.
00:43:06.440 - 00:43:49.286, Speaker B: It'S been built iteratively over 100 years, and that means there's a lot of cruft in the system, there's a lot of entrenched actors. It's very difficult to innovate. And I don't think finance is in a completed state. I don't think it's near a completed state. And so crypto specifically, with its permissionless innovation and access, is perfect for disrupting the traditional financial system. And not to just build some shit coin casino on the side, but actually to build a financial system that delivers better outcomes to the end users, which are real people and real companies, real businesses, as opposed to, again, like, pure shitcoin nihilism.
00:43:49.470 - 00:44:25.454, Speaker A: When you look at ethereum right now and, like, the. We sort of touch on this, but now, like, zooming out, I'm just talking about, like, I guess, defi as a whole. Like, are you, what do you see the future of? Rollups, cross chain interoperability, all of this stuff, like you mentioned, the fragmentation. Like, this is something that's discussed, like, ad infinitum, right? And, like, it seems like this stuff can be. Well, I don't know. Honestly, I don't write code, so I don't know if this stuff can be, like, solved so easily. Some of it is more intuitive, some of it's like, I'm not quite sure about, but it is annoying.
00:44:25.454 - 00:44:55.244, Speaker A: It is annoying when you have your metamask and you have to switch between eight chains. There's no denying that. I think that Solana has stepped up Solana soul. The benefits of just sticking this all in one layer and running with it, and we'll fix problems like mid fast break things and things break. So is Ethereum still innovating in your mind? And what do you think about rollups as a whole? Is this the direction that should be taken?
00:44:55.744 - 00:45:34.400, Speaker B: I think it's a very reasonable approach to take. I guess to answer the first question, Ethereum is definitely still innovating. Ethereum is on the forefront, specifically on the research side of so much that relates to blockchain. I think Solana owes a ton to Ethereum for paving the way and sowing some of the initial vision. Even if Solana is opinionated in ways that might disagree with some of the Ethereum core philosophies or core values, let's say on roll up specifically. Yeah, of course the interop is a huge problem today. I think there's a bunch of different narratives floating around here.
00:45:34.400 - 00:46:17.046, Speaker B: The roll up companies, or the l two developers, will tell you, well, the big ones will tell you they want everything tapping on their own. On their own. L two believe in this vision of one true l two, and they just have to duke it out to figure out who's going to win. And then some of the infra companies are peddling this narrative around, oh, you can just solve the interop problem. And I think today we just haven't seen a good solution there. And it depends on what you mean by interop. So there's a bunch of different forms, like for example, synchronous composability versus asynchronous composability.
00:46:17.046 - 00:47:20.684, Speaker B: Can I like, touch multiple applications across multiple L2s or multiple chains in like the single atomic action, which, you know, synchronous composability. And this almost certainly requires some sort of shared, some notion of shared validity, which is like sharing the same sequence or set and having one chain's validity depend on another's. And this sort of just looks like one mega roll up. You just called it n different rollups, so you get n tokens plus a sequencer token. So maybe there is some product market fit for that. But from a architectural standpoint, I think doesn't make too much sense. I call that the solana at home, where you have this multiple single threaded machines that sometimes interact with each other, which actually looks very similar to a massive single state machine where you have a locking mechanism on different pieces of state, which is how Solana is built.
00:47:20.684 - 00:47:51.900, Speaker B: But again, not everything needs to be composable with each other in the same way that we use tons of different Internet applications today. But my slack doesn't need to know everything that is going on on my Gmail. It's actually okay if one of them runs on AWS and one of them runs on GCP. It's just not a problem whatsoever. And again, your crypto gaming might just happen somewhere else from your defi. And I think that's totally fine.
00:47:52.092 - 00:48:05.904, Speaker A: Yeah. What criticisms of Solana that ethereum community wages do you think are legitimate, and which ones do you think are illegitimate?
00:48:06.324 - 00:49:04.384, Speaker B: I think most of them really just come down to differences in values. And so that will affect, if you think it's, like, legitimate or illegitimate, for example, Ethereum really has this value of anyone should be able to run a node from home. Anyone should be able to participate in consensus from, like, a home Internet connection and relatively small hardware. And the reason for that is for censorship, resistance, and some notion of, like, world war three robustness. And this is just not really something that Solana prioritizes that highly. And that's just the values difference. I think maybe where I would disagree with Solana is more on the research side and how important some of these, you know, getting some of these core mechanisms right, rather than stopping a band aid on here or there, which is, you know, like an engineering team where everything is on fire, that's what you're going to do.
00:49:04.384 - 00:49:38.984, Speaker B: One example is around the fees, where. Yeah, just like the fee model in Solana does not make sense, has not made sense for a very long time. Sort of comes from a point of view where supply of block space is just always going to be greater than demand for block space, which actually is quite a pessimistic view. And I don't think it's expressed explicitly, but kind of comes out in the engineering decisions or prioritization. And we see some of the effects of that today where. Yeah, you just don't know how much you need to bid to land your transaction. And so there's massive inefficiency in the bidding.
00:49:38.984 - 00:49:41.364, Speaker B: It affects the Ux, et cetera, et cetera.
00:49:41.664 - 00:50:10.424, Speaker A: Yeah, that makes sense. All right, well, I was gonna. I wanna ask. Yeah, maybe one, like, one last question. Just you're looking at some of these other chains that are cropping up, like, maybe less so on the l two front, but some of these high performance chains, like, for example, Monad, is coming out soon. It's like a paralyzed, parallelized EVM. I want.
00:50:10.424 - 00:51:14.850, Speaker A: So I'm just using this as an example. I want to hear, and I'm not sure exactly what I'm asking here, but I want to hear, like, is the vision in your mind for these chains to just continue to innovate. And that sounds like, that sounds like it may be obvious or may not be obvious, depending on what chain you sort of ascribe to. But what in your mind, like, will make Solana different from the next chain that comes out that's also extremely fast? And after that, like, technological innovation versus maybe somewhat like value sets inscribed? Because I think that, like, I guess what I'm getting at here is that Solana, I think, was sol. Okay, so this is my opinion, right? Like, this isn't, I don't think what anybody else said. This is my opinion, right? Like Solana said, okay, finance should go really fast, actually, financially fast. And what I think happened, actually, is that a lot of what was occurring on Ethereum was not like, people maximizing for decentralization or like, maximizing for, like, some, like, of these values.
00:51:14.850 - 00:51:53.322, Speaker A: Now, the chain may, in theory, be designed in such a capacity, but that's not what people were really using it for. And so I think, like, when, like, a lot of what Solana seen recently, it's just people maximizing for more degeneracy over here. And so I want to know, like, is this something where we just continue to hop from chain to chain to chain and just continue to follow technological advancements? Or is there a way that Solana continues to stay abreast of technology and can ensure some of these ideals of decentralization? I dont know. Maybe this wasnt such an articulate question, but hopefully you start philosophizing for me.
00:51:53.378 - 00:52:54.385, Speaker B: Well, its a bit of an odd question because I think apriori you should expect if Solana is the fastest or most performing chain above some level of decentralization, however you want to measure that it has some incumbency advantage. And again, it's not a finished product. It should continue to get better. I don't think anyone views Solana as in a finished state today. It has, in my mind, a huge head start over a chain like Monad, compared to some of these high performance chains came out a little bit later, like Aptos and Sui. There's just this difference in adoption, and that comes from being out earlier and gaining some mind share earlier. But I think I have a more practical view towards blockchains, which they're pretty valueless by themselves and they really depend on the applications that are built on top of.
00:52:54.385 - 00:53:58.674, Speaker B: And as an application developer, when we look at any sort of infra, we're picking the tool that's best for the job. And so when we take a look at Solana today, it's good enough for Phoenix, and we look at the other chains, like, not really good enough from a pure performance perspective. And there's a bunch of other things that come into play as well if we need to do some tie breaking. Like, what does the asset base look like? Are there users? Are there active traders? And maybe if the interop problem gets solved in some capacity by, I don't know, a really great multi chain wallet that is actually able to abstract the chain away, then some of those chain level network effects are going to matter less. That's not the world we're in today. I think none of these blockchains are close to a finished state. And all these attempts to innovate, like Monad is a great example, are really good for crypto as a whole because infra is not good enough for real applications that are dealing with tons and tons of value.
00:53:58.674 - 00:54:08.834, Speaker B: They're not efficient enough, they're not performance enough, and it's really, really hard to get there while maintaining some level of decentralization.
00:54:09.134 - 00:54:28.032, Speaker A: Yeah. Okay. That was a good answer to a pretty nondescript question. Okay, well, thank you, Eugene, also. Okay, so they can find you on Twitter. And then also, you write some research stuff as well if you want to, like, show that and then anything else you want to show as well.
00:54:28.168 - 00:54:54.454, Speaker B: Yeah, we published some research on umbraresearch XYZ or umbraresearch on Twitter. Various blockchain related research pieces, more on the infra side, more on the, like, infra technical design side relating to primarily Ethereum and Solana, but hope not to be limited by that in the future.
00:54:54.914 - 00:54:59.866, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, thank you so much for coming on. We'll have you on again sometime. I thought it was great.
00:54:59.930 - 00:55:03.874, Speaker B: Thanks for having me, Gordon.
