00:00:00.090 - 00:00:29.266, Speaker A: Alright everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co host today are their personal views and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve.
00:00:29.266 - 00:01:23.206, Speaker A: Today we've got a really exciting episode with Adrian from Steakhouse Finance and very advanced Spencer, obviously one of the co founders at Framework and a member of the roundup portion of this podcast. Today we're going to be we're very cognizant. Miles and I have giving you very technical sort of deep dives on the staking router and restaking and the intersection with Liquid Staking. Today we want to zoom out a little bit and actually try to get a sense of give you guys some sort of mental models and frameworks with how to assess some of these protocols. And I'll caveat that by saying none of these are perfect, but it's sort of a simpler way of describing what we're really doing here when we're talking about Liquid Staking. We also want to get into some of the possible business models that Lido or other Liquid Staking protocols could provide somewhere down the line and then value accrual and how these things are going to work and dare I say, even put on your sort of investors cap when you're listening to us talk here. So this should be a fun one.
00:01:23.206 - 00:01:24.582, Speaker A: Miles, I'm excited to get into it.
00:01:24.636 - 00:01:40.170, Speaker B: Yeah, I am too. It will be great to chat with Vance again and really looking forward to chatting with Adrian as well. I've been a big fan of Steakhouse Financial for a long time and the work that they do with Lido and Maker. So we have great guests and pumped to get into it.
00:01:40.240 - 00:02:09.570, Speaker A: Yeah, we actually get a fun little sort of compare and contrast of the Lido versus the Maker endgame, so stay tuned for that. Hey everyone, we've got a great episode here, but before we do, I just wanted to give a quick shout out to permissionless. This is the biggest and best conference in all of DFI. It's the one that we do with Bankless, who's a great partner for us. Last year we had almost 7000 people there in West Palm Beach. We are moving this year to Austin, Texas from September 11 through the 13th. And if you are a listener of Bell Curve, any of these last five seasons, this conference is basically custom made for you.
00:02:09.570 - 00:02:33.786, Speaker A: We're going to be talking about Liquid Staking, the theme of this season. We've got a bunch of great panels on mev. If you listen to the app chain thesis, we've got a bunch of Cosmos folks out there in full force. We're talking about the converging architecture of Salana, the roll up space in ETH and Cosmos. So I would love to see all of you there and to reward you for being such great listeners to Bell Curve. You get a special 30%, an off code. It's Bell Curve 30 that'll get you 30% off tickets.
00:02:33.786 - 00:02:56.622, Speaker A: Click the link in the show notes and then head over to the permissionless site and make sure that you get your ticket today. Again. That is Bell curve 30. Click the link in the show notes. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve today. I'm joined, as always, by my co host Miles and Got, Vance, who many of you will know from framework, but also from the roundup portion of Bell Curve. So welcome, Vance and Adcv from Steakhouse Finance.
00:02:56.766 - 00:02:57.858, Speaker C: Welcome, guys.
00:02:58.024 - 00:02:58.740, Speaker D: Hello.
00:02:59.850 - 00:04:11.660, Speaker A: All right, guys, these last couple episodes, we've been getting really into the nitty gritty. This one's a little bit more aimed at folks in the middle of the belt for like, Miles and I. And what we want to do is give you guys some sort of high level frameworks for zoom out of the weeds a little bit and sort of give you guys some high level frameworks for how to think about these different liquid staking protocols. And the caveat being, these aren't going to be exactly right, but they'll be sort of helpful mental models that you can use to assess the different liquid staking protocols that are out there. And then we'll sort of have a little bit of fun going back and forth on sort of speculating on the potential business models and risks and potential opportunities that these protocols could take, as well as talking a little bit about value cruel, the actual governance token for some of these liquid staking protocols. But if I had to just ask a really high level question to start this out, feels almost very basic to be asking four episodes into this season. But maybe, Adcv, I could throw it over to you and just ask you, if you had to describe what a liquid staking protocol is to a layperson right who only had a very basic knowledge of crypto, how would you do that? And then what sort of more analog or traditional businesses would you use to sort of help them understand what we're looking at here?
00:04:12.450 - 00:05:10.318, Speaker D: So I think you have to start by thinking about ethereum, and I think a reasonable way to help people understand. So to help people who are not so familiar with crypto even understand what liquid staking is? I think you could start with describing the concept of ethereum a decentralized database that allows people to run a sort of virtual world computer and the way that the security is maintained and that the incentives are aligned on this let's say world computer is through this concept of staking a certain amount of capital in order to validate the transactions. And what liquid staking fundamentally does is allow staking to be accessible to as many people as possible. And I think this is the key value proposition. Staking in itself is a reasonably technical endeavor. It's not impossible, and there's a lot of progress that's been done to make it more and more easy. And I think the more democratic it is for people to participate with their own computers, the better.
00:05:10.318 - 00:05:20.190, Speaker D: But liquid staking is a way to sort of abstract all of that complexity away for every person to just join in and participate in securing the network.
00:05:20.350 - 00:06:00.874, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a really helpful explanation. And guys, you'll remember actually there's a callback to some material that Adcv actually created we referenced in the staking router episode that we did with Izzy and Ashin. But you actually have a really helpful metaphor that I like of thinking of these liquid staking protocols as banks. And again, I'm not saying that this is a perfect one to one analogy that's certainly not exactly right, but I think this idea of managing assets and liabilities is a particularly helpful one. So maybe you could get into that sort of description a bit and maybe show where that happens within the context of liquid staking protocols.
00:06:00.922 - 00:06:48.122, Speaker D: The description of a bank is, I think, an interesting model to help people get comfortable with the way that this liquid staking protocol works as a representation of their stake. So when someone purchases st ETH or any other liquid staking token, they're not actually doing the staking themselves. They are, in a sense, transferring that stake out somewhere else. And that stake is being staked by another party. And I think a bank structure, the word, let's call it B asterisk NK is a useful way of thinking about this because they are, in their most abstract and narrow sense, just a way to manage assets against liabilities. And you see many protocols in crypto function according to this shima. So it's not unique to stake teeth.
00:06:48.122 - 00:07:49.202, Speaker D: For instance, MakerDAO, decentralized, stablecoins, anything that has a sort of quote unquote liability token must match those tokens on the other side with doing something on the, let's say, asset side. I think this is where the concept is helpful for understanding how a protocol can balance the incentives between both sides of this sort of schematic balance sheet. But it is also very important to note that in the case of both MakerDAO and Sts, unlike in the case of Morgan, these are not actually custodial, so they don't fulfill many of the conditions that would actually make them banks. They are just smart contracts that coordinate incentives between players in a decentralized and permissionless way. And I think that's actually the most interesting part of this innovation. So it's important to stress that there are some analogies which are interesting and relevant and helpful for building conceptual models about how these incentives can balance. But it only takes you so far.
00:07:49.202 - 00:08:32.666, Speaker D: And I think the more relevant insight here is to recognize that liquid staking tokens are ethereum itself is unlike anything that's ever been done before. It doesn't really match closely to analogs from the past or from TradFi. And neither does staking. And also therefore neither does liquid staking. At least when done in a sort of decentralized and permissionless and trustless way. It's something that in certain ways resembles some things, but in most of the other ways that matter does not. And I think that in the areas where it doesn't is where it gets the most interesting because you can take some of these mental models about asset liability matching.
00:08:32.666 - 00:09:10.410, Speaker D: So what does the validator set look like and how does that change the risk of the liability token? And how do you tweak the incentives to make sure that the risk is always contained and mitigated for the liability token holders? But then you can instrumentalize that and automate it and make it into something much more powerful than just quote unquote, a custodial system. Sorry, I'm ranting on now, but I think there are some insights which are relevant. But I think the more interesting explorations and insights come from looking at the places where it does not look like.
00:09:10.480 - 00:10:13.890, Speaker E: Yeah, no, I couldn't agree more. And I think the bank mental model is really interesting, especially with the staking router. And honestly, before the staking router existed, I always had used kind of more of a marketplace mental model for liquid staking protocols. The product being access to staking yields while retaining your liquidity and the supply side being validators that are already running nodes and the demand side being people that want this product without having to run nodes. But before the staking router, it was only one curated set and it was almost somewhat commoditized on the supply side. And now when you move to the staking router and having multiple modules, there actually is much more risk management to be done with that collateral. And so yeah, is that a fair analogy to say that the bank, I guess, mental model now comes in a little bit more strongly because there is a lot more risk to manage with bringing on say, DVT sets and solo staking sets?
00:10:15.910 - 00:11:09.730, Speaker D: Yeah, definitely. I think the asset liability model is helpful. And the interesting part of the sticking router is that this is an area where the sort of banking models of asset liability management start to fall apart. So in traditional asset liability management you use credit models for established asset classes to derive how much capital you need to hold in reserve at any given time. But in the case of liquid staking on ethereum, we're entering completely uncharted territory here. And the problem that Lida has to solve is how to design these incentives in a permissionless and trustless way such that the protocol can continue running in a decentralized and permissionless way in the future for many, many years with as little governance interaction as possible. And I think that part is far more creative.
00:11:09.730 - 00:11:45.198, Speaker D: If you came up with some sort of repo or money market structure in TradFi, you could use like established, you could open the textbook quite literally and just pick from there at the patterns that match. And what's so interesting about this space is that it kind of looks like this from a distance and that's a helpful way to think about it when it comes to sequencing the risk. But you'll find that none of the textbooks will actually be helpful. There's no chapter in Professor Murat Chowdhury's principle of banking about staking on ethereum. And I think that's the really interesting design space here that opens up.
00:11:45.364 - 00:12:47.422, Speaker A: Yeah, I would agree with that. And actually so, for those of you who aren't following along on a video, we're looking at a diagram that Adcv put together that's actually an extension of the original, one of the OG sort of crypto banking pieces written by Sebastian Derrevo, who's also at this illustrated. There's sort of a spectrum of capital structures ranging from the Federal Reserve, all the left, all the way to Steeth on the right. And it's actually kind of helpful because you can see the similarities in terms of matching assets and liabilities. But obviously, if you just zoom out and look at the two extremities, the Federal Reserve looks absolutely nothing like Steve, so it probably doesn't make sense to apply the exact same set of rules to them. But one of the things that I actually like, especially about this document or about this diagram is you've kind of got the Federal Reserve then what Morgan might look like, what MakerDAO might look like, and then what Steeth might look like. And even though obviously those things are all very different from one can, you can sort of see helpful similarities.
00:12:47.422 - 00:14:23.362, Speaker A: Like one thing that I often think about is under discussed in crypto generally is distribution. So if you look at something like Morgan, what would Morgan consider distribution? Brokerages are actually like the sort of arm of distribution within the realm of financial services, right? So they kind of do this asset liability management and risk management, but then there's this additional sort of arm of distribution where brokerages are kind of like an investment shop, right, where you go and you select different assets to buy and then they'll go execute those things. And one of the things that I would kind of like to get into is frankly, from the standpoint of something like Lido or Steeth or any of these liquid staking protocols, what distribution might end up looking like. And I think maybe the easiest way to segue into that and mance, maybe I could involve you here and get your thoughts is like I almost want to compare and contrast MakerDAO's endgame approach to what something like Lido or Rockapool or FRAX or any of these other liquid staking protocols might end up doing. And the MakerDAO endgame has been, I think if you're not inside of it, a little bit confusing and it's difficult to parse some of the signal from the noise in terms of the actual activities that are going on. But I do think there's some method to the madness there that we could actually sort of apply to something like liquid staking protocol as well. So whichever one of you wants to take this, could you kind of just give us a high level of how you view the end game and then maybe we can get into the similarities between what a liquid staking protocol might do and some of the choices that they'll have to face down the line.
00:14:23.416 - 00:15:32.200, Speaker C: So I think if you listen to kind of rune describe it maker is what he calls like a broad know, he's basically building a large central bank on chain. It has many different types of use cases, it has many different types of collateral that it could onboard. It has the subdoub structure which is effectively for user acquisition, collateral onboarding, all the things where governance needs to pick up to the pace, where they can actually do different things strategically. And that's just like a lot different of a concept of a dao than what lido is today, which know, he calls it a narrow and like I don't think these are exactly the right terms. It kind of depends on what the overall size of the market is in terms of if a dow is broad or narrow. But lido is at this point focused on liquid staking, mostly on ethereum. But if you look at the stats, there are 15 billion in lido TVL, so that's about three x the amount of dai that's outstanding today.
00:15:32.200 - 00:16:24.038, Speaker C: The holders of Steeth and dai, I would call it a wash, they're probably roughly equal. It says there's like 280,000 holders of Steeth, there's 400,000 holders of dai. Maybe if you add the wrap Steeth holders and the people who are holding in custody that they don't quite know, maybe it's like roughly equal. I think if you compare both of them right now lido is just growing or Steeth, which is lido's staking derivative, is just growing a lot faster than dai. And so those are kind of the rough dynamics of what I would say is going on at the moment in terms of its final end game plan. I think makers is pretty I would just call just ruthlessly moving the ball forward in terms of more collateral and more debt and getting more people to hold the stablecoin. Steeth is a little bit different.
00:16:24.038 - 00:16:54.730, Speaker C: There are different things that you can do with staked ETH. Like we're seeing people use it in restaking espresso suave eigen layer. There's going to be a lot of things that you can do with ETH. And so the end game of lido depends on a, what those opportunities are and b, how they want to participate in them. But there's certainly going to be a role. And then I think those are kind of the strategic comparatives. There's things like leverage staking if you want to use the surplus or not use the surplus to your advantage, to actually extend people lines of credit, kind of like Spark is doing for MakerDAO.
00:16:54.730 - 00:17:36.800, Speaker C: There is some version of that for lido that you could think of, but maybe it doesn't make quite as much sense. But I think what's really exciting about lido specifically is that it has this reserve currency potential that something like a Dai in my mind doesn't just because at this point Dai is a lot of USDC, it's a lot of real world assets, it's a lot of kind of things that are not endogenous to blockchains. And I don't think that's ultimately where lido's market is going to be, and I think the lido market is just bigger as a result. So those are kind of like how I think of both of them at the moment. But I would probably ask Adrian, is that directionally correct? You know a lot more about this than.
00:17:39.170 - 00:18:24.794, Speaker D: Steakhouse actually originated as the strategic finance core unit at MakerDAO. So we've been through the depths of all of the anon shit posting on the forums. We've been burned by this. In the past, we've helped with financial reporting, now we're helping as an ecosystem actor in terms of real world asset underwriting and ALM and balance sheet management. And so, from what I retain, I think they serve two completely different use cases. I think coming back to this, however, there are a lot of very interesting similarities coming back to this analogy of asset liability management. It's definitely far more relevant for MakerDAO in a traditional sense than it is for lido.
00:18:24.794 - 00:19:31.074, Speaker D: Let's say, I mean, to begin with, MakerDAO is a decentralized, let's say, euro dollar transparent cash on the blockchain. And to your point on the USTC. And the real world assets, I think what's emerging out of this phase of MakerDAO is, well, firstly, there's not as many USDC as there used to be and this is intentional. And the idea is to make Dai the sort of transparent cash where you can look at the collateral and verify that it's in as broad and diversified set of jurisdictions and asset classes always constrained by, obviously, the constraints of liquidity surplus and the viability of the stablecoin. As such, I think there are interesting parallels in the subdown model. For sure, the end game is a reaction to, let's say, the overcomplication of, as you point out, lido is indeed very simple. It aims to do one thing, which is to make staking as accessible as possible to as many people as possible.
00:19:31.074 - 00:20:11.566, Speaker D: Maker has a far more complicated set of collateral types to juggle with. And bringing all of this in at the core has proven to be a very difficult governance exercise because for now, a lot of these collateral types still require a lot of very manual governance decisions by token holders and coordinating all of this activity in an efficient and productive way for all of the stakeholders in the system. So for die holders as well as for Maker holders proved to be a very difficult challenge. And so my read of the end game and you mentioned the bell curve in the middle of a curve, I'm definitely on the single digit IQ side of the curve. So for someone as we're all on.
00:20:11.588 - 00:20:14.830, Speaker A: The left side of the curve, the right side doesn't exist.
00:20:15.410 - 00:21:19.720, Speaker D: You had like Izzy and the Eigen layer people and hasu and stuff. Now you can balance it out a bit. So yeah, I have a lot of difficulty parsing a lot of the endgame, but I recognize that it's a reaction to the implicit chaos that emerges when the rules are not made very clear for a governance system that doesn't have a clear hierarchy like a Dow. So it's making all the rules of governance extremely explicit on the one hand, which is a huge benefit actually, because it removes a lot of the cognitive overhead of having to debate or interpret what a rule is supposed to say. And on the other hand, it moves out the collateral types over time into these subdial structures, which I suppose more resembles what the Staking router may look like. You can think of the Staking router and the subdal structure as a sort of generalized asset liability management contract or allocator. And Spark is like one part, one set of dai validators if you want.
00:21:19.720 - 00:21:24.774, Speaker D: It's obviously far more complex than this. And then the real world assets are another.
00:21:24.892 - 00:22:06.402, Speaker C: One thing I would say is just watching the forums of both Lido and Maker, the hardest part and what the DAOs get tripped up on is on the die side collateral onboarding and just agonizing over what's good collateral. Why? What's the risk limits? Why? All of those questions. And it's just really tough when it's Makercore having to make all those decisions like Maker core was really never made for that. In my view. Lido is kind of the same. All of the things that it felt like what used to take up half of people's time or more was like should we do Matic Staking? Okay, should we develop an in house or should we license it out? Okay. Should we do solana staking? Okay.
00:22:06.402 - 00:22:37.402, Speaker C: It's like the same questions. I think this generalized framework of subdoubs of staking routers of those types of technical solutions that offboard it from the main Dow construct are really helpful. Because, in my opinion, just like DAOs can work. But there's going to be a core unit of each of these ecosystems, like whatever you want to call it. Like the Maker core. The Lido core SNX with all of the front ends around it. Those are capital allocation.
00:22:37.402 - 00:22:59.346, Speaker C: Dows Those are not blocking and tackling day to day decisions and seeing it progress to that new kind of state I think is really positive. It just enables them to move a lot quicker. I know a lot of people disagree with the Maker endgame. I think it's more thoughtful than people give it credit for. I think the meta point is like the staking routers and the allocator DAOs. Those are how you actually scale.
00:22:59.458 - 00:24:04.154, Speaker E: I mean, it occurs to me that whether we're talking about Eigen Layer, Lido or Maker, the end goal is kind of the same, is to remove any sort of risk through governance attacks and also to remove the amount of human subjectivity or I guess, central points of risk. And it's really interesting to see the different approaches that they're taking and Eigen Layer's goal to do this their end game is to actually get enshrined into the ethereum protocol. Lidos seems to have an end game of wanting to remove as much human decision making as possible, automate these processes as much as possible and ossify parts of the protocol to take away governance's control. And then Maker is kind of on the opposite end of the spectrum in that they've accepted there's always going to be a need for a lot of human involvement. But this subdou model and division of responsibilities and decision making authority is really to try to remove any central points.
00:24:04.192 - 00:24:04.780, Speaker B: Of.
00:24:06.510 - 00:24:13.040, Speaker E: You know, given the nature of the differences across these protocols, the way to get there is very different.
00:24:13.650 - 00:25:06.046, Speaker D: I think hasu mentioned it somewhere that the better form of governance in decentralized organizations like this is governance over processes rather than governance over decisions. And I think that's what Lido and Maker have in common that's one of the central features of the endgame is to remove all of the decisions and make them explicit and then focus on the process of how do you make changes? If you need to make changes, how do you regulate the risk, how do you supervise that all of the governance actors are doing what they're supposed to do. I think this framing is much more helpful because then you can really focus on is this the right process for the aim? Right like Lido's aim of making staking as accessible as possible to everyone. This is an aim that requires processes to get to and if you snarl governance in individual decisions, you will never get there.
00:25:06.228 - 00:26:20.146, Speaker A: I wonder if you could also look at Lido and Maker as two interesting examples of one being a broad dow or a wide dow in the form of Maker and then a narrow form in a narrow dow in the form of Lido is actually sort of going towards the same place from different starting points. And the way that I have started to view the end game is actually a way to sort of cordon off and silo some of the risk into some of these subdoubs. And Lido is actually in this funny state of going from what was to Miles's point earlier, a very simple marketplace model into something that is a little bit more complex with the staking router, albeit it's the way that lido needs to move, but they're actually sort of going towards the same place. And then maybe there's this idea of how do you cordon off the most core functional parts of that dow and Maker is going from like it used to do a whole bunch of this stuff itself to now. Maybe it's pushing some of the leverage and growth opportunities into some of these subdows and sort of protecting the golden goose. And maybe that's kind of the similarity in between those two things. But one other idea that I want to start getting into sort of potential business models or growth opportunity for, let's just say lido.
00:26:20.146 - 00:27:20.506, Speaker A: But again, this is any liquid staking protocol that has some sort of concept of a staking router. A big question, Adrian, I'd love to get your perspective on that. We didn't get to somehow in that two hour episode that we did with Izzy is a lot of the business opportunities that are going to arise for lido is whether or not the protocol and governance will allow for a specific set of delegators to pick their specific subset of validators. So right now the allocator mechanism in the staking router, it has this very simple governance approves a new module, it approves a target limit, let's say it's 1%. Once that 1% essentially gets filled, the overflow goes towards the whitelisted validators that originally were with lido until you move that up to like 2% or something like that. But right now there would be no way for, let's say there's an institutional staker. They need to get connected with an institutional set of validators that have all KYC, what lido won't do right now is direct you there.
00:27:20.506 - 00:28:03.186, Speaker A: And what that's done is open up other niches in the market for the liquid collective, the alluvials of the world. And what they're doing is saying, hey, the validators within our marketplace coordination mechanism, it's the chorus ones or the block daemons or the figments of the world, right? So you don't really need to worry about all this. An opportunity for lido and this is where you could start to see more of this like liquid staking as a service type model emerge is you don't need to actually worry about that. We will connect you as a delegator, as a staker with the correct set of validators. It's almost a concierge sort of service, if you will. What do you think about this as a potential growth opportunity for lido?
00:28:03.298 - 00:29:06.598, Speaker D: It's interesting. So firstly, there's obviously a lot of opportunities that appear on the surface today when you open the possibility. I don't even know if it's even technically possible. One early risk that occurs to me and focusing just on lido as a protocol in its aim to make staking as easy as possible to as many. People as possible in a sort of API for staking in a neutral middleware type of structure, allowing people to customize the exposure to the delegation to the delegators that they want risks creating centralizing forces inside the staking router itself. And so just from that perspective, I would be hesitant to sort of think that this might be a panacea or a solution for onboarding institutions. Instead, what I'd actually like to do here is take a step back and explore some of these assumptions that led you through the thinking of this phrase of like this staked ETH is like KYC or it's with validators that are KYC unlike this other staked ETH.
00:29:06.598 - 00:29:45.814, Speaker D: So it's okay for institutions. And I think that there's two axioms here that we need to try and push back on in order to help move our industry forward. The first one is that KYC applies at certain layers where it maybe shouldn't or doesn't have to, or where it's more relevantly. It's like a non question. Like you don't KYC SMTP servers when you send emails. So in a similar angle, it's very difficult to justify, if you think from first principles why you would KYC a trustless permissionless protocol such as Lido because then you may as well KYC ethereum. I'd see.
00:29:45.814 - 00:30:26.930, Speaker D: The responsibility of KYC is, let's say, in order to comply with FATF rules to prevent crime and money laundering and enable supervision of centralized custodians and financial services. But the responsibility is in these institutions. There's no reason why an institution couldn't KYC its customers and use ethereum, for example. All sorts of absurdities start to emerge when you start to peel apart this sentence. So all of the staked ETH is on the same deposit contract. But this isn't a relevant comparison because this is one of those instances where staking on ethereum doesn't match money one to one. It's just not the same.
00:30:26.930 - 00:31:12.926, Speaker D: So applying things that apply to money is you're going to have a very difficult time or you're going to contort the marketplace into a shape that makes it less useful or less credible. Ethereum ecosystem that's super centralized is less valuable for everyone. So even if centralized players controlled 80% of ethereum staking ethereum would just be less useful and less valuable as a result. But that market incentive is there to centralize. And that's one of the things that Lido is so conscious on fighting. And the other axiom that I wanted to challenge was this distinction of different types of staked ETH. So yeah, like I said earlier, all staked ETH is the same fundamentally.
00:31:12.926 - 00:32:28.282, Speaker D: They're all in the same deposit contract, they're all on a validator, they're all on a machine, they're all performing security functions for the ethereum blockchain. And so introducing this idea to regulators of some ETH is better than other, I think, is a dangerous path to walk down on. And I think the more interesting approach, the more creative approach might be, for instance, to engage regulators, to encourage them to run, validators themselves and to see that okay, look, not only is this not like the past, but this is so new and so unlike anything else that you need to have a stake in it yourself in order to safeguard the neutrality of the system and to allow your citizens to participate in it equally. Coming back to the original question of like, should Lido be able to allow its users to pick delegators? I think just reasoning from the sort of first principle of, like, what is the point of Lido in the first place? I'm inclined to think that it's not such a good idea, though there may well be technical implementations that are possible. The other aspect is breaking fungibility. Of course, at the most basic level, you can make an institutional stick teeth and institutional lighter stick teeth and the regular stake teeth. But this is the same.
00:32:28.282 - 00:32:31.950, Speaker D: It alludes to a lot of the same problems that I was ranting about just now.
00:32:32.020 - 00:32:44.146, Speaker C: Explain a little bit like, what is the staking router used for, if not this type of market making with one validator to one customer on the staking side?
00:32:44.328 - 00:34:15.370, Speaker D: So the staking router is a way to diversify the node operator set, the validator set that underpins Lido, and we talk about business models, and I do think that's the right framing. But it's also important to note that for Lido and for many other decentralized protocols, it's not necessarily a pure profit objective. So the standard ALM formula in a bank, for instance, is about maximizing profit or return to equity subject to constraints of liquidity and solvency. But the same type of objective equation set for Lido is still being developed and thought out and discussed in the Dao, because it's not clear that there's one single objective of profit LDO holders or rebases to staked ETH holders. It's more about decentralizing the node operator set, enforcing geographic distribution, maintaining the integrity of the underlying base layer of ethereum. And so I see the staking router as an ALM controller that has to solve a very complicated multivariate equation that we haven't fully defined yet entirely, that aims to guarantee, let's say, the security of ethereum and allow as many people as possible to participate in the future. I think it would be really great if, let's say, whatever figment coinbase UBS, you know, Goldman Sachs joined Lido just as much as the individual stakers and the individual validators and the professional validators.
00:34:15.370 - 00:34:34.930, Speaker D: And then the role of the staking router would be to control the effects of centralization that come with scale to prevent the larger players or the professional node operators from dominating too much of that stake or at the very least in making sure that the allocation is done in a fair and distributed way that doesn't compromise the security of the.
00:34:35.000 - 00:35:13.680, Speaker E: I think it's a really interesting topic. And Vance, you mentioned earlier collateral onboarding being kind of the most sensitive touch point of maker governance. And I envision, I guess, allocation of deposits across these modules to be one of the most sensitive areas of lido governance going forward. And it's almost counterintuitive because the objectives of lido are to remove the human subjectivity and decision making longer term. But then you have kind of two options which know if it's technically feasible. Allow the Steeth holders to choose their delegations. This is basically a delegated proof of stake model.
00:35:13.680 - 00:36:11.634, Speaker E: And as we see with delegated proof of stake, that can often end up very top heavy, which is the trade off that you have to accept. Or you could let this kind of be a free market, right? And that would increase the rake on the supply side for lido, which maximizes profits and is great. But obviously the largest validator sets would be willing to bid down what their lowest possible commission rate would be in order to get more deposits. And so the human touchpoint in this particular case is actually very aligned with ethereum because what you're trying to do here is think a little bit more longer term about what the biggest version of lido could be. And that's a lido that is healthy for the network, right? And so maybe this is the one area where keeping that subjectivity, and particularly those controlled by this area is controlled by people who are very aligned with ethereum, is actually very important and much.
00:36:11.672 - 00:36:13.970, Speaker B: Healthier longer term potentially.
00:36:14.470 - 00:36:18.520, Speaker E: Is that a fair kind of synopsis of the trade off space?
00:36:19.050 - 00:37:04.420, Speaker C: I think so. What you're talking about specifically is lido. There's call it 5% yield per year on ethereum. Lido takes a 10% cut of that. Half of that goes to the Dow to pay the workforce. Half of that goes to the validators to effectively bootstrap and maintain their ongoing maintenance cost. I'm hopeful at some point that that's a formula where you can go seek for validator profitability that you can actually fully automate that like maker and the DSR, I think central banks and banking is just more subjective in many ways than what is the goal sought validator profitability threshold that you're trying to make for.
00:37:04.420 - 00:37:43.390, Speaker C: Sometimes it feels like with Maker it's like, yeah, a little bit up or way up. DSR is going 8%, then we're going to go way down. It's more of a stable governance system that should be more able to be automated. So I think that's one part of the long term of the governance for lido. I just wanted to address one thing with the KYC and institutional staking narrative. This is something that we've dug into a lot. And I think just to put a finer point on it, what people are looking for on the institutional side, or at least are told what they're looking for is number one, you need to KYC the actual liquid staking tokens.
00:37:43.390 - 00:38:48.358, Speaker C: And if you really think about it, does that really make a ton of sense when those liquid staking tokens are then going to change hands on chain and you're not going to have KYC on the way out. That doesn't really make a ton of sense. That would be the first thing I would say. Second thing I would say is the other thing people are looking for is are we ever going to be caught validating an OFAC block? I think that's everyone's nightmare worst scenario and I think you can run stuff that filters that out. I think that's ultimately bad for ethereum and I think ultimately you should strive to have more of a decentralized layer of validation and I think Lido provides that service. The last thing I'll say is, and I posted about this on Twitter last night, when you get to the smaller scale LSTs, which a lot of the institutional ones like you do, run into this problem where you don't really have enough money to pay the validators to keep their rigs updated and safe and profitable. I think the profit margin on current Lido validators is something like 40%.
00:38:48.358 - 00:39:58.394, Speaker C: It's one of the best opportunities in crypto. But if you're running one of the four validators in one of these smaller LSTs, you really kind of get to the point where it's like, is this even worth it? And so over the longer time horizon, I think if you're a team that's running an LST with say you have a million ETH, and say the price of ETH is 2000, you have $2 billion in TBL, you're making 5% yield on that for everyone that's holding that LST. So that you're making $100 million, then you're taking a 10% cut, so you have $10 million and then maybe half that goes to the workforce. I mean, $5 million a year, that's a small workforce. So there's that then you have $5 million to give to the validators. That's not a lot of money if you're supporting a million ETH. And so my expectation is in the state where this really plays out is things like DVT are just going to be a force for these people to kind of like, sure, you can still have the Rocket Pool brand or the Swell brand or whatever.
00:39:58.394 - 00:40:18.210, Speaker C: You're going to be using some middleware that lowers your validator cost so that these things are actually profitable. At. So like that's kind of how I see it and that was a little bit of a tangent, but I do think there are significant scale advantages where many businesses don't get easier the larger they are. Liquid Staking is definitely one of them.
00:40:18.280 - 00:41:27.062, Speaker A: Miles and I in the beginning of this season, there's a lot of interesting experimentation going on in liquid staking land that's broadly referred to as Lstfi. And really if you look under the hood at most of these Lstfi protocols, it's just regular D five protocols that start with liquid staking tokens as collateral first. And that's actually, I think, what that is is a well and good way to bootstrap. But probably in the long term it's very hard to see the moat in between something like maker versus a maker clone. That just their whole value proposition is that they started with Steve. And one of the interesting categories that we sort of explicitly decided not to dig into as much in this season was indices of liquid staking tokens because how that gets billed is you're diversifying, right? There are a bunch of different liquid staking tokens and really you should have some mix of Steeth or re or whatever else to the nth degree. But exactly to your point Vance, these sort of scrappier liquid staking startups is unclear actually the security assumptions that underlie these things.
00:41:27.062 - 00:41:39.798, Speaker A: So are you actually getting more security by getting some sort of index or are you actually just taking on yeah, I think it's actually the opposite. Yeah, I would argue that too. I think it's much less what you're.
00:41:39.814 - 00:42:40.734, Speaker C: Looking is for more diverse validators. You're buying mortgage backed securities and you're trying to diversify by buying smaller and more idiosyncratic ones with more credit risk. That's not really a great idea and so yeah, I think it's like the branding gets mixed up with the core question of like who are the validators and right now the validators are professional validators. But this question is going to really change when DVD comes and it's like you've got a guy with a solar panel in Montana, solo staking next to a big institutional provider. There's going to be this combinatorial effect of there's going to be a lot of diversity in holding, just like more of the same LST if the validator set increases versus holding different brands of LSTs. The other approach to this, which I think is interesting, is Fracs where they're a subscale LST but they're verticalizing everything. They've got the stablecoin, they've got the lending market, they've got I think there's an L two coming.
00:42:40.734 - 00:42:56.114, Speaker C: It's just like one piece of the puzzle. Those are the two avenues. Like you can either DBT it up with the staking router and go in the direction of Lido or other providers that are doing that or you can verticalize and try to build this ecosystem where eventually you do have enough fees to pay the validators profitably.
00:42:56.162 - 00:43:43.282, Speaker E: I kind of love this idea of targeting or centering fees around validator profitability. And whatever deposits go to maybe the largest validator sets, you target something like a 20% profitability and maybe that comes out to only 3% commission rate because they already have so many deposits versus you sending whatever gets sent. To say the DVT or Solo staker set. Maybe they get 8%. And Lido only takes 2% because that's what's required to keep them profitable. And then you can kind of commoditize that size of the marketplace a little bit but keeping everybody relatively happy. I think that could be an interesting avenue, especially with firms like rated that are getting into this and closely partnering with you guys.
00:43:43.416 - 00:44:24.482, Speaker D: It's such a difficult problem though, because how do you even civil resistance defend your DVT set from the professional node operators if they see that the margins are different? And I think that this is why designing staking router fee markets is such a so for maker. It's actually simpler because it just has to solve for, let's say, quote unquote, return on equity for the bank. It's very clear, it's very straightforward what that objective function is. It has one outcome with Lido, it has N. And we haven't even figured out what the number N is. Profitability is one of them, but then it's only one of them. The degree of decentralization is another.
00:44:24.482 - 00:44:35.234, Speaker D: And there's like 20 other ways that you can encode these variables into that staking router, potentially to make it more robust to civil, let's say, validator tax.
00:44:35.352 - 00:46:00.318, Speaker A: I've got a question for you, Adrian. And how do you see eventually, like, if we're having this discussion five years from now and we're looking at the staking router, are there, like, five or six sort of broad modules? Or are we looking at thousands of modules where each module might end up being a very custom set of parameters for, let's say, a large pool of existing ETH that could act as distribution? So my mental model eventually for where protocols like LiDAR are going to have to go is they're trying to be ETH vacuums, right? They're trying to suck up all the ETH out there and eventually you will max out the amount of just individual people with ETH that want to deposit. And eventually, Lido will need to find a way to go after large existing pools of ethereum. And that could be in D Five protocols today that have some sort of rehypothecation module or I don't know where it'll come from in the future, but eventually, I would guess is, okay, there'll be this pool of, let's say, 100,000 ETH or something like that. And they'll say, hey, I would like to use the I want to do this with lido, but come on, I've got 100,000 ETH. I shouldn't be getting the same terms as someone who's just depositing one ETH into the protocol, right? So you could imagine and they might also have more bespoke set of needs as well, maybe some more technical requirements. Like, we've used the example of makers PSM coinbase versus CoinShares proposals that went out earlier this year.
00:46:00.318 - 00:46:05.200, Speaker A: But how do you think that might ultimately look? And does Lido need to go chase those pools of.
00:46:07.010 - 00:47:25.930, Speaker D: The on the validator side? It's hard to say. I would be tempted to say I wish it was the scenario with thousands of different types of modules because that would imply that lido has developed to a point where it can trustlessly and permissionlessly onboard any arbitrary number of validator modules. And I think that would be a really great thing so if it means having a thousand modules and Lido balances out the ETH deposits successfully and guarantees the security of ethereum and its decentralization, then I think that's a really good outcome. You make another interesting point, which is the, let's say channel acquisition of ETH. It's interesting because they're certainly a stakeholder and let's say a wallet with 100,000 ETH has to shop around very carefully when it comes to allocating their stake in order to secure the network. Part of that allocation may well be to not stake any of it at all or only some of it. And should they have a claim, let's say to sort of preferential access or some kind of revenue share, there is a sort of revenue share program at the moment rolled out by the protocol relations team for sort of large stakers.
00:47:25.930 - 00:48:29.710, Speaker D: Is it sustainable over the long run? I'm not super sure. I have a preference just aesthetically for having the channel distribution partners clip a fee for providing access to Lido from their customers. Like if you step back and abstract away from Lido as a consumer product and think of it more as middleware, then integrating with Lido will look something like you log on to your banking account and they plug into the Lido API smart contracts for their customers, their KYC, whatever. They go through this whole song and dance and they clip a fee for providing access to the service. And I think that's fine and I think that's probably a more interesting and more sustainable way rather than bringing them into the core of the protocol, let's say. Because again, the goal of Lido is not necessarily to stake all the ETH. I once made a joke that if Lido staked 100% of all the ether in circulation, ethereum would stop working because you wouldn't be able to sign any transactions with any gas.
00:48:29.710 - 00:48:53.560, Speaker D: So that's not necessarily the goal. The goal is to balance the incentives of validators and ETH stickers such that ethereum itself is as decentralized as possible. So I think it would be maybe governance has a different view, I don't know, you would have to ask the token holders. But I see these sort of revenue share programs as more of a temporary situation, though they are certainly relevant challenges right now.
00:48:54.170 - 00:49:29.700, Speaker E: I guess the revenue share is being done through the affiliate program. I noticed there is a proposal with Bitdao right now to deposit, I think it was 40,000 ETH and that would put them into the category of getting I believe, 30% of the revenue share back. So I think that's really interesting and maybe lighter touch as it relates to changing core parts of the protocol. And again, even if Bitdao did have their own module per se, you could not direct deposits only to that module with a custom fee structure right now. So it's just worth thinking about.
00:49:33.750 - 00:49:53.046, Speaker D: Let's frame this more as a dao proposal rather than a protocol change right. Like Lido, the protocol continues to function in exactly the same way. But the Lido, the Dao, the union of token holders have just decided that in this particular instance, it might be interesting for Bitdao, for Mantle to get access to this affiliate program.
00:49:53.148 - 00:51:02.270, Speaker E: I think that makes a lot of sense. And I would also love to just kind of explore some additional revenue and growth models that you guys may or may not have been thinking about so far. And I think the goal with any sort of additional revenue that you might think about is, one, not hurting Steeth users, right, not leveraging too much control with your market share over steep users to increase the rake and two, not hurting decentralization. And I think, I guess, two ideas that come to mind and the Stride team, and Cosmos has introduced this, but they're introducing a way to bid for instant withdrawals. And so this is really going after the searcher market. Who wants to perform ARBs? And then another one which I believe was brought up on Uncommon Core, is this idea of we have sequencers on all these roll ups now and they're going to need to select maybe a small sequencer set. And Lido is in an interesting position because you already have relationships with a very geographically distributed set of validators.
00:51:02.270 - 00:51:27.960, Speaker E: These two jobs of being an L One validator or an L2 sequencer are not so different you could imagine. And so you could potentially be a, I guess, node operator as a service provider for some of these L2 S. But other than those two ideas, are there any other things you've been thinking about on the revenue side or just growth strategies in general?
00:51:33.790 - 00:52:10.120, Speaker D: I would frame it more around product strategies. The attitude that the shape of the Lido protocol that has emerged over time has been one of relentless focus on just making a really good product. And I think that that's the best growth strategy of all. It speaks to the fact that of the liquid staking tokens, most people are choosing to stick with Lido. It's not Lido that's going out and trying to acquire these users. People are simply staking their ETH. So I think focus on the Core protocol and there is so much creative space left to design around.
00:52:10.120 - 00:53:14.666, Speaker D: I think the L One and L2, the sequencer angle is interesting, but as with L One issues, Lido, the protocol, I would hope, would over time, avoid positioning itself as a kingmaker in any one respect and try to solve for as much neutrality as possible. And I think that that would make it a more attractive product for each one of these L2 S. And I think that that's what may result in its growth through that channel. Should that be a potential avenue of expansion of the protocol? But, yeah, I think the TLDR is, in my personal view, as narrow as possible, as focused as possible on the core problem of making staking accessible, which is a huge, huge problem. And then finding ways of making sure that the incentives are balanced. Not for the next five to ten years, for the next Bull Run, but for the next thousand years of people using ethereum as a base layer for stuff. I think that's the challenge that I'm thinking of.
00:53:14.688 - 00:54:16.638, Speaker C: And losing sleepover, that's super bullish, just like qualitative perspective, at least my perspective is. And also we hold tokens in Lido. So disclosure probably a little bit late in the episode to say that. Just like my perspective of the Lido Dao is that there's a lot of people who learned a lot of things from, you know, steakhouse and those, you know, constantine just has been around the block so many times that he's seen it all. And the first time, DAOs didn't have this benefit and kind of ended up, I think, a broad Dao is like a good thing and also a bad thing. It just reflects a level of scope creep that people probably wouldn't have preferred if they could do it again. And anytime things are proposed that are more short term, more likely to distract the dow, more likely to decrease decentralization, it's always just kind of like laser focus and product focus.
00:54:16.638 - 00:54:51.882, Speaker C: And that's very refreshing to me at least. It is really one of the better run dows and does live the principles of aligning with theory of decentralization, making staking easy and it's more product led, I would say, than most other dows as well, just because people are just interacting with Lido in numbers that you don't really see in any other DAP. There's 168,000 unique depositors, like depositors, not just people who own this or trade it like people who've interacted with the staking contracts. It's pretty wild. There's a very broad constituent set and I think the ethos of the dow reflects that.
00:54:51.936 - 00:56:10.094, Speaker A: I've got one more set of questions, guys, around just this idea of an internal fee market to Lido. And this idea is idea that I've sort of been thinking about since the episode that we did with Izzy about the potential of sort of bribe model for the LDO token. But one question that I have about how this is actually going to play out in practice is my understanding is the way that fees are going to be set for these different modules is through governance. So anytime you have set that sort of ability, you sort of open yourself, there's an incentive, right, for people to try to monkey with governance, right, to drive fees in the way that they ultimately want. So my two part question for you is you can sort of see eventually the desire for big sets of stakers or more sophisticated actors and deep pocketed actors that really care about percentage points on the amount that they're paying to the protocol or to validators to adopt this strategy of, let's say in the same way that Curve Finance has this bribe mechanism internally with CRV the token. You lock it up, there's a ve model you can direct. And then you kind of have the ability to direct emissions of curve CRV, the token to different liquidity pools.
00:56:10.094 - 00:56:58.946, Speaker A: And you create this sort of virtuous flywheel for the pool that you're in, a little bit less so, and you kind of have to squint at it. But you could see a similar incentive with the LDO token of if you buy up a bunch of LDO before you have to stake, you could lower the fee parameters of your specific module stake for a cheaper amount. So there's kind of this bribe model that I understand why that might sound not super positive to people, but what I also do believe eventually is that we need to find value accrual for these tokens. You can't just say something to the effect of lido is going to be huge and therefore there's some reason why this token is going to be valuable. Like ultimately, if it's not going to be a claim on cash flows or something like that, that would violate securities laws. There has to be something. So that would be my question to you.
00:56:58.946 - 00:57:10.146, Speaker A: And if the Governance token doesn't stand in as the mechanism for this fee market, what are these fee markets actually going to look like internally?
00:57:10.258 - 00:57:51.870, Speaker D: It's true. It speaks to this problem of adverse selection. I suppose it's from the point of view of a very large depositor who is large enough that they could potentially influence the direction of governance through cutting into some of their profits by buying blocks of governance support for certain things. I suppose it's a possibility because in effect the fee in the staking router is set by governance. At the moment it's a variable, but I think the intention is to hard code this and to minimize this. And so I think that the two mitigants. So I see this as a remote possibility for three reasons.
00:57:51.870 - 00:58:48.054, Speaker D: The first is that an attack of that size would have to be very large at the moment and would have a very narrow scope of influence to actually change. It would create a lot of waves like oh, large staker is trying to change the fee from whatever, five to zero or something, or to 100. So just the size of the attack that it would be required, I think in this transitional phase while governance still has control over those parameters, I think is a mitigator somewhat. But then the other is the fact that this is not meant to be in the hands of governance forever. The idea of governance minimization and ossification of the protocol is that you take away these levers and these variables and that you design a system that balances the incentives of all of the participants in this. You can call it marketplace in a way such that they're all the. Least annoyed, the least worst off with respect to each other.
00:58:48.054 - 00:59:47.830, Speaker D: And then the other one is the importance of introducing this aspect of a dual governance veto over LDO token holder decisions, which is the sort of final safeguard. So if you see someone doing shenanigans with the LDO token, you would hope that all the hundreds of thousands of safety holders could intervene to block it and to prevent any shenanigans with the fees or with governance. So I think it's an interesting model. I think this concept of bribing people for governance is definitely a threat. I don't know enough about the vote escort modeling curve or anything I hope seems a little overwrought and a bit complicated. I'm sure it works out fine. And then the other aspect yeah, so as relates to the staking router fee marketplace, I would hope that it ends up in a place where it's automated, where it balances all of these incentives and solves for variables beyond just sort of profitability on the value accrual.
00:59:47.830 - 01:00:21.310, Speaker D: Maybe the token doesn't have to any value, I'm sorry to say, I'm sorry to disappoint Vans, but maybe he is just holding governance tokens and that's okay. And I think that's for governance to decide the direction of in the future, they are a constituency that needs to be incentivized to participate in governance for now and may well need to be in the future and those interests need to be balanced somehow. But I wouldn't necessarily characterize it as value accrual necessarily. Although I'm sure Vance disagrees.
01:00:21.390 - 01:00:50.460, Speaker C: Yeah, I disagree. You know, at some point this is going to be a finished product, it's going to be decentralized. My hope is that all the governance will kind of run itself. I do think that's a part of the maker end game that is a little bit Sci-Fi, but we should have just an automated system making all these decisions and then it's time to return cash flow to token holders, right? I think it's a pretty straight line.
01:00:53.250 - 01:01:05.038, Speaker E: Hopefully we get some clarity and that can happen in the next ten to 20 years without having to introduce these reasons to buy the token. Hopefully the token is just generating a.
01:01:05.044 - 01:01:06.350, Speaker B: Lot of cash flows.
01:01:08.310 - 01:02:00.430, Speaker C: Think about Google as well. They have not distributed cash for a very long time other than stock buybacks. But it's just such a valuable company that's growing so quickly and spitting off so much cash that you want to hold that governance token that governed share whatever, right? I think Adrian's point is more so on that front. Or maybe I'm putting words in your mouth, but the whole idea of I think deferring returning cash flow is like this thing is growing so quickly and compounding and the internal management and the internal token holder community can make it compound faster than giving it to people and having them do whatever with it. So I think that's the spirit of it versus like fuck these token holders. It's a different way of thinking about it's more akin to kind of like the traditional tech valuation why you would hold those shares.
01:02:00.590 - 01:02:20.706, Speaker D: Yes. With the caveat that it's not a company, it's a protocol. So SMTP doesn't have token holders and if it did, I don't know if they would expect some kind of dividend. And I think that's a more interesting way of thinking about it. Which is not to say that there will never be some sort know LDO. Token holders are important. They're the lifeblood of the dao.
01:02:20.706 - 01:02:48.690, Speaker D: They run the the, they are the union of token holders that make things happen and they are a constituency whose interests need to be managed to make sure that the protocol is maximally well run for the benefit of ethereum. But I approach it from that perspective rather than from trying to, let's say, shoehorn it into a corporation dividend buyback return on capital approach.
01:02:49.430 - 01:03:39.540, Speaker C: My approach is also like assume the markets are ten to 100 times larger than you expect. Like if C really becomes the reserve currency of the internet, the governance token for that is going to want to hold whether there's dividends or not. That's not going to be the thing that really sways your mind. But yeah, I think a lot of these Dows are going to be far larger than people anticipate. And the reason why is that the internal token holder community is going to be able to allocate and redeploy capital in a market that's growing far faster than people expect. So like, short term, I agree with Adrian. Long term I look at things like and I know it's a company, but snapchat, it's just like a egregious mismanagement of cash flow, of incentives, of conflicts of interest.
01:03:39.540 - 01:03:53.842, Speaker C: I really think the way to draw the clean line between the token holders, the validators and the Steeth holders is just cash flow. I don't really see any other avenue for that to happen in terms of alignment.
01:03:53.986 - 01:04:02.134, Speaker D: There's definitely a big balancing exercise that has to be done with all of the different constituents with respect to the surplus that the protocol generates for them. For sure.
01:04:02.252 - 01:04:38.326, Speaker A: All right guys, this has been a really fun one and definitely gave us a lot to think about. And yeah, it's just fun to get a little bit more tactical and talk about how you might different growth models or improvements of the product or how you might eventually expect to accrue some value to these tokens. Because the one thing I would say, Adrian, I do sort of conceptualize of a lot of these protocols as primitive, similar to an Http or something like that. But the problem ultimately comes down to incentivization then. And if the protocol is dependent on people doing things and holding the token, then incentivization has to be thought of.
01:04:38.348 - 01:04:39.206, Speaker D: Somewhere in that model.
01:04:39.308 - 01:04:45.362, Speaker A: But guys, this has been a ton of fun. Thank you both so much for coming on the episode.
01:04:45.426 - 01:04:49.730, Speaker D: Thanks for having us. Glad. I hope you enjoyed the single digit IQ. Takes.
01:04:49.820 - 01:05:00.090, Speaker A: Left curve only, baby. Left curve only. All right, guys, talk to you soon. All right, Miles, that was a great episode with Vance and Adrian. Both really smart.
01:05:00.770 - 01:05:16.762, Speaker B: No, that was awesome. And it was great to have, you know, as we compared Maker to Lido, given their position with her experience working with both. And yeah, loved, loved the perspectives.
01:05:16.906 - 01:05:56.186, Speaker A: Yeah, I got to give a shout out to Stakehouse. They're becoming one of my favorite teams. I wasn't super aware of them even a couple of months ago, but Adrian and Sebastian, the whole crew over there do really great work. And Maker, Lido, some other protocols as well. Let's sort of start with I thought it was helpful. The caveat here being when we talk about mental models, like comparing Lido to something like a bank is all reasoning by analogy, is inherently flawed, and there's a limit to how far you really want to go down that road. But the reason I found that that was a helpful section of the podcast was just this idea of sort of balancing assets versus liabilities and managing that risk.
01:05:56.186 - 01:06:19.270, Speaker A: Again, I'm reminded of this old post that Multicoin did a little while ago, which is DAOs Manage Risk. And ultimately, if you have a Dow that manages and underwrites risk, that's a less forkable, sort of more stable moat than something that could be easily forked or stolen away, like uniswap liquidity or something like that. Although that's actually proven to be pretty sticky. So I thought that was a useful part of the program.
01:06:19.420 - 01:07:14.150, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think this becomes more relevant with the introduction of the Staking router. Right, because now you have not just one module with a pretty uniform risk profile around each of the validators in it, you have many modules with very different risk profiles. And so while the goal for them broadly is governance minimization, I think this is the one area where there's actually going to need to be more human, I would say touch points, than there was before Lido V two. But again, this governance interaction, or I guess the objectives of this portion of governance is actually very aligned with ethereum and decentralization, since that is really the main goal here, is how can we make this set as permissionless and diversified as possible while still protecting the users.
01:07:14.490 - 01:08:02.294, Speaker A: Yeah, I also really enjoyed the perspective of comparing Maker's endgame versus Lido's and this idea of Lido as a narrow Dao and Maker as a broad Dao and how they actually might be sort of converging. And one thing that we didn't draw out in the conversation, but I found myself thinking about is there's a point at which I think almost every dow starts off as a narrow dow, but then what ends up happening is you sort of hit this saturation of your initial product market fit. Right. So in the beginning, for Maker, that was borrow against ETH. Right. It was the ability to sort of lever up and borrow against your ETH. The reason why there was some complexity added to Maker and it became more of a broad dow instead of a narrow Dao is because the demand to borrow against your ETH ran out.
01:08:02.294 - 01:08:48.678, Speaker A: And Rune and some of the early folks at Maker had to make this really difficult decision of do I continue along this path of growth and do I allow onboard real world assets and add a little bit of complexity to my dow and broaden it out a little bit? Or do I sort of stick to my knitting? And something that actually occurred to me during that conversation was perhaps each Dao is just at a very different phase of their development where Lido hasn't maxed out its initial product market fit. And so it still makes sense to continue on this narrow path where at some point they will saturate the market for staked ETH, right? And then they might have to make some decisions about am I okay with just my current level of my current size or do I need to look for more complex areas to grow?
01:08:48.844 - 01:10:12.174, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's fair. Or maybe they've maxed out their level of product market fit while having one curated validators. And so the insight here is to unlock more of the market we actually need to diversify this set. We need it to be more permissionless that will involve making this Dow a little bit less narrow, right? Because there's more jobs to be done, there's more to monitor and more decisions to make. But again, that is really all in the benefits of hopefully Ethereum and the Dao longer term. And it's part think, you know, this is something I was talking about with Aidan from stride but reframing the narrative around LSTs and governance risk to something that is potentially an existential risk to ethereum, that's really where we were in the self limiting debates to hey, actually this can be a force of decentralization because it is so aligned with ethereum's values. And frankly, if the Lido Dao can prove that through governance ethereum can have a more decentralized set than if it was totally up to the users to pick and choose how they delegate their stake, maybe that's a good thing.
01:10:12.174 - 01:10:26.306, Speaker B: Maybe we should not be so concerned about Lido governance. Maybe we should be cheerleading it, right? That would be a very powerful shift in narrative and I think that that's really what LSD protocols should be trying to do at this point.
01:10:26.488 - 01:11:09.330, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree with that, Miles. And maybe this is the part where we can segue into some of the discussion about potential business models and one, because everything is as a service these days. I think what I would sort of have kind of heard what you're describing called is node operator distribution as a service so nod s and the basic desire behind that would be, let's actually say you're something like, let's say restaking ends up getting implemented your optimism. And it's like, hey, we've got one sequencer today. Ultimately we want a more distributed set of sequencers. And then you sort of go through the same questions that you might in terms of how do you create a distributed set of validators? Well, I don't want them all in the same jurisdiction. I don't want them to all be the same person.
01:11:09.330 - 01:11:40.498, Speaker A: And there needs to be some amount of checkup on my sequencers in the same way that a staking pool would have to check up on their node operators. Well, I could either go about doing that myself, which is a really tricky program, or I could go to a third party like Lido and say, hey, you actually have this distributed set of validators. You've done the hard work of distributing these across different geographies, et cetera, and I would like some of these guys to opt in and become a sequencer. So that could be quite an interesting opportunity for a protocol like lido.
01:11:40.614 - 01:12:37.470, Speaker B: Yeah, you could argue that Lido is basically a form of proof of authority for distributing ethereum stake right now, and they really have developed like, a robust proof of authority system. And then you can replicate that all those existing relationships, all of, I guess, all the distributed infrastructure to other sort of proof of authority systems, one of which could be sequencer sets for roll ups. And yeah, that's just an interesting kind of downstream effect of really what they've established already, and another interesting business model. But again, that kind of makes the Dow less narrow. Right, so all of these decisions of expanding horizontally or vertically have trade offs that I think might be tough to get past or at least in the very near future.
01:12:37.620 - 01:14:00.378, Speaker A: Yeah, I think a big part of our discussion as well ended up sort of hinging on this question of will liquid staking protocols allow some sort of service or allow the ability of delegators to select validators on the other side of the marketplace with a specific set of criteria? So we stayed with this sort of example of an institutional depositor that wants to be connected with a KYC set of validators. And the big issue with this is one I think Adrian did a good job of pointing out that it doesn't really fundamentally make is, you know, fungible today and all Steeth are like other Steeth. And this doesn't really make sense, actually, even at a high level. And this is where the analogy of lido being a bank or a money market fund or something like that breaks down, because ethereum is fundamentally something new and these analogies don't fit because Staking isn't really a thing in the real world. But the big protocol, more mechanically, is that the ability to do this would break fungibility with Steeth. And that at the same time that you open up a market and you put competitors like alluvial under an enormous amount of strain almost overnight. By offering the ability to do this, you do break a core part of the value proposition of your product offering today.
01:14:00.378 - 01:14:01.926, Speaker A: And that should not be taken lightly.
01:14:01.958 - 01:15:28.590, Speaker B: I don't no, no, I think it's a technical challenge right now. And if they're able know innovate something that breaks that trade off, then this could be a more interesting conversation. I think the challenge is really around if there is a slashing event, how do you make sure that only some of Steeth gets slashed that is associated with the Validator who was responsible for the event versus today? If one of the Lido validators gets slashed, then that loss is socialized across all of Steeth holders. Right, but then it's like even beyond the technical challenge, it's more of a question of should we do this? Should we leave this decision completely to the users? And that would shift Lido from more of a proof of authority sort of model to a delegated proof of stake model or something that looks much closer to that. And we know that those end up with typically top heavy sets. And so, yeah, that will be another sort of question. I think maybe as Lido hits the next sort of ceiling of market share that they can grow, say they get all of the market share of capital that doesn't care about, I would say, or have institutional level requirements, then they'll look at this a little bit more seriously.
01:15:28.590 - 01:15:31.670, Speaker B: But I think that it'll take a while to get there.
01:15:31.740 - 01:16:10.642, Speaker A: And just to clarify for the audience, why in a delegated proof of stake system it tends to be very top heavy is imagine yourself from the perspective of a delegator, right? And there's some sort of user interface and you're deciding who to delegate your stake to. And you can see maybe five large validators with an enormous amount of stake and this great track record and history, et cetera, et cetera. And then you see a longer list of Validators. Again, you don't know who any of these people are. It's not like you can look up a Yelp review on your Validators, right. You just see that they don't have very much stake and you take the heuristic that if they're managing a lot of stake, they must be trustworthy and reputable. Right?
01:16:10.776 - 01:16:39.610, Speaker B: Right, exactly. There's no Yelp for Validators today, but there are a lot of great tools getting developed, like rated or also we see in Cosmos where governance and involvement is a big part of the value prop for validators their track record and how they think. But yeah, no, I don't think it's a given that that would be a healthy thing for the protocol.
01:16:39.950 - 01:17:43.760, Speaker A: So eventually Lido and other liquid staking protocols like it are going to have to make this decision because maybe the staking router miles to your point earlier, unlocks the next phase of growth. But even after that there will be a point where all of the lido is staked or all of the ethereum is staked, right, that could possibly be staked. Someone made the point, I think it might have been Adrian on this podcast, that you can't actually stake 100% of ETH because you got to pay for gas, right? So there are limits somewhere in terms of how much can be staked and then lido is going to have to grow in some other way. And one of the other ways is you could have these additional sort of more service fee like models like liquid staking as a service where you're more of a concierge type thing. Or you could think about it from the perspective of, again, Steeth is a claim on a pool of assets, right? So really what you want to do is grow the pile of assets in that pool. And one way that you could do it is you will eventually max out your ETH. So you could again do things like restaking and you get other assets in that pool which again, it causes all sorts of problems and complications but it'll be a challenge down the line.
01:17:43.760 - 01:18:55.142, Speaker A: The last part of this discussion, and this is where I think you and I are maybe a little bit less aligned, so feel free to push back on me here, is how value accrual is going to work. And I agree with you to maybe present the steel man of my argument here that this sort of broadens out into a discussion of tokenomics writ large, right? Which is these aren't mutually exclusive opinions but there are kind of two different ways that tokenomics or value accrual can work in a crypto protocol. One is that it's more traditional, right? It's that this protocol does a function. You collect a whole bunch of cash flow and then eventually the token holders will get distributed that cash flow after a period of time. The equity model of value accrual, right? Then there's this other more crypto native one which is the token itself actually is part of the product. So in creating this protocol with this set of services, you actually bake demand for the token into that design. So a really good example of that, frankly, where that works and is very elegant is ethereum, right? That's a crypto economic system where it makes sense there's a demand and then a burn mechanism for accruing value.
01:18:55.142 - 01:19:25.986, Speaker A: Another example of that would be curve. We covered that in the podcast about the Vote Escrow model where you're locking a bunch of that up and you can direct emissions of the protocol. And I'm generally less of a fan of those token designs. But the caveat that I'll say here is that there's some amount of path dependency where the problem with the equity model is that inherently that looks very securities like, right? And there could be a period of time. Let's just use this hyperbolic example. Let's say we don't get clarity on.
01:19:26.008 - 01:19:26.580, Speaker C: The.
01:19:28.310 - 01:20:01.550, Speaker A: Securities law side of things for like 20 years, right? That's too long of a time for us to just say, yeah, it'll come down the pike at some period of time. So what people will inevitably do is find, I think in that situation, the longer until we get clarity on the securities law side of things, the more we are going to drift into this model of baking the token into the product in some way, shape or form. And that's where I could see a world where you start to see these like a bribe model for lido or something like, I mean, you tell me what are your sort of thoughts?
01:20:01.970 - 01:21:13.454, Speaker B: I mean, I'm definitely more of that more traditional mental model for these things. In general. I think lido has a great product that people want and are willing to pay for today and it's actually closer profitable already now that incentives have been wound down so much. And so I think about the future growth in value krill to lido token, I think a little bit more traditionally where you shouldn't be focused on, I guess reverse engineering some way to generate demand for the token into the product itself. I think these typically degrade the products or at least make them less sustainable than more traditional products that don't require a token. I think even ethereum people are starting to push back a little bit and it's come and gone at various points that ethereum is too value extractive from the apps on top, but it's also a platform versus an app, I would say. So it's a little bit different and then like longer term.
01:21:13.454 - 01:22:18.482, Speaker B: Okay, how does lido grow and really generate demand for LDO, the token? I think this is an interesting balance for them to walk as well. Because even if we ignore tokenomics and just think about how to, I guess, maybe maximize profit, they could do something like have the validators bid down what they would be willing to take for a share in order to get more of an allocation of stake. And this is something that you see with other sort of marketplaces. Like in the piece that I wrote a while ago, I referenced priceline, right? Their supply side bid up can bid for better placement on search results and that increases the rake of the business without actually impacting the user at all. So lido doesn't need to increase its fee to the user. In a similar sense, lido wouldn't have to increase the fee to the user, it could increase some sort of supplies height dynamic. But then again, that's not actually healthy.
01:22:18.482 - 01:22:24.938, Speaker B: Maybe to maximize long term market share. If that leads to a top heavy set, people are going to get mad again.
01:22:25.104 - 01:22:27.322, Speaker A: It's like Google AdWords actually a little.
01:22:27.376 - 01:22:50.660, Speaker B: Yeah, something more like know where you are not impacting the user, but if you can, I guess, increase profitability without really harming, I guess, the objective of decentralization for the underlying protocol. That's more what I would be interested in than, like, Ve LDO or something like that.
01:22:52.870 - 01:22:53.970, Speaker D: I hear you on that.
01:22:54.040 - 01:22:55.290, Speaker B: That's my rant.
01:22:55.470 - 01:23:05.160, Speaker A: Yeah, partner. I really do. Empathize but the best thing doesn't always end up getting done, does it? The path dependency is very real.
01:23:08.570 - 01:23:09.250, Speaker B: We'll see.
01:23:09.340 - 01:23:44.806, Speaker A: All right, Miles, this was a fun one we should be hearing next episode, actually. So thus far this season, we've been focusing on liquid staking, but also on this sort of idea of flat versus broad dows and managing your surface area and not going down the road of vertical integration. And I think our next guest will sort of give us the counterpoint there. I don't want to give away too much information, but next episode is going to be sort of the antithesis of what we've been describing and sort of the Steel Man for the Steel Man counterfactual, as it were. Yeah.
01:23:44.948 - 01:23:45.254, Speaker B: Ten.
01:23:45.292 - 01:23:45.794, Speaker A: All right, budy.
01:23:45.842 - 01:23:52.050, Speaker D: It could be funny.
