00:00:15.560 - 00:00:45.844, Speaker A: All right, we're ready to get started. Hi, everyone. My name is Sochi Casadoad and I lead ecosystem growth at the Cello Foundation. I'm going to talk to you today about how we can reimagine DeFi for good. So so for those of you that aren't familiar with Celo, Celo's mission is to build an open financial system that creates conditions of prosperity for all. This mission is deeply personal for me. My family is from a very small town in Mexico that didn't have running water or electricity.
00:00:45.844 - 00:01:36.840, Speaker A: And I've seen firsthand how access to basic financial tools can change lives. What I wanted to start with was just talk about Celo as a platform and really lay the foundation of how it was built for real world impact. We think of Cello as a side chain to Ethereum. It's a mobile first EVM compatible chain. It uses the proof of stake consensus mechanism, and it also synchronizes Cello on mobile devices thousands of times faster and less data than other chains. Also on Cello, there is a family of stable assets, the Celo dollar, Celo Euro and Celo Real. What's really unique here is that you can pay gas using any of these currencies.
00:01:36.840 - 00:02:41.740, Speaker A: And one of the other aspects of it is that there is an identity phone mapping protocol which makes it super easy to send crypto simply by typing in someone's phone number. And one really cool aspect here is that you can actually send crypto to somebody who doesn't have a wallet set up using the Escrow Smart contract. All of this is to say is that we really focus on how we abstract some of the complexity of blockchain to make it easy for everyday users to use crypto. So if we zoom out a bit now that I've given you a little bit of background on Celo as a platform and we think about how we measure success in DeFi, you might be familiar with this dashboard. It's a great dashboard. I use it DeFi Pulse. And when we think about how we measure as an industry or as a community DeFi today, it really kind of hinges on a few different metrics.
00:02:41.740 - 00:03:32.860, Speaker A: Evaluation is based on total value locked. It's based on things like token price or market cap. And what I'd love to do today is really challenge us to think about this differently. These metrics, I think, are orientated more towards folks that have some of the largest capital and really, I think, exclude some of the everyday users. So if we think about again, this is one point of view, but I invite many others to share theirs as well. How we might redefine success by focusing on some of the real world impact. I wanted to share with you a piece of work that one of my colleagues did, will Lee, called Cello's Theory of Change.
00:03:32.860 - 00:04:08.744, Speaker A: We published this in 2019, shortly before main net launch, before refi was trending. And we really wanted to kind of again, think about this mission of prosperity for all and how we could begin to measure it. And we thought about really four different areas. One is how basic needs are met. The second, really on individual growth. This is one of the core values of cello. Everybody has their own growth plan that is very unique to them and really how we as a community can support each other.
00:04:08.744 - 00:05:20.498, Speaker A: And then the last, but certainly not the least, is how we support this beautiful world that we live in and really protect it. So we have been focused on over the last two years on really building this regenerative ecosystem. And what I love to do with you today is really highlight a few of those projects that are really focused on some of those metrics, ensuring that basic needs are met, that we're supporting each other, that we're growing, and that we're saving that planet. So some of the real world use cases that are built on Sello, again all hinge on this constellation of this mobile phone. How do we use this to touch the billions of people around the world that lack access to basic financial tools? And you can see some of them highlighted here today. Again, things like savings payments, remittances, microwork, humanitarian aid and lending. And I think what is unique about some of the use cases that I'm going to share with you, and that's really amazing, is this aspect of composability.
00:05:20.498 - 00:06:23.974, Speaker A: How do we take some of the core principles of DeFi that a lot of the protocols have built and really use them in different ways to serve more people around the world? The first I want to start with is a project called Impact Market. It's a project that provides universal basic income. This project, obviously with crypto, able to really touch thousands of people with low transaction fees. It's transparent, it's operationally effective for organizations to distribute this aid. And folks, after receiving aid, can begin to participate in different programs and learn financial literacy, begin to have access to tools that they don't regularly. To date, there are 45,000 beneficiaries of Impact Market in 250 communities around the world. Each individual receives approximately fifty cents a day, and that $0.50,
00:06:23.974 - 00:07:05.478, Speaker A: while it may seem small to every one of us in this room, makes a big difference for these individuals. And I think what is really amazing about this is that it's not only the individuals who benefit from it, it's the communities. This is a community in Brazil. This shopkeeper doesn't have access, obviously, to a payments terminal. You can see her stand here. But now, because her community has been using CUSD as a form of UBI, she's now able to accept it as a form of payment for her goods. And this gives her access to digital tools that she didn't have before.
00:07:05.478 - 00:07:59.110, Speaker A: Things like being able to manage inventory, accept payments via the phone and manage her supplies. The second use case that I wanted to highlight is under collateralized lending. This is a really beautiful project that is built in Columbia, really, again, taking those core principles of DeFi, but using reputation to assess someone's credit worthiness. This is Jorge. He is a Venezuelan refugee who lives in Colombia. He moved there with this hope of being able to provide his family with a better life, but unfortunately couldn't access a simple loan. He formed this community of refugees.
00:07:59.110 - 00:08:35.890, Speaker A: They started to kind of set financial goals. They started to kind of learn about finances. And they each received a $500 loan. That loan enabled them to upgrade this bicycle that you see here from a push pedal bicycle to a motorized bicycle. Jorge courier for Rapi. Rappi is sort of the equivalent of Uber Eats. And that motorized bicycle, that simple $500 loan, allowed him to not only improve his productivity, but to really change his earnings.
00:08:35.890 - 00:09:38.950, Speaker A: As a result of a project like Rota, you saw individuals that were able to double their income, that were before this, earning way below minimum wage, and now were able to kind of support their families in a much different way just with that $500 loan. I think this is the beauty of a decentralized finance is how do we empower people to participate in some of these financial systems that exclude them today. The other project that I wanted to highlight is a project that's focused on microwork. So microwork is connecting vulnerable populations to really digital innovation. It takes really kind of this simple task, again on your mobile phone. You can do it anywhere. Transcribe receipts, look at how to recognize different logos, categorize tasks.
00:09:38.950 - 00:10:23.670, Speaker A: This project was done in collaboration with the World Food Program, with Mercy Corps and with Appen. And this, again, really provided a different way to earn. What was interesting about this project is that most of the beneficiaries were mothers. Mothers that weren't able to leave their homes and to work. They could begin to do these tasks again on their mobile phone from anywhere. This is Lilian, who is one of the recipients here. This project was focused on Kenya with a high population of youth, a high rate of unemployment.
00:10:23.670 - 00:11:42.090, Speaker A: And this not only provide her with the ability to earn, but also the ability to learn. We talked about how we're elevating individuals as well, and she was able to receive some of the skills that help her have access not only to a job like this, but other jobs as well. And then I wanted to focus the last, really, two use cases here that I'm sharing with each of you, really on how we're taking things that may be at this intersection of DeFi and NFTs and really looking at how we're creating kind of more utility with Planet Positive Action. We're seeing NFTs on Sello used for things like fundraising, also looking at sort of like learn to earn type of modules that it's gamified experience. And NFTs that are promoting action like going to a beach and cleaning up trash. This is an example of a project called Plastics. Plastics developed a marketplace where if you purchase an NFT, single use plastic is recovered.
00:11:42.090 - 00:12:53.186, Speaker A: And you can see that with each NFT that's purchased, the amount of plastic that is recovered. And I think it's a really beautiful project that is focused on, again, how do we focus on the Earth. This is a big piece of cello's story, our main net launched on Earth Day of 2020. This is not a trend for us from our Genesis block we allocated a percentage of the block rewards to offset carbon in the white paper. We were inspired by the work of Charles Eisenstein and this concept of natural backed assets. How do we begin to value things that are beautiful in this world like water, clean air and pristine forest? And the thinking here is that if we value them, other people will begin to value them more as well. And so part of the Cello Reserve is actually a percent is set on MCO two, which is the carbon credit asset, and we're seeing more of those develop and on sello with flow carbon.
00:12:53.186 - 00:14:08.054, Speaker A: And twoCon to date, 3000 tons of carbon has been offset via block rewards and 83,000 tons of carbon is offset in the Cello Reserve. So I think what I'm hoping to kind of showcase here is the little piece that we're doing to really reimagine how DFI can be used for good, how we can take some of these core primitives and protocols and really imagine them in different ways. I think this is the beauty of everything that we're doing in crypto with the composability. I wanted to kind of share an example of a project that's looking at a different evaluation and rating mechanism. This is a project called Prime Dao and they basically created a refi ratings list which looks at things, traditional things that we would imagine like traction and tokenomics and team, but also really looking at impact. And this is their first iteration of this. I think we're going to continue to see this grow and evolve.
00:14:08.054 - 00:15:08.134, Speaker A: But this is an example of a cross section of folks that are working on Sello on ethereum on other blockchains and really kind of thinking about what that impact is that we're trying to drive and how we begin to evaluate the different projects and the impact that they're having in the world. It's pretty cool. If you look at the link you can also see how that evaluation criteria is constructed and this will likely evolve. Our hope is that we begin to see, just like we have DeFi Pulse, a refi ratings platform as well, that everybody looks to to get a sense of what that impact looks like. One thing that I also wanted to kind of showcase is that by focusing on impact, what we're really seeing is something special. We're seeing that these real world use cases. And this impact is actually fueling growth.
00:15:08.134 - 00:16:02.942, Speaker A: We've seen the seven day active addresses of fellow really just, I think, grow, which has been amazing. Again, it perhaps isn't like the whales or the individual that you would traditionally see in DeFi. These are those real world users. These are the stories of Jorge and Lillian and some of the individuals that are able to kind of access these applications for the first time. This platform is also, I think, attracting a very special community. For those of you that haven't had a chance, definitely encourage you to kind of check out the cello salon, which is a few blocks from this venue where we're seeing builders around the world that are really focused on creating impact projects. And it always kind of warms my heart to see where they're coming from.
00:16:02.942 - 00:17:03.310, Speaker A: 200 countries is pretty amazing. And we see a majority of that work coming from emerging markets, places like Africa, Southeast Asia and Latin America. So in terms of where next? One thing that we've done is created this alliance for Prosperity, some of these metrics that I'm talking about, they're not trivial. I think many of us came to crypto with this potential of democratizing wealth and democratizing technology. Those are two really big, ambitious goals. And in order to achieve those goals, we need to work across chains, across lines or whatever as a holistic community. And we think that in order to do this, how do we bring some of the greatest minds together? One thing that we launched was an alliance for Prosperity.
00:17:03.310 - 00:18:19.640, Speaker A: And this, again, has been very focused on building this regenerative economy where there are working groups that are created that focus on different subsections of it. One working group I talked about earlier was the Climate Collective. But there is also a collective that's focused on DeFi, a creator collective, a social impact collective that is launching today, and a collective that's focused on connecting the world. And what we're seeing is that a really wonderful cross section of organizations that all want to help achieve this mission. And we're seeing traditional web3 organizations like the Graph or Coinbase and Pull Together, organizations that are more web, two companies like Kickstarter or App In. And then also seeing organizations that are focused on humanitarian aid like the Grameen Foundation or the World Food Program. And again, I think it's this diversity of right across these different organizations that are going to really help us achieve this mission together.
00:18:19.640 - 00:18:56.020, Speaker A: So I would like to invite you, if this is something that is of interest to you, to help build this better regenerative financial system and to help create prosperity for all. We would love to get in touch. There's a QR code here that will take you to some history of cello, but also a way to kind of get in touch with those of us that are here in Paris or perhaps back at home. That's it. Thank you.
00:19:03.110 - 00:19:05.780, Speaker B: Do you have a question? Maybe? Anyone?
00:19:07.350 - 00:19:08.100, Speaker A: Yes.
00:19:11.690 - 00:20:14.770, Speaker B: Hi, I'm a founder with a small team of developers who have been digging into refi a lot recently. So I came in touch with like two months ago and I'm very enthusiastic about the space. I've been spreading the word, so to speak, already, and there's a few things that keep coming up that I would like to forward to you as questions that were posed to me. The first one is, why did you feel the need to build your own blockchain for this? I'm sure you heard it before, so you have an answer ready, but I haven't heard it yet since I'm new to the space. And the other one is the WiFi sector seems to be very much about collaboration. So are there other blockchains that you work with or partner with or where you support each other that also work towards this vision?
00:20:14.850 - 00:21:11.340, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, definitely. So just on the first, in terms of building another chain, the Solo White Paper was written, I think, in 2017 and Mainnet was launched right at the very beginning of the Pandemic in 2020. And at the time that was obviously pre merge. We still are premerge and it was very important for us to kind of think about how we abstract some of the complexities of crypto from everyday users. As I talked about earlier, with the mobile first aspect, we wanted to make it easy for anybody to participate in crypto, not just folks that have the latest Android phone or the latest iPhone. And so for us, being able to pick up a $20 phone on the street of Sierra Leone and be able to use blockchain applications was really important. And we found that at the time, building our own blockchain kind of made the most sense.
00:21:11.340 - 00:22:01.898, Speaker A: There are also the things that I touched on with the reserve aspect and being able to kind of, again, attribute value by holding in the reserve natural backed assets as being like a really beautiful piece as well. And so I think there were a number of factors that contributed to that. Those are just a few, but yeah, I think that was why we went down that path. On your second one, on the collaboration all the time, actually work very closely with peers from like, Ethereum Foundation, we talk about how we can cross collaborate on projects. Filecoin protocol Labs, I think is another great one. And Cosmos with the Regen Network, they were doing great work. And again, I think the focus here is for these problems that we're talking about solving, it's going to take everyone.
00:22:01.898 - 00:22:16.260, Speaker A: This is not just about addressing them with a sello only perspective. We'll often co fund grants. Working on how we can kind of build bridges between the chains is like other big aspect of our work too.
00:22:17.670 - 00:22:20.850, Speaker B: Thank you for your presentation. Really appreciate it.
00:22:20.920 - 00:22:21.780, Speaker A: Thank you.
00:22:22.630 - 00:22:24.340, Speaker B: Do we have more questions.
00:22:26.230 - 00:22:32.240, Speaker A: All right. Awesome. Thank you all. Thank.
