00:00:00.200 - 00:00:15.198, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dean Denise Asano. That's the 16 May 2023. Hi everyone. Let's get into it. So a couple of, I guess, updates on the finality issues from the weekend here.
00:00:15.198 - 00:00:51.702, Speaker A: The beacon chain finality issues. Now, we don't have a post mortem just yet from the prism team or the Tecu team, but super fierce put out a great tweet today that I wanted to just go over. So he said my summary of the loss of finality incidents as the chain grows, as the chain grows, more valid validators submit attestations that are out of date. This data can put strain on nodes to keep up and it caused some to choke. The resolution is to be more careful about what old attestations are processed and that's exactly what Prism did with the release of their hotfix client. Same with Tecu. And Prism also has another release out today which contains more optimizations around that there.
00:00:51.702 - 00:01:28.362, Speaker A: Now this is exactly why you didn't we, you know, we didn't see this issue pop up until over the weekend because we obviously have added a lot of new validators over the last I guess, few months and the beacon chain is doing more I guess. Well sorry, I should say the beacon chain clients, they're doing more work since withdrawals were enabled. And yeah, that's, that's why we ran into the bug with Prism and Tecu where there was basically that loss of finality there. So just a great summary, some from super fears that I wanted to highlight. But as I said, there has been no post mortem published yet so there aren't more details. But I'm sure, you know, the pro labs team is working on it. I'm sure the tech who team is working on it as well.
00:01:28.362 - 00:02:08.112, Speaker A: And we'll probably still get it this week. I don't know like if we will get it this week or next week, but I'm assuming it'll be this week because obviously they already know the, the root cause of the issues considering that they released updates for and patches for it. But I think with a post mortem you always want to be as succinct and accurate as possible and you want to make sure you cover as much detail as possible. So that's what I suspect they're doing on top of their other workload. Right. These, these guys aren't just sitting around doing just the post mortem. They, they've also got other workloads to worry about, one of those being, you know, making sure they release new updates of the, of the clients like what Prism did today in order to further address the issues that we saw so we can minimize the risk of it happening again.
00:02:08.112 - 00:03:01.138, Speaker A: Now, in saying that, that's another point that I want to, I want to bring up and hit home a little bit. I think I did talk about this yesterday, maybe even the day before, but it's really important to realize that like, the way these systems are designed, are not designed in such a way where it's going to be 100% foolproof and nothing's ever going to go wrong. The whole point of designing the, I guess, ethereum ecosystem with client diversity at the heart of it is that redundancy that I spoke about. And to get that redundancy, you basically need to have not only client diversity, but you also need to have kind of like learnings from incidents that have happened in order to strengthen and harden the protocol. Because a lot of the times there is something in, I guess, like cybersecurity or just computer security in general, just I guess, security in general called the unknown unknowns. Now, the unknown unknowns are the scariest thing because they are the things that you don't know. That you don't know.
00:03:01.138 - 00:03:51.694, Speaker A: So for example, with what happened with the, the prism and tecu clients, the teams, and I guess like the community was not aware that this was even going to be an issue until it actually played out. But now that it has played out, it becomes a known thing and we can do more work in the future to optimize clients to, you know, check for these things, to test for these things that we may not have previously been doing. So even though it led to obviously the loss of finality here and it was, it was kind of, I think, I mean, it probably was the biggest bug, I guess, since the beacon chain had been live. Um, uh, even though it wasn't that big, that big of a deal, in my opinion, it was definitely the biggest bug that I can remember. But essentially, uh, it's actually a net positive because it means that we're actually now going to be looking for things related to this, testing for these things more. Uh, and it's no longer an unknown unknown, which is, which is obviously very awesome there. But anyway, enough on that one.
00:03:51.694 - 00:04:31.683, Speaker A: You, you can go check out Prism's latest release and update it if you run the prism clients, I'll link that in the YouTube description below. Moving on to an EIP 4844 implementers call thread from Terrence. So this is the usual thread that he puts out. This is the 22nd call. So the 22nd thread here, what they talked about were spec discussions. Clients have been making changes that were put in the spec and that have been opening prs, which you can find here a bunch more information about all the different things that the client implementers have been doing, testing with Devnet five and things like that as well. So an update from that was that teams found p two p blobs by range response bug where insufficient blobs got returned.
00:04:31.683 - 00:05:09.904, Speaker A: So there was a bug found which is always very positive there. And it's some other updates that I'll link, that you can read where when I link the thread in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But I mean that's another thing as well. Like the, the pry labs team obviously, as well as all the other beacon chain client implementers and execution layer implementers are all pretty heavily involved in the next Ethereum upgrade, which is Den Koon. And obviously a lot of them are prioritizing 48 44 right now because that is the biggest upgrade as part of that, that whole upgrade. That's the biggest EIP as part of that upgrade. So that's what I was talking about before about, you know, these people aren't just sitting around thinking, okay, well I got to think about these finality issues.
00:05:09.904 - 00:05:32.228, Speaker A: No, they've got a lot of different things on, on their plates. What the finality issues thing is one of them. And you know, I'm sure they're trying to work across all of these different domains while maintaining their sanity as well. Right. But yeah, you can go give this implementers call thread a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Lido has finally enabled with drawers.
00:05:32.228 - 00:06:00.250, Speaker A: This has been, I guess like a long time coming. A long time being a month since Chappella went live. It's already been a month, guys. Like, how crazy is that? It's already been a month since beacon chain withdrawals went live. But anyway, lighter stuck to their promise of going live mid May, which is really awesome to see. And now if you want to unstake with, with Lido, you can submit a withdrawal request. To do that, you don't have to just go to the secondary market where, you know, there are obviously now two ways to exit.
00:06:00.250 - 00:06:53.596, Speaker A: You can sell your steth on the open market on the secondary market, or you can redeem that Steth for ETH directly from Lido, which then goes and redeems it from the beacon chain. Now link. So here, put out a little tweet saying if you wanted to move your ETH to a more decentralized, more minority protocol, now is the time. I have mentioned before how I thought, how I think there's not going to be like a mass exodus of stake from Lido for, I mean, the simple reason that anyone who wanted to exit, besides maybe like the big whales, would just go through the secondary market, because there is quite decent liquidity for Steth. So I don't think we're going to be seeing particularly smaller stakers switch over. But the thing about smaller stakers is that I think over time, they switch over once they stack more ETH. So, for example, say you're a small staker and you've only got like four ETH, and you say you're a small ETH holder, you've got like four ETH and you want to stake it.
00:06:53.596 - 00:07:21.606, Speaker A: Well, what are your options right now? Well, okay, you can buy, you can buy are ETH, right? But that's been trading at a premium, so you may not want to buy that because you're actually getting a raw deal. Then you can go buy Steth, you can go buy Cbeth or Binance. You can go stake with Coinbase and Binance. So you, maybe you just go choose Lido, right? And maybe you buy st ETH, or maybe you stake directly with Lido, but those are really your options. You can't solo stake, you can't stake with rocket pool. You can't spin up a mini pool. Not yet, hopefully, when we get four ETH leds.
00:07:21.606 - 00:07:57.048, Speaker A: But, you know, that's not the, that's not the state of the protocol right now. But then over time, let's say you stack mo 8th, let's say you stack another four ETH, and then you have eight, and maybe you have enough money to buy the RPL tokens that are required to bond in order to spin up a mini pool. And you decide, you know what, I don't want to stake with Lido anymore. I'm gonna sell my st ETH and I'm going to go spin up a mini pool. Or say you stack enough to do solo staking, or say you basically want to move away from Lido to something more, more of a minority protocol. There are various different ways that people will leave Lido. I just don't think there's going to be a mass exodus.
00:07:57.048 - 00:08:24.634, Speaker A: Right. And obviously, the smaller stakers, they only put a dent in the numbers if there's a lot of them doing this. And again, it won't happen all at once. It'll be a kind of process over time, but I do believe it will definitely happen, especially as more and more services come online, they compete as well. I've mentioned before how I think we're going to see vampire, vampire attacks happen here. But again, it's a slow process because of that exit queue from the beacon chain and the entry queue as well. Obviously that slows things down considerably there.
00:08:24.634 - 00:08:59.254, Speaker A: Now, speaking of lighter withdrawals, will Shehan here from Parsec Finance has put together a great little dashboard you can monitor to see all the withdrawals that have going through. So on the right hand side here, you can see the withdrawals requested as measured by amount of Ste. Now, if I just go to like the. I think there was like an aggregate view that I could use before when I went like this. Yeah, I think if I'm, if I am calculating it correctly here, just napkin math off the top of my head. I think there's about 12,000 ETH or something. That or 12,000 Steth, I should say, that have requested withdrawals so far.
00:08:59.254 - 00:09:09.948, Speaker A: So not a huge amount. Right. As I said, there is not going to be a mass exodus. Okay. But on the bottom left here, it actually shows the total. So, yeah, the total is almost 12,008th. It's not going to be a mass exodus of stake.
00:09:09.948 - 00:09:42.944, Speaker A: It's going to be a slow moving thing, but this is where you can monitor it. And speaking of staking monitoring dashboards, Djen Spartan put out a great little tweet here today with a bunch of links to different dashboards that you can check out. Some of my favorites are this one here, the validator queue monitoring. So you can see here that this shows the estimated waiting time for new validators and the pending validators in the queue. So right now it's 670 hours, which, you know, I believe is about a month. There's over 50,000 pending validators now. And you can see down here the amount of active validators.
00:09:42.944 - 00:10:02.430, Speaker A: And there are some other dashboards that track this as well, such as whenmerge.com, which you can load up here. And I think scroll down and, yeah, it shows it here. 27 days, 5 hours is the current queue. So it actually shows it in days, not just hours there. And then a bunch of other dashboards I've shown before. He's got Hill Dobby's ETH two staking dashboard here, as well as Lido specific dashboards as well.
00:10:02.430 - 00:10:44.096, Speaker A: So I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out since there's a bunch of really great resources on. There's actually one last thing that I wanted to point out, which was this website, well this section of the Beacon chain website called ETH Store, which is a ethereum staking reward reference rate. So basically the average kind of rate I believe across various different staking providers, I think so they've got like an faq here and I just can't remember exactly what this was. So they, they, yeah, okay. Like they're counting this in various different ways, which you can actually see in the faq here, which, which is on the page, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But this is basically the reference rate and it changes a day to day. The eat staking reference rate, you can see it spikes here.
00:10:44.096 - 00:11:06.152, Speaker A: It goes down. Obviously it's, it's variable because of execution layer rewards. It becomes pretty highly variable actually. Some days it's like 5%, other days it's over 8%. Obviously measuring it day by day is not the best way to go about it because it's not going to show you any kind of like smooth rate. That's why we kind of quote these things over longer periods of time. And the rated.net
00:11:06.152 - 00:11:37.036, Speaker A: work website actually has a way of showing you backward looking APR as well. If you go here and you go the top right select, I guess like let's just do the last 30 days. You can see the backward APR for each staking service here. Most of them are over 6%, some of them are over 7%. And then if you go rating time window all, I don't know if all means since the beacon chain went live, but you can see here it's, it's been around 6% as well. But hopefully they can introduce more time periods here. I'd love to see like six months, twelve months.
00:11:37.036 - 00:12:11.250, Speaker A: Not just 30 days and all. But yeah, that's, that's more of a, I guess like a better way of looking at, at APR but it is highly volatile because of the execution layout rewards there. But yeah, you can check out that one as well. And also check out Degen's tweet here for the full list of dashboards that I was just speaking about. All right, so Mev Burn has been the talk of the town for a few weeks now. Justin Drake and Dormothy did a great podcast episode with bankless all about Mev Burn and just like Mev generally and PBS. So you should go check that out.
00:12:11.250 - 00:12:34.306, Speaker A: You can just search I guess search for it on the bankless YouTube. It was really great. I enjoyed listening to it. But today, or I guess yesterday, Justin posted a new ETH research post talking about a new design for MeV Burn. Oh, and he also linked to the bankless episode here. Find it in the in the tweet, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But he's calling MeV burn the natural continuation of EIP 1559.
00:12:34.306 - 00:13:45.258, Speaker A: And the TLDR of this post is that they, we, the people that pen this post, describe a simple enshrined PBS or proposer builder separation add on to smooth and redistribute MeV spikes spike smoothing yield security benefits redistribution yields economic benefits like AIP 1559. And you can read the whole thing here. It is quite a lengthy post with a bunch of replies here that you can read, but yeah, expect this to become the next big shift. I believe in kind of ETH's kind of economic properties, I should say, because it doesn't technically affect the I guess. I mean, it does to an extent, but it's not like a monetary policy change of issuance. It's more of something like ERP 1559, where it does have like the ultimate effect of altering the monetary policy, but it's more about driving more economic value to ETH as an asset, like what AIP 1559 was as a, as a byproduct, I guess, because a lot of people, I think, are still under the misconception that AIP 1559 was put in place as a way to just, just to upgrade ETH as an asset, right? Just to drive a lot of value to ETH as an asset, when in reality that was just a byproduct. The fees, the burn.
00:13:45.258 - 00:14:26.492, Speaker A: I mean, it didn't have to be a burn, right? The base fee doesn't have to be burned as part of 1559. It could go anywhere. But as I've explained before, it was decided that it would be burned because that was the only credibly neutral way to handle that, right, to handle the base fee. But VIP 1559 obviously was a massive upgrade to the Ethereum fee market, and it has. I mean, I can't actually overstate how much of a massive upgrade it was. If you had done transactions in 2017, you'll know, because in 2017, a lot of transactions got stuck for a long time. There were huge backlogs that needed to clear because we didn't have this mechanism, and it made those spikes in gas prices not just last, maybe a few minutes or tens of minutes, they lasted days.
00:14:26.492 - 00:15:06.584, Speaker A: And it was just a really shit time for the network. So that was a huge upgrade there. In a similar vein, Mev Burn isn't just being done to drive more value to ETH. That's just a nice property that we get from this. What MeV Burn is trying to do is it's trying to basically remove the negative externalities of MEV, or at least eliminate or mitigate some of them, such as builder centralization and things like censorship resistance, getting compromised via builder separation, and just toxic externalities for users generally there. So yeah, anyway, now that you know that context, you should definitely go give this post a read. There are different parts and it's been split into.
00:15:06.584 - 00:15:36.464, Speaker A: It's actually a very interesting read. It is a little bit technical, but I think that if you, I mean, I think that if you listen to the read through, you'll probably be able to understand it. And there has been a bunch of discussions around it in the Discord channel as well. So you can join the Discord channel to join in on those discussions. But I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. And just again, I want to note that this will become more and more of a bigger topic as time goes on. I don't expect it to go into the network, obviously as part of the Den Koon upgrade, but it could go into the network as part of the network.
00:15:36.464 - 00:16:28.614, Speaker A: The upgrade after that, next year, maybe it goes in like in the one after Den Koon, or just the one after that. We'll have to see, because there is a lot up in the air, I think, right now about what's going to go into the upgrade after Deng kun and what's going to be the driver of that upgrade. Mev burn may end up being the driver, or it might be something like a vocal trees. It just depends. It might be PBS itself, right? So this is a add on to PBS, and maybe this gets that, this becomes a passenger of that upgrade, but we'll have to see, it'll become clearer as, as time goes on, as we get closer and closer to that upgrade. But for now, it is really, a lot of it is still in research phase, and it seems that we're getting closer and closer to a, something that looks like a spec that can be implemented at the client level and then implemented on the network. But it's still worth reading this stuff and still worth kind of getting your head around it because it is definitely going to be a bigger theme going forward.
00:16:28.614 - 00:17:06.474, Speaker A: All right, big news out of the optimism ecosystem. So they have announced that the official date of the bedrock upgrade for Mainnet will be going live on June 6 at 04:00 p.m.. UTC. Now I remember I said that I believe that there would be, I think it was mid to late May or early June or something like that for this upgrade. So I guess like nice to see that the timing lines up there. But what I didn't anticipate was that the upgrade would actually require downtime for the optimism Mainnet. So the op Mainnet will be down for two to 4 hours worth of downtime for this upgrade to go through, which I guess isn't too surprising.
00:17:06.474 - 00:17:51.508, Speaker A: But it kind of speaks to how I guess, amazing it is that the Ethereum network does upgrades without any downtime, especially upgrades like the merge when you know, the L2 still need to have downtime in order to upgrade, which is totally fine. I mean I don't think it's a huge deal. And I think this might be one reason why optimism haven't been going too hard on on kind of like getting as much adoption as possible and getting as much economic activity happening as possible just yet. I think they wanted to get bedrock out of the way because it is such a big upgrade for the op main nets and they knew that they probably needed to do to have downtime. So. So yeah, but I believe after bedrock it will definitely signal a kind of like new era for optimism. And I do think that the, you know, fees are going to be cheaper, there's going to be a lot of other cool stuff happening under the hood.
00:17:51.508 - 00:18:16.670, Speaker A: And you can actually read the full details at their mission control section, which I spoke about I think a couple of weeks ago on the refuel. It's also linked in the, it'll be linked in the YouTube description below. And there's also a Twitter thread here as well for you guys to check. Check out. So very exciting to see that optimism is about to undergo its biggest upgrade ever, I think, to date. And it follows obviously arbitrum that did their nitro upgrade. I believe it was later, late last year or something like that.
00:18:16.670 - 00:18:49.750, Speaker A: It's funny because bedrock was supposed to come out. I believe they originally said Q four and they said Q one and now it's Q two. Obviously this has just been a big undertaking, so those dates have gotten pushed back there. But I think that over time these L2s are going to learn. The lesson that ethereum layer one devs learned is that giving any kind of timeframes is quite dangerous because like you, you know, nine times out of ten you're probably going to miss the first date that you give. But I don't think that people knock optimism like they knock, you know, ethereum in the same way. I don't think they knock the l two s like that.
00:18:49.750 - 00:19:07.218, Speaker A: Not yet. They probably will in the future. But I think that it's okay. And I can't believe we're almost in June, guys. Like, it's actually, actually crazy thinking about that, that it is May 16, right? It feels like yesterday that we did the merge, but I guess in crypto, time just goes very fast, even in bear markets. But anyway, enough of that. You can go check this out.
00:19:07.218 - 00:19:48.746, Speaker A: I'll link the thread in the YouTube description below. All right, so Sriram from Eigen layer had a really great tweet out today that I wanted to speak a little bit about. So he was, quote, tweeting someone called Ken who was, who tweeted, defi code is launched into the most adversarial of environments, nonstop attacks from financially motivated actors. It's damn hard to get right, but what comes out the other side will also be the most resilient and valuable code ever written. And then Sriram, quote, tweeted this and said, open source means that the attacker can read the code. Open state means that the attacker can choose an opportune moment. Open entry for the attacker due to censorship, resistance, and open exit for attacker due to immutability.
00:19:48.746 - 00:20:26.806, Speaker A: It's the harshest environment code can ever be deployed in. So I want to break down each of these points. Open source. So it means that, as Shurim says, yeah, the attacker can read the code, look for any bugs in it, look for anything wrong with it, and exploit it because there is open states and open entry. Right, open state meaning that they can choose when they want to exploit it. And open entry meaning that from anywhere in the world, they can exploit it on the ethereum network. Because the ethereum network is censorship resistant, it is permissionless, it doesn't id you, it doesn't try to stop you from doing anything as long as you are following the rules of what you're interacting with, even if those rules are not what they're supposed to be.
00:20:26.806 - 00:20:40.086, Speaker A: Right. Even if it's a rule that has a bug in it. And I mean, the bug is the rule in that case. Right. Then you can do that and then open exit. The attacker can exit because there's immutability. The ethereum chain doesn't get rolled back.
00:20:40.086 - 00:21:03.730, Speaker A: Right. It got it did that once and once only with the DAO because that was such a big deal at the time. But these days there are hacks happening quite often. And there has not been a rollback, not even for the second biggest hack, I believe, which was the parity multisig bug. It wasn't a hack. It was kind of like an exploit which froze the funds, which led to over 300,000 ETH being frozen. Not even that got rolled back.
00:21:03.730 - 00:21:44.883, Speaker A: And for those of you who don't know, parity is the team that built the parity Ethereum client that was co founded by Gavin Wood, who is one of the co founders of Ethereum. So not even they could get the chain rolled back there. So next time, your favorite bitcoin, Maxi says that Vitalik can just roll back the chain whenever he wants. Uh, you should remind them of that. But, uh, but anyway, um, yeah, the open exit is because the chain can't be rolled back. And really if they're in assets like ETH, where there's no backdoors, like there are with centralized, stable coins, they can, uh, they can mostly exit. And we've seen this with, uh, attackers like North Korea, right? They've been able to exit by, uh, going to eat and then just like tornado cashing that ETH, that's why, or at least that's the stated reason why tornado cash was sanctioned by ofaccurate.
00:21:44.883 - 00:22:58.890, Speaker A: And then triumph says, you know, it's the harshest environment code can ever be deployed in. And then it is because what's more valuable than a financial incentive, right? Like there is obviously plenty of code out there and a lot of the times it gets exploited for financial incentive, but the financial incentive in crypto is just so much larger. What would you rather do? Look for a bug and spend your time looking for a bug and then exploiting it in a bridge that has like $100 million in it, or spend your time looking for a bug and then exploiting it and in like web two and trying to monetize whatever you're able to exploit, such as user data, right, emails and things like that. The payoff is much smaller and it's also much harder to, I guess like move that and cash in on that, so to speak. So, you know, in crypto it is just the financial incentives are just absolutely massive. And when you really put the biggest numbers to it, the financial incentive for exploiting the actual protocols themselves are just huge, right? Just absolutely massive. Like, can you imagine having an exploit ready to go for bitcoin or Ethereum and then doing a massive short of ethan BTC on an exchange, for example, and then that being paid out? Now, obviously, if the exchange suspects that you were behind the attack, they could freeze those funds.
00:22:58.890 - 00:23:32.678, Speaker A: Centralized exchange. But there is going to be a time where essentially you'll be able to exploit one chain and then short the token on another chain and then profit from that short still. So the economic incentives are just, just very, very great. And that's what makes it the harshest and most adversarial environment to write code in. But as Ken says here, but what comes out the other side will be the most resilient and valuable code ever written, and by extension, the most resilient and valuable financial system in the history of mankind. Which is a pretty good thing to aim for, right? Yeah. You know, we have to go through trials by fire via hacks and things like that.
00:23:32.678 - 00:24:15.604, Speaker A: But what comes out the other side is an amazingly beautiful machine, in my opinion, at least. So great little thread from a great little tweet, I should say, from Sriram and Ken as well. Thanks for putting that out, guys. All right, last up here, we have an update from Coinbase's chief legal officer, Paul Greville here. So this was the update on the Coinbase asking, or I guess like filing a motion for the SEC to reply to, I guess like their motion they filed last year. And I remember I covered this a couple of weeks ago on the refuel. So they did reply, and Paul says here the set the SEC responded to Coinbase's petition for a writ of mandamus asking for the court to require the SEC to respond just yes or no to whether it will undertake rulemaking for our industry.
00:24:15.604 - 00:24:54.350, Speaker A: The SEC's answer, a resounding maybe. Now, I'm not surprised that it was a maybe. They're not going to say anything definitive here, because that holds them to something which obviously is not something that they want to be doing. The standout tweet from this thread here is that the SEC said that the public statements by Chair Gensler are not formal guidance or policy statements from the SEC, and the public cannot rely on them as such. So I guess Gary Gensler can just say whatever he wants and just confuse the shit out of everyone, right? And apparently there's no consequences for that, which is. Which is really, really shitty. And then Paul also said that the SEC acknowledged that it will continue to use enforcement actions as a substitute for rulemaking for the foreseeable future.
00:24:54.350 - 00:25:22.016, Speaker A: But not to worry, those enforcement actions may eventually inform not yet planned rulemaking. So just more hand waving and just more kind of like gaslighting and bullshit. Just more bad policy, but just more bad regulations. As I said, I didn't expect much from the SEC. And I'm still kind of disappointed that that this happened. But it's good that Coinbase is pushing this. It's good that we're actually getting this stuff on the record because now I guess, like we know on the record, I mean, we always knew, but like we know now where they stand.
00:25:22.016 - 00:26:19.384, Speaker A: Basically anything Gary Gensler says should literally be thrown in the trash because it means nothing. And the SEC would rather just do regulation via enforcement than making any rule they're making any guidance or making up any actual legislation or push. Getting that push through, which is just the stupidest way, I think, to provide, I guess like a regulation, provide a safe way, or I guess like a way for people to build and not be put in jail for, not be fined for it and things like that. And this is going to directly result in the continued bleed of the crypto industry from the US to other nations around the world. This is by far the stupidest thing that the US could be doing, is letting Gensler run the SEC like this, run it like a mafia, and basically let it push the industry out of the US, which is not going to be long term good for the US, in my opinion. But anyway, you can read Paul's thread for yourself. I'll link that in the YouTube description below.
00:26:19.384 - 00:26:40.732, Speaker A: But yeah, I've got a couple more minutes here. I just wanted to talk about one last thing again about staking. I know a lot of you are always in the Discord channel asking about staking, who to stake with all this stuff here. I actually am of the opinion that you can go stake with anyone you want. I'm not going to try and say that you have to stake with a decentralized provider. You have to solo stake. You have to do this.
00:26:40.732 - 00:27:01.706, Speaker A: You have to do that. I'm happy for you to stake with whoever you want, except Lido right now. As I've said before, going with Lido right now is pretty silly. They're a huge part of the network. They don't offer. The smallest stake is anything that you can't get from other staking providers because you don't need that much liquidity. If you don't have tens of millions of dollars, you don't need the liquidity that st it offers you.
00:27:01.706 - 00:27:12.442, Speaker A: You can go with another smaller one if you are able to do it. Spin up a Rockapool mini pool. It's easy. You don't need expensive hardware to do it. It really is pretty straightforward. There is help in the Rockapool discord. Go do it.
00:27:12.442 - 00:27:35.396, Speaker A: There. If you can solo stake, do that. I know that the barrier for entry in terms of ETH that's required for solo staking is quite high. Look out for other solutions like DVT coming right. Look out for rocker pool going from eight ETH mini pools to four ETH mini pools eventually. Um, but even if you don't have enough, if you don't actually want to run the validators yourself, just stake with anyone but Lido. At this point, guys like Lido has just too much market share.
00:27:35.396 - 00:27:55.296, Speaker A: We shouldn't be encouraging people to stake with them. I'm not saying that Lido is a bad service, not at all. I mean, obviously it's a good service. There's a lot of people that want to stake with them, but it is not something that we need to be giving more stake to. They already have a large part of the market. Let's, you know, let's stay with other providers and let's encourage people to stake with other providers. Um, but, yeah, I mean, I can say that as much as I want, obviously.
00:27:55.296 - 00:28:22.024, Speaker A: Obvious, I don't think it's going to move the needle in a huge way, but I feel like saying it anyway. And maybe, maybe it does. Hopefully it does, right? But as I've said before, the biggest needle movement is going to be from the providers themselves, offering better, more competitive services than Lido and also offering things like token incentives and doing vampire attacks, stuff like that. It's going to be wild. It's going to be a long term play, but I'm excited to see it all play out. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:28:22.024 - 00:28:28.254, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
