00:00:02.120 - 00:00:07.022, Speaker A: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the go to podcast for investors.
00:00:07.078 - 00:00:23.118, Speaker B: And builders in crypto. This episode of the Blockcrunch podcast is brought to you by Coinflex and Paraswap. Stick around to learn more.
00:00:23.246 - 00:01:08.984, Speaker A: Hey, everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. Now, as you know, I'm super excited about the opportunity for liquid staking derivatives because I know that proof of stake is already big today, but it's just going to become bigger as ethereum proof of stake goes live. And one of the core infrastructure that, in my opinion, not enough people are talking about is what it means to have liquid staking. What happens if we can transfer our staked assets everywhere and use them as collateral to create lending markets to trade around and the manifold opportunities that come from that? And one of the latest projects building in that exciting vertical is Claystack. So I'm super excited to have the founder of Klaystack Mohawk on the show today to talk to us about what liquid staking is and what he's working on with Claystack. So welcome to the show, Mohawk.
00:01:09.064 - 00:01:13.224, Speaker C: Thanks for having me here, Jason. This is my first podcast, so I'm super excited.
00:01:13.344 - 00:01:23.386, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm super excited as well, man. And I guess just to get us started, can you help us understand what about the liquid staking opportunity? Excited you and kind of how did you fall into this?
00:01:23.520 - 00:02:08.968, Speaker C: Sure. So I've been like, I've been following proof of stake space for a long, long time. Started my journey initially with kind of crypto as investor, investing in a bunch of icos, buying bitcoin. Prior to that, I was working in hedge fund space to help a couple of hedge funds in option hedging models. But then as I got more exposed to proof of stake, I started running validator nodes for a bunch of networks. By the end of 2019, I was running around 70 validator nodes for a couple of proof of stake networks. Have worked with a lot of amazing teams, amazing founders at super early stages of their network, and also got a chance to work on my security infrastructure so that none of the node was ever slashed or hacked.
00:02:08.968 - 00:02:45.476, Speaker C: So those all things were like going amazing in the beginning. But then I saw that lock the capital is a big barrier to staking and someone has to solve it. Initially, I honestly did not want to solve it. Building in DeFi is really, really hard. You get too exposed to a lot of shit. But I saw a couple of projects or a couple of people who were trying to solve liquid staking. I saw the architecture, but could not find anything that was scalable enough or something that was super convincing.
00:02:45.476 - 00:02:51.596, Speaker C: So then I decided that this problem needs to be solved. So let's solve it. So that led me to start Playstack.
00:02:51.740 - 00:02:56.148, Speaker A: That's awesome. And just as a high level first, how does claystack actually work?
00:02:56.276 - 00:03:49.412, Speaker C: Yeah, so Claystack is a liquid staking platform, where what happens is right now, if you want to stake any asset, what you can do is you can either use some centralized staking platform or you can use any official staking dashboard, which is built for every chain. But what happens there is that once you stake your tokens, your tokens are locked, and in order to use those assets again, you have to unlock those assets. And there is an unbonding period on every network in order to use those assets, which creates a lot of people want freedom in their life. They don't want to get their assets locked up for nine to 10% yield or even smaller. So what Playstack enables you to do is that you come to PlayStack platform, you stake your assets, and we give you a liquid staking derivative for your staked representation that you can use across Defi.
00:03:49.588 - 00:04:08.900, Speaker A: That's super interesting. And obviously this opportunity is massive. So there's different companies and projects trying to tackle this. Can you help us understand what are the main types of design? Like, what are the differences between incumbents today, such as things like rocket pool, things like lido. What are the different approaches and what are your thoughts on those?
00:04:09.092 - 00:05:03.626, Speaker C: Yeah, so first I want to tell you that liquid staking is still in super early stages. Like the overall staking market right now is around $400 billion, including Ethereum. And in terms of the current protocols who have launched liquid staking, the total assets which are used across all the platforms, and liquid staking is less than $20 billion. So we are super early. And before kind of diving deep upon what are the design differences, I will tell you, like, why liquid staking is actually important right now or why it matters. So the way I see it as that in the early days of proof of stake, what happened was that every, like, none of these stakeable assets has had any use cases in order to, like, there was nothing apart from staking. So in order to kind of participate in the ecosystem, you just take those assets.
00:05:03.626 - 00:06:13.096, Speaker C: But then in the early days of DeFi, what happened was that DeFi started competing with staking, that all these stakeable tokens, like Solana, Ethereum and others, have much more or higher yields in DeFi. And that led to a lot of people unstaking their assets, and for every proof of stake network to be secure, if the overall staked percentage on the network is high, then the attack vector is high. But because a lot of people are unstaking their assets, the overall stake percentage on every network is going down, and which is not healthy for proof of stake ecosystem. So to solve that, liquid sticking kind of comes into the play, which, by which the original assets are staked on the chain itself. And in order to use these assets, the liquid sticking representation is being used. Now, how play stack work is, let's say, let's take a example of any asset out there, let's say matic. So what you do is you come to Klaystack platform, you deposit matic.
00:06:13.096 - 00:06:59.768, Speaker C: In return, we give you Csmatic. In the backend, we stake these assets to multiple validators out there. And every day, or actually every epoch, we start receiving rewards. And then what happens is the exchange rate between matic and csmatic changes with time. So, for example, if the yearly reward is around 10% and you're the first user on the platform, you came, your deposit thousand matic, got 1000 cs matic. If you come a year later, then for 1000 CSMatic, you'll get like 1100 matic back. And during all that time, you have complete fungibility, complete transferability, there's no lockup, and then there are opportunities to earn additional yields across defi.
00:06:59.768 - 00:07:56.336, Speaker C: Now, that's how the Klaystack platform is working. And there have been a couple of different platforms who are trying to solve liquid sticking in their various ways. There's platforms like Lido, rocket pool, every, like every, every protocol started with one favorite chain of theirs or one ecosystem, where they find that they have the higher opportunity. And what, what Playstack does is we are very cross chain and multi chain. We are taking very cross chain, multi chain approach from the initial days itself. How I envision liquid sticking to evolving at Playstack is that like Csmatic being existing on multiple chains and CSuL being existing on multiple chains, and at the same time, these assets are being used across Defi, which is kind of missing in the current liquid staking platforms out there.
00:07:56.480 - 00:08:09.686, Speaker A: Got it. Thank you for that very clear breakdown. Now, just to understand how these liquid staking protocols actually work underneath, are you running your own validators, or are you kind of coordinating a network of validators?
00:08:09.830 - 00:08:59.074, Speaker C: Yeah. So one of the biggest problem that is happening in overall staking space is the stake centralization, that if you see across multiple networks, there are only five to ten evaluators who have majority of the stake on every network out there, which is fine. People are not realizing the problems that can come eventually. But once mev extraction starts to happen on proof of stake, then this is be like, this would make things very, very, very difficult for multiple networks. And since beginning, our aim is to decentralize stake rather than centralizing that stake. So we're not going to stake everything to our validator. We'll be running just one validator, but we want to support other validators out there.
00:08:59.074 - 00:09:47.996, Speaker C: And at the same time, when I talk about stakes, decentralization or stake centralization, what's happening is that the barrier to entry in proof of stake for any smaller validator is very, very high. Even if they have a very strong infrastructure, it's very difficult to kind of tap into that market, because every institution already has one of their favorite validator that they want to stake to or they want to work with. Community has found their favorite valuators. So there is, the barrier to entry is very high. How we work at Playstack is we want to work with multiple validators out there, starting with a few professional validators and then expanding that stake to multiple smaller validators as well, who have good performance history, who, even though they're not large, but have very strong staking operations. Yes, got it.
00:09:48.020 - 00:10:04.744, Speaker A: And can anyone come in and operate a validator on Claystack? Or are you mostly targeting people who are already half the hardware running? Or if I'm just say, an ETH holder and I want just deposited in some contract, I don't really know how to run a node. Can I still participate in Claystack as a validator?
00:10:05.124 - 00:11:04.954, Speaker C: Not in the beginning, because running staking operations is not easy. Starting a node usually is very easy. You just follow the tutorial. But maintaining the uptime in that node, maintaining the security in that node is very, very high. And that's why in the beginning we have to take a gradual approach where we work with initially a few validators, and in the meantime, all the smaller validators who wants to join the clay stack ecosystem, they come to us, they show that they have very strong operations, they have best security practices, they have good disaster management techniques, and once kind of all of that is done, then we'll open it to other validators. And eventually in the long term, like the community will decide that rather than us deciding which validators do we want to distribute our stake to, community decides that these are the, these are the validators that they trust, because community is what eventually kind of go on the platform.
00:11:05.254 - 00:11:37.414, Speaker A: Yeah, that's really interesting. And just to go back to your point about stake centralization, which is an issue, potential issue in proof of stake right now. So if you're only servicing validators that have great uptime and great history, great infrastructure, would that just end up being the same validators that are already dominating the market, people like staking facilities, steak, fish, Everstake, all these names that people already used to, all these kind of industry leaders who are already owning most of the stake.
00:11:37.534 - 00:12:19.276, Speaker C: Yeah, that's true. So there's a big problem. And what happens is because the slashing risk on some of the networks is high, some of the nodes are very difficult to operate for any kind of new validator. So you're right to some extent in the beginning that's, that will be the case. But our mission is not to stake, to stake to just a few validators out there, rather than, rather to increase the stake to multiple validators out there. So yeah, in the beginning we will, we will not be able to distribute our stake because we have to cover the slashing risk for our users. And what I feel is like the decentralization happens gradually in the beginning itself.
00:12:19.276 - 00:12:39.104, Speaker C: If we try to stake, or if we try to distribute the stake to smaller validators and one of the validator gets slashed, then that affects all the users on Playstack platform. So slowly, not maybe kind of super slowly, but with time we will distribute that stake to multiple validators.
00:12:39.964 - 00:13:24.536, Speaker A: Yeah, that's always a concern that I think people in this space have. Is that, is there a clear path to decentralization for staking just because now for the everyday user, for me as an example, I'd much rather trust a validator that I've known manage billions for years already, then say, support a newer validator for the sake of decentralization because when it comes to, say, my own capital, I rather not lose my capital. Then contribute to decentralization and assume for most economically rational users out there, that's the way they're thinking as well. I guess it's very, very early days right now, but over the long term, are there clear paths in your mind that could help us lead to more decentralized staking?
00:13:24.680 - 00:14:16.082, Speaker C: Yes, yes, for sure you're right. Like for an average user, they don't, I mean everyone talks about decentralization, but for an average user the most important thing is to, is to protect their capital. They don't want to stick to any validator that they don't know about or which could be unreliable where it turns out to be kind of them losing their capital. So yes, that's a, that's a, that's a very big problem right now. But eventually what's going to happen is that all of this stake is being governed by community. So any large validator who is not very community oriented right now, majority of the stake comes from institutional capital. And there it's comparatively easier for larger validators to just go to convince these large stakers to give the stake to them.
00:14:16.082 - 00:15:13.862, Speaker C: But eventually, when the governance will come in liquid staking platforms as well as in layer one blockchains, right now, in majority of the layer one blockchains, the governance is not even there. Once that happens, then every validator has to convince the community that we are not just kind of running these operations, but we are any community driven, we are very open, we are always available, we are helping the community, or we're building things around that ecosystem in that chain, which is very hard for a couple of large validators because they're not hungry enough in every space. Eventually players come in who are very hungry and that leads to, or that leads to a lot of disruption. So that's what I am hoping for. And I've been seeing a couple of small validators popping up across every chain. Usually these small validators, they are not multi chain. They are not like validating on five chains.
00:15:13.862 - 00:15:40.340, Speaker C: Rather they go on one chain, go very heavy in that ecosystem. Now imagine one large valuator who's validating on 20 chains versus one validator who is very, very into one particular chain, who community knows a lot about, who's very helpful to the community, who's building things around that ecosystem. So that validator eventually will have a lot of leverage over large validators.
00:15:40.532 - 00:16:12.772, Speaker A: And I guess a follow up question to that is there are multiple liquid staking providers out there today. So for validators that are listening in and they're say they're looking at Klaystack, I think, pstig, rocket pool, lido, all these projects, they're trying to decide, well, first of all, I guess, do they have to decide which one they want to work with? And if so, what is the selection criteria usually for validators looking at these different liquid staking coordinators, honestly, eventually the.
00:16:12.828 - 00:16:51.976, Speaker C: Selection criteria is not for validators to choose which platform they want to work with. Rather it's for the platform to which validate it to work with. Validators spend millions of dollars in business development to get stake from companies. So it's like if a protocol is saying that you want to stick to this validator for validator, it makes zero sense to not work with any protocol out there because for them, it's kind of free money that they're getting without doing any business development. So it's the responsibility rather comes to the protocols to curate or choose the validator rather than the validator themselves.
00:16:52.120 - 00:16:59.880, Speaker A: Oh, interesting. So projects like KSIQ actually become a funnel for these validator businesses versus the other way around.
00:17:00.072 - 00:17:01.424, Speaker C: Exactly, exactly.
00:17:01.544 - 00:17:43.262, Speaker A: That's really interesting because right now, I guess, yeah, I guess we're kind of seeing that already with, I remember seeing this governance proposal from Lido, not from Lido, from a validator business proposing to run nodes for Lido. And it's almost like they're convincing the lido community to vote for them, which was in fact what happened. So it seems like that that is what's going to happen and I guess is the moat for liquid staking protocols, then how much stake they can actually aggregate because that will give them more influence over or more impact over or I guess just in general, more stake through control. Is that the thing to optimize for, for liquid staking protocols?
00:17:43.398 - 00:18:52.618, Speaker C: No, actually, yes, that's one of the factor that's important. But for us, it's the ecosystem that, how many use cases that we can build for the liquid staking representation or liquid staking derivatives that we are building. Because eventually what's going to happen is, I mean, we are trying to build a platform which is very simple to use, but being realistic, will never be able to kind of make it as simplistic as a centralized staking platform. But where the liquid staking platform really excel compared to any centralized staking platform, is composability. That even if, let's say, any centralized staking service charge 0% commission or 0% fee, and they're giving, let's say, 10% yield versus a decentralized liquid staking platform like Playstack. When we offer liquid staking, it's not just the yield that you're making from staking. There will be like tens of additional yield options that you can make by yield farming, by lending, while depositing these assets for tons of infinite use cases across the defi ecosystem.
00:18:52.618 - 00:19:04.780, Speaker C: So the mood for liquid staking platforms is to build an ecosystem. And that's where we are very heavy towards. We want to have as many use cases as possible for play stock. Liquid staking derivatives. Definitely.
00:19:04.812 - 00:19:40.034, Speaker A: And that's actually a segue that I wanted to go down into as well, because in my mind, it seems like the way that this liquid staking derivatives space is going to play out is kind of like stable coins or wrapped assets, because in stablecoins, we have a dozen different standards right now, and all of them are like, most of them are very liquid. So things like DAI, USDC, USDT in wrapped assets. For bitcoin alone, we have ren, BTC, WBTC, SBTC. We used to have tBTC as well. So in your mind, are we gonna see these different standards for. For staked assets, or are they all gonna be kind of using one standard?
00:19:40.494 - 00:20:36.094, Speaker C: No, I think, like, there'll be definitely multiple standards, because it's very hard for all the protocol to kind of come across one standard. But in order to kind of see how the liquid staking or the. How the synthetic derivative space is gonna play out is, like, we can see money today in the economy, like, all the money that we have, that's just a synthetic representation. Or if you see us dollar bill, what it represents is the trust that you have in us government. That's it. So it's, the whole economy is running on a deferred settlement where the synthetics are being issued, and then we're never gonna do any settlement for it. And the way liquid staking is gonna work is that every stakeable asset that's out there, that will have just one use case, that's staking in the protocol, nothing else.
00:20:36.094 - 00:21:14.354, Speaker C: All the other use cases will be built across the liquid staking protocols or their staked liquid staking representations. And eventually, like, the space has grown already so, so much. Right now, the staking market is around $400 billion, excluding Ethereum. If we count Ethereum, that's around $750 billion. And this is just gonna grow more and more. So there will be multiple players that will be coming, finding more and more inefficiencies that, let's say, play, stack miss, or any other protocol miss. So it's very hard for everyone to come to one standard.
00:21:14.354 - 00:21:42.600, Speaker C: Everyone will have their own state representations, but eventually, a lot of these different representations will be merged to one, like how we saw, like, curve created their own stablecoin, which is backed by multiple stablecoins. So eventually, let's say there'll be one X ETH, which is comprised of Claystack ETH, Lido ETH, rocket pool ETH, and others.
00:21:42.752 - 00:22:03.544, Speaker A: It's really interesting. So I guess the liquid staked version of ETH from Lido will not be fungible with that from Klaystack or from rocket pool from all these other protocols. But you do envision some sort of aggregate, some sort of index that's comprised of staked versions of assets from all of these protocols, right?
00:22:03.704 - 00:22:26.852, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah, exactly. And I mean, there will definitely be ways to, like, at least we have ways in mind by which we are able to kind of fuse other liquid sticking assets in Claystack. But for all the DeFi protocols, they won't be able to have like one standard that is being or by which they can accept all the protocols at once.
00:22:27.028 - 00:22:55.246, Speaker B: Before I continue, I'd love to share more about our latest sponsor, Coinflex. Now, Coinflex is an exchange that's been around for a while. They're actually doing $1.5 billion in daily trading volume right now. Recently, their team reached out and walked me through their latest product, the AMM. In short, it lets anybody earn fees as market makers on the Coinflex exchange simply by depositing their assets. As of this recording, the seven day in range average for ETH AMM pool depositors is 82%.
00:22:55.246 - 00:23:32.826, Speaker B: So how does this work? If you're familiar with how other Amms out there work, this is very similar. You can basically select what price range to provide liquidity for, and the UI even shows you your risk under different scenarios. I also love that they have this cross collateral system so you can market make in any market you want using pretty much any collateral you have. If you know how to manage your risks, you can even access up to ten x leverage while providing liquidity. So this is one of the most creative ways I've seen a company borrow elements from Defi in a centralized exchange setting. So I highly encourage you to check it out@coinflex.com. Amm I'd love to share one of my favorite products in crypto with you.
00:23:32.930 - 00:23:33.170, Speaker A: Now.
00:23:33.202 - 00:24:14.850, Speaker B: Whenever I want to trade a token, instead of going to uniswap sushiswap Bancorp one x one to see where I can find the best quote, I just go to Paraswap to scan for the best price anywhere because paraswap aggregates all the popular ethereum dexs and saves me a ton of time and headache in finding where I can trade something for the best price and lets me trade in one place. Now the cool thing is theyve also integrated with ledger live as well, meaning I can now swap at the best prices directly from my ledger wallet. So seriously, if you are a defi trader and youre worried about the security risks of centralized exchanges, but you also dont want to scour dozens of dexs just to find the best price, you have to check out Paraswap. So head on over to Paraswap IO blockcrunch.
00:24:14.962 - 00:25:08.266, Speaker A: Got it. And I guess that leads us to the next question, which is in terms of use cases, because right now I think we see most of the liquid staking derivatives. Basically they are. Maybe they're whitelisted on some lending protocol so you can borrow and lend them. But besides that, there hasn't really been a lot of organic use cases for these kind of liquid stake derivatives, with one exception, which is actually a project that we just had on the show called BRI protocol, where you can put your staked aave into this bribe pool and then people, again, whales can come in and basically vote by and vote on how that pool will vote on different proposals on avid governance. But besides very kind of crypto native use cases like that, I haven't, haven't really seen a lot of organic use cases for liquid derivatives. So I'm curious, where do you see are the biggest opportunities that claystack will pursue in terms of adding utility for these state derivatives?
00:25:08.410 - 00:26:09.224, Speaker C: Sure, that's a very good question. And in terms of like, in order to understand how, how kind of liquid staking use cases are going to emerge, one thing that I want to highlight is that this is one of the only use case which is delta neutral. What I mean by that is that any defi use cases that we see today, whether it's lending, whether it's borrowing, whether it's yield farming, liquidity mining, everything, is being supported by the bull market and bear market, a lot of these yields won't survive. There won't be any or that many borrowers who are able to borrow capital at such a high interest rate to be able to give lenders so much yields. But in liquid staking space, the best part is that the yields are not driven by market demand. They're coming from network inflation, which is going to be there till eternity. So that's one that the use case is delta neutral.
00:26:09.224 - 00:27:20.294, Speaker C: Second is that I want to highlight how big the lending space itself is. Now imagine, like every protocol, one, every protocol wants to have yield bearing assets, and there's nothing better than liquid staking assets because they give yields without any lockups. So imagine a platform where, let's say, play stack version of matic csmatic is being accepted as collateral. Now, let's say you go there, you open a CDP at 8% interest a year, and your collateral itself is making 10% yield in a year. So just now that enabled an interest free loan, which is kind of magical without even any governance subsidy. So lending itself is like huge, then perpetuals right now, like none of these, you cannot long short any of these stable assets. So that's one then isolated pool where again, a lot of these exotic liquid sticking representations or liquid sticking derivatives can be used.
00:27:20.294 - 00:28:08.840, Speaker C: And then, yeah, you gave a very good example of bry protocol. So eventually that's going to happen. That, as I said, that right now, none of the layer ones have or very few layer, layer one blockchains have their governance live. Once that's going to come, that would be like insanely huge use case. Every liquid staking protocol have a lot of governance power in the protocol and ask, we don't want to kind of use that governance power at all, rather give that governance power back to the users. And when we talk about governance, it's not just the layer one assets, again, all these governance tokens which have staking by default. That again is a huge, huge market which, which has not even counted it in $800 billion.
00:28:08.840 - 00:28:54.712, Speaker C: So, yeah, and that's the beauty of defi, as we all understand, is to build infinite money legos. So eventually there'll be so many, so many ways by which you, for example, you, let's say you deposit matic first. In exchange for matic, you're getting CSmatic, which is clay stack representation of matic. Then you're depositing that csmatic in some lending protocol where you're minting some stable coin. After depositing that, those csmatic and then using that stable coin, you're able to buy another asset. So there's so many infinite money legos that can be built which will, which will just kind of enable the use cases that we haven't even envisioned yet.
00:28:54.888 - 00:29:21.844, Speaker A: Most definitely. Most definitely. I'm also really curious because I know you've written about curve wars on your own blog as well. And obviously, what's happening with curve right now is really interesting. And just to kind of give listeners a kind of rough sense here, basically, curve has these different pools and they direct incentives to people to deposit liquidity into these different pools. And obviously, a lot of projects want liquidity for their own pools on curve. So they're starting to bribe votes.
00:29:21.844 - 00:29:49.408, Speaker A: They're trying to create basically liquid versions of curve as well. And convex is one of the projects that's kind of creating liquid versions of a liquid state curve. So do you foresee opportunity like that being embraced by kstack as well? Basically adding liquidity to things that were not meant to have liquidity in not just layer one protocols, but as you said, deFi protocols and potentially influencing governance as well.
00:29:49.566 - 00:30:31.726, Speaker C: Exactly. And you you actually ate the nail that you gave. The example of that how kind of how the evaluators will select the liquid staking protocol. So coming back to that, that this is, this is exactly that, that instead of protocols choosing, sorry, the valid is choosing the liquid sticking protocols. Protocols are choosing validator similar to that here, like when we see these curve wars happening there, one protocol has, or via convex. Via convex, a lot of these users are able to sway the governance decisions n curve. And that's going to happen in these liquid sticking protocols.
00:30:31.726 - 00:31:41.296, Speaker C: Because I see claystack as a liquidity protocol where we are able to, for example, any validator, if you see at a higher level playstack, is a liquidity protocol. And all these validators are the vaults where users are, or the validators are able to decide that how much stake I can attract via claystack. And eventually what's going to happen is that a lot of these decisions will happen via governance. So any evaluator who is part of that strong governance will be able to sway all that stake towards them. And similar to that, when we target the governance token market there a lot of users like what convex has done for curve, that can happen for every governance token out there. And when it's gonna happen, then there'll be like huge Defi war, which is gonna be very fun, very interesting, but it's not gonna be decided by a few people in a small room, rather decided by governance between protocols and users.
00:31:41.480 - 00:32:25.986, Speaker A: Definitely, definitely. And yeah, this, this kind of convex and curve example is so interesting because convex is basically a liquid staking protocol as well, because now you can deposit your curve into convex, which is locked up as a ve curve. And then they mint you this liquid version of ve curve, which is their own version, this synthetic version of convex curve, which I guess the only problem is it's not redeemable for actual locked curve. So there's no reason why it needs to hold the peg. At least that's my understanding. I guess for those use cases where you're creating liquid versions of things that are staked and locked for a very long time, how would you maintain the peg there?
00:32:26.130 - 00:33:10.484, Speaker C: Yeah, so they're maintaining the peg, or the responsibility of maintaining the peg comes to arbitrageurs also. It becomes very difficult if the, if, if the lockup is like four years or so, but for longer periods, like there'll be a lot of arbitrageurs. Example, let's say there's a protocol like let's say matic, and the price of matic. Let's say, is at $2. And like, actually matic is not a good example because they have the unbonding period on matic is low, which is, which is very fluid. But let's say there is another protocol, XYZ, whose lockup on staking is unearthed, and the price is a dollar. So the liquid sticking representation in the beginning is a dollar.
00:33:10.484 - 00:34:04.116, Speaker C: What's going to happen is that if the protocol is very strong, something like curve, and there is a stake representation which is out there, which is getting unlocked in, let's say, nine months from now, and a lot of people want to exit, and the liquidity on any Dex, let's say, has dried up, people are selling that asset at 10% discount, 15% discount. Now, there the role of arbitrageurs come very strong, who are very much comfortable to buy that asset at 10% discount, because they know they can attract the full value of that asset in the next nine months. And they're very strong believer in that asset already. So for them, it's the free money, completely risk free return for the next nine months. I know there is a price risk, but that can be easily hedged by opening naked shots. So, like, arbitrageurs will play very, very strong role in maintaining that peg.
00:34:04.260 - 00:34:34.564, Speaker A: That makes sense. And I guess if you're okay with holding it for like four years, if it's locked up for four years, then, yeah, it's definitely a free money opportunity. Net, the security, smart contract risks. So we've talked about the deep hinging risk, which I think it makes a lot of sense. I do think a lot of arbitrageurs will come in and maintain the peg for these liquid staking derivatives. Now, another risk that I thought of was if you have liquid staking, if you use like, liquid staking assets as like collateral on the loan, but the underlying gets slashed, what happens to that loan?
00:34:35.504 - 00:35:39.314, Speaker C: Yeah, so that's one of the biggest risk right now. And that's why the validators has to be chosen, like, very, very carefully in the beginning. And, you know, one thing is that slashing has been discussed so much theoretically, especially in the early days of proof of stake, that slashing mechanics has been very brutal. If double signing happens, then the node gets slashed. But realistically, what we have seen, or what I've seen in the last three years, is that none of the professional validators or none of the good validators ever get slashed. There have been very one off scenarios where any validator has got slashed. And at the same time, what happens is, if the, let's say any reputed evaluator or any even community valuator who has been very strong or strong or core part of that community gets slashed due to something which is not malicious activity, which is a mistake, then I don't envision a scenario where they won't get their capital back via any governance vote or something.
00:35:39.314 - 00:36:32.094, Speaker C: So like realistically I don't see slashing that big of a problem. But yes, as a protocol we have to cover that risk. So what we will do is we work with insurance protocols or build insurance pool by which that slashing risk is covered to some extent. And that's where like all the other protocols or the ecosystem has to kind of see a history of any protocol. Like I don't see a scenario where you launch the protocol on, on day one, it's being accepted at ten different DeFi protocols out there, right? Once kind of the protocol has some history, has some liquidity. Like my laser focus aim is to launch the protocol and then have very deep liquidity of all these assets. Once the liquidity for these assets is deep, then even if slashing happens, one, the risk is already very low.
00:36:32.094 - 00:37:11.314, Speaker C: Second, it can be covered by insurance, and third is that it won't affect all the users in any massive way because the stake is so distributed that the slashing does not affect all the assets. And then at the same time, like slashing has different parameters. There is a very rare scenario where the hundred percent of the state gets slashed. And then also one more point is in majority of the platforms, or in a lot of these layer ones, like for example, graph, the slashing affects only the validators self stake. It doesn't, it does not affect the delegators.
00:37:11.694 - 00:38:02.224, Speaker A: And that, that's really interesting that I didn't know that there hasn't been any slashing, I guess, at least in recent history. But the same time, I guess that's also the tail risk because, and you're a lot more of an expert on this, having run so many notes before, but I do recall that for, for some of the slashing logic, sometimes it's, sometimes, if there are, sometimes multiple validators can be slashed at the same time, if they're like suspected of kind of malfeasance, even if it might not be true. And there can be situations with kind of cascading slashing if the circumstances around, the circumstances around which one validator is slashed seems to be happening on other validators as well. I forgot the exact term for it, but I don't know if you know what I'm referring to and if that's a potential risk you foresee, like.
00:38:03.164 - 00:39:23.774, Speaker C: Yeah, I don't recall like a scenario where a cascading effect or a cascading slashing effect can happen on multiple validators at the same time, unless there's a like protocol bug or something, because one of the, like, one of the primary ways by which any validator gets slashed is by double signing, which can actually happen by mistake as well, because as a validator, you want to have like the maximum uptime possible. But the difficulty of maintaining that uptime is that you cannot. Just like if you run multiple backup nodes and let's say one of your primary node goes down or is down for a few minutes, and then you have some automated mechanism by which another node is, is replacing the primary node, and then at any given point of time, both the nodes are running, then that results in slashing. So that's why as a validator, it becomes sometimes very difficult to maintain that 100% or 99.999% uptime and then at the same time have like cover, cover all the slashing risk. So it's a, it's a trade off that lot of evaluators do where kind of these things are not so automated. But I don't recall a scenario where the cascading effect across all the validators can happen so fluidly.
00:39:23.934 - 00:39:35.542, Speaker A: Yeah. So we have covered slashing when it comes to like downtime and double signing as well. Are there any kind of major type of risks that are facing liquid staking that you foresee?
00:39:35.638 - 00:40:21.866, Speaker C: Yeah, one of the biggest risk, obviously, which is not just liquid staking, that is across DeFi is smart contract risk. That's something that's always going to be there, but that can be avoided by multiple security audits, multiple bug bounty campaigns. So right now, like, the only risk that someone takes or the biggest risk that someone takes with any decentralized platform versus a centralized platform is the smart contract risk, but at the same time it's all open source, so at least you know what you're going into versus a centralized staking where you don't even know what's happening or it's a black box. Is it the yields are actually coming from staking or is it a Ponzi scheme?
00:40:21.970 - 00:40:36.938, Speaker A: Most definitely. Most definitely. And I guess just to kind of zoom out here as we come to the final part of the discussion, what can listeners look forward to in terms of claystack? What are some of the key launches that are coming up and where can they check more out about Klaystack?
00:40:37.026 - 00:41:22.054, Speaker C: Yeah, so recently, first we launched Onega Testnet, which was a very small testnet with just our ambassadors, 30 people. And then we launched Malawi Testnet, which had 25,000 people in the waiting. And that waitlist grew to 65,000, which was a lot for an alpha. So we had to stop the waitlist. But how we launched the last Malawi testnet was we launched a game where everyone who was part of the wait list had assigned a queue position from zero to 25,000. Then what they had to do is there was a game in which there were 20 cards, 18 cards in the beginning, now 20 that they have to collect every 2 hours. So that game became kind of viral.
00:41:22.054 - 00:42:02.824, Speaker C: We got like all these waitlist numbers in 48 hours. And then that waitlist was growing very rapidly. It created a lot of momentum on our discord telegram social, where a lot of people. One thing that I mean we kind of envisioned but not so fast, was that in that game you have to collect tokens every 2 hours, so you're randomly assigned five tokens that you have to collect out of those 18. And within a first few hours itself, a lot of people started exchanging those tokens with each other. And that created a lot of collaboration environment. A lot of people reached out to me, they said that we really enjoyed the game, we made a lot of good friends.
00:42:02.824 - 00:42:51.958, Speaker C: And one thing which was surprising was that I was thinking that because there was no escrow contract or anything, a lot of people when they exchange their tokens, there will be scenarios where someone will take someone else's token and not give anything back in return. But that did not happen at all. I think there's no one who's complaining that I gave tokens to this guy and he did not give me back. So I saw a lot of collaborative environment there, which was very healthy. Now we're going to be launching the next version of Testnet in a few weeks. The date will be announced on our Twitter publicly. And after that we are already working with auditing firms to get the main contract, or main contract audited, because for us security is very paramount.
00:42:51.958 - 00:43:37.850, Speaker C: As I said, that one of the biggest risk in liquid staking or any DeFi platform is smart contract risk. And we want to make sure that the kind of use case that we are building, attracting billions of dollars of liquidity is very realistic. And we want to make sure that I would be able to sleep well or our team is able to sleep well. It's not easy, like it's very honestly a bit stressful or scary having all that money in the platform. So we want to make sure that it's thoroughly audited before launching bug bounty campaigns there, where people are able to kind of find bugs early, if there are any. So we'll be launching mainnet right after the next version of Testnet.
00:43:38.002 - 00:43:51.554, Speaker A: Awesome. That's super exciting. And I know you also write a blog. I don't know if you're still actively putting out content on the blog, but I really enjoy reading a lot of your pieces before. So for people who want to check that out, where should they go for it?
00:43:51.634 - 00:44:30.276, Speaker C: Thanks. Yeah, so I felt sick for the last two weeks and was not able to contribute a lot to neither my blog or the Twitter threads that I have written. So I will continue that again starting this week itself. The next blog that actually I was writing was defi 2.2. I'm not sure how relevant it's going to be compared because the whole Olympus has came down a lot, but I was super excited about that. In order to check out the blog, the blog is available at blog dot claystack.com and the twitter threads that I write are@twitter.com
00:44:30.276 - 00:44:37.700, Speaker C: mohawkgr and we'll be sharing a lot of content on claystag underscore HQ Twitter as well.
00:44:37.812 - 00:44:46.180, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely, definitely. Awesome. Well, thank you so much for taking the time on the show mohawk. We learned a lot and I'm sure people are going to be super excited to check out claystack as well.
00:44:46.292 - 00:44:48.444, Speaker C: Thanks a lot for having me. Really enjoyed this conversation.
