00:00:00.250 - 00:00:32.898, Speaker A: Don't. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap. First headline finance us to hire former OCC chair as CEO. On May 1, Brian Brooks will become the new CEO at binance us. Brooks recently stepped down as the acting head at the Office of the Controller of the Currency, where he served during the final nine months of the Trump administration. Before joining the OCC, Brooks was the chief legal officer at Coinbase, which is arguably the biggest competitor to Binance West's parent company, Binance.
00:00:32.898 - 00:01:23.350, Speaker A: Under his leadership, the OCC released guidance allowing banks to custody crypto assets for customers and to use stablecoins to perform transactions. While his stint at the OCC was brief, spanning from last May to January of this year, during that time he earned the nickname Cryptocontroller on social media. Binance US is currently headed by Catherine Coley. Brooks confirmed to CoinDesk that she will depart by early May. Meanwhile, at Binance, headed by CEO Changpeng Zhao, the exchange is facing scrutiny from UK regulators over its launch of digital stock tokens for Tesla and Coinbase. It appears the regulatory status around the tokens, which Binance says, quote, represent a share in a stock corporation, is a gray area. Since Binance does not clarify whether it is a security or derivative on its website.
00:01:23.350 - 00:02:16.630, Speaker A: If deemed securities, the exchange would need to publish a formal investment prospectus. Crypto lender BlockFi announced the addition of Christopher John Carlo, the former chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, to its board of directors. John Carlo was dubbed Cryptodad for his support of crypto during his time at the CFTC. Brooks and John Carlo joined Bret Redfern, a top regulator at the SEC hired by Coinbase, and Max Bacchus, a former senator brought in by Finance in solidifying the trend of crypto companies bringing in US. Regulatory veterans to help navigate US. Regulations. Next Headline Coinbase CEO sells less than 2% of his shares an incorrect yet semiviral tweet made the rounds on Saturday, suggesting that Coinbase Chief Executive Officer Brian Armstrong sold 71% of his shares during Coinbase's direct listing last week.
00:02:16.630 - 00:03:12.854, Speaker A: The chart also mistakenly indicated chief Financial Officer Alicia Haas sold 100% of her shares. However, the Block reports that Armstrong sold less than 2% of its holdings for roughly $290,000,000, while Haas only sold 15% of her shares last week, chief Accounting Officer Jennifer Jones led the executive team, selling 38% of her stock. While seeing high level executives offload shares may have seemed disheartening to Coin owners, it should have been expected. A direct public listing almost forces insiders to sell because only the company's existing shares can be sold to the public. In the more standard initial public offering, new stock is issued to the public. Next Headline Bitcoin hash rate drops and so does Price this past weekend, Bitcoin dipped from sixty k to fifty three k in 12 hours. The drop coincided with a blackout caused by a coal mine explosion in China's Xinjiang region.
00:03:12.854 - 00:04:43.826, Speaker A: A significant player in bitcoin mining. The bitcoin hash rate, a measure of its computing power, dropped 25%. Mustafa Yoham, vice president of global business development at bitcoin miner Bixon tweeted so an estimated 80% of the mining in China was located in Xinjiang as of last week, and 80% of them were shut down, and it only affected 20% to 25% of the network. That means that the hash rate in China is currently around 32% to 40% at most time to stop the China Control Network FUD onchain bitcoin analyst Willie Wu said quote price and hash rate has always been correlated and tweeted a chart showing that hour by hour charts of BTC price versus hash rate moving downwards in symmetric fashion over the weekend. The block reports that as of Thursday, miners are gradually coming back online, and real time hash rate has already shown a 24 hours increase in computing power. Next Headline Ethereum reaches New Alltime High Ether broke through two $600 for the first time on Thursday morning in a rally fueled by speculation that the upcoming adoption of Ethereum improvement proposal 1559, in which transaction fees will be burned, will result in a drop in supply. Nick Spanos, cofounder of Zap Protocol, told CoinDesk that Ether will, quote, become a deflationary asset, which will reduce the coin supply and have a corresponding effect on the price, creating an attraction point for buyers.
00:04:43.826 - 00:05:27.622, Speaker A: Ether is up 85% this month, while bitcoin is down 8%. The recent surge in Ether coincides with bitcoin market dominance shrinking to levels not seen since 2018, which was the last time bitcoin market dominance slipped below a 50%. On Thursday, bitcoin's market cap sat at 1.2 trillion, or 48% dominance, while the entire crypto market was at 2.13 trillion and ETH accounted for 14% of total market share. Next Headline Dapper Labs headlines another big week in crypto fundraising the company behind NBA TOPSHOT and CryptoKitties Dapper Labs, is raising money at a valuation of $7.5 billion from CO2 management, among others.
00:05:27.622 - 00:06:29.806, Speaker A: The latest raise will more than double its recent round, which in March valued the NFT company at $2.6 billion. Digital Asset, an enterprise blockchain company, announced a $120,000,000 Series D round to expand its team by 50% and build a protocol that can seamlessly interact across blockchains. Alio, a platform specializing in zero knowledge proofs allowing digital parties to interact without sharing underlying data, received $28 million from a 16 z, among others. Finally, Mark Cuban, billionaire investor and shark tank shark, announced an investment in Cryptoslam, an NFT data platform, at an undisclosed sum. To hear about his NFT investment thesis, check out his recent appearance on Unchained. Next Headline Losses may reach $2 billion at one of Turkey's largest exchanges as CEO flees in echoes of the quadriga CX fiasco, the Turkish crypto exchange THODEX said it does not have the strength to continue financially.
00:06:29.806 - 00:07:43.870, Speaker A: According to Bloomberg, losses at the exchange could be as high as $2 billion, and the 27 year old CEO has fled the country on Wednesday, Fodex halted all transactions before shutting down. It was trading more than $585,000,000 in crypto daily and had around 400,000 users. CoinDesk reports that from an undisclosed location, CEO Faruk Fati Ozar has come out in opposition to what he calls a smear campaign from customers in the public, explaining the transaction freeze was due to 30,000 user accounts being flagged as suspicious. Bloomberg, however, reports that Ozar has promised to repay all investors and face justice upon his return to Turkey. It also reports that the government has blocked the company's accounts and that the police have raided its headquarters in Istanbul. Next Headline Galaxy Digital is in talks to acquire BitCo Mike Novograss's Galaxy Digital is in talks to acquire crypto custody firm BitCo. A source familiar with the situation said to CoinDesk, quote Galaxy does not do custody, so it makes sense to bring it in house.
00:07:43.870 - 00:08:24.250, Speaker A: Last year, it was PayPal who had interest in BitCo. CoinDesk reports that the payment strian offered $750,000,000 in cash for Bico to no avail. PayPal later purchased Curve, a Bico competitor. Galaxy recently made headlines by filing for a bitcoin ETF with the SEC last week. Next Headline Square and Arkinvest believe bitcoin mining promotes green energy. A research paper released by the Bitcoin Clean Energy Initiative, with help from Square and Arg Invest, lays out a vision for how bitcoin mining could accelerate the adoption of renewable energy sources. It makes the case that bitcoin miners are energy consumers with unique attributes.
00:08:24.250 - 00:09:39.320, Speaker A: They can be turned on or off at any time and are completely location agnostic. Plus, they pay out in a liquid cryptocurrency. The paper calls bitcoin miner as, quote, an energy buyer of last resort that can be turned on or off at a moment's notice anywhere in the world. It then provides statistics showing that unsubsidized solar and wind energy is now about three to, respectively, while the average cost for fossil fuels such as coal or natural gas is five to. Paper then describes a problem in renewable energy called, quote, the duck curve, in which energy demand is greatest in the late afternoon and early evening, while solar energy is most abundant during the day and wind tends to blow more heavily at night. While batteries will play a crucial role in storing renewable energy, the paper suggests that bitcoin miners are, quote, an ideal complementary technology for renewables and storage. Doing so would help more solar and wind projects become profitable, enable more solar and wind projects in places not as well connected to the grid, and provide the grid readily available excess energy for especially hot or cold and therefore energy intensive days.
00:09:39.320 - 00:11:01.662, Speaker A: Additionally, the paper says it would spur, quote, a sizable transformation and greening of the bitcoin mining industry. Time for fun bits Five headlines to break down Dogecoin's Crazy Week The dogecoin community selected April 20, aka 420 as Doge Day with plans to send a memetic coin to the moon or at the very least. To coin, Dogecoin's market cap reached $54 billion this week, more than doubling Ethereum's market cap just one year prior, according to the block. Institutional investors are getting in on the Dogecoin price action, with some market makers and OTC desks handling multi million dollar trades in Doge. A person using the moniker Doge Community reportedly donated profits from her successful dogecoin investment to a dog shelter in Florida, paying for all the donation fees of dogs ready to be adopted, Joe Weisenthal, executive editor at Bloomberg, wrote in I believe all seriousness, Dogecoin's so called monetary policy may be better than bitcoin's fun. Headlines aside, Dogecoin failed to live up to its own moon high expectations for April 20, with the coin actually dropping about 20% over the 24 hours period I thought. Chow Wang, former founder of Masari, summed up the crazy week in Dogecoin best.
00:11:01.662 - 00:11:39.734, Speaker A: The fact that Doge is a number five market cap and about to flip in B and B is a testament to number one, the power of memes and social media influencers. Two, the sheer amount of central banking liquidity sloshing around the system and Inefficiently allocated three, how much the truth there is behind the IQ bell curve. Disclosure I honestly think Dogecoin's Price Action was just shy of a pump and dumpman. Feel bad for the many people who undoubtedly lost money on it. However, the Price Action community and industry interest led to its inclusion in fundbits. All right, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Robbie and Immutable X, be sure to check out the links in the show notes.
00:11:39.734 - 00:12:07.650, Speaker A: Follow Unchained on Twitter at unchained underscore pod, where you can find all sorts of content ranging from my weekly newsletter to updates on my upcoming book and a whole lot more. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch and Daniel Ness. Thanks for listening with the Don't.
