00:00:00.240 - 00:00:28.510, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delhi refuel, where I recap the latest news nutrition ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Dasano, and today's the 15 August 2023. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So we have some fresh news here about SBF today, actually, from meta lawman, where he says there is a new SBF indictment. The indictment alleges that SBF lobbied members of Congress and other high level government officials to promote cryptocurrency regulation that would favor his business and personal interests. Now, of course, this is nothing new to us.
00:00:28.510 - 00:01:20.416, Speaker A: We already knew that this was the case. SBF had made multiple donations to the Democratic Party in the US, and that he had also donated, I think, five or $10 million was like the second biggest donor to Joe Biden's presidential campaign when he was running for president there. So this is not new news, but what's interesting about this is that this may make Gary Gensler a witness, which means SPF's lawyers would be able to cross examine Gensler under oath at trial. Now, Gary Gensler was also very close. At least it appeared like he was very close and buddy buddy with SPF before. Obviously, FTX fell apart there. And there's been numerous kind of discussions about this, as you've probably seen, and I've gone over it on the refill before, but I felt this was interesting because if this does happen, and then Gensler has to basically be examined under oath, and there could be some juicy stuff that comes out of that now.
00:01:20.416 - 00:01:55.630, Speaker A: I mean, who knows if this is going to materialize and who knows how long until this happens? Maybe. Maybe Gensler isn't even like the SEC chair at that point, and no one cares anymore, because realistically, no one's going to care about Gensler once he's not the SEC chair anymore. We're not even going to talk about him, really. I mean, unless he goes and goes to some other high level position which gives him, I guess, some influence, or even, you know, just a lot of influence over crypto. I don't think people in crypto are going to be interested in talking about him anymore there. But, yeah, just something interesting that I wanted to put it on your radar. You can go check out the meta lawman's tweet for yourself if you would like.
00:01:55.630 - 00:02:59.372, Speaker A: There's a few replies and stuff in there as well, as well as a link to the actual indictment here from Eleanor Terret. All right, so I put out a friendly reminder today, because I've been seeing a bunch of. I don't know if I'd call it FuD, but discussions around running Ethereum nodes, running ethereum validators and what that requires and stuff like that, well, you guys know that I run a bunch of different Ethereum nodes and validators at home, all at home, all on my own infrastructure, on my own hardware. I manage it all myself, you know, it's all self custody and everything like that. And one of those devices is the Proteus device, which is made by Joe from the Rockapool community, by his company Mercadian Systems here. Now, what this is, is basically a rock five b model, model b board, which I've talked about before. It's a low powered device that is similar to a raspberry PI, and that is inside this 3d printed case that obviously is themed as the deli Gwe here, with, you know, an orange color to it, obviously to represent rocker pool there, which is all well and good, but on this device, I actually run a full Ethereum node.
00:02:59.372 - 00:03:43.076, Speaker A: I'm currently running Geth on this device with Lighthouse, I believe, or it might be nimbus. I get confused because I'm running like so many different clients across my infrastructure, I often forget which ones are running on which infrastructure, but I'm pretty sure it's actually geth nimbus on this one. I'm gonna switch Geth to Nethermind, but I was going to do that. But now that geth is such a low kind of percentage of the, the client diversity as opposed to what it was, I'm not, I'm under no kind of like rush to change, and it seems to be working all well and good, so I've left it like that. But yeah, in the actual housing here is just that rock five b board, which with a two terabyte solar state drive, which you can easily get for less than $500. So that's your hardware setup cost there. That's it.
00:03:43.076 - 00:04:17.122, Speaker A: That's it. To run a full node or a full node with validators, you can run either or. Now, there was a few tweets in reply to this basically saying, yeah, okay, the hardware cost is low, but then, you know, the capital requirement's so high because you need 32 ETH to stake. Okay, that might be true on the surface, but there's a lot of nuance to this. And I replied to my tweet and I said, no, you don't need 32 ETH or really any ETH to run a full node. Running a full node is completely free. Anyone can do it on pretty much like any hardware really, I mean, there's some even lower powered hardware than this that you can run a full node on, and it's all well and good from there.
00:04:17.122 - 00:04:45.898, Speaker A: So you don't need ETH to do that. You only need 32 ETH if you want to run a completely solo validator. And I mean, like completely solo, you do it all on your own. You're running all the software yourself and, you know, there's no kind of like fees being charged for you to do that or anything like that. You, you're a completely self sovereign solo validator, but you can run a validator with less than 30 tweets, and you can do that by using services like Rockerpool. Obviously, rocker pool has their, their smart node stack. A lot of you will know about this stack.
00:04:45.898 - 00:05:09.066, Speaker A: You install that. You can install that on this device. This device actually comes preloaded with the Rockerpool smart node stack. I reimaged mine, so mine is just solo validators because I'm actually using this for the ETH that is part of my retirement account to stake that ETH. But it does come preloaded with rocker pool software. And then you only need eight ETH plus, I believe, 2.4 ETH worth of RPL in order to spin up a mini pool.
00:05:09.066 - 00:05:41.634, Speaker A: So in total will be around 10.4 ETH. But that's the minimum you need to stake with rocker pool and to become a, you know, node operator. So a solo validator with that amount of ETH there. Now there are also, as I've discussed a lot of times in the ref, will be for plenty of other solutions coming out that will allow people to stall solo stake with very little ETH, some as low as a two ETH requirement. I know that puffer finance wants to do it with a two ETH requirements, but I haven't looked into or they haven't published how they're going to achieve that yet. So obviously, you know, take that with a grain of salt.
00:05:41.634 - 00:06:24.458, Speaker A: But also, Rocket, the Rockapool service wants to reduce from eight ETH to four ETH to two ETH. It was at 16 ETH, then it got reduced to eight. Ethics. In the future, they want to go from four ETH to two ETH, and maybe even beyond that. But also on top of that, technologies like DVT or distributed validator technology will allow for something called squad staking, which is what I've talked about in the path in the past, which in theory means the requirement could be as low as you want for the 8th requirement. So essentially, if you're solo staking or if you're squad staking with like 32 other people, just in theory, you could each put one ETH into the DVT contract and then run the software yourself. So you essentially have one ETH as being the requirement here.
00:06:24.458 - 00:06:46.098, Speaker A: And you can go lower than that, obviously. And there's, there's different kind of solutions, like stakewise v three as well. That's going to be having pools and things like that. There's going to be mega pools in rocket pool. There's going to be all these different kind of ways of staking ETH. But the point of my tweet was that on this very low powered device, it was really about running a full node. It wasn't just about running validators, because validators are very lightweight.
00:06:46.098 - 00:07:18.940, Speaker A: It's the full node that is the heaviest part of the chain here. Like, validators are extremely lightweight. Adding more validators doesn't really increase hardware requirements unless you're running like thousands of the things. I think that there's actually a rocket pool node operator that's running hundreds of mini pools on a device similar to this as well. So, but what does go up by adding more validators is bandwidth. So if you are limited bandwidth wise, if you have kind of like a crappy upload speed, or maybe you have a bandwidth limit and, you know, you don't have unlimited data, then it will affect that. But other than that, the hardware requirement stays the same.
00:07:18.940 - 00:08:01.098, Speaker A: Now, for Ethereum full node, as I said, doesn't require any ETH to run a full node. And you can, you can run it and you can run it just fine by, by using a device like this. Now finally, on this note, someone asked, you know, what's the benefits of running your own Ethereum full node? Obviously, you don't get paid for running an Ethereum full node. You only get paid for running a validator, right? You only get rewards for running a validator. But even though there's no direct monetary incentives, there are a few soft incentives for running in a full node. You can relay your own transactions instead of using a third party RPC. So instead of using infuria or some other third party RPC in your wallet software, you can use your own note, right? And that obviously gives you better guarantees around censorship resistance and things like that.
00:08:01.098 - 00:08:43.456, Speaker A: And means that if an RPC becomes overloaded, then your one's not going to be overloaded because you're the only one that's using it. So the third party RPCs may become overloaded, but you'll always be able to relay your transaction because you're using your own, you can verify the state of the chain for yourself. Obviously, very important if you want to make sure that you are on the right chain, that you basically have a copy of the chain. And in doing so, you help the overall decentralization of the Ethereum network because there's more replicas or copies of the Ethereum chain out there and there's more decentralization because of that. So yeah, hopefully that breaks that all down for you guys. But yeah, that's my little, kind of one of my little boxes that I stake from home with. And yeah, as I said, you do not need a high powered device to stake.
00:08:43.456 - 00:09:03.464, Speaker A: And, you know, you don't need 32 ETH right now. I strictly need 32 ETH. And in the future, that ETH requirement will come down even more. All right. Victor Bunin from Coinbase today tweeted out he's that he's happy to share that. Coinbase has launched standwithcrypto.org, so you can go to the website, sign up and get involved.
00:09:03.464 - 00:09:31.608, Speaker A: And he says this will be one of the most impactful things you'll do all week, and it only takes 30 seconds. So essentially what this is is it's a way for you to basically be a crypto advocate, basically stand with crypto against kind of like unjust regulations or unjust legislation and laws, particularly in the US. And you can do that in a few different ways. You can join the stand with crypto movement. I believe this just lets you mint an NFT here. You can contact your representatives. So I believe this is just limited to the US right now.
00:09:31.608 - 00:10:03.408, Speaker A: Maybe they'll open that up to other jurisdictions later and then you can mint the, the NFT, the stand with crypto supporter NFT here, and then you can share it on Twitter as well. So it's just a website for keeping track of, you know, people that are kind of getting involved with this and people that are, that are essentially standing with crypto. And they've also. And the bottom here got a bunch of crypto policy stances for different politicians. You can actually go and see them all by, by kind of by state here. So if you click into a state like California, for example, this will take you to a page. Hopefully it loads here.
00:10:03.408 - 00:10:35.554, Speaker A: Yeah, this will take you to a page with all of the representatives and what their stance on crypto is. So you can see here the positives are at the top. So some are very positive on it, some are a little bit positive on it, some are neutral on it and you can scroll down and see what their sentiment is on. And now, obviously there are a bunch of politicians that do not have a kind of like stance on crypto. And they're also listed here. This is obviously just for the US, but this is incredibly powerful. I think this is a really great way of making sure that people are very informed about the politicians that they vote for when it comes to voting for things that have got to do with crypto.
00:10:35.554 - 00:11:22.938, Speaker A: And on the front page here, you can actually see the people that have been the most visible in, I guess, like in crypto polls in the US and what they kind of like stand for and what they are kind of against here. And the funny thing about this is that typically we've seen that, you know, Democrats generally have been against crypto, but that's more narrative than truth because as you can see from, from this page, there are two Democrats on the left hand side. On the very supportive side, there's Josh gotta here, who is new. He was a Democrat in New Jersey. And there's Richie Torres, who's a Democrat in New York that are very, very supportive of crypto. And there is a Republican, David, here from Arizona, who's also very supportive. But then on the right hand side, the people who are strongly against, obviously are the ones that we've heard of before, like Elizabeth Warren, Brad Sherman, who are both Democrats.
00:11:22.938 - 00:11:46.938, Speaker A: But then you have Michael McCall, who is a Republican who is also seemingly against crypto as well. So it really doesn't seem like it's any kind of one particular party. It really does seem like a mix here. It's just that the loudest ones, like Elizabeth Warren and Brad Sherman and Gary Gensler and. Right, the loudest Democrats seem to be getting the most airtime, but Richie Torres is a Democrat. He's in, he's in New York and he's been very, very pro crypto. Right.
00:11:46.938 - 00:12:05.294, Speaker A: And there are a bunch of other bunch of these politicians on either side that, that are pro crypto. And on this website you'll be able to view basically all of their stances. So yeah, kudos to Coinbase for launching this. This is going to be great. If you're in the US, this is definitely something that you want to be informed on. So go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:12:05.294 - 00:12:37.002, Speaker A: All right, some exciting news out of loop ring today. So they now have a new developer portal that's live at Docs loopring IO. They said here we've put a lot of work into updating all of our docs plus guides, making it even easier to build on or integrate loop ring products. So if you're a dev, if you're a dev, this is now your new front page to access everything you need. So as I said, you can go to Docs loop ring IO and you can go and explore all the documentation for yourself. Now of course, this is something out there for developers only. It's not really for something that the end user needs to worry about or read.
00:12:37.002 - 00:13:08.324, Speaker A: But the documentation is quite extensive here and you can find that all, as I said at Docs loopring IO. All right, speaking of L2s, immutable has announced today that the immutable Zkevm testnet is now live. You can go to hub dot immutable.com to start building and check out the testnet yourself. Now for those of you who don't know, I need a refresher here. The immutable ZkvM you is can powered by polygons ZK technology. There is also immutable X, which has been live for a while, that is powered by stockware.
00:13:08.324 - 00:13:42.386, Speaker A: And this is kind of what the immutable ecosystem looks like. You have all of the immutable apps at the top here, such as their passport app, their NFT trading app, their gaming SDKs, and then underneath that you have both of their solutions here, the immutable X solution and immutable ZKVM. And that all ultimately settles down to Ethereum as that settlement layer there. So as I said, today marks the testnet launch of the, the ZKV Polygon ZK. It's polygon immutable ZKVM here. And you can go check all of that out for yourself. You can see here, there is, there is kind of like a login using passports button here.
00:13:42.386 - 00:14:12.770, Speaker A: You can create your passport. I'm not gonna do that on, on the refuel right now just because it's, it's, it's kind of cumbersome to do it live there. But they've also got a Twitter thread explaining what this means. You know what it will currently, what the ZKVM testnet will offer. Here is the list of things that will offer. Of course it will offer EVM composability, sorry, compatibility, immutable product compatibility, native l two faucet for test IMX deposit and withdrawal bridges, block explorer and immutable relay out, which is coming soon. So obviously all the things that you usually expect from one of these L2 launches these days.
00:14:12.770 - 00:14:49.096, Speaker A: But great to see another L2 live out there in the wild, obviously just on testnet for today, but I'm sure Mainnet isn't too far away. All right, so Fi has announced their hyper Ethereum quest today. So they say here, beyond excited to launch hyper Ethereum quests. This new collection is super high level, but you, you're going to make it if you're, if you are a genuine ethereum enthusiast. So you can go check this out, this Twitter thread out for yourself. But basically it's a bunch of new criteria that you can fulfill in order to earn a bunch of new items within the fee ecosystem here that you can check out. As I said in the Twitter thread.
00:14:49.096 - 00:15:14.084, Speaker A: Now there is one that you can get of me. So there's actually one here. You can see me in the little kind of spaceship here or in the little like private jet here. You got my little face there with the hat on. Now to get this one is actually pretty tricky. You have to have spent $1,000 on gas in a single transaction. Now the reason why that's tricky is because how many of us have actually spent 1000 on a transaction? That is a huge gas fee right there.
00:15:14.084 - 00:15:38.340, Speaker A: And typically you only see people spending that much if they're like an MEV bot or something like that. Right. So I'm sure this is going to be a very rare kind of like item or NFT to have within the fear ecosystem here. I mean, I pretty sure I'm not even eligible for this. I think the highest gas that I've paid is maybe five or 600. So I'm eligible for the little dotty flyer here, but I'm definitely not eligible for this. And I guess I could put it through a transaction.
00:15:38.340 - 00:16:03.198, Speaker A: Right, that at 1000 way. Actually not, no, I probably can't now because base fee is, is a lot lower now. And that would actually, I wonder, I wonder how I could do that. I wonder if I would have to kind of like offer it and then if someone would take it. It's, it's kind of, it's kind of insane to do because the gas fee would be really, really high. I mean the, the dollar value alone would be, would be massive. And maybe it's worth it just to get that NFT because it's, it's me.
00:16:03.198 - 00:16:37.874, Speaker A: But yeah, anyway, if there's not, as I said, there's not just that one. And there are easier ones to get as well. There is these ones that you can get like the, the hypersonic and supersonic bat. You can execute transactions for one way, five way and ten way, which I'm sure we've all done at this stage. And then there's obviously other ones here as well that you can check out, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But exciting new item items for the fee ecosystem here that you can, that you can check out. And there's also a bunch of final quests here which I guess like you can execute 2000 transactions to get this, I guess like ether themed spaceship.
00:16:37.874 - 00:17:03.990, Speaker A: I'm pretty sure I've done 2000 transactions on multiple addresses. So I'm gonna go see if I can claim that after, after I finished recording this episode. But yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so some exciting news out of Gitcoin today as well as some drama which I'm gonna get into in a sec. But the exciting news is that Gitcoin grants round 18 is now live. Now I believe there is a million dollars worth of matching funds upfront for grabs.
00:17:03.990 - 00:17:34.146, Speaker A: You can go support all of your favorite projects here and get them funded. It's live until August 29. So a couple of, couple of weeks here, you can go to grants Dot Gitcoin dot co to get started. Now, Gitcoin Grants is currently live on the op mainnet as well as the public goods network. So yeah, you can donate using ETH or die and optimism and ETH on, on the public goods network here. So you can bridge into either of those things and get started with bitcoin grants around 18. So you can go check that out for yourself.
00:17:34.146 - 00:18:14.038, Speaker A: Make sure to donate. You have two weeks to do so. All right, now onto the drama from Gitcoin today. Now, I'm sure a lot of you saw this, but I think I need to dive into this and give my take here because it kind of caught me by surprise. But first, I want to, I want to give some context here around what gitcoin is today. So when you think of gitcoin, you think of this monolith, right? You think of this monolithic brand that's been around for quite a while that has existed as kind of like one entity that essentially funded things like the Gitcoin grants match that ran things like the Gitcoin grants matching rounds and other similar products to that. But the way gitcoin exists today is that there's actually kind of three different prongs to gitcoin.
00:18:14.038 - 00:18:50.376, Speaker A: There is the Dow, because Gitcoin is now a Dow. There are the Dow contributors themselves. Then there are work streams within that dao and this one that kind of like had this announcement today, which I'll get to in a sec, is the public goods funding work stream, which runs the featured rounds. Right. Which runs the featured rounds for things within gitcoin. And then there are the products that are credibly neutral protocol, so you can basically fork it coin if you want and create your own version. So the reason why there was a lot of drama around this today is because Gitcoin announced that they're partnering with Shell now.
00:18:50.376 - 00:19:43.068, Speaker A: Shell, yes, you heard that right? Shell, the oil company. Not shell as in like the Linux shell or something like that, right? No, not shell as in the other literal kind of seashells. No, they're partnering with Shell, the literal oil company, the one that pretty much like everyone hates because they've been doing bad things for many decades now and destroying the planet and all that sort of stuff there. The reason why this is, I guess, controversial, I mean, there's two major reasons. One, it's just a very weird move for Gitcoin to make because Gitcoin is all about, you know, regenerative stuff like regenerative finance, you know, public goods funding, making it so that we can coordinate around things that aren't just like profit maximalist endeavors, those sorts of things, right? That's what bitcoin kind of stands for. And by extension that's what Ethereum stands for. So that's the, I guess, like number one reason why people thought this was, was very controversial.
00:19:43.068 - 00:20:25.346, Speaker A: But the second reason is also just bad optics, right? Because of the first reason, it's just very bad optics for gitcoin to be. To be partnering or to be, I guess, accepting money from Shell because the partnership is actually shell, I believe, and giving them money here for a kind of like feature round. So yeah, the optics are terrible. Now I put a tweet about this today where I said, as a longtime fan and user of gitcoin, I have to say that I'm extremely disappointed in their decision to partner with Shell. This partnership goes against Ethereum's values, ethos and principles. To use a crude analogy, this would be like the US partnering with North Korea. So what I mean by this is that Ethereum is a permissionless system, right? Like anyone can do anything they want, Ethereum, they can build whatever they want in Ethereum.
00:20:25.346 - 00:20:53.188, Speaker A: It's credibly neutral, sensitive, resistance and resistant. And that is a feature, not a bug. And I've talked about this at length before and about how I think it is. Ethereum is most bullish property, but that does not mean that we can't criticize what is built on Ethereum. It doesn't automatically make everything that's built on Ethereum good. Right? There are plenty of things that get built on Ethereum that are not good. Like think of all the scams and rug pulls, for example, right? We're not going to say that it's good that they can be built on this, that it's a good thing just because it's built on a permissionless system.
00:20:53.188 - 00:21:23.774, Speaker A: No, it's still, you know, it's obviously a subjective thing. But I think generally we can all agree that scams and rugs are bad, right? They're not a good thing, but they're still enabled by this permissionless technology. And at the end of the day, I understand that. I understand that comes with the territory of having a decentralized permissionless technology. But when it comes to something like Gitcoin, where they're basically partnering with the devil, you know, their devil, essentially. Right? And the way I view it, it looks really, really bad. And it goes against the Ethereum community's values and their ethers and their principles.
00:21:23.774 - 00:22:05.346, Speaker A: It goes against our principles of kind of ushering in a new and better and more sustainable world because that's what we're trying to do. Especially because Ethereum went from proof of work to proof of stake, right, for that more sustainability there to get off the energy intensive proof of work. All those kind of arguments you've heard a million times before. That's why a lot of the controversy kind of happened here. Now, as I said, gitcoin is not just one monolith anymore. It's many parts, obviously, I'm sure most people in the Gitcoin ecosystem and community do not agree with this decision, but the, I guess, like entity that did this partnership, they, I guess, obviously think that, thought it was a net positive for Gitcoin, thought it was something that they should be doing. And I really don't agree with that.
00:22:05.346 - 00:23:08.476, Speaker A: And for those of people, the people out there who aren't familiar with why, I guess generally there is a disdain or dislike for shell outside of the fact that they obviously are a huge polluter of the planet. Right? And I understand the arguments that, okay, they're a huge polluter, but everyone uses gas and oil and. Yeah, sure they do. I mean, I drive a gas powered car, of course, obviously, right. But I think that that doesn't, doesn't detract from the arguments against them, right? Because not only are they that obviously massive multinational corporation that is a profit maximalist corporation that is harming the planet, but for decades there is proof, there's literal evidence that they've funded misinformation and disinformation campaigns against efforts to actually move us towards more renewable energy, more sustainable energy, in order to reduce, or I guess like reverse the harmful effects of oil and gas. Right? So when you look at it like that, it goes against everything ethereum stands for, at least from, from my view. And it goes pretty much against everything Gitcoin has traditionally stood for as well, because Gitcoin is definitely an extension of ethereum's values.
00:23:08.476 - 00:23:53.476, Speaker A: So, yeah, that's why this, this partnership has been generally controversial here. Now, as related thing to this, and this is a tweet that I put out today that was inspired by this controversy, was one around Daos. Now, as I said, gitcoin is a dow right now, and dows are very messy. They're not great generally, right? And they're not great for one overarching reason that I believe like one main reason, and I put out a tweet where I said unpopular opinion, but I don't think this is an unpopular opinion, but I just kind of put a question mark after it. I said pretty much all daos should just be run as on chain companies rather than trying to run as hyper decentralized communities. Leadership and coordination is key in any endeavor that involves groups of humans. We should not shun daos for embracing this.
00:23:53.476 - 00:24:33.190, Speaker A: Now, of course, I'm just using the term dao here to refer to the thing that everyone calls daos. But really a DAO is a very specific thing, right? It's a decentralized, autonomous organization. There are very few actual daos in the crypto ecosystem, and you have to kind of stretch the definition of it to make it fit. But like bitcoin and ethereum, for example, as a networks could be considered daos, right? But generally a lot of the things on top of Ethereum at the app layout that call themselves daos, they're more like do's digital organizations. They're not autonomous, right? They're not decentralized. They're digital organizations. They're just organizations that are on, on chain that are fully digital.
00:24:33.190 - 00:25:19.902, Speaker A: They have stakeholders, right? They have voters with the governance tokens and all that sorts of stuff there. But the problem becomes, and this is the core problem of daos or of do's or whatever you want to call them, is that they often have leadership and coordination voids where essentially no one wants to fill that void for one reason or another. Maybe the team doesn't want to do it because it's regulatory, or, or maybe they want to try and decentralize as fast as possible because they, they believe that's good for the project or whatever other reason. And what ends up happening. The leadership voids get filled. That people have no business being in a leadership position, which leads to an ineffective Dow. It leads to an inefficient Dow, at least two Dao's treasuries being raided as well, because obviously there's money on the line here, and it leads to just an overall bad product or service that the Dow is actually responsible for.
00:25:19.902 - 00:25:55.110, Speaker A: So that's why I said that we should embrace leadership and coordination doesn't matter if it's at the app layer or the protocol layer, because that does not imply centralization, it just implies order. Because you can't just have everything be chaotic. You can't just have everything be in disorder. And Ethereum has actually gone through this itself, the Ethereum protocol, for quite a while, actually, until probably 2019, I would say, was it was mostly in disarray in terms of its roadmap. It didn't really have a very well defined roadmap that was being well executed on. It was more ad hoc. There wasn't really any kind of like leadership or coordination.
00:25:55.110 - 00:26:39.468, Speaker A: There was a bit of leadership from Vitalik, but he obviously wanted to step back for, for a variety of reasons. And it wasn't until, I guess, Danny Ryan and Tim Bico stepped up that the leadership and the coordination of the Ethereum core devs and researchers and the Ethereum roadmap generally got much better. Now, does this mean Ethereum is centralized? No, it's not, right? Ethereum is definitely not centralized around Danny Ryan and Tim Baiko. Most people don't even know who those two guys are and what they actually do. Right. But it makes it so that we can actually execute on the Ethereum roadmap and we can actually have coordination around this, which makes the Ethereum protocol a lot better off, obviously, in both the short term and long term. But it still doesn't mean that Danny and Tim could push through upgrades to Ethereum unilaterally.
00:26:39.468 - 00:27:11.732, Speaker A: No, they have to go through the normal governance process just like anyone else. And though they are typically not the ones who will be submitting eips themselves. Right, maybe they'll submit it on behalf of someone else, or maybe they'll be editing aips or kind of a coordinating around them, but they will not be kind of like the center point of, of the governance process. They are really just the, the coordinators and you know, in, in kind of like um, in relation to that, the leaders as well of the Ethereum kind of roadmap and executing on the roadmap. And I think that that's the best way to do it. I think that's the most efficient way to do it. I think it's the most effective way to do it.
00:27:11.732 - 00:27:48.426, Speaker A: And I think that daos should embrace that and should look more like that and should just be run as on chain companies rather than these hyper decentralized communities that don't get anything done. They just get stuck. And I guess like that's just my general take on daos there. And it definitely applies to Gitcoin because I think that within Gitcoin since they tried to decentralize, since they became a DAO, there's been a lot of disarray, there's been a bunch of controversies, there's been a lot of I guess like lack of focus. And it's sad to see because as I said, I've been a big fan of Gitcoin for a very long time now. I mean I donated in pretty much every round as early the first round. Right.
00:27:48.426 - 00:28:19.046, Speaker A: I've been a recipient of donations as part of the Gitcoin grants matching rounds and I've aligned myself pretty closely with gitcoins values. But if they continue down this path of just disarray and embracing things like Shell and you know, partnering with, with companies like that, I can't in good conscious support that, right. Because that's not something that I want to see embraced and I want to see kind of like pushed forward in this ecosystem. But yeah, anyway, I think on that note that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:28:19.046 - 00:28:24.454, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
