00:00:00.160 - 00:00:28.210, Speaker A: Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of the Delhi Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and the Nissan signer, and today's the 10 May 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So another glorious day in Ethereum staking land. So today marks the day that we have more validators active on the network than were active before withdrawals were enabled. So I put out a tweet and I said exactly that and it took less than a month for this to happen. And ETH staking is up over only now.
00:00:28.210 - 00:01:23.694, Speaker A: What I mean by this is basically before we had Chappelle go live, you can actually see the amount of validators that were active on the network which had peaked at around here we go about, oh, it's just before April 9, it peaked at 563,803 validators. Then validators started exiting before withdrawals were enabled. They could exit early. Obviously we saw Kraken and a bunch of other people doing this and then since then, obviously the net validators have, have gone down a bit, but we're going back up. And now as of today, we are, we are higher than what we were back then. So yeah, it took, it took around a month, I think less than a month from withdrawals, but a month from when it started going down here for validated, for the active validators to be higher than they were pre withdrawals. Now this shouldn't be a surprise to really anyone that was paying attention and that knows that e staking really is generally up only.
00:01:23.694 - 00:02:13.742, Speaker A: There are so many amazing reasons to stake ETH. I mean, just like if you're just a profit maxi, the, looking at the APR that you can get on ETH right now is kind of crazy, right? So there are, and there are obviously a lot of other reasons on top of that as well. Now, I had some comments around this tweet, someone saying, someone commented saying, you know, ETH staking is up only until there is like a staking cap put in place. I've spoken about this concept of a staking cap before, basically capping the amount of validators that could be active on the network at any given time. Now from the proposals I've seen, if this was implemented, it wouldn't be a hard cap, it would be a soft cap. So what would happen is that you would have like for example, say, let's say the total amount of ETH staked on the network is 60 million and then there was only 30 million ETH stake. That was kind of actively staked at any given time.
00:02:13.742 - 00:02:47.254, Speaker A: So you would have 30 million stake that was dormant. Right. And 30 million stake that was active. And the network would handle this by doing a kind of like round robin thing where it essentially goes through all the validators and they're active at various different times. And then the APR would just kind of even out over time to the same across all validators, but there would only be 30 million ETH worth of validators active at any given time. It doesn't, you know, and I should say if we're talking about time here, it's more active attesting to and proposing any given blocks. Right.
00:02:47.254 - 00:03:35.314, Speaker A: So that's the proposals I've seen. There are a few still floating around. And I remember I shared a post from Vitalik quite a while ago covering this, but as far as I know, there are no, there is no kind of, I guess, decision being made yet on which proposal seems to be the best and which one actually makes sense when you consider all the trade offs. But I would, I would imagine that there's going to be a validator cap put in place one day, but it will not cap the total amount of ethake. From what I've seen, it will just cap the active amount of ethake from a technical point of view there. So e staking generally is up only. But I've also discussed in the past that I don't think that we're going to get, you know, like most of the eat supply stake, like some networks have 70%, 80% of their native tokens staked, and that's because they're a mixture of a delegated proof of stake network.
00:03:35.314 - 00:04:41.956, Speaker A: Their native token doesn't really have any demand outside of staking it. And if you're not staking it, you're getting kind of inflated away by the issuance of the network here, whereas ETH, as an asset has many, many use cases beyond just being used to stake. Now, in saying that obviously with the rise of the LSTs, the liquid staking tokens, and also the coming rise and the coming, I guess like a wave of restaking protocols, that's going to change the calculus a bit, where people are going to be like, hmm, okay, well, if I've just got this vanilla ETH, but it's kind of useless because I could stake it, get an LST, and then I could like restake it and get, I get kind of an LST on top of that, and then I can go use it in defi and then I can get leverage and all this other crazy stuff that can go on to, you know, boost your yield and be able to kind of like, unlock that liquidity. I think that'll be a big boost to the amount of ETH staked. But to get to 70% of the total ETH staked on the network, I think it would be like, what, 80, 90 million each staked? We're at 18 million right now, so it's a pretty tough ask. I don't know. I don't think that we're going to get there anytime soon, if ever, really.
00:04:41.956 - 00:05:24.632, Speaker A: And I'm talking total stake. Even with a validator cap in place, I'm still talking total stake, not just the active stake. So, yeah, looking at it from that perspective, it's kind of hard to know, but I just. I don't see any reason for there to be 80, 90 million each staked. And the funny thing is about ETH as an asset as well, is that it is deflationary, at least right now, and it has been for quite a while, actually, which I'm going to talk about a little bit at the end of the episode today. I've got the ultrasound money website up here, but essentially that's that percentage of estate changes right, over time, because let's say for some reason, in ten years, we've burnt 20 million ETH, or, sorry, we have changed the supply of ETH by 20 million. So instead of ETH supply being 120 million, it is now 100 million.
00:05:24.632 - 00:06:06.452, Speaker A: Well, I mean, the percentages very quickly change from there. Like, if we have 50 million ETH staked, that would be 50% of the ETH at 100 million ETH, whereas at 120 million, it would be less than that, obviously. So there is a different calculus there as well. So, as I said, a lot of kind of, I guess, like, guesses being made here, a lot of assumptions being made here, but I think that we can all safely say, at least at this point in time, that the amount of ETH that's going into the deposit contract, that's ending up on the beacon chain as part of a validator and aka being staked, is going to be up only for the foreseeable future. So great to see that, great to see that. All the fud has kind of been more than dispelled at this point around withdrawals. It's kind of been obliterated.
00:06:06.452 - 00:06:53.112, Speaker A: All the Fud that you ever heard, like, no one's said anything since then. I think all the people that were spreading that Fud have kind of crawled back into their hole or kind of admitted they were wrong. Which I guess like, you know, you can't really not do that if you want to keep your, I guess some reputation intact, but yeah, just, just great to see that and forget. I'd point it out for you guys. Now, moving on, a couple more things about staking so Jasper from the Rockerpool community has shared that you will soon be able to use Rockerpool with Ledger to stake ETH for our ETH and more. So you can see here, there is a GitHub kind of repository here for the Ledger app rocker pool plugin, which is very cool to see. So yeah, people that have a ledger app and want to stake their ETH can now while will be able to soon do so through the rocket pool protocol.
00:06:53.112 - 00:08:08.678, Speaker A: And you know, this might not seem like a big deal to people who maybe are more kind of crypto native on chain native and maybe don't use the ledger app itself, but there are plenty of people out there, especially the, I guess, people who don't really do anything on chain, who just store their crypto on a ledger device. That's the most they'll do, right? They'll move their crypto from an exchange to their ledger device, or they'll move it from their metamask hot wallet to a ledger device or something like that, right? So those people use the ledger app and then in that ledger app they're actually able to stake their ETH via I believe Lido is supported right now, but in the future, and I don't know who else is supported. I think it's lighter. It might be, it might not even be lighter, I can't remember. But they do support, I think, one or two other services, but soon they'll be supporting Rockerpool, which is obviously a huge boon for Rockerpool because there are plenty of ledger app users out there and they are probably not users that the Rocker pool protocol has traditionally been exposed to, which is obviously great, going to be great for rocker pools growth here. So yeah, I can't wait to see rocker pools growth continue and hopefully be up only into the future as well. All right, Oval Labs has announced that Lodestar has become the first validator client to support aggregation duties with DVT or distributed validator technology.
00:08:08.678 - 00:08:55.664, Speaker A: This was one of the final missing technical pieces and now allows distributed validators to be fully duty complete. So you can check out this post here. Obel DVT in a nutshell, talking about everything that you need to, to know about that as also as well as a client support checklist here for CL and VC combinations or consensus layer and validated client combinations, success duties observed on the public test nets, and a few more things here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But great to see more clients supporting distributed validator technology here. This is exactly what we want to be seeing at the end of the day. DVT is going to play a big role going forward in Ethereum staking. You guys know that I run an DVT validator or service on my solo staking box.
00:08:55.664 - 00:09:37.666, Speaker A: I talked about that the other week and how that's just been a very smooth experience, minimal maintenance, if any, really. I mean, there obviously are going to be up with updates sometimes for the oval software, so I just update them as they come. But generally it just runs in the background like normal validators do. Uh, and I'm doing and I'm able to validate with three other people from around the world. So four of us running a DVT or distributed validator client, I should say, which is obviously very cool for a number of different reasons. Security, you know, resiliency, decentralization, all that good stuff there. What I'm most excited about with regards to DVT, and I've spoken about this before, is the, I guess bigger players, like centralized exchanges embracing DVT and one day allowing for non custodial staking.
00:09:37.666 - 00:10:24.008, Speaker A: So as I said, I've talked about this before, but just to refresh your memory here, essentially what that would mean if set up correctly and if the exchange supported it, it would mean that people would be able to stake with Coinbase. For example, with having to give Coinbase custody of their ETH. They would basically delegate their, their ETH, I guess not, not literally delegate it, but, but for all intents and purposes, delegate it to Coinbase. And Coinbase would run the validator software for them, but they would never take custody of that ETH. They would just run the validator for those people. So those kind of use cases, I think are huge for obviously the decentralization and health of the Ethereum network, and I'm very much looking forward to seeing those go live, hopefully at some point in the future. Now, of course, these bigger staking operations are going to move a lot slower than the smaller ones.
00:10:24.008 - 00:11:00.932, Speaker A: It's probably going to take them a while to one trust the, I guess, like code here for Oval and other and other providers, but also just kind of integrate it within their stack. Because they're bigger players, they take a while to move here. But yeah, you can go read more about Obel. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. All right, last up here was something about staking was something from superfizz. So he shared an EIP that I think Danny Ryan published here. And he said this is very exciting and I desperately hope it enables tooling to allow small staking providers and DVT to further decentralize the beacon chain.
00:11:00.932 - 00:11:59.954, Speaker A: So this EIP, he's going to be adding execution layer triggerable, triggerable exits. And Danny describes this as adding a cross layer method to trigger validator exits from the execution layer. And note the consensus layer spec is just a sketch and will be implemented on the consensus layer specs repo soon. And then Mitro here says this is massive for liquid staking protocols and DVT setups. This EIP would allow to manage risk much much better for scenarios like loss of private keys or scenarios where DVT validators have lost connectivity to a majority of their key shares, which could occur if there's mass censorship or downtime in a popular AWS region, for example. And then he continues by saying, I agree with Danny that no solution I've heard of relies on this not being possible and that a smart contract is an elegant workaround for any cases which might. So yeah, you can read full, a full breakdown of what this entails here on the GitHub repo itself or the GitHub issue.
00:11:59.954 - 00:12:40.428, Speaker A: I should, I should say itself, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do. But yeah, this, this is super exciting. I mean I've got to, I've got to read more about this and understand how it actually works under the hood. But essentially what I believe it would do for the, you know, as Mitchell describes here for DBT is be able to manage these kind of, I guess like maybe edge cases because these things aren't expected to happen most of the time. But when they do happen, you want to have a way of recovering from, from this issue. So something like a loss of a private key, right. Or uh, or something that's a real kind of, I guess, like worst case scenario is if there's mass censorship happening on an AWS region.
00:12:40.428 - 00:13:30.570, Speaker A: So for example, let's say a lot of the DVT clusters are running on AWS west or something like that right in the US there. So let's say that Amazon decides, okay, well we're going to censor all of these kind of ethereum related infrastructure on AWS and then we're not going to be, we're not going to give the, our customers the ability to run this stuff on our, on our, on our own aws, I should say. Sorry. And that could lead to slashing events and other such events like that. So yeah, those kind of worst case scenarios and edge cases would be addressed by this, which is obviously very, very cool. And that's the kind of stuff that I think ETH researchers and developers really think about is those worst case scenarios. Because as I said, it's all well and good in the normal case where everything's running fine and everyone expects things to keep running fine.
00:13:30.570 - 00:14:29.264, Speaker A: But generally, I think that, uh, when you, when thinking about it, you have to think about worst case scenario things, even though it, and I highlighted this, I think a few weeks ago, that the total amount of validators that have been actually slashed on the ethereum network is very, very small. It's like, I think it's like a few hundred or something out of the hundreds of thousands that we have. And a lot of them were slashed on accident because they didn't, uh, they, they accidentally double signed because they had like a redundant setup that kicked in when it shouldn't have. And there hasn't actually been, I believe, I don't know if there has been any malicious attacks on the network yet that have been slashed. Like actually provably malicious. I think there might have been one instance of it, but I can't remember off the top of my head, but that's, just because it hasn't happened yet doesn't mean it won't happen in the future. I think that's a principle for a lot of things in life, but especially when it comes to building and maintaining the security of economic networks like Ethereum, decentralized economic networks especially as well.
00:14:29.264 - 00:15:43.518, Speaker A: But yeah, you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, poly now, I had a great quote tweet thread about arbitrum's announcements here. So I'll go over Arbitrum's announcement first and then describe and then read out Polynar's thread. So arbitrum announced that they have, they are the only roll up that sends all surplus revenue generated by transaction fees to their respective DaO, and it is time for the DAO to collect the funds so far. So this is basically arbitram announcing the fees that were in excess of what they needed to pay for l one fees going to the Dow and Polynya broke this down and basically said that arbitrum Dow net earned about $6 million worth of ETH and cost of operation was about $11 million so, and then poly Nair continues by saying, here's a trick for l two sirius about challenging arbitram's dominance, and then has a thread around how essentially arbitram could fund themselves or fund arbitrum one with just a moderate, or I guess like a very low arb inflation of one to 2%, which is a fraction of most l one s, of course. And that would actually be able, that would actually enable arbitrage one to make end user fees be zero.
00:15:43.518 - 00:16:30.330, Speaker A: Right now, of course, there's things like cyberling and filtering out what's actually spam and what should be reimbursed, stuff like that. But that's the reality of how economically, I guess, like efficient l two s are, besides, sorry, l two s are compared to l one s here. And then Polynya continues basically by saying, you know, you can undercut arbitrum here by doing this on your own roll up with your own token, which obviously relies on liquidity for the token. But still, I mean, it is a path here. And also they could, Polynya brought up that this is a temporary measure until ERP 4844, which, which they suspect 0.2% or some negligible inflation will be enough to send user fees to near zero. L two economics are just too good here, and they really are.
00:16:30.330 - 00:17:09.306, Speaker A: I mean, as Polynya mentions here, I know, I keep going back and forth between Polynya and Polynya. I don't know why my brain is doing that lately, but it is what it is. Anyway, I know some of you have noticed that, so I'm just gonna, he's gonna say that there. But the point of why I'm highlighting this, this thread here is really that, that kind of sentence that they said where they said l two economics are just too good. And this is because the l two does not have to worry about funding its own security and consensus and decentralization, because it gets that from Ethereum layer one. And this is really the superpower of l two s, because you don't have to worry about this stuff anymore. You just have to settle down to Ethereum.
00:17:09.306 - 00:17:54.034, Speaker A: And doing that is a lot cheaper, even before 4844 goes live, than starting a new l one. Because at the end of the day, when you start a new l one, your token is what pays for the maintenance and security and upkeep of the network. And this should be obvious to everyone at this point, but just to, just to kind of explain what I mean by that, the tokens, let's take Ethereum proof of work and Ethereum proof of stake, for example, what do you think the miners were getting paid with in order to cover their electricity bills, right. That they were getting paid with ETH and they were selling ETH to cover their electricity bills and other bills, and that was securing the network. Right. And as the ETH price went up, the hashrate followed. And obviously, more hash rate doesn't equal more security.
00:17:54.034 - 00:18:23.922, Speaker A: But, but, you know, the more, more kind of like activity you have on the network, the more the price goes up, the more hash rate. And the more miners that come on the network, the potentially more secure it can be. It's a, it's not an exact science, but that's the general gist of it there. And then with proof of stake, it's the same thing we pay. We pay eat stakers in ETH, right? And we pay them a percentage in ETH in order to want to stake their ETH and have validators and proposed blocks and a test of. And all that sort of stuff there. So they're basically putting their ETH at risk.
00:18:23.922 - 00:19:15.846, Speaker A: So it's an incentive mechanism, right? And, but in order to, to fund that security, the people getting those rewards have to sell. And this is, and this is the, this is an even worse case for the monolithic chains where the hardware costs are so high, even if they're proof of stake, that they have to sell a lot of the token in order to fund the, I guess, like fund the chain, fund the upkeep of the chain. And this is especially true for the ultra low fee chains, because the only revenue that the validators are really making is from the issuance, right. From the token issuance from the token inflation, they've got no fees to sell, so they have to sell the token inflation, which just puts downward pressure on the price. So essentially what ends up happening is that the holders of the token are the ones paying for those cheap fees. So if you are holding a token and you bought it at $10, and you're thinking, wow, okay, this is really bullish. I'm really bullish in this platform.
00:19:15.846 - 00:20:34.410, Speaker A: And this platform has really cheap fees, and maybe it gets some usage and the fees are still, still kind of cheap there and everything like that, but then the token goes down to $5 because everyone's signing the token in order to. Sorry, all the validators are selling the token in order to cover their costs. Well, the cheap fees were paid for by that, right? So there's no free lunch here is what I'm basically saying. But it's all about making it as economically efficient as possible. And that's what Ethereum l one has done with its economic policy of minimum viable issuance, which includes ERP 15 nine. And it's also what Ethereum has done with its roll up centric roadmap, where the l two s get to inherit this without having to pay for it themselves to the same extent, because all they have to do is pay the normal user fees, and then with 4844, those fees are going to be much, much cheaper and they still get to inherit that, that consensus, decentralization and security from Ethereum l one. So it just is a really beautifully economically sustainable system, which I think is something that a lot of people miss when they discuss the trade offs between l two module, the modular roadmap and the monolithic roadmap, is that economic sustainability? Because at the end of the day, what brings the most attention, I believe, to your network and what allows you to gather such a missionary driven community is a token that is tied to that network.
00:20:34.410 - 00:21:26.174, Speaker A: Obviously, in Ethereum's case, it's ETH that doesn't just go down only because that's not going to create any missionaries, that's just going to create bag holders. And bag holders don't stick around forever, they'll cut their losses and move on. Whereas with ETH, right, there are so many reasons to be bullish on it. ETH has, I mean, obviously it's not at all time highs now, but it has been a very nice thing to hold over longer periods of time. So that brings with it a lot of confidence and that brings with it adoption and all that other stuff that I spoke about yesterday. When it comes to speculation, which I think is something that the people that are heavy on the technical side miss, the economic sustainability is at the heart of what makes blockchains tick, and it's at the heart of what makes the Ethereum roll up centric roadmap so appealing to, you know, not just developers, but also, I believe, users as well, as time goes on. So anyway, you can read polynyards thread for yourself, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do.
00:21:26.174 - 00:22:05.706, Speaker A: All right, speaking of L2s, Aztec has a tweet thrown out today where they said decentralizing Ethereum roll ups is one of the biggest open questions right now in the development of L2s. Without it, Ethereum scaling will be no better than sidechains. That's why we're issuing an open request for proposals for our decentralized sequencer design. So basically, they've got a thread here talking about how they obviously want to get proposals in for designing a decentralized sequencer for the aztec network. And they also link to a discourse forum post here, which of course will be linked in the YouTube description below about how they're thinking about this and the feedback that they're looking for. There's a lot of information here, actually. It's actually pretty cool.
00:22:05.706 - 00:22:59.672, Speaker A: And there's a lot of, there's a few replies here, I should say, from people so far talking about this. And if you want to jump in, you can as well. But it's really, really positive to see so many of these L2s and roll ups already looking very seriously at decentralizing their sequences, because that really is the, the end game for a lot of them, right? Decentralizing out the sequencer, taking those training wheels off, getting rid of the admin and multi sig keys and all that stuff there so they can actually become true roll ups on Ethereum. Now there was a Vitalik post quite a while ago about roll up decentralization and the different stages that they can actually, uh, the different milestones or stages that they can hit. I think arbitrum one is the, the furthest along so far in terms of the economically relevant roll ups. There are other roll ups out there like fuel v one that are pretty much the, the, you know, the only true decentralized roll ups with, without admin keys and stuff like that on them. But no one's using it.
00:22:59.672 - 00:23:29.224, Speaker A: There's no apps there, there's no economic activity. So I guess it's kind of pointless. I mean, it's cool from a proof of concept point of view, but it's kind of pointless from every other point of view. Whereas with arbitrary one, it is the biggest roll up, it has the most economic activity and it is growing all the time. It has a token and a Dow now, and they're well on their way to becoming that truly visionary, I guess, that true vision of a decentralized roll up on Ethereum. So they're not the only ones. As I said, everyone's pretty much looking at this now, and Aztec is as well, of course.
00:23:29.224 - 00:24:15.070, Speaker A: So I'll link this foreign post in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, moving on to some. I don't think this is misinformation or fud or anything, moving on to some misconceptions that I've been seeing floating around on Twitter lately, around the ETH burn and supply change. So you may see this screenshot posted around on Twitter, which is a screenshot that comes from the ultrasound money website where at the top of the page here, you can see the supply change number now, right now, since the merge, the supply change number is negative 205,000 ETH. Now, this number is not the total ETH burned since the merge. That's exactly the misconception that I've seen. That I've seen on Twitter is that people are taking this number and saying, oh, my God, look, 200,000 ETH burned since the merge.
00:24:15.070 - 00:25:03.146, Speaker A: No, no, no. It's much more bullish than that, right? That is the net supply change since the merge. So if you look over to your right hand side here on the ultrasound money website, you can see a little water droplet emoji next to the number 418,000. Now, this is the total ETH issued since the merge, right? New ETH issued from the beacon chain to validators since the merge. Then underneath that there is a fire emoji, and the number next to that is 624,000 since the merge. Now, when you take the number of ETH burned away from the number of ETH issued since the merge, that's where you get this 205,000 or negative 205,000 number of the supply change. So that, that should explain it and should be pretty clear of why the supply change number is not the ETH burn number.
00:25:03.146 - 00:25:30.610, Speaker A: It is the net supply change from the merge or from whichever timeframe you choose. Here, you can go far, as far back as all time, or you can go five minutes or 1 hour, one day, seven days. Right. But the supply change number is always the net issuance. Right. The net issuance number since that timeframe that you've selected. Whereas the, on the right hand side, you've got the total ETH issued in the water droplet and the total ETH burned with the burn emoji with the fire emoji.
00:25:30.610 - 00:26:04.764, Speaker A: And then you just subtract the fire emoji number from the issuance number to get that supply change number here. So hopefully that that spells it out for you. Now, if you scroll down and you go to this little table here underneath the burn heading, this is where you can see all the relevant metrics around the burnout. So I've selected here since the merge, a little panda emoji. You can see 624,000 ETH has been burned since the merge. You can see what the issuance offset is, the burn rate per minute, what the. The burn leaderboard is obviously our fan favorites there, like uniswap and stable coins and Opensea and all that stuff there.
00:26:04.764 - 00:26:38.132, Speaker A: And then scroll down more you can see burn records, burn categories, and then there's more information on here. I mean, the ultrasound money website is my bible. You guys know I love this website. If you can understand this website at a deep level and understand what it means for Ethereum and ethnic, it's like reading the matrix code. I like using that analogy because I really think it is like that to an extent. But yeah, just wanted to clear up that, that bit of, that bit of as I said, it's not misinformation, it's a misconceptions that I've been seeing around this screenshot here. But you can check out my tweet about this if you want to just have another explanation of it and read through some of the replies to that.
00:26:38.132 - 00:27:15.770, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but you can check out the ultrasound money website as well to get a full, I guess, breakdown of everything there. Now also, actually, while I'm here, I may as well shout this out. There is a 1559 NFT. I believe that you can claim or pop that you can claim, and I believe there's still a few that haven't been claimed yet, so you might be eligible for it. You can go check out check it out on the ultrasound money website, I believe. I think there's only like ten or something left that hasn't been claimed yet, but just wanted to give a reminder there for people who may be eligible so you can go check that out. But on that note, that's going to be it for today's episode.
00:27:15.770 - 00:27:25.594, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
