00:00:00.200 - 00:00:40.204, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony so signer, and today's the 3 January 2023. Hi everyone. Let's get into it. So we have a weird update from Genesis, urn slash DCG. So you guys have probably been following along with this quite closely and the whole drama around DCG, Greyscale and urn, and all these kind of massive amounts of debt that's owed to certain parties, all stemming from, I guess, the collapse of Terra, FTX, three AC and all that other good stuff last year. But this update came from Cameron Winklevoss, who is obviously part of the Winklevoss twins, one of the co founders of Gemini.
00:00:40.204 - 00:01:14.968, Speaker A: And it was a weird thing to read. I mean, I'm not going to read out the whole thing, but basically he was kind of accusing Barry of Barry, who is the founder and CEO of DCG and which is the parent company of Grayscale, of not doing everything they can to plug the hole that that is in the earned the earn program and that is obviously the whole for end for the users, which is, I think, $1.6 billion or something like that. That. And then, you know, Barry replied to this tweet by saying, DCG did not borrow $1.6 billion from Genesis. DCG has never missed an interest payment to Genesis and is current on all loans outstanding.
00:01:14.968 - 00:01:36.872, Speaker A: Next loan maturity is May 2023. DCG delivered to Genesis and your advises a proposal on December 29 and has not received any response. To which Cameron Winkelfoss replied by saying, there you go again. Stop trying to pretend that you and DCG are innocent bystanders and nothing had nothing to do with creating this mess. It's completely disingenuous. So how does DCG owe Genesis $1.6 billion? Didn't borrow the money.
00:01:36.872 - 00:02:05.800, Speaker A: Oh, right, the promissory note. Will you or will you not commit to solving this by Jan 8th in a manner that treats the 1.1 billion promissory note as 1.1 billion? Now, I don't know the whole story here. I don't have it in front of me. There have been a bunch of threads I've seen on Twitter talking about this, but I think that when trying to find which one of these characters to believe, it's kind of hard to believe any of them. I would say that it's probably better to err on the side of them all being in the wrong at to some kind of point.
00:02:05.800 - 00:03:06.824, Speaker A: And the fact that grayscale is illegal lending desk, and we've seen a lot of those lending desks blow up this year, or a lot of the, I guess, over leveraged apes. Even if there were funds and VC's and, and big trading shops blow up this year, it's probably better to err on the side of there being this massive hole that actually exists. But I think I saw a thread that basically explained that what Cameron and Barry are doing here is basically just battling it out publicly to try and get some public support and trying kind of frame it as positive for either one of them. But when I think about that and when I look at that, I think this is just very childish. For these massive, I guess, companies in this space to be, for the founders of these companies to be behaving in this way in a very public forum is kind of very embarrassing and just speaks to the fact that we need generally better actors in this ecosystem. Not to say that, you know, the Winklevoss twins are bad actors and Gemini is a bad platform. I definitely thought Barry Silbert has been quite shady for a while.
00:03:06.824 - 00:03:34.664, Speaker A: For a long while, actually. Many people won't know this, but Barry Silbert was one of the chief people behind pumping a theorem classic in 2016, and he's continued to do that for quite a while. And he's also been involved with a lot of other things as well. And people have thought that he was really smart and, you know, he was playing like 5D chess or whatever. He was just early, like. And I've always maintained that he was just very early. He created all these companies and he was early to a lot of things, made a lot of money off of bitcoin and ETH and other kind of assets early on.
00:03:34.664 - 00:04:06.740, Speaker A: But I don't think he's got any special prowess to how operates now because of this there. I definitely do believe that DCG, I have this hole, have this big hole here. They do owe this money, but it just depends on what agreements are in place. You know, it depends when the debt actually is due. It depends on what the lawyers can come up with and what I guess, like fixes and bandits can be come up with. Because I don't think either Gemini or DCG or I guess, Grayscale want to go into bankruptcy proceedings. As I've explained before, those are lengthy, not good for anyone.
00:04:06.740 - 00:04:29.948, Speaker A: The business is basically over at that point, and it's not a fun time for the customers especially. And I guess, like, what Gemini is trying to do right now is just make their customers whole and what? I guess like DCG or Genesis is trying. Sorry, grayscale and Genesis, I should say. So I've been saying grayscale. I should be saying Genesis at the. As the lending desk. Grayscale is actually the funds, right? Like GBDC and ETH.
00:04:29.948 - 00:04:58.424, Speaker A: Genesis is the. The trading desk. But what Gemini is trying to do is just get Genesis to pay up so that they can fill the hole for users here, which, look, I don't know which way it's going to go. I'm sure there'll be, you know, some amount of money paid back. And I'm not sure if they're going to miss the payments or what agreements they're going to come to or if they file bankruptcy. And then people are saying, well, if Genesis follows bankruptcy, that means DCG has to pull assets out of other places to cover that debt. Maybe they pull it out of grayscale, which would lead to a sell off of GBTC and ETH.
00:04:58.424 - 00:05:16.440, Speaker A: I don't think so. I mean, they're different things. They have their certain, like, kind of trusts and stuff like that as well. So it's kind of a different ballgame. But this is something of like a contagion that's obviously still not resolved and something to pay attention to. That's why I bring it up today. But anyway, you can go check out Cameron's open letter here.
00:05:16.440 - 00:06:31.096, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. I don't have any threads handy about, you know, with a better explanation of this whole drama, but I'm sure you can find them on Twitter or even on Google if you google this. All right, so an interesting little graphic that data always put out as part of a write up they did on the year in block space demand across basically many different blockchains in crypto. So they said, they captioned this graphic by saying, tell me again about how bitcoin is a blockchain that people want to use when you can see that on May 1 in 2022, there was one day, that was that day of Ethereum fees, which dwarfed the whole year of bitcoin fees. And this was the other side, Mint. So other side was the bored Apes ecosystem project that they're doing against their metaverse project that they're doing. That was that day where essentially there was over $200 million worth of fees going to that were paid to the Ethereum network, most of which were burned, of course, but then some went to miners because we hadn't merged yet, but that, that one day was more fees than bitcoin had for the entire year in millions of us dollars, by, I don't think it was double by, but like 50, 60% more in just one day.
00:06:31.096 - 00:07:03.702, Speaker A: Now, obviously, that's an outlier, but. But if you look at the whole year of 2022 and look at the whole year of 2021, the picture is still the same. And in the kind of write up here, they actually have a chart that goes through not just ethereum versus bitcoin, but ethereum versus everything. And look at this. This is the nice little graphic here, which is kind of cut off a little bit on because of my camera. But basically, you can see here that Ethereum's total block space demand for 2022, as measured by fee revenue in us dollars, was $4.3 billion for the entire year.
00:07:03.702 - 00:07:38.690, Speaker A: And then you can see for binance, smart chain, which was second place, was $745 million. Tron was third at $174 million, and then bitcoin coming in fourth with $141 million for the whole year. And then you have a long tail of other networks, such as Solana at 26 million, phantom at 23, polygon at 20, optimism at 18, dogecoin at 1.6. Arbitrum isn't here, but I believe arbitrary would be similar to. To optimism. But this just goes to show, like, how bitcoins block space. Demand is so low relative to smart contract chains.
00:07:38.690 - 00:08:03.882, Speaker A: Binance smart chain, obviously is an EVM compatible smart contract chain, and so is Tron. As I said before, Tron is basically. I mean, so there are two major things on Tron. One of them is Justin sun using it as his personal little chain, where he's got most of his wealth or a lot of his wealth stuff stored on it. And he's doing a lot of stuff on there. But it's also used for stable coin transfers because it is very, very cheap compared to Ethereum layer one. And Tron, as a network, is supported across many different centralized exchanges.
00:08:03.882 - 00:08:31.280, Speaker A: So it's actually pretty good for cheap, stable coin transfers. And then BSC is very similar to Ethereum because of its EVM compatibility. I mean, it's pretty much a fork of Ethereum, right? But it has its own ecosystem on there that binance. Binance obviously funnels users into. But then a theorem still dwarfs all of these networks. Even combined, all of these networks don't even come close to the amount of fees that were paid on Ethereum layer one in 2022. Now, the reason I bring this up is twofold.
00:08:31.280 - 00:09:14.026, Speaker A: One, it shows that obviously, Ethereum block space, the only product that the Ethereum network sells, is in extremely high demand, and it still is today, even at these low gas prices, sorry, at these low gas fees. And during 2022, the gas fees were much lower than 2021, and we still saw this kind of demand here. And then two. Ethereum doesn't actually rely on fear of a new for its network security because we have perpetual issuance volume with proof of, in a proof of stake worlds, and then we burn most of the fees to offset that issuance. And Ethereum isn't deflationary right now since the merge, but on net since 1559 went live, it is deflationary. So that is an extremely strong property of Ethereum that I've talked about a lot before. And obviously that's part of my bull case for Ethereum.
00:09:14.026 - 00:10:26.032, Speaker A: Whereas bitcoin, on the other hand, relies on fair revenue long term for its security budget because it has the harvenings, it has a fixed supply, and within a couple more harvestings or two to three more harvenings, bitcoin security budget is going to be severely compromised. Compromised because its fear of renew does not make up for that. I think as a percentage of security budget here, the fear of a new is less than 1%, I think, of the fee, sorry, of the security budget, because the block reward counts for so much of it. So that means that once the block reward gets significantly reduced in another two to three harvings, bitcoin security, unless the price of BTC goes up significantly, is going to be severely wounded, right? It's going to be, it's going to become insecure. And whereas Ethereum does not have this issue, even though Ethereum has all the block space demand, and I don't see anything driving demand to bitcoin block space, because really there's only one thing you can do with bitcoin, the bitcoin network. It's move BTC around. And there just isn't that much demand to move BTC around, especially because BTC is supposed to be a store of value first and a money second, and no one's really using BTC as money, right? And then people say, well, demand from Lightning network channels opening and closing is going to account for lots of fees on the bitcoin network.
00:10:26.032 - 00:11:13.520, Speaker A: It's not because no one cares about lightning network, no one's going to use lightning network. The adoption of lightning network is pathetic compared to its competitors such as Ethereum and BSC and TRON and all these other smart contract chains. So I just wanted to highlight that, but I'm not going to go on more of a rant here than I already have. But you should give this blog post a read from data, always talking about the union block space demand and all the trends that we're seeing and different things here. It goes into much more detail than I have, which are, you know, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so, but I just think that this chart is extremely striking. And the fact that Ethereum was able to do, you know, 60% more fees in one day than bitcoin did in its entire year just speaks to how in demand Ethereum's block space is then bitcoin. And you know, some people will fud this and say that's because the theorem charges such high fees to use its network.
00:11:13.520 - 00:11:49.884, Speaker A: People are forced to do this. It's like, no, no, no one's forced to use the Ethereum network. They're willingly doing this, especially during an NFT mint where people are literally willing paying the fees because it's worth it for them to do so because they believe they're gonna get more value out of the NFT that they're minting or buying or whatever, as opposed to the fees that they're paying. And obviously a lot of this activity is going to move to L2s going forward, so it's going to be funny to see how layer one block space demand kind of changes from here. But I've discussed that before on the refill. I'm not going to go into it today, but yeah, you can check out this blog post for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:11:49.884 - 00:12:22.702, Speaker A: All right, so we have a great thread here from J Trilly today, which starts off by saying EOF consists of five eips set to be implemented in the Shanghai hard fork. In parallel, this includes new instructions, deprecating old instructions, deploy time, validation and more. This will radically change EVM bytecode. It's long as AF, but let's get into it. And this is a thread talking about all the different arps coming as part of the EOF umbrella that I've talked about in the past. It is for developers. If you're not a developer, you won't understand what they're talking about in this thread.
00:12:22.702 - 00:12:55.116, Speaker A: But I just felt it was worth highlighting because I've talked about EOF a lot on the refuel and I've talked about the eips that are going into that, and that is definitely something that you should be paying attention to here. I don't think that EOf is. Sorry, I don't think the EOF EIPs are actually guaranteed to be included in Shanghai yet. That's just a note that I should make here. There was still a lot of testing to be done. There was still a lot of, a lot of things to be discussed. I think on the next all tour devs call we're going to know, which is in a couple of days, I believe we're actually going to know if the ips are going into Shanghai.
00:12:55.116 - 00:13:22.788, Speaker A: But if they don't make it into Shanghai, it's, you know, most likely they're going to be in the next hard fork after that. As part of the hard fork that EIP 4844 is hopefully going into as well. So. Yeah, but anyway, you can go give this thread a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Jasper here from the rocker pool community has put out a tweet thread saying attention data analysts, web3 devs writers and more. The grant and bug bounty committee sorry, the grant and bounty committee for Rockapool is accepting applications.
00:13:22.788 - 00:13:51.890, Speaker A: There is a lot of money up for grabs as we start to fund our community. I'll be breaking down what the three types are and more. And this is a thread here which you can go check out. So if you're interested in applying for a grant, a grant or a bounty here in order to help out the rockable community, then this thread is for you. There's all relevant links and everything in the thread and information as well for you to check out, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But I just wanted to highlight this. This is another way to get involved with the Ethereum ecosystem specifically.
00:13:51.890 - 00:14:23.574, Speaker A: Obviously the Rockapool ecosystem, which you guys know I've warmed up to a lot over the last few months, and I'm very, very bullish on them as a community and as an ecosystem for sure. So you should definitely check out them and see if you can get involved. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so speaking of things that are growing over the past, I guess like few months, ENS just continues its growth unabated. Really. I mean, you can see the ENS stats here. For December of 2022, there were 53,000 new ETH registrations, $1.6
00:14:23.574 - 00:15:06.332, Speaker A: million in protocol revenue, 22,000 new ETH accounts with at least one ens name for a total of 630,000, 6700 avatar records sets and 2100 D web content records set for a total of 18,100. And you can see it in the chart here. What the growth is kind of looking like for these new things that they're tracking, such as avatar growth and D web growth. What I find really cool about ENS's growth is that it doesn't seem to be affected by bull and bear markets. It seems to be growing organically from people wanting to buy Ens names to set for their Ethereum address, to set for their identity. And that's something like what avatars are speaking to as well. They want to have an on chain identity.
00:15:06.332 - 00:15:37.272, Speaker A: Yes, there's speculation when it comes to Ens names. Yes, people like to buy low character names and resell them and everything like that. Just like any NFT out there. There are special properties for, for different nfts, rare names, all that good stuff there. But Ans generally has just been on an uptrend and I love seeing it, especially just seeing how many new ETH registrations there are and how much protocol revenue is being made by the Ensdale here. And this is, I believe there's no liquidity mining programs for Ens. Like ENS token isn't being paid out to people to do this.
00:15:37.272 - 00:16:05.900, Speaker A: So it's just really cool to see that this is, you know, a lot of organic growth here as well as people just guess, speculating on, on domain names or an S names, I should say, which is totally normal. There's nothing wrong with that. I think people have the tendency to think that just because something is speculative, that means that there's something wrong with it. And I always felt that that was a weird thing to think because speculation makes crypto go round. It makes the world go round. It's inherent to all of us. We all speculate in one way or another and it makes the markets work.
00:16:05.900 - 00:16:52.864, Speaker A: It makes crypto work. So we shouldn't really be, I guess, against speculation until it gets to the point where it's like incessant speculation on like unfettered, it becomes really dangerous. Like what we saw with terror, right? That became very dangerous. What we saw with all the leverage, all the over leveraged people in crypto, that's where it can become, you know, very dangerous. But speculating and people just entering into these markets willingly and, you know, treating them like, like healthy markets instead of unhealthy ones, I think is good for the overall ecosystem. But yeah, congrats to ensuring on another big month in December here. All right, so scroll has announced today that on January 9, their team will be performing a scheduled pre alpha reset in order to roll out some new and exciting performance optimizations that will help drive a higher throughput in scrolls pre alpha testnet.
00:16:52.864 - 00:17:29.532, Speaker A: Details are in this thread which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But great to see that scrolls pre Alpha testnet is continuing along here. As you guys know, scroll is building a ZKe EVM as part of their kind of rollout here as part of their L2 roll out, I should say. And they've been working very hard on that. I am an investor in scroll, just a disclosure there for you guys. But it seems that they're making really, really great progress and I love seeing the progress of the L2 teams generally, especially the ZKVM's. But just a heads up for you, if you have been using the pre alpha testnet here, there will be a reset and all the details are in this thread with, along with the upgrades that are coming to the Testnet as well.
00:17:29.532 - 00:17:47.070, Speaker A: Hopefully we get a, I guess like an alpha test net and then a beta test net and then mainnet from scroll relatively soon. The ZkvMs, they're all coming. You know, a lot of them are in test net phases right now. A lot of them are being tested. You can go check them out for yourself. But yeah, definitely check out this thread from scroll. For more details on that.
00:17:47.070 - 00:18:35.502, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right. Today, Mike here from sylph dapps. Hopefully I said that, right, has put out a tweet saying, you know, or covering something that I covered a few weeks ago, which was the NFT lost harvest store. And that was that smart contract that Coin ledger had developed that allowed you to sell your NFT for some very low value to a smart contract that basically allowed you to claim the loss on that NFT. If you obviously at loss because it's some NFT that isn't worth very much or is basically worthless, you can sell it to this contract and that will always be a buyer for you at some really low price. Well now you can actually do the opposite with what Mike has built here where you can basically do the NFT repurchase or, which basically means you can buy the NFT that you sold to the harvest or contract for the same price that you sold it to.
00:18:35.502 - 00:19:02.978, Speaker A: And this is a front end to do that. So let's say you sold one of these nfts to the contract and you said, okay, well, I'm just writing off this NFT. It's a loss, it's worthless, whatever. And then for some reason it has a resurgence and it's now worth a lot more than you sold it to the contract for. Well, lucky you. You get to go rebuy that NFT for the same amount that you sold it to the contract for and basically that becomes your cost basis. And then you can, if there is a value for it on the open market, you can immediately make a profit on that if you want to.
00:19:02.978 - 00:19:26.062, Speaker A: So just really cool to see that. My case built an easy to use front end here for people to do that. So maybe it's worth you checking this out. If you have used the NFT lost harvest store, maybe it's worth checking the nfts that you sold to that contract and see, maybe they've had a resurgence because nfts are pretty wild, they're pretty random. There are some that just pop off randomly for whatever reason. And maybe that is something that, that you've missed. Well, now would be a good time to check it out.
00:19:26.062 - 00:20:10.182, Speaker A: So I'll link Mike's tweet in the YouTube description below. You can go check out the what what he's built here. But really great to see the community, I guess, building on things that are being built by companies like Coin Ledger. I just, I was a really big fan of the NFT Lost Harvest store, so I'm a really big fan of the repurchase store as well. Basically completes that loop there where you can sell and buy, which I think is a really, really great resource for people to have. All right, just wanted to give a shout out here to Bankless's new YouTube channel, which is called Bankless clips, which is basically a bunch of really, really well, really informed videos around Ethereum, crypto, you know, L2s, nfts in general from David Hoffman, and he put out a new one today, actually called Ethereum. Won the bull market.
00:20:10.182 - 00:20:36.876, Speaker A: Now ETH is winning the bear market and all, talking about each season and talking about how all the goals that Ethereum is kicking in a less than 15 minutes time frame here. So you can go give that a watch as well. The channel itself will be linked in the YouTube description below. And some of you may point out that I'm not subscribed to the bankless clips channel. I am just on my personal YouTube account, not on the daily Grey YouTube account. So just so you know, I do have some subscriptions on the Daily Grey YouTube account, but I don't really use it. I use my personal account.
00:20:36.876 - 00:21:16.296, Speaker A: But you should definitely go subscribe to it if you're a fan of bankless, which you all should be, because they put out amazing content. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to go subscribe to. All right, to round off today's episode, I wanted to highlight two things from Domothy. One, he did an AMA about Ethereum the other day. I think it was yesterday that I forgot to highlight, and I actually haven't retweeted yet, which I will do here, where he gave a lot of really great answers to these questions that were asked of him. And just for those of you who don't know, Domothy is a long term daily gray community member who also recently joined the Ethereum foundation to work their work on research topics and things like that. So great to see him doing this AMA.
00:21:16.296 - 00:21:46.000, Speaker A: But one thing I wanted to really point out here was a question that Trent answered and an answer from domothy to that question. So Trent, Trent asked the question, what do you think about quote unquote ossification and when should a protocol stabilize? And Dom answered, ossification is a bitcoin meme. Imo. The ethereum equivalent should be homeostasis. The chain self regulates to keep its core properties intact for forever, through cryptographic means first, then crypto economic means, then through the social layer as a last resort. I couldn't have thought of a better answer than this. This is amazing.
00:21:46.000 - 00:22:31.954, Speaker A: I mean, it kind of reads like something that I would say on the refill, because I have actually touched on this a lot of times, but I've never actually used the term homeostasis before, which I think is a perfect description of what Ethereum should be going for. I've never been a fan of ossification, and ossification is defined by basically what bitcoin is today, where the layer one doesn't hard fork doesn't upgrade. There is barely any changes made to do bitcoin in general. And when those changes are made, they're done in the form of opt in only. So like a soft fork they call it, where essentially the whole network has to voluntarily opt into it over time, right? Rather than it being done in a hard fork, where hard forks are also a voluntary thing, where you have to basically opt into it yourself. And if you don't want to, you don't have to run the software to opt into it. You can go to another network if you want.
00:22:31.954 - 00:23:05.778, Speaker A: But there's a different school of thought between Bitcoin and Ethereum there. I don't want a theorem to ever ossify like that. I don't think it's beneficial at all. I don't think that Ethereum should ossify for a very long time. I've said before that maybe in the future, maybe in 1015 years, it should begin to, I guess, look like it's ossifying, but I don't think that should be the case. Now that I've. I've kind of read Dominique's reply here, which makes a lot more sense, where it should enter that homeostasis kind of state, where the chain is self regulating most of the time, you know, to keep its core properties intact, such of it, such as its monetary policy and its core promises to be a settlement layer.
00:23:05.778 - 00:23:47.822, Speaker A: And what it actually does for participants on the network through cryptographic means first, right through the actual protocol means first, then crypto economic means through, obviously, the consensus backed up by its value and its economic properties, and then through the social layer as a last resort. As you guys know, I always talk about this. The social layer is the be all, end all last resort. It is where we go to when everything else has failed, when the. The cryptographic means have failed, when the crypto economic means have failed, then we really only have the social layer as the last resort. And just to further explain this for you guys, the cryptographic means is the network itself, right. Is the core protocol rules, the things that are baked into the code, that is the cryptographic means, right.
00:23:47.822 - 00:24:26.126, Speaker A: The consensus engine that Ethereum runs, all the code that backs up the EVM, everything there. If something wrong happens there, then you would expect the crypto economic guarantees to kick in, which is obviously part of consensus, where its economic value gives the network security. It costs such and such amount to attack the network, because you would need to acquire such and such ETH, or you would need to attack the network, and then you would get. There's a risk of slashing, and, you know, that's in protocol slashing. Then there's social slashing as well, which is where the social layer would kick in, where, if the cryptographic means have failed, so there's some major bug, and then the crypto economic means have also failed or have failed as well. Not. Not both of them have to fail at the same time.
00:24:26.126 - 00:24:41.854, Speaker A: Then the social layer kicks in to fix that. For example, major bug. There's a monetary policy bug. You can print infinite ETH, and you can't fix that in protocol. Well, you have to go to the social layer. Social layer basically says, well, we're going to reverse what happened here. We're going to do an irregular state change to get rid of this bug.
00:24:41.854 - 00:25:18.164, Speaker A: We're going to fix it, and then we're going to go on our merry way, and that's how that would be fixed by the social layer that's not fixed by any other means. And then a crypto crypto economic one would be basically in protocol slashing, where essentially some percentage of the network is acting against the network rules. And then they get slashed crypto economically. Basically they lose value, they lose ETH value and they get kicked out of the active validator set. So I thought this was just a really great way of breaking it down. I thought Domothy's reply about, sorry, Domothy's terminology of homeostasis instead of ossification is what ethereum should be aiming for. And yeah, I just wanted to add my little flavor there.
00:25:18.164 - 00:25:52.824, Speaker A: But you should definitely go check out Dom's whole thread, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. A lot of really great questions and answers here. Basically felt like a daily gwei Ama that I do as well. Which reminds me, actually, there is going to be a daily AMA this Saturday, so definitely get your questions in in the AMA series channel in the Discord channel, which you can find a link to in the YouTube description below. You can ask anything you want about a theorem crypto, whatever you want to ask about. I'll do my best to answer it for you, but be sure to get your questions in in the AMA series channel before Saturday so that I can get them answered. I'll record the episode probably Saturday and get it out.
00:25:52.824 - 00:26:19.944, Speaker A: Sorry, Saturday afternoon, my time, get it out Saturday morning, probably us time for you guys to enjoy that. And then from there there'll be a regular two week cadence of these AMA's coming out, as I used to do them as well. And you can go check out the previous AMA's during the AMA playlist which is linked in the on the YouTube channel which you can go check out for yourself. But yeah, that's it. On that note, that's all I've got for today. I'm going to cut this episode a little bit short for today, but I'll be back tomorrow as usual. So thank you everyone for listening and watching.
00:26:19.944 - 00:26:26.504, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
