00:00:00.760 - 00:00:38.124, Speaker A: According to Defi Llama, DeFi TVL currently sits at $37.824 billion, and this is down from its previous all time high at roughly 180 back in November of 2021. And chances are, if you're watching this video, you're generally bullish. Crypto and Defi, you see the value in the space, but you understand that the products right now just aren't good enough. It's not creating enough value for people to want to deploy their capital on chain. And I'm going to start this monthly series of, okay, how does DeFi get back to its previous all time highs in terms of TVL and eventually hit a trillion dollars of TVL? Right. And I'm going to do this video every single month until we get there.
00:00:38.124 - 00:01:40.664, Speaker A: So hopefully I'm not dead by then, but this is going to be part one of, hopefully a long series where, you know, every minute at the start of every month, I'll monitor the trends, the narratives, and the fundamentals of DeFi and how we can reasonably get to all time highs in tv all. And to answer the question, right, like, how do we get there? I think all these things need to happen, because most crypto like DeFi applications, their TVL, it's denominated in crypto native assets, mostly in wrapped bitcoin and also eth. So if the price of these assets go up, then, yes, TVL goes up. But also another core, very, very important part of DeFi is the stable coin market cap. People deploy dollars as a unit of account and as a store of value. And right now, the trend of stable market cap is, like, down only. Maybe you can argue that we're kind of bottoming out here, but, you know, you could have said the same thing back in, like, June of last year or like, June, June of this year, where we put in the bottom, we bounced a little bit, went sideways, but, you know, we ultimately put in new lower lows.
00:01:40.664 - 00:02:43.450, Speaker A: And until blockchain applications can actually create, like, real use cases and value, I still think that, hey, like, it's reasonable to expect this trend to continue going down, or at least go sideways, but not up. And then there's also this question of, do crypto prices pump and then stablecoin market go up, or does the stable market cap go up and then crypto goes up? Right. And I think it's more likely the latter than the former. There's, like, this prevailing narrative thought that meme coins go up and then retail piles in. But that's also a very condescending way to view retail participants because we're all retail, right? We're all trying to figure this thing out as we go. And I think most people, right? And this is like people that only care about meme coins, but I think most people in the world will deploy capital into, like, financial applications if they see value in it and they get something out of it. So I argue that, hey, like stablecoin market goes up and then crypto like narratives and pumps can actually sustain and not the other way around.
00:02:43.450 - 00:03:06.362, Speaker A: You saw this with Pepe where, you know, it hit like a billion TvL. Sorry, a billion market cap, like immediately. And people were saying, oh, my God, like this is going to lead to retail speculation. But no, it's kind of like dying down. I mean, who knows? Maybe it has like a secondary pump. Like, you know, like meme coin traders can do whatever the hell they want. But I focus more on Defi and, like, dollar inflows, dollar outflows and, you know, like, this is not it, right? Cool.
00:03:06.362 - 00:03:44.668, Speaker A: Like, you know, this captures headlines and whatnot, but, you know, it's not going to get people back into crypto and back on chain. So, yeah, no narrative is sustainable if dollars are flowing, aren't flowing into the space, and it's not going to be meme coins. There has to be real value involved. And that's the problem, right? That's the core problem in crypto and crypto native applications. Most DeFi applications rely on people paying fees and those fees going to token holders. But if there's no new inflow, right, basically there's like this value description, value destruction, where you stake a token, you're in yield, but that yield is coming from someone else. And maybe a protocol takes some of that.
00:03:44.668 - 00:04:31.636, Speaker A: And then, you know, it's like a. It's like the opposite of like a rising tide lifts all boats, a sinking tide, like lowers all boats. And until people see the value of these applications, I feel like this trend is going to persist. And I think it's important to just be optimistic and think about, okay, what needs to happen for dollars to come back on chain. And for the past few months, I've been talking about this thesis that I have around like, real world assets, and I'll lay out my evidence or, like, my argument in this video. So, you know, with lack of or. Yeah, with the lack of positive sum games and crypto mostly being zero sum and negative sum, this poses a problem, especially when the stable coin inflows are not going up.
00:04:31.636 - 00:05:05.312, Speaker A: And there's a little reason, right, to leave money in crypto when you can just go to fidelity and earn over 5% in short term treasuries. You can earn 1020 percent, 30% yield in stable coins. But it's not really sustainable. It's come from token inflation. And even if it is sustainable, if people think it's safe, people will pile into the opportunity, and then the yields will collapse down to, like, five, six, 7%. And at that point, is it really worth the risk? Like, the market is saying that it's not worth the risk, and that's why the stable market caps are going down. And, you know, I don't like to admit this, right? I call myself a humble farmer, but, you know, I do have some money.
00:05:05.312 - 00:05:24.982, Speaker A: Like, you know, certificates of deposits, like cds on fidelity, because, you know, like, it's pretty good, right? I mean, let's be real with ourselves. Like, these are pretty good. It might underperform bitcoin. It might underperform stocks. But I if you're holding cash, you know, instead of putting a bunch of money on chain, it makes sense to, like, just put capital here. And that. That's the core problem in crypto.
00:05:24.982 - 00:06:25.760, Speaker A: So until on chain yields can actually compete with off chain yields, I don't really see money returning to the space. And we've learned over the past couple of months in the years that crypto native applications can't beat off chain yields, right, on a risk adjusted return basis. So, if that's the issue, my thesis and my argument is that we have to bring off chain yields on chain because DeFi and crypto can't survive 5% interest rates. And if we can tokenize these treasuries, these tokenized T bills, and make them composable through defi money, Legos, composable smart contracts, then I think we can actually enhance those yields and compete with off chain yields and, like, products that you can see in traffic. And I think this needs to happen for DeFi to thrive and also right, for crypto to thrive, because right now, like I mentioned, I. There's no reason to, like, have money in crypto. So DeFi needs to create, like, financial products that incentivize people to bridge money on chain.
00:06:25.760 - 00:06:47.314, Speaker A: I mean, it's not gonna be everyone, right? It's gonna be a process. But we have to find ways for this to happen. And I think the first step is gonna be with tokenized treasuries, TiVo. So, let me kind of explore that further. And I talked about this a couple weeks ago in this video called DeFi anti fragility and their rise. And you know, the new DeFi 3.0. And I coined this term.
00:06:47.314 - 00:07:23.750, Speaker A: And, you know, maybe this ages poorly, but I think I'm directionally correct with this idea where on chain apps are not good enough. And the first step to creating value on blockchain is to connect the real world with on chain. And then with, like, that, I guess, like, by bridging, like, the two, you can actually create more value on top. And then that can actually lead to, like, the next defi bull market. And, you know, the. The poster child for tokenized treasuries is maker, right? Maker owns roughly $2.3 billion in treasuries and cash equivalents, earning, like, roughly four to 5% ish yield.
00:07:23.750 - 00:08:03.676, Speaker A: And, you know, they're flowing, or they're taking these government interest payments, they're flowing it on chain, and they're basically, essentially bridging the risk free rate on chain. Right. And I'll talk about a few DeFi strategies that can enhance this. And I agree that this is good because these are positive sum games, because with other defi apps, people are paying each other negative. Some games, not great. But if the yield comes from government entertainments and people are paying these protocols fees to capture that yield, then it actually creates for positive some games where the DAO makes money, the token has a value. Cool.
00:08:03.676 - 00:08:34.510, Speaker A: And the user paying the fees also makes money. And this also fixes a stablecoin issue. So, yeah, I mean, if you've watched this channel, you know, this thing called SDAI, which is staked dai. So it's a liquid representation of DAi that's earning the risk free rate at 5%. And this proposal passed on the 28th, where SDAI can now be used as collateral on Aave, the premium money market in all of deFi. And I've talked about this before, but there's. Aave has a stable coin called go.
00:08:34.510 - 00:09:00.298, Speaker A: And I mentioned, hey, you can use SDAI as collateral, earning 5%, borrow, go at 1.5%, and then loop it and then get, like, 10% yields on stablecoins. Pretty good. But since I made that video, Aave, they have a new proposal to raise the borrow rate from 1.5 to 2.5%. I think this is smart. I mean, I think ultimately this is gonna go up to 4%, but I think they're gonna just have it below just so that they can, like, expand the supply of go.
00:09:00.298 - 00:09:34.580, Speaker A: Because this is going to be their main money maker, right? Aave, as a protocol, like, barely makes money, but if they can issue their own safe coin and charge their own interest rate. This is going to be their main revenue generator. So they're, I mean, the Avidao should do whatever in their power to grow the market cap of go and also to make sure that it trades at peg. So there's actual utility. And I did the math here. So let's say that you have Esta is collateral, you borrow go, SDI is earning 5% go, the borrower is 2.5% and you do this 70% LTV.
00:09:34.580 - 00:10:19.526, Speaker A: So loan to value the max, LTV is 77%. But like, let's be conservative, like 70% here. So if you loop this three times where you have one hundred k of SDI, borrow seventy k of go, swap it into SDAI, recollectalize it, borrow some, go, recollectalize it. And you do this three times, right? So, like every time you do the loop, you can borrow less and less because like, that's how over collateralized loans work. If you do this three times, sure you'll pay a bunch of gas fees because it's only on mainnet, but you can get roughly 9% apr APY, which is like pretty good. And I'm sure that in the future, there's gonna be different front ends that allow you to do this in one click. And as the liquidity profile grows on SDI and go, I'm sure this strategy will also be available on cheaper chains like l two s.
00:10:19.526 - 00:10:55.180, Speaker A: So like I mentioned, right? This isn't like, this video isn't like, okay, like next week, everything is in a pump, right? It's more about, okay, like, what needs to happen for defi TvL to grow. Like, thinking about it in like first principles, like fundamental basis. And I think this is step one, because where's the yield coming from? Right? The yield is coming from off chain government interest payments, which doesn't dilute. It's very sustainable, it's very scalable and predictable. And, you know, maker makes money, right? As a result of this, ave makes money because people are paying 2.5% and the user makes money because, yeah, I mean, they make like 9% yields, right? Pretty good. Positive.
00:10:55.180 - 00:11:15.688, Speaker A: Some games. Of course there's risks in that. You know, if SDAI goes down in value, then you can be liquidated. But SDAI is literally staked die, right? It's wrapped dai. So it's very unlikely goes down in value. Go could appreciate in value, which might cause some liquidations, but that's also going to be pretty unlikely. Afforded mechanisms that I'll talk about later.
00:11:15.688 - 00:11:56.614, Speaker A: Because right now, this doesn't really work because go is trading below peg. And I mean, obviously there's like no liquidity mechanism or incentives to get this to like $1. So, you know, obviously Avi has to fix this, but they are making steps to fix this issue. For example, there's this proposal right now to acquire aura tokens from Olympusdao for like roughly half a million dollars. And aura is like the convex of the balancer Dex. So they can use the aura voting power to direct emissions for their go stablecoin to incentivize people to mint go and then provide liquidity. Same goes for their treasury swap for USDT to CRV.
00:11:56.614 - 00:12:40.162, Speaker A: We all know, like what happened to CRV? Pretty, pretty crazy stuff. But you know, with the voting power from these governance tokens, they're probably going to incentivize liquidity for go, which should help the peg. But also there's also this new proposal called the Go stability module, because Dai has this thing called the PSM, the peg stability module. So where if Dai is trading at, let's say $1.10 for whatever reason, anyone can take USDC and mint Dai one to one and then capture that 10% arbitrage. Go doesn't have that, but they're working on it right now. I have no idea when this thing to go live, but you know, when it goes live, you know, you can mint so you can buy go for, let's say like ninety eight cents and then redeem it for like one USDC or USDT for like up to $5 million.
00:12:40.162 - 00:13:07.520, Speaker A: So it's an audit. I'm not sure like when it's gonna go live, but like maybe there's arguments to be made to like buy go below peg and then like sell it when it gets below. Sorry, when it gets back to Peg. So, you know, Ave is working on it. I'm not sure how long it's gonna take, but like once these mechanisms are in place, I'm sure that these looping strategies are to become more viable and it's gonna increase the entire stable coin rate across all of DeFi because. Yeah, let's talk about how DeFi benefits. Because like, that's the whole point of the video.
00:13:07.520 - 00:13:48.990, Speaker A: I've talked about this before, but like, maker is essentially the on chain Federal Reserve because the Fed, like in the real world, they set the risk free rate and then everything just has to adjust accordingly. And similarly, Maker is the on chain fed because they're setting the risk free rate of SDI to be 5%. If you're a DeFi protocol and you can't beat 5%, then your token is going to go to zero, right? Like, no one's going to deploy capital for your project because, you know, SDAI is safer 5%. And even like, you know, if some random farm is paying like 8% yields in stable coins, chances are like, you know, SDI is like probably worth it. And like, that farm is not. Ave makes money, right? Because people are willingly paying 2.5% to arbitrage this, these rates.
00:13:48.990 - 00:14:22.982, Speaker A: So dow makes money and then the user makes money from the stable coin yields. Like I said, like, aave should raise the rates at some point, but I think they're just like keeping it low to bootstrap the growth. But even if it goes like 4%, I mean, that's still pretty good. And it's like a reasonable way to get decent yields on stable coins on chain. And it's not reliant on pure ponzonomics. So this is like also like a fun idea, and I'm not sure when it's going to go live, but, you know, just let's, let's talk about it. So Aave has this thing called the emote, where if you're using like assets for collateral and borrows, you can actually enhance the LTV ratio.
00:14:22.982 - 00:15:14.740, Speaker A: So if you're using stakedai as collateral to borrow eth, then the LTV is going to be at 77%. But if you use emote, where you use SdAi to borrow another stable coin, like go, you can borrow up to 97% LTV, which is actually insane. So hypothetically, if you use, I mean, if this is enabled and go is trading at $1 and you loop it ten times at an LTV of 90%, you can actually get to. I mean, the important thing here is not the actual numbers and the amount of leverage. It's more about, okay, it's possible. And even if AAVE increases borrower costs to like 4%, there's still going to be like incentives for people to loop things and then capture like eight to 10% yields on stable coins. And this is a positive sum game because who's the counterparty from the yield, right? It's the us government.
00:15:14.740 - 00:16:17.624, Speaker A: And the user makes money, the DAO makes money. And this can actually result in net inflows on chain, because technically, right, like no one, like no new retail participant is converting their fiat currency into USDC and bridging it on chain. However, technically, right? Like, if DAi supply expands, then that means that there's more dai backing and with the backing maker can buy more t bills. And with more t bills, there's gonna be higher interest payments that can flow on chain. And those dollar inflows should create more value for on chain defi users. And with enough time, as these strategies become more viable and the size expands over time, I think it can actually put a stop in the bleeding of the stablecoin TVL maybe it's not going to go up only, but maybe we can see a basing out of the stablecoin liquidity, which I think is going to benefit the entirety of crypto. And, you know, like Mark Zeller, who works for Aave, you know, there's a lot of demand to use stakedias collateral.
00:16:17.624 - 00:16:53.594, Speaker A: Like I mentioned, you can't do the go things, the go looping thing right now because they're working on the peg. But you know, like there's a lot of demand because what you could do potentially is take staked it as collateral that's earning 5%, and then borrow ETH, for example, and then deploy ETH into random farming strategies. And then you kind of have this delta neutral farm where, you know, you're literally like just borrowing ETH, let's say 3% to earn 10%. And your collateral is also appreciating in value. Right. So it's not going to be like a mechanic to make people rich, but it's a good way to manage your portfolio and also people's, I guess. Yeah, their.
00:16:53.594 - 00:17:21.840, Speaker A: Yeah, their portfolio and like, I guess their net worth and whatnot. And, you know, there's going to be more integration. So the most important thing for me is for like my maker and like my real world asset thesis is integrations of SDI for other protocols. Now, the AAve integration is good. And then there's also like integrations with other DeFi applications, like Pendle. This is like the yield trading platform where, you know, you can provide liquidity for SDAI and then earn like 12%. There's like no reason to trade yield because yield is fixed at 5%.
00:17:21.840 - 00:18:16.684, Speaker A: But I guess they're setting themselves up for the future. And technically, right, like, if, if you can provide liquidity for like SDAi and Dai, and if there's like more opportunities like this and they're like more demand, there's like more demand for Dai. And there's like more and more Dai that's not being staked, then technically that's also going to increase the profitability of the maker Dao because they're having to pay out less yield. It's kind of similar to how, you know, tether has like billions of like people using, sorry, billions of mark cap. And like, no one gets like, if you're holding tether, you don't get any yield, right? But the tether company, the parent company, is like buys t bills with it, and then they capture like a billions of dollars in the quarterly profits every single quarter. It's ridiculous. I think that at some point, if SDAI grows in Markia, other safecoin issuers like Circle and Tether, they're gonna be forced to pass down the risk free rate to its token holders.
00:18:16.684 - 00:19:01.970, Speaker A: Because if you look at it right now, so this is like make or burn since the, let's, you know, I mean, I guess in the past couple months, the diamond market cap has gone up by roughly a billion dollars ever since the Dai savings rate was introduced. And I do think that this was the bottom in the Dai market cap for like the next six to twelve months. And the most important metric to me is the amount of DAi in the DSR, because this is proof that people are seeking out safe stablecoin yields. And as there are more integrations, this should increase. And then that should also help, like the entire defi ecosystem. You don't even have to like maker the token, but if you're bullish deFi, you should cheer this on. This has to go up in order for Defi to recover.
00:19:01.970 - 00:19:29.550, Speaker A: Or at least that's my working thesis, I suppose. So when it comes to my defi framework, I would even say that without tokenized treasuries, defi in its current state is mostly dead. It's negative sum. There's no dollars coming in. Something has to change. Maybe it's not. Maybe I'm wrong with the actual like maker thesis, but I don't think I'm wrong in thinking that something needs to change.
00:19:29.550 - 00:20:13.066, Speaker A: And with the way I see it, the current state of markets, I think the most likely path is through tokenized t bills. And by bringing treasury yield on chain defi can offer superior products that can lead to more innovation. So you know, that's going to be like, you know, in the following weeks and months. That's kind of my thesis, I think, you know, on chain applications, like on chain native applications just aren't good enough. It's not creating enough value. Therefore, the types of products that's going to get mass adoption is going to be things that bridge the real world with the on chain world and friendtech. The tokenized People social Token project is also a real world project.
00:20:13.066 - 00:20:46.872, Speaker A: Because I have my friend tech shares and I'm a real world asset. Technically, you're a real world asset. We're all real world assets. So, like, I'm not like really like just, I'm not like purely focusing on like real world assets, like as like a defi sector, but I'm also focusing it on like a macro scale for like how crypto can actually reach a million, like a billion users. Because, you know, I talked to my girlfriend, I talked to my friends. Like, they all think crypto is a scam and like, you know, I don't really blame them. And until there's like actual like apps that people see value in, that's still going to be the case.
00:20:46.872 - 00:21:28.848, Speaker A: So, you know, I've been writing about like this idea, right? Like the real world assets and also like decentralized physical infrastructure networks. So like Akash is like trying to do like decentralized cloud or decentralized Amazon web services and they're also pivoting to like the AI space. And you know, we've talked like, we've been like, my team and I, we've been bullish maker for like two months now. So, you know, and like, by the way, like, if you want like this research content, like, you know, feel free to check out the substack. It's completely free, right? I'm not going to charge for it. And we put out like three newsletters every single week, so I think it's pretty good. But if you want like premium content where I make additional videos every single week, check out the premium discord link will be in the description below.
00:21:28.848 - 00:22:11.010, Speaker A: But to wrap up this video, let's talk about the path forward. So how does DeFi, right, answering the original question, how does DeFi get to a trolling TVL and then, you know, defy 3.0. If you go to the Defi llama and you go to the categories section here, you see that? Okay, these are the Defi categories and the combined TbL. There's like double counting here, right? Because there's like liquid staking derivatives that's being provided into liquidity on like lending platforms. But you know, it's like generally it's going to be like this real world assets is like actually number seven because it's not accounting for makers $2.3 billion. But I do expect this entire RWA sector through token st bills to eventually hit like top three in TVL.
00:22:11.010 - 00:22:38.152, Speaker A: I don't really see a world where like it doesn't happen unless there's like some like really faulty regulation, which is always a risk. But I've addressed that in my past videos as well. So, you know, liquid staking, I guess benefits is like if either goes up, but I think for either to go up, I think we need to see, like, more assets to be tokenized on chain and therefore create more value. So going back to the slides here. Yeah. So, you know, define one with yo. Right.
00:22:38.152 - 00:22:59.448, Speaker A: Just thinking about where we've been and where we're going. This, how this happened in 2020. This started the defi boom where compound introduced liquidity mining. And then it captured the imaginations of a lot of people, including myself. This is like when I onboarded Defi over three years ago, where I was like, wow, this is amazing. I can actually use these applications. I'm making money.
00:22:59.448 - 00:23:28.632, Speaker A: And then it was hyper speculative. No one knew what they were doing. And I mean, I even argued, no one still knows what they're doing, including myself now. But we're all experimenting and forming different ideas and theses. And then with the Defi boom, or crypto boom, DeFi 2.0, this phrase was coined, and this is a peak bull market phenomena. It was like Olympus Tao, three three, Wonderland time, frog Nation.
00:23:28.632 - 00:24:26.104, Speaker A: It wasn't really sustainable. But DeFi 1.0 led to capital inflows, and then that capital inflows led to unsustainable, purely of work pozonomic stuff. But I think going back to, I guess, first principles, like going back to like, fundamental roots, I think in this high interest rate environment, it's not enough to just hope for money to come back. I think we need, like, if we're going to see the next cycle in terms of bull market shenanigans, we need to create actual value. And I think, you know, it's going to come in the form of real world assets where if interest rates are high, even if the fed raises rates like 6%, for example, DeFi can compete because we're tokenizing the risk rate on chain, right? And we can pay out 6% easily and then like, add yield on top through tokens or incentive, like leverage or like, whatever. But if the Fed cuts rates to, let's say, 3%, maybe the real world assets narrative weakens a little.
00:24:26.104 - 00:24:54.480, Speaker A: But, like, that's probably going to result in more dollars coming into chain because people want to speculate on higher risk assets. And then I'm making a case that, like, through the tokenization of treasuries, DeFi can survive both high and low interest rate environments. And that's really, really important because crypto just can't survive right now. So without DeFi, I don't think crypto survives. Maybe that's controversial, but that's my personal views. Right. Because I argue that right now crypto is resilient, but it's not really antifragile.
00:24:54.480 - 00:25:25.084, Speaker A: Maybe bitcoin is anti fragile, but it remains to be seen. But if you think about DeFi, I think DeFi is in, like, a pretty fragile state. It's resilient and fragile where, you know, it's suffering and breaking from external sources, like high interest rates. But I think we need to get to this anti fragile state, and I think it has to be via real world assets. Who knows? I could be wrong here. And, you know, right now, the Defi TVL, 37.8 billion, can we ever get to its freebies all time highs? I think so.
00:25:25.084 - 00:26:03.264, Speaker A: I mean, that's why we're all still here, right? That's why you're watching this video, because we think that's gonna happen. Of course, maybe, like, I'll make a Defi pass to uptrillion TVl part 70 or part 69, and we're still at, like, 50 billion TvL. And at that point, all hope will be lost. Probably. But if you think, right, like, there has to be more innovation, there has to be better products, and I think we're slowly getting there. I give my example with Aave and maker. I'm sure other, like, novel types of applications will come up, but that's currently how I see things, so that's gonna be it for me.
00:26:03.264 - 00:26:31.290, Speaker A: 26. Okay, that's pretty good. And, you know, the core thesis that I have is for crypto to come back, we need to see stablecoin inflows. And for us to see stablecoin inflows, we need to bridge the off chain yield and bring it on chain. And if I'm gonna. I mean, like, if I am right on this thesis, then, like, technically, like, defi can't. Crypto can't survive, or, like, defi can't survive if it's, like, not for projects like maker.
00:26:31.290 - 00:27:05.622, Speaker A: So, like, that's why, like, I'm bullish maker. I could be wrong and, like, I could totally change my views, like, in a month or two. But in the meantime, in this type of environment where, you know, like, crypto prices are going up and down, like, ETF. No, ETF, whatever. I mean, maker is even up today, right? It's like, I actually have no idea. I've often joked that, like, one maker equals one eth, right? Because, like, that's parity where price of maker is 1100 and ETH is like 1600. So, you know, like my bull cases, for it to get to parity, right.
00:27:05.622 - 00:27:17.672, Speaker A: One eat one maker parity. It's at 0.69. That's very convenient. This looks pretty bullish. We'll see. And, you know, it's maker is not really like a sexy asset. Right.
00:27:17.672 - 00:27:43.750, Speaker A: But, you know, the system buys back its own token as long as the system surplus is over $50 million. So, you know, every 2 hours it buys back $20,000 with the maker and accrues protocol and liquidity. And then, like, no. So the system has like $1.7 million worth of buy pressure left. So, you know, in this type of market, when the sentiment is, like, really bad, it's good to know. To know that, okay, there's some buy pressure.
00:27:43.750 - 00:28:13.392, Speaker A: There was a period where it got back below 50 million and then the buyback stopped. But, hey, the interest rates came online, and now it's being depleted. And I'm sure that in the future it's going to go full. 50 million people are going to sell tokens, but then randomly the interest payments hit the chain, and then it's going to buy back its own token. So it's like a pretty defensive play. It's probably going to underperform in a bull market, but I still like it as an asset right now. But, you know, just understand that, you know, crypto changes so fast that maybe my shift, my tune changes.
00:28:13.392 - 00:28:31.992, Speaker A: But, you know, I've been bullish maker for like two months now. So we'll see, right? We'll definitely see. So thank you guys watching. Let me know what your thoughts are on the series. Hopefully, you know, I'm not going to die. And before we get to a trillion, but I'm making a bet that at some point, right, we'll hit. We'll hit, like, all time highs.
00:28:31.992 - 00:28:49.892, Speaker A: We'll hit a trillion, and then we can look back on this video on September 1 and be like, wow, remember when I was making videos when the DFI TV was 37 billion? That's crazy, right? Like, oh, my God, what an opportunity. But it definitely doesn't feel like it, right? But anyways, thank you guys for watching. See you guys another time and hope you enjoyed the video. Bye.
