00:00:00.240 - 00:00:18.494, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Ian, the designer. Today's 9 August 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So it is the final episode for a little while of the refuel. As you guys know, starting tomorrow, I am beginning my holiday through Europe for two and a half months.
00:00:18.494 - 00:00:56.458, Speaker A: And I think for the first couple of weeks I'm going to do another proper break. Probably not like full cold turkey like I did back in May, but I don't think there'll be a refuel for the first couple of weeks. And as you guys know, I will try to do a refuel once a week while I'm away. But it's going to be difficult because we're going to be moving around a lot and it's just going to depend on a bunch of different factors there. But yeah, I think because of that, I'm going to end today's episode off with a bullish rant because I know things have been a little bit, I don't know, I wouldn't call them like dire or anything like that, but a little bit depressing lately if all you do is doom scroll Twitter. So I want to. I want to counteract that a bit, especially as I'm about to leave for a little while and you probably won't have my bullish energy for a little while there.
00:00:56.458 - 00:01:21.430, Speaker A: But yeah, just wanted to remind you guys that this will be the last episode for a little while and I'll try to do an episode when I can, but I also be less active in the Discord channel as well, given that I'll be on holiday and on Twitter too. Like, I'm gonna try and take like a break, but just not a full cold turkey break, but like a, you know, a break from things. Because things are crazy. Things don't change that often. So I don't feel like I'm gonna really miss anything. But yeah. Anyway, enough about that.
00:01:21.430 - 00:02:03.586, Speaker A: Let's move on to the first bit of stuff I wanted to talk about today, which is just briefly touching on this. I'm not gonna spend too long on this, but this was the ETF flows for this week. So we actually had some positive ETF flows this week, which was really great to see, like actual positive net flow. Now, you can see here from basically the 1 August, the 5 August and the 6 August were all positive flows, which means that there were more flows in than there was as outflows from Grayscale's ETH product. Now, grayscale's product outflows are actually slowing, and they've slowed quite considerably, actually. I mean, just today, or I believe yesterday, it was only $20 million of outflows for grayscale Ethi. And you'll remember that that started at $500 million on day one.
00:02:03.586 - 00:02:31.486, Speaker A: So that was, that's been a pretty substantial drop there. Now, of course, this doesn't mean that this trend is going to continue when it's just going to go down to zero, but I do believe that we're through the quote unquote worst of it. Right. Especially because price came down and I don't know, people probably just don't want to sell at this price. Right. So we'll see how it goes there, because obviously, it just seems insane that people would stick with Ethy given that the fee is so high at 2.5%, so much higher than the other ones, you know, ten times higher than the other ones out there or more.
00:02:31.486 - 00:02:56.682, Speaker A: So, yeah, we'll have to see how that kind of plays out in the coming weeks and months and see if that outflow re accelerates because it did for BTC. If you remember, if you go to actually Farside's website here, you can go to BTC and then look at all the data from the BTC ETF's. If you click. Click here. Yeah. So this basically shows you data from day one to today. And you can see basically for the first few weeks, it was the same situation as it was for ETH, where there was, like, massive outflows.
00:02:56.682 - 00:03:35.168, Speaker A: It was actually even bigger for BTC than ETH because the market was obviously much hotter through January, February and March, and they remained quite big for a substantial period of time. Look, look at this. Like GBTC outflows were massive for quite, quite a substantial period of time. But there were quiet periods, right? There were periods where there weren't much outflows at all, but then there were big outflows. And I think a lot of it probably tracks price because price was pretty good in January and March, obviously, and even into April a little bit. But then you can see that they've kind of come off pretty substantially since then. There haven't really been much outflows since May because that's basically when the market's been kind of trending down since then.
00:03:35.168 - 00:04:09.922, Speaker A: You know, May, June and July and June. It kind of, I guess, re accelerated a little bit, but it's nothing like it originally was. And it's kind of funny because the last week, it actually accelerated a lot for BTC, whereas ETH was getting inflows. So not entirely sure what can be drawn from that, given that's such a unique situation in the ETF world, is that you had this massive product in GBTC and Ethi convert, and then you had these outflows to worry about. But what we really care about is obviously the Netflow number, and what we really care about is the long term flow number. And for those of you who don't know, I don't know if I've mentioned this before, but most ETF's actually see zero daily inflows. It's.
00:04:09.922 - 00:04:37.382, Speaker A: It's this kind of thing within crypto where people obsess on the day to day stuff and they don't realize that outside of crypto, the day to day stuff is completely ignored. Like, no one cares about the day to day stuff besides obviously the media, because they get clicks from it. You know, the long term investors and even just regular people who are doing long term investing, they're not sitting here looking at day to day flows. They don't care about that sort of stuff. Right. And as I said, most ETF's day to day get basically zero inflow. You can even see that ETH this week got some random inflows from Blackrock.
00:04:37.382 - 00:05:01.450, Speaker A: Like you can see on the 2 August there was zero inflows. But then on the fifth and 6th combined, it was like over $150 million. On the 7 August there was zero, and today, or yesterday there was 11.7 million inflows. So as I've been saying for weeks now, day to day is, is basically noise, and it's better to look week to week. So I think going forward, I'm probably not going to be checking in on this very often unless we have like a huge outlier day or something like that. All we know is that the ETF.
00:05:01.450 - 00:05:20.306, Speaker A: All we need to know is that the ETF's alive. They're bringing in new money. It will play out in the price eventually. It's not going to play out overnight, but I'll talk more about that at the end of the episode. But that's my current stance on things there. All right, moving on. So rocket scan, or, sorry I should say, rocket pool retokonomics is now live.
00:05:20.306 - 00:05:48.806, Speaker A: So the vote for this is live at rpips rocketpool.net. and I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. But this is a pretty massive rework of the, I guess, like RPL tokenomics here. So essentially you can see what it's like now in this table. And then you can look at with rework. So this is a pretty good way of, I guess, like, illustrating what it's going to be like with the rework if it is approved, obviously, by Rockerpool governance, which was spun up recently, for those who don't know. But this is a much needed change, I think.
00:05:48.806 - 00:06:43.314, Speaker A: Like, if you have spun up a mini pool before as part of rocker pool, you know that unfortunately, due to the fact that the RPL token has pretty much like, pretty severely underperformed ETH, the ratio of your RPL to your eth when you've created a mini pool falls off completely. And in order to keep earning rocker pool rewards, you need to recollectorialize with a bunch of RPL, and it becomes, I wouldn't call it death spiral, but it becomes the thing where you're basically chasing the RPL, essentially, where you're basically like, okay, well, RPL is going down. I'll buy more so that I can recolator lies, oh, it's going down again. Or I'll buy more so I can recolateralize. So you're basically buying more of an asset that you may not necessarily want, and then you're losing on that asset because of the fact that it's going down even more, and then you have to buy even more to recolateralize your position. So obviously not the greatest kind of tokenomics out there, right? Probably not. Not very good to economics, but this is old to economics, has been around for quite a while now.
00:06:43.314 - 00:07:15.522, Speaker A: But with this latest, I guess, change, they're substantially trading that. So you can see here, even just like as an existing rocker pool node operator right now, as you, as I said, you need RPL to create a, a validator, but with the rework, you do not need RPL to create megapool validators. And the commission is 5% of the borrowed ETH. If I choose to stake RPL, I'll receive additional ETH rewards proportional to my share of staked RPL. The whole details are in this table, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you guys to check out. But I'm really glad to see this. As you guys know, I'm a rockable node operator.
00:07:15.522 - 00:07:46.940, Speaker A: I actually worked it out recently. For me to get back above collateral, I like the collateral ratio I need to be at. I think I have to buy like another 60 or $70,000 worth of RPL. And I'm like, I'm not gonna do that. Like, I just I don't like the fact that I have to do that and I kind of feel forced into doing that. But at the same time, I don't plan to spin down my mini pools and I'm not really crying over losing out on RPL rewards. But yeah, it sucks that like, it's gotten to that point because of the fact that the ratio has just gotten gotten murdered for one reason or another, basically.
00:07:46.940 - 00:08:30.482, Speaker A: But that's essentially what happens when you have such a system where there's a token, you know, that's outside of ETH, that's tied to the ETH ratio, and then the system is built on top of that. So yeah, we'll see how these, this rework goes. But as I said, it's still going through the governance process, so it's not live just yet, but just wanted to put it on your radar there. All right. Optimism has a great little tweet thread out from, I think this is a couple of days ago where they said there, while they titled it, with unifying the super chain, they stay, as they say here, with big dreams of scaling ethereum. Optimism has grown into a huge ecosystem of ethereum aligned chains, all working together to build something bigger than any of them alone. So what does this mean for the super chain? Now I want to say, you can go read this thread.
00:08:30.482 - 00:08:58.526, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But what I really wanted to talk about with regards to optimism specifically was this narrative that they seem to be pushing lately that I think people are confused about. So optimism is pushing that they're not a L2. And technically that's correct, because optimism itself is not a L2. Right. It is a, I guess, for lack of a better term, a movement, right? Or I guess like a developer stack. With op stack, the L2s are what's built using the developer stack or what's built within the optimism ecosystem.
00:08:58.526 - 00:09:14.174, Speaker A: But optimism itself is not a L2. The optimism project, Op mainnet, is a L2. Base is a L2. Zora is a L2. Anything building on the op stack is a L2, but optimism itself isn't. Now, as I said, this is technically correct, but also confusing for people because people just think optimism L2. Right.
00:09:14.174 - 00:09:54.380, Speaker A: So I just wanted to clarify that, that for you guys there. But they are definitely all about this super chain thing that they've been building for a couple of years now. Or essentially they want all of the op stack chains to unify under this super chain umbrella where the optimism, I guess, system benefits from it. The op token also benefits from it, but also all of the outlier twos that join the super chain benefit from it with things like shared liquidity, interoperability with each other, you know, shared governance, stuff like that. Right. So there's, there's a lot more explanation about what this is in this, in this trade, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But I really did want to essentially, I basically clarify that narrative that people have been talking about.
00:09:54.380 - 00:10:18.770, Speaker A: And I've seen some people fud Ethereum with this saying, oh look, optimism is now claiming not to be an l two. They're leaving Ethereum. It's not that at all. It's just that they're trying, I guess, like to use the technically correct language, which obviously doesn't translate to the masses because a lot of people don't understand how this works, but that's essentially what it is. So optimism as a, I guess, movement, as a tech stack as a thing is not technically a layer too, but op main, it is, base is, etc. Etc. Right.
00:10:18.770 - 00:11:29.688, Speaker A: So anyway, you can go give this thread a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so speaking of L2s, I wanted to kind of talk a little bit about not specifically Tyco because I have a tweet here referencing Tyco, but specifically around based roll ups and things like pre confirmations and kind of what the future of all this looks like right now. So from where I'm sitting, based roll ups, pre conformations, stuff like that is all in pretty early development still, but he's making really great strides. And as you can see from this tweet, which was put out by younger from, who's doing a research at Tyco, basically they've been able to do 20 millisecond pre conformation times on Tyco's Helder testnet, which is faster than centralized sequences and even the ones in arbitrum, which is two to 300 milliseconds right now. So some really crazy speeds on their pre conformation times here, faster than the speed of essentially, like maybe not the speed of light, but like when I think about, I guess, propagating this stuff across the globe, you're limited by the speed of light in the best case, because the speed of light, because our fiber optics works off of light, so it works off lasers technically, so which is light. But so essentially you're limited by that.
00:11:29.688 - 00:11:54.072, Speaker A: And that's why there is basically a limit to how fast you can propagate blocks through the network. And I believe Solana pretty much like hits that limit. I think it's like 400 milliseconds or something like that. But with pre conformations, you can get this down to essentially how long it takes you to just process it on your local machine, which is very, very cool. Right. So this is 20 millisecond pre conformation time here. But as I said, I wanted to kind of like open the discussion, I guess, like, to the general thing around pre conformations and base roll ups.
00:11:54.072 - 00:12:37.508, Speaker A: Now, when it comes to the tech, I believe the tech is very sound. The tech, there's nothing wrong with it. The tech is going to work. Tech does work. But the uphill battle for base roll ups and the uphill battle for, I guess, like, pre conformations and converting things into base roll ups is the fact that the incentives are a little bit lopsided. So, for example, today, base option one op main that whatever they have these sequences that they earn revenue off of, they don't do Mev, but they earn revenue off of basically sequencing their transactions, executing the transactions right off those execution fees that we all pay there, even though they're low, you know, they still make the money off of that. Now, in a, I guess, like based roll up world, you're essentially giving up a lot of that to l one.
00:12:37.508 - 00:13:30.312, Speaker A: Right. And you're in your. In certain constructions because there's an open discussion right now, and there's open research into just how much revenue you give up on the execution fee side, but also on the mev side, because obviously we know ethereum l one validators are all not most of them, 95% of them are opted into mev boost, which means that they're taking mev, which, you know, which means that it's very different to how it works today with l two s with their sequences. But eventually sequence the l two s will want to capture that Mev, right. Internalize their mev here. So there is a big discussion around this right now and around the incentives with it, because you can imagine, well, let's just say the community goes to arbitrum or goes to off chain labs and says to them, hey, why don't you make arbitram one a based roll up? And then off chain labs comes back and says, why would we do that? We're going to lose revenue if we do that. So I think that it's half right because you can still retain a lot of revenue while being a base roll up.
00:13:30.312 - 00:14:11.950, Speaker A: But I understand why this hesitancy to do it, because these roll ups and these L2s definitely want to make their revenue, pass that on to token holders, make their tokens more valuable. So there is a little bit of tension here. But as I said, still early days with all of this. And the reason why we want pre confirmations is because with base roll ups, as I've mentioned before, if you don't have pre conformations, you basically have to wait a full Ethereum slot, which is 12 seconds or up to a full Ethereum slot of 12 seconds. You could get lucky and get in at the end of the block and have your transaction included within a second. But that's a very poor experience compared to the L2s today, where essentially you can have a transaction included in 1 second or less, right. But obviously you get better guarantees because you're doing it directly on l one.
00:14:11.950 - 00:14:39.094, Speaker A: But that's why we need pre conformations, in order to give the user the confirmation within 20 milliseconds or whatever it is. But then it gets included in a block at that twelve second mark. Right. That slot time there in the best case scenario, of course. But yeah. Anyway, just wanted to talk a little bit about that because I, I thought it was relevant given a lot of the discussions that I've seen recently in the ecosystem. All right, moving on, just to the last thing I wanted to talk about on the update side before I go into my a little bit of a bullish rant here.
00:14:39.094 - 00:15:24.434, Speaker A: So Tecmo here said, or shared this picture of a coffee shop where he said, this is a coffee shop in Montgomery, Alabama that I opened up several years ago with my wife and our friends. It sits in between the church that Doctor King used to pastor used to pastor and the bus stop where Rose Parks got on the bus. Today we officially started accepting USDC on base, with a percentage of, of sales going directly and instantly to our coffee growing partner in Costa Rica. What a great location for freedom technology to thrive. Now, you guys will probably remember, if you've been around for a while, that payments was like the thing with crypto. Like I remember back in, even like the 2013 Bitcoin days, it was all about paying for coffee with BTC. You know, being able to essentially pay each other with BTC and being able to use BTC as money.
00:15:24.434 - 00:15:50.938, Speaker A: But then over the years that obviously went away and BTC just became like a pure store of value. No one really uses it as money. Lightning Network is a complete failure. But then there was a bit of a renaissance within the Ethereum community of stable coins, right? Because stable coins didn't, didn't start on Ethereum, but a theorem really made stable coins huge, absolutely massive. You know, tether and USDC and so on and so forth. And they were used as payments. But then what ended up happening was that Ethereum obviously was too expensive, so people didn't really use them for day to day payments.
00:15:50.938 - 00:16:28.644, Speaker A: But then a lot of people went to Tron, especially with tether, and Tron started getting popular with, with payments as well. And a lot of people were using Tron because it had direct integrations into binance and they were using in different parts of the world and they're getting a lot of value out of it. But now today we have the, I guess like maybe not the perfect payment solution, but like something really, really good on the payment side here. Not just for stable coins, but also for ETh, right. Because some people will, I mean, a lot of people will actually knock stable coins and say, well, the two biggest stable coins are both completely centralized. All we're really doing is recreating what we already have in the traditional finance system. It doesn't matter that it runs on a blockchain, it's, it's still centralized.
00:16:28.644 - 00:17:12.786, Speaker A: And I would agree with that to an extent. I think that stable coin issuers, while they do retain the power to like unilaterally freeze assets, they tend to not exercise that power as often as like a bank does, for example. But that's debatable because it depends which bank you're talking about. It depends what part of the world you're in. Yada, yada, yada. Right? But regardless of all of that, what we have today with not just base but other L2s. But I guess, like, just focusing on base here is you have an extremely cheap layout to do payments on the, with really quick confirmation times a second or less, with integrations with the biggest exchanges like Coinbase, and being able to essentially not just accept payments, but then redirect a percentage of the sales instantly to a coffee growing partner in Costa Rica in this example.
00:17:12.786 - 00:17:32.199, Speaker A: And the reason why they can do that is because all the coffee partner needs to do is have an Ethereum wallet. Have an Ethereum wallet that gives them a base wallet, right. And then automatically they get those funds across the globe. There's no need to go through any centralized intermediaries. There's no need to go through the banking system. There's no need to go through all these paperwork, no need to do all this, you know, slow stuff. It's just automatic.
00:17:32.199 - 00:17:49.911, Speaker A: Automatic. Automatic. And that's the whole value prop, I think, of a big part of the value prop of these things. It's not that. Okay, yeah, USDC centralized, fine. But it's the fact that you can do this without having to go through a centralized intermediary. And that was the original vision, I think, of crypto to begin with, with the start of bitcoin here.
00:17:49.911 - 00:18:21.148, Speaker A: And Ethereum really is realizing it with the L2s. And as I said, it's not just based. You can do the same thing on arbitrum one. But obviously base is leaning heavily into payments because of the fact that USDC is closely tied to Coinbase. Coinbase is offering free transactions, free withdrawals and stuff like that because obviously it helps them grow their Coinbase market share too, and their Coinbase, Coinbase user base. But the fact that this exists today and exists and it won't go away. Like, it's not like we're going to be like, oh, we're pivoting based to a store of value chain now and you're not supposed to use it as payments.
00:18:21.148 - 00:18:58.256, Speaker A: No, that's nothing. What's going to happen here? Base is going to be a payment payments chain as well as a chain for lots of other things as well. I mean, I think the two things that base really does well, these payments and also a lot of the stuff around like social with far cast a lot of NFT stuff arbitrary seems to do a lot of stuff within defy and gaming and then the other Altus have their own specialties here. But yeah, it's not like we're going back now. So we really do finally have this, I wouldn't call it holy Grail, but like this original vision of what we wanted to see within crypto with regards to payments specifically, which is really great to see. And obviously because base also has a defi ecosystem, you don't have to do just payments. You can do defi on there.
00:18:58.256 - 00:19:21.564, Speaker A: Say you'll, you receive USDC, you can instantly trade that for ETH on uniswap or whatever favorite Dex you want to use instantly. And then you can go loan that out and borrow against it. And I don't. And kind of like pay off another debt that you have or buy more ether. Like I wouldn't recommend leverage, of course, but you know what I'm talking about. Like it's all composable. It's all a very, very easy to do at this point in time.
00:19:21.564 - 00:19:43.348, Speaker A: So yeah, just wanted to highlight that for you guys. You can go check out the tweet for yourself. There's a nice little picture here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But I've got a few minutes left of today's episode, and I did promise, promise a bullish rant here because, well, I'm sure you guys have seen out there, it seems to be the end of the world for Ethereum. Everyone seems to be really bearish on Ethereum. They seem to think that Ethereum is dying or go, or going to die.
00:19:43.348 - 00:20:03.876, Speaker A: They can't find anything to be bullish about when it comes to Ethereum. And really it's only got to do with the price action. And I don't think the price action is even that bad. That bad against USD. People are just looking at the ratios like they're looking at each price action against BTC, they're looking at its price action against Seoul, and they're like, oh, Solana is killing us. Solana's winning. Ethereum's losing.
00:20:03.876 - 00:20:53.732, Speaker A: It's like, okay, guys, like, you're looking at, like, the price action and then coming to a conclusion from that alone. Like, let's, let's take a step back here and actually think about what you're saying here and think about the fundamentals of Ethereum, not just like the day to day price movements, because I understand why people feel like this. But the problem becomes is that you feel like this. You go on Twitter and you see everyone else just like, shitposting about it, and you're like, oh, my God, is it the end of the world? Is my eth going to go to zero? Did I pick the wrong horse? Is Ethereum dying? And you forget the fact that, well, you can actually verify all of this for yourself by just going to the various websites out there to track what's happening in the Ethereum ecosystem. Or you could just listen to the refuel, maybe for, not for the next few weeks as I'm on holiday. But, you know, generally you can just listen to the refuel and get all the relevant information that you, that you need from the Ethereum ecosystem. But yeah, let's, let's, let's take a step back.
00:20:53.732 - 00:21:23.284, Speaker A: Yeah, because I know a lot of you in the Discord channel were just going nuts about this, which is just insane to me because I've been banging this drum for years on the refuel where I tell you guys to stop, stop looking at the day to day stuff because it's going to drive you crazy. But hey, I can't stop people from doing, doing that. I can just give you the advice. I'm not going to give investment advice, but I'm going to give you advice. Of you're going to drive yourself crazy by sitting on crypto Twitter all day. But anyway, let's take a step back and let me give you a different perspective here that can make you bullish. All right? So besides the price, let's look at the price.
00:21:23.284 - 00:21:32.716, Speaker A: The price is noise. Let's not look at the price. Let's look at the fundamentals. Let's look what's happening in the ethereum ecosystem. Okay, so the L2s are at all time high activities. That's not debatable. We have the metrics for that.
00:21:32.716 - 00:21:55.644, Speaker A: They're an all time high user base, all time high gas usage, and TPS, basically activity across them. There's a lot of stuff happening, not just on the stable coin side, as I mentioned, with base, but also on the defi side. A lot of integrations happening here. The L2s are just absolutely killing it right now. And yes, I know there's a lot of L2s, but you don't even look at that. You look at the top l two s. And really, based in arbitrum one account for most of the activity on l two s.
00:21:55.644 - 00:22:22.020, Speaker A: So everyone bringing up this fact that there's so many l two s, everything's fragments, and it's like, well, that's just stupid. That's like saying there's hundreds of l ones and everything's fragmented. That means the, it's bearish for, for a theory, because like, because all the l one s are like dead, essentially. It's just this weird logic that people use. So, so the l two s are doing absolutely amazing. I don't have to go into it because you can go verify this for yourself. You can go to l two beat, you can go to grow the pie, you can go to roll up.
00:22:22.020 - 00:23:00.926, Speaker A: WtF? You can verify this for yourself. There's no need to trust what I'm saying here, right? That's the l two side of things. And then people will fud like the Ethereum main net, and say, oh, the Ethereum sphere. When you dropped so much since we integrated blobs, it's like, okay, so let me, let me, let me take a step back here for a second. So when a theorem fees were high and we were all like, all the Ethereum bulls were on Twitter basically celebrating the burn, the high burn, celebrating high fees, saying that this is awesome for ETH is awesome for eth value accrual. Every single time we were met with people saying this is, this is bearish, you know, what the hell? People aren't going to be paying these fees forever. Ethereum's dying because, because no one wants to use this.
00:23:00.926 - 00:23:33.972, Speaker A: And at the time I was like, well, I mean, obviously people are using it because they're spending so much on fees. But regardless, it was just a weird kind of thing that people were saying, and it made no sense. And then, then we lower the fees, right? Not just for l two s, but main net fees went down as well. And all of a sudden the narrative becomes, oh, what happened to all the theorems revenue? Oh, that's bearish for ethereum. It's like, okay, well, fucking hell. Like, okay, so it's bearish when there's high fees, is bearish when there's a low fees. And I understand the distinction between the fact that if you want high aggregate fees and you want low individual fees, I'm not saying I don't understand that distinction, but the problem is, is that people weren't focused on that.
00:23:33.972 - 00:23:53.050, Speaker A: They were just focused on the fees altogether. It wasn't just the individual fees. It was like saying that if you're generating any fear of a new. Was bearish. And it's like, well, well, no, but okay. And then as soon as the theorem is fair and you drops off a bunch, because we obviously integrated blobs, and I guess like the market's been relatively quiet as well. People are being bearish on that too.
00:23:53.050 - 00:24:37.574, Speaker A: But if you actually look at what we did, what we did was we're using blobs as what, what is traditionally known as a loss leader, essentially, you could say the Ethereum network is taking a loss on blobs because blobs right now are free to post, essentially l two s. People say that they're free writing because it's so cheap to post blobs to l one ethereum. And they're basically getting a free lunch here. But that's not permanent, that's temporary. This was known ahead of time that this would happen because until blobs are at the top target and until they start out, until the l two start out bidding each other to get their blobs included, the fees aren't going to go up. But the whole thing is that, like, they will get to that point and they will up at each other, and then Ethereum, sphere of a new, will come back. But for now, we're using blobs as a lost leader for the l two s so that we can grow the Ethereum ecosystem, so that we can scale Ethereum.
00:24:37.574 - 00:25:32.716, Speaker A: But somehow people have managed to spin that as bearish, which is just insane to me. And I think that they've managed to do it because of the price action of each, which in my mind has nothing to do with that, honestly. I think the price action of ETH has to do really, over the last few weeks especially, or maybe in the last few months, especially, has to do with major kind of factors outside of, of the control of, really, anyone within the Ethereum ecosystem, right? Recently you had jump offloading lots and lots of ETH, which actually murdered ETh during this latest dump. But then before that, you had obviously some ETh outflows going on, and then you had other players playing around the ETF narrative, which was just absolutely messy. Then you had the normal summer lull, all that sorts of stuff, right? But then people will also compare price action to ratios, as I mentioned before, and it's like, okay, guys, well, let's compare, and let's not compare ETH to BTC and Sol, right, BTC, sorry. ETH against BTC will always bleed during a non retail bull market because we haven't been in a retail bull market before. It's a crypto native thing here, and it's been bleeding against BTC.
00:25:32.716 - 00:25:48.472, Speaker A: That's, that's normal. Like, that's not out of the ordinary. And then people will look at soul, it's like, okay, well, sol going up means that Solana is killing ethereum means ethereum's dying. It's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a second here. So seems to be like this cycle's favorite asset. Everyone. Like, it seems to be bullish on it.
00:25:48.472 - 00:26:16.638, Speaker A: There's like momentum behind it, and that's totally fine. Like, I understand that because they did manage to grow their ecosystem quite, quite well, and they grew their community and all that. That's totally fine. But then, like, what people are doing, they're looking at that, that. But then look at everything else. Like, go look at ETH against pretty much everything else over the long term, like, maybe long term is like one plus year out of, like, it's outperformed everything else in a really, really big fashion. And what people do is instead of looking at that, they just look at the one outlier, and then they start kind of coping about it.
00:26:16.638 - 00:26:51.682, Speaker A: Like, I should have bought this, I should have done that. Well, guess what, guys, you didn't do it, so there's no point being like, oh, I should have done this or I should have done that. You didn't do it at the time, and you had your own reasons for not doing it at the time. But the problem with this is what happens is that people look at this and then they start connecting this to the fundamentals and then they start saying things like, ethereum is dying. And it's like, well, what do you fucking mean ethereum is dying? Like you can actually go look at it yourself and see that it's not. If you're only saying this because the price is doing whatever it's doing, you know, over the over, like the short to medium term, then you really don't understand how these things work. I think you really don't understand the fact that like, ethereum is a long term in thing.
00:26:51.682 - 00:27:15.274, Speaker A: It's a long term investment in eth. And ethereum is a long term play on building the world's best, I mean, in simple terms like settlement layout, right? And that's not, and world's most decentralized, most secure, stable sentiment layout. That hasn't changed. The roadmap hasn't changed the roadmap is not wrong. We didn't make a mistake going with roll ups. We didn't make a mistake with making sure that l one was able to be verified and validated by low powered hardware. I don't believe that's a mistake.
00:27:15.274 - 00:27:52.774, Speaker A: And I don't think calling it a mistake just because the fact that a price went down is the right way to go about it at all. So there's just been a lot of that there. But if you actually look at the fundamentals, you look at the l two activity, you look at the l, even the l one activity, still relatively high. You look at the fact that we're using blobs as a lost leader, you look at all the development happening on the Ethereum core side, especially on, on l one, not just on the l two side. There's so much development happening. Petra is going to be the biggest upgrade in Ethereum's history, right? And then you look at the fact that we just got the ETF approved, even though everyone thought it was going to get denied. You just look at all the wins that Ethereum keeps racking up over time and in a really big way.
00:27:52.774 - 00:28:21.432, Speaker A: You have like Blackrock using Ethereum mainnet for their tokenization fund, you have, I saw recently Franklin Templeton using arbitrary, which is settling to Ethereum. You actually just zoom out a little bit and look at all the fundamentals. There is literally nothing to be bearish about at all. The foundations of Ethereum are so, so strong. Ethereum still is the home of defi. Look at the TvL of Ethereum compared to any other chain out there, compared to any other l one or l two out there. Ethereum still has, I believe, ten times the TVL of Solana.
00:28:21.432 - 00:28:39.690, Speaker A: And that's because Ethereum is home of the big money. They want to be on there. They want to be on there because they know that the Defi protocols on there are true and tested. They know that a theorem is reliable. They know that a theorem doesn't go offline. They know that Ethereum is secure and decentralized, so they keep their funds there and they're comfortable keeping their funds there. Right.
00:28:39.690 - 00:29:01.388, Speaker A: Whereas Solana has not proven itself as that. It's gone down multiple times. I'm not trying to fud Solani here, but like, obviously a lot of this conversation revolves around that. But like, they've gone down multiple times. So obviously people with big money are looking at that and being like, well, I don't want to risk my funds there. Maybe when they've been off, you know, online for a while, then I'll move there. And then they've also still got the, like the beta tag, so they call themselves main net beta.
00:29:01.388 - 00:29:23.836, Speaker A: That also scares people off too, because they're like, well, it's in beta. Like, I'm not going to store all my money here, right? I'm not going to want to take risky stuff there. And also, a lot of the activity on, on Solana has got to do with like meme coins and stuff like that. They don't really have a strong Defi ecosystem like Ethereum has. It's much less of a Defi ecosystem over there. And as I said, I'm not trying to fud things here, guys. Like, I'm just trying to, to give it to you straight.
00:29:23.836 - 00:30:03.500, Speaker A: I'm just trying to give it to you how I see it here. And honestly, I actually think it's a good thing that Solana is, is legitimate competition for the Ethereum ecosystem because it pushes Ethereum forward. It pushes Ethereum to keep shipping, to keep doing things and make sure we don't rest on our laurels. I love that because traditionally all the other l ones that have tried to compete with Ethereum have been absolute dog shit, right? They've just not been good competitors. So we finally have like a decent competitor to ethereum here. Even though I disagree with, fundamentally disagree with their architecture, we still have a competitor here for a theorem that we can want, you know, we can learn from, definitely. And we can also use as a source of, as a source of energy in order to make the ethereum ecosystem better here.
00:30:03.500 - 00:30:38.934, Speaker A: And at the end of the day, it needs to be all about the user, right. Everything we're doing is for users to be able to get people to use these things. But as I've said before, in my mind, in my opinion, the only value of a blockchain, the long term sustainable value of a blockchain, is for it to be decentralized and censorship resistance. If you don't have that, if you don't have that, then you don't have a blockchain. And you may as well just have a centralized database, and you may as well forego all of the, you know, murky stuff that you have to do to have a blockchain, to run a blockchain and just do that. And obviously, there's multiple reasons why teams don't do this. A lot of them is regulatory, but also they want to sigh out people into thinking that they're decentralized.
00:30:38.934 - 00:31:00.590, Speaker A: You know, there's lots of l one s out there that definitely not decentralized, right. But they want to, you know, issue a token so they can make money and all that sort of stuff there. But really, at the end of the day, as I said, like, fundamentally, you need to be decentralized. Well, the blockchain needs to be decentralized and it needs to be censorship resistant. If it's not that, then it's not a blockchain. It doesn't really need to exist at all, to be honest. That's not serving any long term value to anyone.
00:31:00.590 - 00:31:36.638, Speaker A: And, you know, I think even if it gets a bit of traction and then just falls off, all you did was essentially create a breeding ground for people to come farm the shit out of whatever you're offering and then take it back to the homeland, which usually ethereum, right? Usually ethereum for a lot of people. That's what happened last cycle. It's what happens pretty much like every cycle. Maybe it's more so happening on Solana table, going there like, oh, I'm going to do the meme coin stuff and then I'll buy soul with it and then I'll ride solar, so on and so forth. But that's essentially what you get if you, if you kind of do those things there. But anyway, I think I've gone over time here a little bit. Enough of my bullish rant, but hopefully that keeps you guys on the ball here, gets you remotivated.
00:31:36.638 - 00:32:01.638, Speaker A: And as I've always said, guys, don't focus on the day to day stuff, please, especially the price. Like, it's just completely and utterly useless. All it does is serve to fudge you out of your bags. All it does is serve to make you really bearish over the short term for absolutely no reason. All it does is serve to make you question reality, which is ridiculous, because we have reality right in front of us. We can verify all of these things. That's another magic point of blockchains, especially ethereum l one, where you can verify this all for yourself.
00:32:01.638 - 00:32:38.030, Speaker A: And the l two s are actually pretty light as well. There's no need to go on Twitter and form your opinion on ethereum based on what people on Twitter are saying, because as we all know, they have fried dopamine receptors and their opinion changes day to day. Like, I, it was funny yesterday or the day before, maybe the past couple days, it was like Max fud of ethereum on Twitter. And then ETH pumped like 10% today and everyone's like, oh my God, fuck yeah. Eats, coming back, revenge pump, blah, blah. And it's like, what the fuck is wrong with you guys? Like, why are you like this? Come on. Like, on your, isn't your brain, like, hurting from being this kind of sporadic about your, I, I guess, like, thesis on this ecosystem, or I guess, like, your feeling on this ecosystem? It's just ridiculous.
00:32:38.030 - 00:33:04.338, Speaker A: So, yeah, if I have any piece of advice for you guys, it's the same advice that I always give. It's like, please just zoom out, focus on the longer term. Everything's fine. Nothing wrong with Ethereum and Vitalik having a girlfriend, whether that's true or not, because people have been posting this on Twitter, he's not bearish for ethereum. Like, it's just ridiculous. Like, I feel like people just say these things when the price is going down to justify being bearish. And then, like, the price goes back up and people are like, oh my God, price is going up.
00:33:04.338 - 00:33:40.334, Speaker A: Vitalik having, having a girlfriend, he's like, giving eat energy. It's just stupid shit that doesn't make any sense. But if you're sitting on crypto Twitter, that's what you're exposed to. So I figured that you guys would, would benefit from a bullish rant as I finish up today's episode, because as I said at the beginning of the episode, I'm probably not going to be around for another couple of weeks, probably two to three weeks at this stage in terms of getting the refuels out. And I'll be very sporadically involved with Discord and Twitter because I'm going to try and take another break here. But anyway, until then, yeah, be bullish, be, you know, stay with your conviction. On things, because I think that the future is definitely still very bright for ethereum.
00:33:40.334 - 00:33:48.550, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all when I catch you. Thanks everyone.
