00:00:00.240 - 00:00:23.598, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of Delique Way refuel, where I cap the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Daniel Sasano, and today's 26 March 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So some positive ETH ETF News today. Maybe not direct news, but I guess like positive nonetheless. So Craig Salm here, who is the chief legal officer at Greyscale, put together a really interesting tweet thread about the ETH ETF's today.
00:00:23.598 - 00:01:02.028, Speaker A: And I think this is the first bit of, I guess, movement we've seen here in a few days here. Uh, it's obviously not like back and forth between the SEC and the issuers or anything like that. And there's no comments from the SEC. But Craig was, I guess, like addressing a very specific thing that people had been talking about, and that's the lack of engagement between the SEC and the issuers. Now, of course, I've talked about this for a long time. I mean, I even think I talked about this before the BTC ETF's were approved, where I said that essentially the ETH ETF's are a copy paste of the BTC ETF's. So we don't, we won't necessarily see as much engagement between the SEC and the issuers that we did for the BTC ones because of this fact.
00:01:02.028 - 00:01:31.280, Speaker A: Now of course, I'd be, I'd been one of the lone wolves saying this. I don't think this was kind of a consensus view. I know that the Bloomberg ETF analysts were saying, you know, that they didn't really see this as any kind of signal. But then Craig comes out today with his own tweet thread about this, where he starts off by saying recently there's been a lot of chatter about spot ETH ETF's. I personally am not deterred by it and believe the ETF's should be approved. But right now I want to talk about how I think perceived, quote unquote, lack of SEC engagement should be viewed at this point. And then he continues in his thread.
00:01:31.280 - 00:02:27.410, Speaker A: But essentially the tweet that I wanted to focus on was just these two here, where he continues, and he says, in the final months leading up to the BTC ETF approval, Grayscale and others received positive and constructive engagement from the SEC. We had thoughtful conversations and discussed the finer details of the creation redemption procedures, cash versus in kind AP's, LP's, custody, etcetera. All of these issues were figured out and are identical when comparing spot BTC to spot ETH ETF's. The only difference is rather than the ETF holding bitcoin, it holds ether. So in many ways the SEC already has engaged with an issuers simply have less to engage on this time. This is, as you guys know, something I've been saying for a long time now, for many, many months now, and it is very, very great to see that I am no longer like the tinfoil hat wearing dude saying this. This is actually being repeated by, you know, the chief legal officer at Grayscale, which is high signal to me, given that grayscale is at the forefront of these ETF's.
00:02:27.410 - 00:03:46.124, Speaker A: Obviously they won their court case against the SEC in October, and Craig being the chief legal officer at Greyscale, had a lot to do with that, obviously. And then of course him kind of repeating, or I guess like emphasizing what I've been saying for months around the fact that it is basically a copy paste job between the BTC and ETH ETF's just further reinforces my belief that the ETH ETF's are not out of the game just yet. As I've said before, you know, if we don't really hear anything at all by mid April, just based on the kind of logistics of it, then I'll start to basically think that, okay, May 23 is just not going to happen. Not because the SEC was going to deny it anyway, but because of the fact that there's just not enough time to get these things over the line, as I've discussed before, but when it comes to the actual kind of reasoning behind the SEC not really engaging with the issuers, I think that the fact that Craig has said this now, and I think that there's a bunch of other people that have also said this, you know, in recent days, I think it really does cement the fact that it's not a negative signal that there's not much communication going on given how similar these products are and people will bring up, well, you know, they're not that similar because right now a few of the issuers have a staked portion as part of their ETH ETF application. As I've said before, I fully expect that staked part of it to be removed. You know, if the spot ETF's get approved by May 23, I am pretty much 100% confident that they're not going to be staked ETF's. That staking portion is just going to get removed.
00:03:46.124 - 00:04:26.364, Speaker A: And as I've mentioned before, the issuers are adding that staking portion in order to force the ACC to basically kind of talk to them because the SEC, I think, has been radio silent. And people read that as basically, okay, well, the SEC is just going to deny these things. That's why they've been radio silent. But the radio silence could also be read more positively as the fact that they don't really feel the need to engage much on this because they understand that it really is just a copy paste of the BTC one besides the staking portion. Now, of course, the staking portion can be removed within, like, it's literally just like one portion of it that can just be taken out. There's no more back and forth after that. The ACC asked these issuers and says, hey, you need to remove this or we're not going to approve these ETF's because we don't want to approve a staked ETF.
00:04:26.364 - 00:04:47.796, Speaker A: And what do you think the issuers are going to do? Right. They're going to essentially remove that immediately. And then hopefully, obviously, the ETF's will get approved in a normal spot fashion on May 23 here. So to me, this is just positive news. I know that people are still relatively bearish. Yeah, people still have their own reasons for thinking these things are going to be denied on May 23. I'm still sticking with my belief that I think they're going to be approved by May 23.
00:04:47.796 - 00:05:31.390, Speaker A: Of course. But at the same time, you guys know that I've tried to temper expectations as well by saying that if we don't really see any chatter by mid April between the SEC and the issuers, and like, I mean anything like, the thing is, is that I think it would be a really bullish sign if the SEC asks the issuers to remove the staking portion, and then they do. Because that, to me, would signal that, that the SEC is going to approve the ETF's. Like, just that would signal that. And I think the issuers know this as well. So I think that they've done that on purpose in order to force the SEC's hand here without kind of running out the clock until May 23. Now, I, and as I've mentioned before, as I said just before, I still want to temper expectations in saying that if we don't see anything by mid April, I would drop my odds of the May 23 approval down to a pretty, pretty low amount.
00:05:31.390 - 00:06:02.204, Speaker A: I mean, right now I'm at like almost 100%, but that can change. And I, and you guys know me, I like to stick to the facts and circumstances and the logic. I don't, and I don't want to just bury my head in the sand just because it's ETH. Like, I'm not trying to say that it's going to get approved just because it's 8th. I'm trying really hard to be unbiased here, but I'm in the same camp as Craig. Like, I believe the same things Craig does. You know, you guys know I've been saying this for months, that there is no reason for the SEC to be kind of going back and forth with the issuers, with the ETF like they did with the BTC one, because it is really a copy paste job.
00:06:02.204 - 00:06:53.588, Speaker A: And as I said, if we see the SEC basically asked the issuers to remove the staking portion, then I think that's a lock for May 23. Like, I really do believe that that would basically be a complete lock. And I would say that you would even see those Bloomberg ETF analysts, James and Eric change their odds because their odds, I think, is at 25% right now. So it's not zero, but it's at 25% right now. But I do think you'd see even them who have been like ardently in, I guess sticking to their, to their percentage takes you sticking to their odds here. I would say you would even see them flip because it really just sends a signal that, okay, well, if the SEC is asking for this to be removed, rather than asking the issuers to just withdraw their application altogether, they're doing one of two things. They're going to approve the ETF or they're being total, you know, pieces of shit and basically saying that to try, and I guess like to try and signal to the market that he's going to get approved to try and get everyone excited and then rug pull them at the last second.
00:06:53.588 - 00:07:12.594, Speaker A: The reason why I think that that second thing isn't going to play out is because the SEC would get sued over that because that is basically market manipulation. Right. So I really don't think that second thing is going to happen. As bad as the SEC has been. That would be like next level. I think that would be even beyond scorched earth. That would be going against, you know, their very mandate of protecting investors.
00:07:12.594 - 00:07:41.774, Speaker A: And it would be just a world of hurt, I think, for the SEC on that front there. But I don't think that's going to happen. So we'll have to see. We've still got a couple more weeks here, I guess, like, you know, there's three weeks still. So three weeks is a lot of time here. But I do think as the market becomes more confident in the ETF being approved, I do think you're going to see ETH trend up as well. And I do think that if the market is still kind of saying that they're not going to be approved, as we get closer and closer to it, and then they do get approved, we're going to see some crazy stuff happening.
00:07:41.774 - 00:08:11.758, Speaker A: Because right now I believe that, or at least maybe until today, until Craig put out this tweet thread, I believe that the market generally is convinced that these things are getting denied. The ETH ETF's are getting denied. But then, you know, Craig puts this tweet thread out and now suddenly the market becomes a little bit more confident that they're going to get approved here and people start doubting their thesis around denial. And then if we start seeing more and more engagement between the SEC and the issuers, then that tide starts to shift. And we saw this play out with the BTC ETF. So this is going to be the exact same thing that plays out here. So we're going to have to wait, wait and see how that plays out there.
00:08:11.758 - 00:09:02.028, Speaker A: But anyway, you can go give Craig's tweet thread a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. And one last thing with regards to, I guess the ETF topic, and this isn't the US ETF's, but the London Stock Exchange that announced recently that they're going to be launching or I guess like hosting etns or the London, the ETF's at ends are basically ETF's just called something different in, in England here they have announced that they're going to be doing BTC and ETF etns on May 28. So they're going to launch this on May 28, which is peculiar timing, given that May 23 is when the ETH ETF's would go live or I guess like get approved. And then I actually don't know which day May 23 is because as we saw, they started trading within like a day or two. But it has to be business days, of course. So if I go to my calendar here, May 2030 is a Thursday, so we could probably see them trading on the Monday.
00:09:02.028 - 00:09:26.584, Speaker A: I guess. So maybe not on the Friday, but like the Monday. And the Monday is May 27. So I don't know, the timing kind of is suspicious to me. Like tinfoil hat on. Again, timing is a little bit suspicious here. But regardless, you know, it's great to see that it's not a circus to get these things trading in in London, whereas in the US unfortunately, it is a circus to get these things approved because we have a really crappy regulator in the SEC there.
00:09:26.584 - 00:09:55.952, Speaker A: But anyway, enough on that topic. We'll keep you guys updated as usual. Moving on to a bunch of other things. So, first off, with regards to a tornado cash, we have a tweet thread here from Amin, who's been following the tornado cash case very, very closely in the Netherlands. As you guys know, Alexei Percival was arrested in the Netherlands. He was held for, I believe, nine months without bail, which really, really sucks because, like, he was held, I think, without charge for a while as well. And I think in the Netherlands, you can be held for up to three months without charge.
00:09:55.952 - 00:10:25.440, Speaker A: Just crazy to me. But he was charged, I believe, with money laundering. So you can say, see here, I mean, says he stands accused of laundering $1.2 billion via tornado cash. And Amin continues and says, I believe he should be free, open source devs should not be held criminally liable for the crimes of foreign terrorists. And the reason why Amin is bringing this up is because Alexei's trial actually starts to today on March 26. So you can give amends, Twitter thread, a read for background on this and why he believes as he does.
00:10:25.440 - 00:11:28.236, Speaker A: This is going to be quite the fight. I believe, because I think that the US wants to make Alexa a kind of, like, example, essentially very similar to what they did with Ross Ulbricht, with Silk Road. I think that when it comes to big things like money laundering and terrorism financing and drugs and stuff like that, it's more about making an example out of an individual in order to scare off everyone else. And I think that, you know, there's a long history of this happening, you know, inside and outside of crypto, but it feels like that's what they're trying to do here, because unless they can prove that Alexei actually had a direct hand and he helped money laundering happen within Tornado cash, I don't know how you could basically say that he was responsible for what was, what was done through Tornado cash, given that Tornado cash is a decentralized protocol on Ethereum that Alexa had no control over. So really it's going to fall to the prosecution to prove that Alexa had material control over this and also aided, embedded in this money laundering. Now, I don't know the facts and circumstances of this case here. Maybe the prosecution is able to, is able to prove that.
00:11:28.236 - 00:11:57.464, Speaker A: I mean, I don't know. But from what I've seen, everything that I've seen, it doesn't seem like they're going to be able to prove that, but we're going to have to see that play out in court. And hopefully, Alexa gets a fair and just trial here. And it's not just kind of a witch hunt, which it feels like it is, but we'll have to see how it all shakes out there. But if you want to follow along with this, I highly recommend following Amine. It seems like he'll be following along with this trial as it happens, and you'll be able to get, like, up to the minute updates from him, because I actually believe that he is in the Netherlands right now. He said jam from the Netherlands, so I believe that he's there right now.
00:11:57.464 - 00:12:48.810, Speaker A: So it seems like he's going to be sitting in on the trial there. So if you want to keep up to date with all of that, you should go follow Amin, and you can read his Twitter thread here, as I said, for all the relevant context regarding this. But I really hope that Alexei wins this, you know, if, you know, not just for, like, his own sake, but for the sake, I think, of, like, everyone developing, especially privacy preserving kind of protocols and code within the crypto ecosystem. Because if, like, the thing is about using people as an example is that it works. Like, for example, if Alexei is found guilty and then is sentenced to, like, 20 years or something in prison for this, like, why would anyone build privacy protocols if they're gonna. If that's, like, what's gonna happen to them in the end? So they won't even risk it? So we would actually lose a lot of the, the builders that we have building privacy, and we would all be a lot worse off. So I'm really rooting for Alexa here.
00:12:48.810 - 00:13:54.636, Speaker A: Um, you know, I hope all of you are as well. Uh, but I. As I said, like, I hope he has a fair and just trial, because at the end of the day, if he is guilty of what he's accused of based on overwhelming evidence, then sure, I'll respect that. But at the same time, I haven't, like, I'm not privy to that evidence that the prosecution has right now because they've been gathering it, and now they're going to be kind of, I guess, like, outlining it in the trial. But at the same time, like, there are ways in which you can present evidence that, you know, you try to paint your own story, you try to paint your own narrative and picture here that doesn't necessarily fit in with reality. So that's why I want there to be, like, a fair and just trial here so that we can actually get all the facts and circumstances out there, and then it can set a precedent that if all you do is write the code and, and deploy it and you don't actually aid and abet in this directly, then you shouldn't be held responsible for the actions of people who use it because it goes back to the age old kind of thing of, you know, if you sell guns in your store and you sell a gun to someone who kills someone, well, then you're not going to be charged with murder, right? Like, you're not responsible for that, what that person did with the gun. Just like if you buy knives at the, at the, at the supermarket and the person who sold you the knives isn't responsible for you stabbing someone with it.
00:13:54.636 - 00:14:29.704, Speaker A: So that's that age old question here. So it's the same or the age old kind of debate that people have had. But to me, it's, it's rather black and white. Like, you shouldn't hold the person who sold a tool to someone accountable for what that person did with that tool. Like, that just is insane to me. But that seems to be what they're trying to do here. They're trying to hold Alexei and the other tornado cash developers, you know, as kind of responsible for what people did with the code they deployed, which is insane because you can take this argument to its logical conclusion and say that the people who maintain the back end infrastructure of the Internet and deploy to the Internet are responsible for what people use the Internet for.
00:14:29.704 - 00:14:48.520, Speaker A: So they're responsible for, you know, human trafficking. They're responsible for all the terrorist, terrorist communications that happen. They're responsible for all the, the other, you know, really, really bad stuff that happens through the Internet. That would just be insane to hold those people responsible, but that's exactly what they're trying to do here. So. Yeah. Anyway, enough ranting about that.
00:14:48.520 - 00:15:46.490, Speaker A: As I said, go follow Amin. He's going to be following this closely. And I'll keep you guys updated on this stuff as I see it as well. All right, so speaking of the SEC, a little bit earlier, I wanted to kind of highlight this lawsuit that has been brought forward by the DeFi, DeFi education Fund and this project called Beba. So essentially, this project is doing a token, and they're going to basically argue in court against the SEC that because Beba did a free airdrop of tokens, they're seeking a court order declaring that it is a free airdrop and it is not a securities transaction, which means that Beba tokens are not investment contracts, and this lawsuit is being brought against the SEC. By the DeFi education fund. And Beba, just to be clear here, and the reason why they're doing this is because they essentially want to get the SEC or force the SEC into a position where they basically say, are airdrops a securities transaction or not? Because obviously, logically they are not, because there is no investment of money here.
00:15:46.490 - 00:16:10.818, Speaker A: There is really no expectations. There is really just, hey, here's free money. And there you go. Like, that's it, right? That's literally the whole kind of, I guess you could even, I mean, if you want to call it a transaction, that's the whole transaction. People giving free money to people for various different reasons. Right. And I think that, like, the fact that this has been not clarified by the SEC has resulted in a lot of money being lost by us people.
00:16:10.818 - 00:16:35.904, Speaker A: Right. There's a lot of, a lot of airdrops now that are being done. It's pretty much the norm not to airdrop to us users because the SEC hasn't been clear here. And to be, to be clear as well, the SEC hasn't actually said anything. From what I can see about airdrops. They haven't actually said that the airdrops are securities transactions, but it's just the teams and the lawyers of these teams playing extremely conservatively. So due to that, the DFA education fund and Beba basically said, you know, let's bring this case against the, against the SEC.
00:16:35.904 - 00:17:12.351, Speaker A: Let's sue them and let's force them to give an answer here. And I think that from what we've seen in the US, the court system seems to be pretty good still when it comes to this sort of stuff. So I think that's why they're doing this, is because they actually trust the courts. You know, no one trusts the SEC these days. I think that, like, you'd be very hard pressed to find anyone who trusts or respects the SEC as a regulator, even within, like the US government, even within the Democrat Party. I think that you would be very hard pressed to find people that actually trust and respect the SEC. And what they're doing there obviously are the kind of like the usual suspects like Elizabeth Warren and Maxine Waters, who have, have basically praised the SEC.
00:17:12.351 - 00:18:18.746, Speaker A: But the thing is, when you break down all the facts and you look at all the court cases and you look at, you know, all of the kind of like people that are unbiased in their commentary, there is a very clear pattern of the SEC being a shitty regulator, like a very shitty regulator, to the point where they're actively harming the US markets are actively harming investors and they're not fulfilling their mandate here. So I'm going to be following along with this very closely. I hope that the DFA education Fund and Beba win this because it will give clarity to teams in the US that, hey, airdrops are, you know, are securities transactions or are not. Based on, from what I've seen and based on the existing laws, airdrops are not securities transactions at all. And if a court can interpret the law as I have and as others others have, which they should, then it will be ruled that the airdrops are not securities transactions. Which means that we can go back to where us people actually get the airdrops now, instead of having to miss out or use VPN's or try to get around any blockages that are put in place, which is a win for everyone, you know, not just in the US, but for everyone because it means that the ecosystem continues to grow and we don't get like, you know, all this bullshit happening all the time with people missing out on things. So.
00:18:18.746 - 00:18:47.700, Speaker A: Yeah. But anyway, you can go give a read of the full details of this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Ethify has been killing it lately, actually, and I don't know if you guys have noticed this, but I looked at Hill Dobby's dashboard just before, and this isn't, I guess, directly related to either five, but either player plays a big part here. Lighter's dominance is really coming down at the moment. So I actually saw this just before and I actually had to do a double take. If you go to the who, the who.
00:18:47.700 - 00:19:30.700, Speaker A: So if you go to which entities ETH has been staked with over the last month, where the stake is more than kind of like 3000 Ethya, you can see that over the last month, Etherfire is number one, renzo number two, Everstake number three. And you keep going down this list and you'll notice that Lido is missing from this list. Like, Lido isn't here at all. Then you go to the next page. You can actually see that Lido is ranked 55, not because they've had inflows, but also, but because they've had net outflows. So they've had a net outflow of 113,000 ETH in Lido over the last month. And if you look at the last six months, Lido doesn't actually look that good either, because you can see either phy and mantle put together like pretty much, I guess like 150% of what went into Lido.
00:19:30.700 - 00:20:01.426, Speaker A: Then add kiln into it, and you're at double, or more than double what Lido took in and then at everyone else. Lido doesn't look too good here. So Lido has actually been losing market share very, you know, based on a real basis and a relative basis here. And it really is due to the fact that there is some real competition now within the staking ecosystem, especially with regards to restaking as well, because Lido doesn't have an LRT. It is not a liquid restaking token. It is still an LST. And right now, lsts are capped within Eigen layer, whereas eigenpods are not.
00:20:01.426 - 00:21:09.022, Speaker A: So services like ether five, Renzo and others can get around those caps by staking a native Ethan and spinning up eigenpods here, or restaking native ETH and spinning up eigenpods here. So that's been a really great driver there. But either fire has actually stuck out because of not just the way that they've run their campaign, obviously with their airdrop stuff, but also with their other products that they've brought to market. Now, I want to disclose here, as you guys know, I'm an advisor to either fire, but what I've been really impressed by is the fact that they not only have their staking product, but they also have, I guess, like this liquid product that is live right now, which has over $100 million of TVL in it, which is, which makes it largest single defi strategy vault. So for those of you who don't know, this liquid vault is basically an automated vault with best in class yields on your etherfy asset. So essentially it is a automatically managed kind of vault on the ether fire side, which where is essentially they try to maximize your apy and your points farming on either fire and eigen layer by putting it into this strategy. So you take more risk by doing this, but you get potentially more reward from, I guess, like future token airdrops of Etherfy, but also from Eigen layer as well here.
00:21:09.022 - 00:21:52.054, Speaker A: So when you take all that together and you look at all that together, it's no wonder that Etherfire has been growing so quickly here, because not only do they have this liquid product out today, they are also going to have another future product out called cash, which is going to allow you to use your etherfy balances with a point of sale terminal. So basically as cash. So like, there's a lot of cool things happening here. So it's not just the staking products, not just the restaking product, but it's also these other products here, whereas something like, you know, a lido, for example, they've had their staking product and they've been dominant for quite a while, but they haven't really done much on top of that. You know, they've gotten a lot of integrations with other services and products, but on top of that, they haven't really done too much. So that's where this competition comes in, and he's basically able to. To do a lot more and to innovate a lot more here.
00:21:52.054 - 00:22:26.894, Speaker A: So just wanted to point that out for you guys, because I don't think many people have taken notice of the fact that there is a lot of competition in the staking space right now, a lot more than we traditionally have seen. And it really falls back into what I was saying, you know, a while ago about that great reshuffling of stake. I know it's been a slow moving ship. I know it's been very slow. I mean, it's been a almost a year now since Chappelle went live, but the ship has been moving. And if you actually look at Leroy's dominance from, I think, like, I mean, it has been relatively flat, but it is coming down. If we go here on Hill, Dobby's kind of chart here, and we go to when Chappelle went live, which was.
00:22:26.894 - 00:22:39.612, Speaker A: Yeah, 2023. Let me have a look here. April 2023. I think it was like the 10th. Around the 10. April 2023, you know, lighter's dominance was 31.4%. Now today it is around 30.3%.
00:22:39.612 - 00:22:47.332, Speaker A: So it's. It's. It's come down a little bit. Hasn't come down a lot. But that is not. Its kind of like real market share. It is its relative market share.
00:22:47.332 - 00:23:16.662, Speaker A: Its real market share. I mean, uh, is. Is down a lot more as well because of the fact that a lot more ETH has gone into other, uh, other other other other other other staking protocols here. As you can see, they kind of appear in different colors here. But at the same time, I would say that a lot of, um. A lot of the kind of like Lido stake hasn't left yet because it hasn't really been vampire. You know, puffer has a billion dollars of steth or more than a billion dollars of SD 8th ready to get vampire attack tier from Lido, which is going to bring them below 30% easily.
00:23:16.662 - 00:23:39.362, Speaker A: And then you have all these other protocols, you know, still spinning up, still kind of getting more stake, more and more stake in. So there really is this. I guess a really beautiful kind of reshuffling happening here. And, you know, it's taken a while, but we've successfully stopped lido from growing. Now we need to get their market share down even further here. But, yeah, anyway, you can go check out either fries product for yourself. And as usual, check out Hill Dobby's ETH staking dashboard.
00:23:39.362 - 00:24:19.462, Speaker A: It is still the best staking dashboard that I have come across to track all of these sorts of stuff. All right, so as usual, base, I think since Dencom went live, base has just been going absolutely nuts. Like, and because of that, the fees on base have been going up. And as I explained, I think yesterday and on a few other refuels, this is totally normal behavior based on the fact that the bottleneck is now the execution side, not the data side. But Jesse Pollack from the base team here basically tweeted out a TLDR of why fees are high on base and what they're doing to alleviate this. So, of course, the l one data costs were reduced to near zero with 4844. But lower fees induced five times more demand on base.
00:24:19.462 - 00:24:58.738, Speaker A: So their gas current gas target is relatively low at 2.5 mega gas a second. So block blocks are above the target gas, which means fees are rising and lower fees are their p zero, which means it's their basically critical priority and they are on it. And to address this, Jesse says here we are prepping to raise bases gas target to five to 7.5 mega gas per second, which is a two to three times increase by load testing to understand impact. And then they're working on parallel pathing that will let us achieve our medium term goal of one gig per second, which is a 400 x increase. So you can probably expect this two to three times increase relatively soon, which is a pretty big increase, I think.
00:24:58.738 - 00:25:31.580, Speaker A: And it means that the fee should come down again. But then they say here, medium term goal, which could be like six to twelve months, they're going to increase it by 400 x. And once they do that, the I think, bottleneck is going to shift back to data. It's going to shift back to blobs, because if they do get a massive spiking demand of, say, like, you know, ten to 100 x or something, then the costs are going to go up on the data side because they're going to be consuming a lot more blobs than what they are today. And this is just base. This isn't counting all the other roll ups and all the other ones that are coming online as well. Like, I know that there's more and more coming online over time.
00:25:31.580 - 00:26:03.216, Speaker A: More and more that are going to be using blobs over, over time there. But yeah, you can read Jesse's Twitter tweet thread. I'll link it in YouTube description below. But speaking of roll ups that are going to be taking advantage of blobs, scroll has been notably, notably, notably, notably absent from the blob world. They haven't enabled blobs on their network just yet, but they did do a tweet thread where they explained that they're going to be adding support for blobs by the end of April. So that's just another network coming online to consume blobs here. And they're also got a bunch of other upgrades coming to the scroll ZkvM by the end of May.
00:26:03.216 - 00:26:37.692, Speaker A: So over the next couple of months you should see cheaper fees on scroll and more. But you can read their tweet thread for explanation about exactly what they're doing here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, last thing on the L2s, just keeping in theme of what I was talking about with regards to growth, growthepie XYZ tweeted out they we had an all time high in transaction count on L2s yesterday, or I guess today, 7 million transactions were recorded, 1.43 million of which were on base. And you can see this chart here as well as go to the grow the Pie website and see it for yourself. But it's up only guys.
00:26:37.692 - 00:27:30.800, Speaker A: And that makes sense given that there is more capacity now for more transactions because of the fact that, you know, the fees were cheaper. So people are basically hitting the limits of these networks. But then as the execution side scales more so, for example, when base scales 400 x from here, there's going to be 400 x. It's not a one to one thing because complexities of transactions kind of play into this, but there's going to be like a massive increase in the number of transactions given that, the fact there is a lot of demand. You know, it's, it's kind of like base season right now. A lot of people kind of rotated into base, but I think that, you know, l two s are the playground for the foreseeable future and they're going to keep scaling a lot faster than the l one counterparts, I think, which is, which is awesome. The fact that we now have like these levers that we can pull to scale in the data and the execution side of things, which is going to keep fees relatively cheap for quite a while here and is going to keep the user experience, you know, really great and getting better over time there.
00:27:30.800 - 00:27:59.428, Speaker A: But you can go check this out, go to the growthepie XYz website. There's a bunch of other metrics there that you can check out as well. I finally here I just wanted to highlight a new article from Domothy and this one is all about EIP 3074. So essentially this explains exactly what EIP 3074 is. I think it is probably the best thing you're going to be able to read on 3074 to understand what it is. Just a refresher for you guys that don't know what 3074 has to do with. It has to do with account obstruction and all that involves.
00:27:59.428 - 00:28:30.552, Speaker A: And this has been an EIP that has been I guess like around for a while and people have wanted it to go into the network for a while and it basically seems like it could make it into Petra. So I think it is worth definitely reading this, reading this article from Domothy, who does a great job of explaining what this is, why it's a benefit for users and why it belongs in on the network, and why it should go in with Pectra. So yeah, you can go give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:28:30.552 - 00:28:34.344, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
