00:00:06.600 - 00:00:23.634, Speaker A: Hello. I hope everyone can hear me well. Ok, it's on and the slides are on. Just a tiny check. Does it work? Yes, but. Ok. So, good afternoon, everyone.
00:00:23.634 - 00:01:19.370, Speaker A: We're diving further into complicated topics, regulations. Well, the speaker just before, if you were here already, touched upon Mika and Defi and whether these two can get along, I will zoom on on that specific matter. So can Defi and Mika get along? So, as introduced and Grez Grace, I'm a senior legal counsel in Switzerland. I have the pleasure over the last two years and a half at advising only web3 projects, specifically Defi, very hands on and a lot of dialysis as well. I'm in Switzerland, but I have an EU law background. I used to practice in Belgium. And when Mika came out, one of the first questions was, will it impact Switzerland and if so, how? All these structures I came up with, will they need to be changed because of Mika? So the first step is to check, is Mika actually referring to defi? And this was already mentioned before.
00:01:19.370 - 00:02:40.814, Speaker A: There's one important quote in Mika, it's recital 22, referring to crypto asset services that are provided in a fully decentralized manner without an internal. But what does that mean? And at first sight, it may seem that EU is maybe going even beyond what we've heard so far from the US. Meaning the sufficient decentralization where you don't require full disintermediation, you don't require full decentralization, you merely refer to what can reasonably be expected. Can you reasonably expect that it's like a centralized group, managerial efforts or entrepreneurial efforts coming from a centralized group? So the problem of what we have in this recital is that both decentralization and disintermediation are extremely complex. These principles are apprehended differently depending on whether you have a legal background, a technical background, or you simply analyze it, maybe from a sociological, organizational perspective, so everyone will come up with a different understanding and it deserves further analysis. So if we were to still analyze these topics to have some clarity in Mika, well, Mika would still be in the workings and we would have no text whatsoever ever currently. And this problem was pointed out in the report that came out recently, that's pinpointing the different remaining issues that still are unclear with Mika.
00:02:40.814 - 00:03:40.778, Speaker A: And as the report, so I've put a screenshot from an important paragraph, states, is that we have a spectrum like DeFi, fully decentralized DeFi, which projects can actually claim to be. So what are the side effects of that? Well, first, as we've seen recently, there were many failures in the c five space. And many projects tend to shift towards rather the defi paradigm, but they don't shift fully. So we have an entire spectrum between CFI now and something that can be considered as 100% defi. So what about this entire spectrum? If only fully decentralized and fully disintermediated projects are out of scope of Mika, what about them? So there's a whole legal uncertainty on the horizon for a big part of the market, then mica is supposed to be refined with practice. We'll have all these national authorities specifying with guidelines. We'll have case law at the end of the day.
00:03:40.778 - 00:04:52.772, Speaker A: Well, there could be potential discrepancies on this topic because jurisdictions have different approaches. They may be more restrictive, less restrictive, but also they may have different understandings. Let's imagine France, a country that already has some sort of Wasp approval, versus another jurisdiction that is not really out there, and only public guidelines on tokens. End of last year, for example, Belgium, they may not have the same approach and not have the same understanding of these very complex terminologies, like what is this intermediation? So on a side note, beyond this problem of the exemption, well, there is no reference to decentralization in mifid and Mifid two. So the financial regulations that are in place at european level, and one of the questions that is still unsolved and is, are tokens and these services, financial services and financial instruments, and when are they crypto assets? And I've put a quote from Mika. Well, they still have 18 months to come up with guidelines on that. So for the upcoming 18 months, it's unclear whether are you subject to Mica or are you subject to MiFid? And if so, well, the problem of decentralization and disintermediation actually is not even a problem.
00:04:52.772 - 00:05:32.960, Speaker A: You have bigger problems than that. Another important quote is that at the end of the day, well, there's also an 18 month period for the commission to come up with additional assessments on whether it's important to regulate DeFi and how. So 18 months. Once again, if I wrap up this context, we end up with DeFi being a principle that is normally out of scope of mika. But the definition of DeFi is unclear. The definition of what is a financial instrument versus a crypto asset on the mica is also unclear. For now, the clarifications will come for assessments, guidelines and practice.
00:05:32.960 - 00:06:08.254, Speaker A: So you may have discrepancies. Plus, in the end, you have just stormy and deep uncertain waters for at least 18 months. And in practice, it may be way longer than that, because just having those guidelines, you'll still have practice afterwards. Plus there may be comments on the guidelines. So we're still not there. So let's walk into the storm to better understand what exactly are we complaining about? Because there's still like a bunch of people being extremely happy about Mika because there are very good things in it. But what may be a problem for Defi? So let's start with the light rain, the things that may be a bit tricky, but maybe not the worst.
00:06:08.254 - 00:06:59.642, Speaker A: So if we look at the subject matter and scope of Mika, well, we realize that it's all about a provider, an issuer, an offeror. So you need a natural legal person that's identified. They also refer to other undertakings, which would be all these entities that don't have a legal personality but could nevertheless be taken into account. And when we read that and we think about how complex defi setups are, it's not because they want to be shady or anything, but just because of regulations, constraints. In terms of how do we optimize the expense of setting up a new entity? You end up with one association, then a software development company, a DAO, with or without a wrapper. You may have a foundation, you may have a BVI SPv for just the issuance of your token. So it's not always as straightforward as one entity handling the activity.
00:06:59.642 - 00:08:00.286, Speaker A: How will this entire setup interact with Mika? And this is maybe the first, let's say light train part. Like, you just stand there and need to assess your setup and think, okay, my token issuance company may need to double check whether they are subject to Mika, the software development company, depending on whether they may be deemed to control the protocol somehow the same. Well, as well, you need to check what exactly is the DAO in charge of and is there an operational entity as well? So you need to reassess your entire setup and just identify the entities which may be subject to Mica. It's not as easy as that. Then what exactly will be the consequences if one of these entities is subject to Micah? If we deep dive into a very pragmatic approach? Well, for example, in terms of marketing communications, well, marketing and web3 is quite particular. You don't use necessarily the same tools. I mean, CFI may, but DeFi will not have huge banners on public transportation.
00:08:00.286 - 00:08:34.924, Speaker A: You will never see that. It's more about branding at conferences, discord, Twitter. You may have influencers. Well, marketing communications are supposed to be clearly identified as such. How will that work out on social media? Are you supposed to add a disclaimer under your tweet. Well, how does this work out in terms of how many characters you put in your tweet? These things will be specified over time in practice with guidelines. But for now you may really ask yourself the question, if I am subject to it, what am I supposed to do? So marketing communications are supposed to include an email but also a phone number.
00:08:34.924 - 00:09:03.318, Speaker A: So let's think about it. You have a team of ten. You may have some community managers. Whose number? Who's going to answer that? If you have 1000 users that all call at the same time, and you have only two people handling the phone number. This does not seem to work with a defi setup. When you look at how most teams are structured, it may perfectly well for c five. With big teams, everything is structured in a corporate manner, but for Defi, maybe a bit complicated.
00:09:03.318 - 00:09:54.960, Speaker A: Then the white paper shall be finished first before you even publish any marketing communications. So if you want to announce your token before you have finalized this very important white paper, well, you're not supposed to, but to what extent what is considered a marketing communication. So there is some place here for interpretation that will need to be clarified over time. Like can I announce that there will be a token coming soon even if we don't have a white paper yet? What can I say about it exactly then in terms of the white paper? And I see there's a cat in an audience, so my cat in the slides may be a good thing for him. The white paper shall be published in the same version as the one that was notified to the local authorities. So if you want to do some last minute adjustments, as it may often be the case in practice, well, too bad. If you have submitted it for approval, you need to stick to that version as well.
00:09:54.960 - 00:10:23.146, Speaker A: If there are any significant changes, mistakes or inaccuracies, which could happen because I mean, these topics evolve over time, you may discover new things, you want to add them. Well, you need to first notify it at least seven days before you publish the updated version. So let's imagine you have an intern that did a big mistake. No one spotted it. You need to correct it at ASAP. Well, you first notify to the authorities and then only you can update the white paper. I'm not quite sure how this will work out as well in practice.
00:10:23.146 - 00:10:59.018, Speaker A: On paper it may seem a good thing, but then it creates a sort of delay. That may be tricky. And they also clarify that there's liability for the white paper currently. I think it's not clear, maybe to everyone but this white paper is potentially the only clear source of information about the token, the project and so on. And one of the very good things about Mika is that they clarify what should be in there. Currently you have some white papers or like light papers that are 510 pages long, others that are basically research papers that extend to 50 pages. How do you handle those discrepancies? Sometimes you have all the information necessary, sometimes you only have part of it.
00:10:59.018 - 00:11:34.022, Speaker A: So Mika clarifies that and adds this layer of you are liable for what you put in there. If you state that this token is generating some sort of yield, well, you need to stick to it. And you can't just exclude or limit your civil liability for that. These reminders are actually quite welcome, but maybe something that a lot of defi protocols don't want to handle because these are shaky grounds. Like some other speakers presented all the aspects relating to risk management. For example, the white paper is supposed to specify the risks, but this is still an ongoing research topic. All the risks are not clear.
00:11:34.022 - 00:12:06.978, Speaker A: It's very complex. So what if you have omitted a risk that only stood out afterwards? Are you liable for this omission just because it was not clear? Based on the pre existing research? There's also a right to withdrawal. There was a lot of talks about that like a year ago or something. Well currently if you purchase tokens, well, you just stick with them. If you change your mind, it's too bad. Well in line with the EU approach that you have for all the consumer goods, for example, which does not exactly exist in Switzerland. So here there's a big change.
00:12:06.978 - 00:12:33.268, Speaker A: Well, you have a right to withdrawal. You purchase tokens, you don't like these tokens, you changed your mind. Oh, it was a mistake. You have 14 days to change your mind and the person is even supposed to reimburse to you any charges. So as well, it's not exactly compatible with the approach that Defi may have currently, but there are exceptions and this is what everyone loves. And as a lawyer, this is the fun part as well, to have exceptions. And some of them are quite useful.
00:12:33.268 - 00:13:19.256, Speaker A: So you could use the fact that it's less than 150 people that purchase these tokens from you, that it's less than 1 million, and then this is only just for the white paper. And then you even have some exceptions to be outside of those constraining guidelines. Not guidelines, but provisions regarding marketing communications. You don't want to add a phone number, well, you can just offer those tokens for free, airdrop, automatically create them as a reward and a proof of stake or, and that's actually quite important. If everything is already up and running and it's a utility token that's also an exemption. So the solutions could be dropping tokens on a Dex to be further explored, to offer them at a very low price, to be below the 1 million, just go all the way for airdrops. There's quite a lot of them recently.
00:13:19.256 - 00:14:05.714, Speaker A: Maybe that's the way forward, or maybe to launch a protocol first, have some sort of test tokens that you offer prior to the actual sale. So you can argue that it's a utility token that's already integrated with an existing protocol, but all of this are potential solutions to be explored depending on the setup. So this is not legal advice. I'm still doing the disclaimer because it looks kind of like a legal advice, and that I read it on the screen. But the question is, how do you assess whether you're exposed to those regulations anyway in the EU, based on the IP address? Do you block it? I mean, people just use VPN's, so there's a lot of questions there. I'm getting into the thunder and apparently I have five minutes left, so I'll go quickly through it and just mention these things. This is the worst part.
00:14:05.714 - 00:14:51.390, Speaker A: So this was about the tokens, but you have this entire part of authorizations and operating conditions, and this is where it really gets tricky for DeFi protocols. So the pain point is that you can't offer your services if you are not authorized in the EU, and you need for that to have an entity in the EU. So the temporary solution is to rely on reverse solicitation, as it's done currently for a lot of protocols, most of them actually. But reverse solicitation has no proper interpretation for crypto currently. So people just rely on what is done in terms of financial regulations. But is it suited? There's no practice really extending on that. There was like one occurrence with the Bafin and hello Deutschland uniswap wallet.
00:14:51.390 - 00:15:34.616, Speaker A: That's one example. How will it evolve over time? Will it still be able to rely on reverse solicitation? That's unclear. And if we check, what are the implications of the authorization? Well, there's a pro. Once you're authorized, you can really practice everywhere, provide your service everywhere in the EU. But there's still a few cons, like, you need to have effective management in the EU. How will this work out for unwrappedaos? You need a wrapper, but who is the effective management? Does it mean that you need to have a specific committee within the DAO, like a multisig that doxes themselves and outputs. In this application, if you don't have a legal person, you need to display equivalent levels of protection.
00:15:34.616 - 00:16:35.082, Speaker A: But how will this be assessed in practice? How do you assess the requirements in terms of proper funding and insurance for a DAO if you're not authorized? And maybe this is quite important, if you're not authorized as a provider in the EU, you're not supposed to present yourself as such. So if you have a lending protocol, are you still allowed to present yourself as a lending protocol or a DAX at an EU based conference? Can people go to ECC after maker and say, hey, we're a lending protocol, even if you're not registered s one in DAU? And then you need to specify the services and the authorization. So if you want to upgrade your services and offer something new, well, you just can't launch the new product before you first explain it to the authorities. In the application. There's a long list of 19 actually types of information needed to provide. And if I go to the pros, well, at least you need to think about all these elements. You need to clarify it, be transparent, which is a good thing, because a lot of these elements are not necessarily clear currently.
00:16:35.082 - 00:17:37.330, Speaker A: It can be obscure, like the governance. Often you need to really dig into the documentation to understand it in terms of compliant handling, like how many DeFi protocols have a compliant handling procedure that is out there? So this may be good. And as, as it was pointed out in the report, sometimes people have the feeling that maybe those projects go far beyond the skills and the competence of the technical developers that put them forward. But the cons are, will the authorities actually be able to assess the information that they receive? Is this authority skilled enough to understand the complex risk assessment that was done by a protocol? How will they understand all the economic exploit possibilities, all the technical aspects of the smart contracts underpinning the protocol? So this might be quite tricky. And there's also outsourcing. There are so many protocols that are intertwined. And if it's considered as outsourcing, it means that you need an actual agreement specifying the rights and obligations.
00:17:37.330 - 00:18:09.814, Speaker A: But when you check what's happening in the landscape, you mostly have handshake deals, something that's on telegram, like on discord. Well, will this be enough? And then the bottom line, trying to be in time. Hopefully it's the case. So the bottom line is that for the token issuance, it may be not such a big pain to have Mika out there. It may even be a good thing. If proactively you just decide to have a clear white paper, you don't necessarily register it. It may be more of a pain for the marketing communications, but then there's some leeway regarding the existing exemptions.
00:18:09.814 - 00:19:07.992, Speaker A: So for token issuance, we're actually pretty good. But then when it comes to provision of crypto assets because of this unclarity of whether does it apply to DeFi or not? Well, it may be complicated. So it's good that they are these recommendations, because you need some professional diligence in the DeFi sphere for sure. But requesting the entity to register is just raising a lot of questions regarding which entity is this entity really there? Does it require all daos to get a wrapper at the end of? Or what about protocols being fully automated where you literally throw away the private keys, or being decentralized? So it creates a lot of questions. So maybe DeFi should be subject to some, not even maybe. Like certainly there should be some standards to ensure professional diligence and make sure that people know what they're doing. And it's not just great ideas, it's great ideas being correctly implemented.
00:19:07.992 - 00:19:43.294, Speaker A: But the way it's done currently in Mika maybe needs some tweaking just to take into account how DeFi works and the different, let's say, peculiarities of the field compared to CFI. Thank you very much for your attention. And then don't hesitate to reach out to me. Block the other on Twitter or on telegram, gladly discussing anything defi or dao. Thank you. Any questions? I don't know if I need to take questions or one. If anyone has a question, it's now, whenever there's one.
00:19:50.954 - 00:20:53.124, Speaker B: Okay, so I will ask just because DeFi is the place for the whole world. So maybe why the regulation is not made in a way that it's offering. It's offering for those companies or users who want to come out from shady identity to public, because maybe they want to gain trust of the others. So, I mean, the regulation should be done in a competitive way that the companies and users want to be regulated, to receive the trust, to receive the public money, and why the mega regulation is not doing the job in a way that is smart to be regulated.
00:20:54.344 - 00:21:29.756, Speaker A: I mean, I completely agree. Regulations are also there to create some, some feeling of trust, especially for the broader audience, like beyond the ogs, legions or whatever. Most people don't interact with those protocols simply because they don't understand them. They feel like it's unregulated. So really not touching it. And the regulations may help, because if you have someone licensed, like a lot of CFI providers, for example, in Switzerland, you may have Swiss broke on board people who would never touch crypto otherwise. So it's completely correct to say that these regulations may be helpful, and it's a pity if they are not done the right way.
00:21:29.756 - 00:22:11.868, Speaker A: But at the EU level, it was pointed out that DeFi is evolving. It's still unclear, so it needs to be further investigated. And this is the problem there is, is that these are not things easy to grasp, and the regulator, if they want to do things correctly, needs to understand them first. So this was like the first thing I mentioned. If we needed to first investigate DeFi further, we would not even have Mika yet. So there's like a trade off. The only thing here I would say that is really a problem is that this intermediary period, those 18 months during which some things still need to be clarified, this is where issues may arise, depending on how local authorities will actually decide to implement things.
00:22:11.868 - 00:22:53.096, Speaker A: And it may create as well, a lot of fear for protocols that will be like, just stressed out, oh, I need to comply with Mika or not? Do I proactively comply? Do I need to shut down because of the regulatory risks? So this unclarity is just maybe slightly stiffening the ecosystem. If people take it extremely seriously and really fear it, otherwise, it can be an opportunity for innovation. Oh, there's Mika. Potentially, I'm subject to it. How can I implement a few changes just to make sure that maybe practically, I'm at least partially compliant? So we will see over the next months how it goes. But clearly I'm looking forward to having some more clarity on defi, because for now, it's a bit tricky. Thank you for the question.
00:22:53.096 - 00:22:54.264, Speaker A: Have a nice end of afternoon.
