00:00:03.200 - 00:00:41.044, Speaker A: All right, good morning, everyone. Welcome to Breakpoint 2023. Pleasure to be here with all of you. This morning I'll be talking about modular versus integrated blockchain systems, and we'll talk about them in theory and in practice. And so with that, I'll start off with a very simple what do blockchains do? What do blockchains do? Pretty simple question, but one that I think is kind of important to just think about as a base understanding of objectives and functions in these systems. Blockchains are asset ledgers. They keep track of who owns what.
00:00:41.044 - 00:01:15.834, Speaker A: So you can have a bitcoin, ETH, Sol, whatever. You can have an NFT, you can have a debt obligation. You can have an LP position, a derivative. But at the end of the day, a blockchain keeps track of who owns what. Well, what might you want to do with a list of who owns what? Really? Two things, trading and payments. Trading, of course, kind of maps to finance and Wall street and payments, kind of maps to the economy or GDP generally. If you think about it, that's all you can really do with a list of assets, whether those assets are cash or whether those are financial assets of some form.
00:01:15.834 - 00:01:50.726, Speaker A: Well, the next natural question from that is what are the ideal properties of trading and payment systems? And honestly, it's not very complicated. If you think about it, you want trading and payment systems to be fast and cheap. Pretty straightforward. We talk about fast. If you want to be a little more scientific, you'd say you want low latency. And when you talk about cheap, if you want to be a little more scientific, you'd say you want consistently low gas fees. In terms of we're not going to talk too much about latency today, but we're going to focus on costs.
00:01:50.726 - 00:02:27.454, Speaker A: And if you think about what goes into gas costs, there are really three primary inputs, compute bandwidth and demand load. And so I'm going to spend the next ten slides or so, kind of unpacking each of these concepts. Demand is not static, and therefore gas costs are not static either. A lot of times when you hear people talk about gas costs in blockchains, you hear them say things like a trade on arbitrum costs $0.10 or something like that. But that's a very incomplete way to think about this because gas costs are moving around. The dynamic is lumpy and spiky.
00:02:27.454 - 00:03:02.086, Speaker A: What you see in practice is that gas prices move around quite a bit. There are two important things. One, gas, generally speaking, demand for block space has been growing. And two, you get these big lumps. I would contrast this with, let's say a commodity market like electricity, where over the course of the day you can generally expect that your costs are fairly fixed. You've got, most people get billed at 10 kw an hour, 8 an hour, whatever it is. But with crypto, whenever the market gets very volatile, demand for trading activity increases.
00:03:02.086 - 00:03:44.154, Speaker A: You see this on the Nasdaq, in the CME, you see this on Uniswap and Phoenix, doesn't really matter. But whenever volatility picks up, total transaction volume picks up, and that means gas fees, gas prices spike. When that happens, it's pretty expensive for users. And our core belief is that normal users cannot be subject to negative externalities when demand spikes. So let's kind of explore what exactly that looks like. This chart here shows gas prices on the Ethereum blockchain from 2016 through 2020. The left hand side of the chart represents 0% demand utilization on the x axis, and the right hand side represents 100%.
00:03:44.154 - 00:04:33.922, Speaker A: The y axis here is a log scale. And so what this chart shows you pretty clearly is that as you get roughly to 85% or so of demand of block space utilization, the gas prices just go vertical and the line turns basically straight up at the end. Software has really traditionally been defined by zero marginal costs. That's what Bill Gates understood back in the seventies and eighties, and that ultimately came to define the software industry as we know it. And really for the first time in the history of software, we're now seeing something that is not zero marginal cost in software. We think this is a really a new economic phenomenon, and one that hasn't existed before, and it ultimately produces something that we call anti network effects. Anti network effects are a huge problem.
00:04:33.922 - 00:05:06.584, Speaker A: When gas prices spike, the system becomes unusable in traditional systems that are subject to network effects. If, let's say you have Alice and Bob with a phone, that's kind of the classic network effect business. The more people who have a phone, the more people you can call. And there's kind of a natural network effect there. In crypto, there are obviously many network effects at play, and the most obvious of which typically is liquidity. But there's also now this new concept called anti network effects. And it is our belief that anti network effects create a very firm ceiling on overall system growth and utilization.
00:05:06.584 - 00:05:50.416, Speaker A: It doesn't matter how strong your network effects are if you have anti network effects, because at the end of the day, the anti network effects just create a firm cap on overall system usage. So what's causing these anti network effects to kick in? Well, in a word, it's demand. If all of the transactions are competing with one another to be included in a block, then you got to do everything one at a time or sequentially, as shown here. And this is how the EVM runs. The solution is kind of obvious, which is to do a lot of things at the same time, and that's to do things in parallel. As shown here. With the SVM, cpu's have been multicore for roughly 15 years now, and any modern graphics card has thousands of cores in it.
00:05:50.416 - 00:06:33.244, Speaker A: And so parallelism is a pretty common thing in computer science today. The really key thing though, that gets unlocked in this model is when you can move away from global fee markets into local fee markets. When you have a single threaded processor, every transaction competes for or the same for one priority slot. But when you move to parallelism, you can have fee markets be localized. And specifically, those fee markets can be localized per unit of state that each transaction touches. So what does it mean to have a fee market for each unit of state? Well, let's consider three different scenarios to kind of understand this. On the left hand side, we've got two different transactions that are non contentious.
00:06:33.244 - 00:07:08.730, Speaker A: And on the right hand side, we'll get into a contentious example. So on the left here, you can see we've got Mary trading with Nancy, and we've got Bob paying Alice. And pretty intuitively, those two transactions have nothing to do with one another. There's no reason that those two transactions shouldn't be able to be processed in parallel. We call these transactions non contentious, and therefore each of these transactions can be subject to a separate fee market. Conversely, on the right hand side, we've got Charlie and Jenny, who are bidding in an auction for an NFT. And in this case, those two transactions from Charlie and Jenny are contentious.
00:07:08.730 - 00:07:58.794, Speaker A: They are competing over a very common piece of state, which would be the NFT. This naturally means those two transactions should be subject to the same fee market. The only way you're going to scale computation is to leverage parallelism so that you can execute all of the non contentious transactions in parallel. And if you think about the inherent nature of trading and finance, if I'm paying you and you're shopping wherever, those two things don't have anything to do with one another, and so you can scale out the vast majority of economic and trading activity with non contentious transactions. All right, so we've just covered compute. Next we're going to get into bandwidth and then demand load. So, parallelism is great, but it doesn't really matter unless you can actually get those transactions to the network nodes to actually run those computations.
00:07:58.794 - 00:08:45.734, Speaker A: And so in order to do that, you're going to need to maximize how you make use of bandwidth in these systems. A lot of the proponents of the modular thesis like to highlight that, oh, you can change out execution layers, you can have ten EVM chains, or you can have an SVM on top of ethereum or whatever, and you can do all of those things. But at the end of the day, you still have a common networking layer in the case of any of these L1 systems, and therefore you're bounded by the throughput of the networking of the L1. Ethereum has a major upgrade coming. I think it's scheduled for January now. It's called proto dank sharding, or otherwise called 4844. And after that upgrade goes into effect, the whole system will run at about 1 mb/second Solana is running at roughly 125 megabytes per second today.
00:08:45.734 - 00:09:23.436, Speaker A: I'm not going to get into the differences between these networking protocols. Gossip and ethereum and turbine and Solana. That's anatoly or someone else can handle that talk. But just looking at the very high level network architectures here, you can see why one is more efficient than the other. Our belief is that the only way you're going to maximize overall system performance is by tightly coupling the networking layer and the execution layer, so that you can take advantage of maximize the bandwidth and the compute available. Integrated systems generally outperform modular ones. The most high profile example of this in technology is Apple.
00:09:23.436 - 00:10:09.546, Speaker A: Apple is very famous for integrating hardware, software and cloud services to deliver amazing product experiences. But actually, the more pertinent example for us today is actually Nvidia in the context of AI systems and training. Note the similarities here. Generally, we've got large numbers of discrete chips and pieces of hardware, and they need to communicate for high performance workloads. In the case of Nvidia, we have hundreds or thousands of cards hooked up a do these large scale training and inference jobs. And obviously, in the case of Solana, you've got networks of nodes all over the world running consensus and validation in order to achieve their respective objectives. Both approaches take a surprisingly similar approach.
00:10:09.546 - 00:10:53.654, Speaker A: They build custom networking and they build custom execution environments, and so that they can tightly integrate the system and maximize performance. Solana has the SVM, and that is then connected with turbine, which makes all the machines talk. And Nvidia has got CuDa and what they call NVlink. Nvlink is actually particularly notable. Nvidia bought a company called Mellanox in 2020 for 7 billion. And Mellanox's technology became the foundation of what is now called NVlink. And if you look today at all of the large scale AI systems, and if you listen to Nvidia CEO Jensen Wong talk, he talks repeatedly and extensively about the importance of integration and the fact that they bought Mellanox and built NVlink in from the ground up.
00:10:53.654 - 00:11:35.038, Speaker A: Solana obviously didn't have billions of dollars to go buy some third party networking thing when they were launching, but they understood the fundamental importance of the system from, from the get go. And that's why turbine was designed as a customized system and built in right from the beginning. The net result of this integration is, as you can see in this slide, this is showing gas costs over the course of about twelve months across bitcoin, Ethereum and Solana. It's kind of hard to see the solana, but it's that flat orange line going along the bottom. And obviously, the most important thing is it doesn't move. It is not only low, it is consistently low. Even when demand loads spike on other systems, the gas prices always stay constant on Solana.
00:11:35.038 - 00:12:20.244, Speaker A: And that's because there's parallelism and this bandwidth. Our last thing we're going to talk about in the theory section of this presentation is standardization, or rather the lack thereof. Modular systems, I should say integrated systems, have this one very nice feature, which is they inherently enforce a common set of standards for everyone to agree to, and that's true for both developers and for users. Modular systems, by definition, because they allow people to change parts and pieces and move them around, by definition, do not adhere to a common set of standards. They are intrinsically heterogeneous. We can see this today and the impacts of this on financial markets just by looking at tradfi. These are a bunch of exchanges all around the world.
00:12:20.244 - 00:13:11.878, Speaker A: They all have different trading policies, they have different settlement times, they have different FX currencies, they have all kinds of different margin requirements, and this, that and the other. And if you ask any hedge fund or bank or anyone else who's involved in capital markets, the complexity of managing all of these things is extremely difficult, especially when, yeah, things work 99.99% of the time, but if you make 5 million trades per day, then it turns out you're going to have hundreds or thousands of problems per day across all of these different heterogeneous and bespoke systems. The beauty of integrated systems is that they just enforce a common set of standards. Here, if you look the way this is playing out in crypto is it's not the London Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange. The exchanges here, so to speak, are optimism, arbitrum, starkware, scroll, mantle, et cetera. But all of these systems are inherently political.
00:13:11.878 - 00:13:43.274, Speaker A: They have different trust assumptions and different collateral and bridging requirements. And that complex system is going to meaningfully make these systems more brittle. They're going to increase costs for users and increase security risks because of bridges. All right, so I started this presentation about 15 minutes ago on the theory section. We're going to get into the practice section in just a couple minutes here. But to recap the theory section we talked about, first, trading and payments are the key use cases for blockchains. Second, the primary attributes you want in trading systems or you want them to be fast and cheap.
00:13:43.274 - 00:14:14.260, Speaker A: Third, anti network effects create a firm growth on overall system usage. Fourth, integrated systems outperform modular ones. And lastly, that heterogeneous standards end up producing a net worse financial system. So next, we're going to get into the practice section of this presentation, and I'm going to talk one example about trading and one about payments. So let's get into it. We'll start with trading. There are naturally in any trade, two participants, a maker and a taker.
00:14:14.260 - 00:14:47.266, Speaker A: So let's consider the objectives of each. Takers want the best possible price. On the other hand, makers want to be profitable, I should say need to be profitable. These two things are inherently in conflict with one another. One, getting a price improvement comes directly at the expense of the other. It's therefore a very delicate balance for an exchange to make these systems function in equilibrium, where you can balance the inherently different objectives of each. Over the next few slides, I'm going to demonstrate two things.
00:14:47.266 - 00:15:18.320, Speaker A: One, that on chain order books are only feasible on a high performance integrated blockchain, and two, that on chain order books provide both better prices for takers and for makers. All right, let's jump it around. So this is a visualization of an order book. This kind of a chart is called an order book depth chart. This is for the etC pair from actually bittrex from quite some time ago. The pair doesn't actually really matter. What does matter is that you can see that this is a single pair on one exchange.
00:15:18.320 - 00:15:44.264, Speaker A: And actually the time here that's running by at the bottom is much slower than real time. As you can see the clock ticking. And what you can see is there's just a lot of orders hitting the order book. There's limit orders, there's cancel orders, there's market orders, but there's a large rate of activity happening. And this is for one market. Most modern exchanges have hundreds or thousands of markets. And so to make an exchange work, you just need to have a huge amount of processing and bandwidth.
00:15:44.264 - 00:16:15.004, Speaker A: The only way you're going to make this work is with an integrated blockchain that has parallelism, because that's the only way you're going to be able to run these markets in parallel. If you were to run all of these sequentially times this times 1000, it's just never going to work. So we're going to need a high performance integrated chain. All right, now let's talk about takers and then we'll talk about makers. Next. Takers want the best possible prices when they trade, and that means they want the tightest possible spreads. That means on this chart, lower is better.
00:16:15.004 - 00:16:57.230, Speaker A: For this analysis, we're looking at the ETH USDC pair on Uniswap and on Phoenix. Phoenix is a new market make limit order protocol on Solana, launched a few months ago. And so we can see on this chart is that flat red line is the Uniswap chart. This chart shows the price of trading on Uniswap for takers, shown here as ten bps. Uniswap is most well known for its pools that offer a five bps spread from the mid market price to the best bidder, best ask. And so the total spread is ten, five times two. Note that this ten basis point number here is a theoretical lower bound.
00:16:57.230 - 00:17:34.170, Speaker A: In practice, slippage will always be higher than this because of how AmM curves work. The squiggly blue line is the pricing for Phoenix. This is about a three month period shown on the slide here. And for this analysis, we measured the spreads on Phoenix 59,000 times over the course of three months. And in roughly 55,000 of those instances, the spreads on Phoenix were tighter than those on Uniswap, which means roughly 93% of the time you're going to get a better price here. So the data here is pretty clear. You're going to get tighter spreads on Phoenix versus Uniswap.
00:17:34.170 - 00:18:00.154, Speaker A: And actually, I expect the spreads on Phoenix to decrease over time even further from this for a bunch of reasons. Next, let's consider market makers. They're the other side of an exchange. On this slide, we're looking at market maker profitability. On the left hand side, we're looking at Uniswap on the efusDc pair over a course of about twelve months. And you can see that market makers are losing money pretty clearly. The only thing that really matters is that those are going down over time.
00:18:00.154 - 00:18:30.424, Speaker A: On the right hand side, we can see market maker profitability on Phoenix. Phoenix has not been around for twelve months, so this has not captured twelve months of data. This shows roughly three months of, or, excuse me, one month of Phoenix data. But again, you can see directionally you're going up as opposed to down, which is the key thing here. Amms, at least in their current form, are just not going to sustain for major pairs. What you see on the left, by definition, cannot work forever, because at some point, those market makers will run out of money. We can see this very clearly in the data.
00:18:30.424 - 00:19:08.312, Speaker A: It's been borne out. The Uniswap team doesn't contest any of this, and all of the AMM proponents will will acknowledge this if you push them on it. And so the only way we're going to have sustainable on chain price discovery is with high performance integrated chains. Anatoly launched Solana with a vision of having Nasdaq on chain, and we now can see that working in practice, and we can see that on chain price discovery is something worth striving for and delivers actual value to users and to market makers. All right, last part of this presentation, I'm going to talk about the payment stuff. Should talk about trading. You all have probably seen the headlines, but I'll kind of unpack what Visa is doing here.
00:19:08.312 - 00:19:37.224, Speaker A: It's pretty cool. Visa started doing some settlements using USDC about a year ago, using USDC on Ethereum. They announced a few weeks ago that they were expanding that to include Solana, and that's live today. It's kind of a little tricky to follow the modern payment stack. So let me describe what's happening here. When you swipe your card at a merchant terminal, there are three major players involved, the issuer, Visa, and the merchant acquirer. So the issuer is your bank.
00:19:37.224 - 00:20:12.394, Speaker A: So JPMorgan Chase, you know, whatever, bank of America, Wells Fargo, et cetera, those are issuers. They issue your card, debit or credit. You have Visa, which, of course, is the network that coordinates all the payments, and then have the merchant acquirer, which is literally the terminal where you swipe your card card. There's hundreds, if not thousands of merchant acquirers all over the world. The actual largest in the world is worldpay, and they're actually live using this today. Another one is called Nuvay. And so what happens when you swipe your card is Visa basically tallies up which banks owe, which merchant acquires, how much money.
00:20:12.394 - 00:20:50.314, Speaker A: And then every so often, they count all those up and net them and settle them. Those settlements take anywhere between, if you're lucky, two or three days. If you're unlucky, kind of up to 28 days. These settlements get delayed a lot whenever FX is involved, because now those banks have to move money through correspondent banks and et cetera to get money to different merchants in other countries. And you can have very slow and long settlement times. What's happening in this new program visa's running is that they're still netting and counting up the transactions whenever merchants swipe their cards. But Visa is then taking USDC.
00:20:50.314 - 00:21:34.694, Speaker A: Issuers are paying Visa and USDC, and then Visa is turning around and sending that USDC to the merchant acquirers, and they're doing that roughly every 24 hours as part of this pilot. Conceptually, there's no reason why it can't be shorter than 24 hours. They could go to twelve or two or one. My personal hope one day is that we move to real time settlement. There is no fundamental reason why we could not have it where when you swipe your card, money immediately goes from the issuer to Visa, to the merchant acquirer, and to the merchant. Technically, I think we have the infrastructure today, and the kind of goal of all of these programs is to move in that direction. For anyone who has worked in payments, the number one request from merchants all over the world is, I want to get paid faster.
00:21:34.694 - 00:22:38.024, Speaker A: And crypto finally provides the rails for that to happen. And we can see the seeds of that vision finally here in what's live with what Visa is doing with USDC and Solana. What's awesome is that they've been in the press release visa put out a few weeks ago, they were crystal clear that they're adding Solana because it's gas fees and latency. And if they're going to scale this to 1 hour or to real time settlements, they're going to need to have those gas costs below and latency below. Multicoin just turned six years old a few weeks ago, and so we've spent a lot of time over that, these last six years, reflecting on how do we think about these systems. And we've ultimately found a lot of clarity in reflecting and saying, hey, let's focus on what we know really matters. Trading and payments in reasoning from first principles, as I kind of did in the theory section of this presentation, and then in looking at what the data tells us in practice, it's now very clear to us that high performance integrated chains are the correct way to handle trading and payments.
00:22:38.024 - 00:22:53.324, Speaker A: It took us a little bit longer, I'd say, as an ecosystem and as an industry and as an investment firm to appreciate all of those things. But we can now finally see it and understand it. And so thank you very much for your time this morning and enjoy the rest of your break point.
