00:00:15.850 - 00:01:09.966, Speaker A: Hey, everyone, my name is Aaron Wright. I'm the co founder of Openlaw. I'm really excited to be here today to talk to you about dows and not just Daos, but really the future of what we can do with DAos, which is begin to put together dows that are not just grant giving, but actually can invest and create a profit for its members. So, look, when you think about organizations, they've existed for thousands of years, pretty much since the birth of civilization. We've been figuring out ways to pool capital together in either guilds, either partnerships, or other illegal entities in order to fulfill some sort of social or economic goal. And these entities are incredibly important. So when we're thinking about building out ecosystems, it's not just really just about assets, but the real value that we can contribute is by thinking about how we can pool capital together and deploy it for positive social and or economic purposes.
00:01:09.966 - 00:02:04.094, Speaker A: And with each new we get there, and with each new era of innovation, we've seen innovations when it comes to. Is that okay? Sure about that. And with each new wave of innovation, we've seen really innovation when it comes to forms of legal entities and other ways to begin to pull together capital. So the age of exploration really brought with it the first chartered corporations. That wouldn't have been possible without it. The industrial era really brought the joint stock company, which many folks have credited as one of the most innovative human innovations of all time. The railroad boom brought with it preferred stock, which is really what powers the venture capital industry.
00:02:04.094 - 00:03:27.558, Speaker A: And the oil shocks and the growth of global finance in the late 1970s and 1980s has really been a driver and driven exclusively by limited liability companies. For ethereum, really to fulfill its vision, we need not just a way to pool capital in a way to deploy it for grants. We actually need it in a way to create profitable enterprises. And dows, in many ways, are a great way to begin to think about funding projects, right? So if you're intending to build an open source project of some sort, and you need funding for that project and intend to build a project that's decentralized and token based, daos are going to be a great way to do that, and I'm going to unpack that in a little bit as well. So for folks that haven't been paying as close attention to the Dao space, about a year ago, Amin and others began to put together Malik Dao, which was a set of simplified, smart contracts that enable people to pool capital, vote on certain proposals in a very democratic way, and then provide grants. So we've been working with Amin and his team, and we are proud to announce that we've released a second version of Malik's smart contract code, which it now enables not just grant giving, but actually engaging in for profit enterprises. And so Malik, in many ways, is really a turning point which can help us really accelerate the growth of organizations and dows more broadly.
00:03:27.558 - 00:04:21.550, Speaker A: So Malik v two really solved it at the technical level. So now we're able, mechanically, using smart contracts, to begin to pool capital and make investments and receive back tokens for those investments. But it didn't solve many of the legal issues that we saw with the DAO off the bat. And for those that don't remember, the DAO was fantastic in many ways, but also ran into a tremendous number of legal problems and really started to kick off some of the pushback from the federal government here in the US when it came to icos more broadly. But we've solved those legal issues through the tooling that we put together through open law. We're actually able to build for the first time dows that are not just code based, but also provide members a limitation of liability and kind of structure things so that if something goes wrong, there's at least the legal backing to know what those rights and obligations are. And this is kind of a big deal.
00:04:21.550 - 00:05:20.050, Speaker A: Right? So before the Molok v. Two smart contracts and before the tools that we developed with OpenLaw, we really could only have these code based dows. So folks think that bitcoin and Ethereum are in many ways operate like a Dow. We've seen grant giving dows like what Molok was providing, Metacartel, Yang, Dow, and obviously makerdao and some other forms of code based Dow structures. But now that we're able to kind of marry the code with these legal wrappers, we can begin to explore a whole host of new avenues, new organizations, and new structures that I think will not only accelerate the Ethereum ecosystem, but will actually prove to be the engine for growth in the web three era. And the LAO is really the first example of doing this in earnest. So we're blending together the tools of open law along with the V, two smart contracts in order to rebuild the Dow, but to do it in a way that's based in the US and in compliance with US law.
00:05:20.050 - 00:06:06.974, Speaker A: That means that we can begin to pool capital and make investments in projects that need it, that can be entirely member directed, and it can be a new way to fund projects or other initiatives that are going to be important for the Ethereum ecosystem. And incredibly, and I think importantly, what we're doing here is a lot like what Coinbase did with exchanges. So before Coinbase was around, there was plenty of other exchanges that were operating in different jurisdictions around the globe, most notably Mount Gox. And a lot like the DAO, Mount Gox ran into security issues and also had regulatory problems. So our approach is to do this here in the US. We think if we can nail this structure here and do it the right way here in the US, then we're going to be able to scale these entities globally. So what does that mean? So the LAO is going to be launching at the end of the month.
00:06:06.974 - 00:06:48.800, Speaker A: It will be pretty much organized as a venture fund in Delaware, which is where you set up entities. We'll have a public sale where you're going to be able to purchase 1% interest in the LAO for $25,000. Up to 90 members are going to be able to become part of the Dow. And then all of the investment decisions and operations of how this entity will work will rely on Molok V, two smart contracts. So the structure of what to think about is the Lao kind of sits there in the middle. It's entirely member managed. OpenLaw, which is kind of sitting in the background, handles all the basic administrative tasks that are going to be needed to deal with various different meat space issues.
00:06:48.800 - 00:07:40.698, Speaker A: And we'll be able to support a whole ecosystem of projects that the community thinks is important for the growth of Ethereum and also the blockchain space more generally. I think that's critically important because in many ways, we've seen that the traditional venture capital community has gotten Ethereum wrong. Right? They missed Ethereum off the bat. They've missed a number of the incredible projects that have come out of this space. We think that the Ethereum community is better at doing that than traditional venture capital, and this is a means and a mechanism and a way for them to do that. So for projects that may be interested in receiving financing, we've streamlined that entire process so folks will be able to receive financing if members approve it on a take it or leave it basis, the entire fund will be based in crypto. So to contribute and become a member of the DAO, you will have to pledge ether, but projects will be funded in Dai.
00:07:40.698 - 00:08:29.600, Speaker A: So we've set up the Lau to have two default ways to finance a project. One is with a convertible note with a right to receive tokens in the future. The second is pretty much a series seed financing, where a project can tokenize themselves, actually create an sto or tokenized security, which would be useful along with those tokenized rights. And we will basically provide the legal automation tools so that the moment that the members approve the financing, all of the paperwork is generated on the back end. So a member of our team likes to call us on the Openlaw team, a reverse mullet. So we're kind of a party in the front, but all business in the back, and that's actually really helpful. Right? So if something goes sideways, if there's a problem, at least you have this legally binding paperwork that describes the rights and obligations of everybody.
00:08:29.600 - 00:09:30.494, Speaker A: Any member will have the right to nominate a startup or a project or some form of financing from the LAU. And if 50% or more of the members, as based on their capital contributions, approve the proposal, the startup or other project will receive financing and all of the documents are automatically generated all on the back end. So a lot like with Malik, members will have the right to rage, quit. So if you are a member of the LAU and you are not happy with the performance, or you want to use your ether for some other productive purpose, you'll be able to get that capital back. If some of the capital that you've pledged has been used for investments up until that point in time, that's fine. You will have the right to receive any proceeds from that investment on an ongoing basis, and any exiting member will have their interest resold to the public. So it's conceivable, unlike other funds, that the Laos will exist in potentially perpetuity.
00:09:30.494 - 00:10:17.938, Speaker A: So as long as there's demand for new members to come in, the Lau will be in existence. So this is really kind of the first dao that we think we can put together. Our goal and our intent is actually not just to put together one dow that can actually fund these types of investments, but a whole ecosystem. So we're starting with a pretty nice experiment, up to 100 members, $25,000 for 1% interests. But assuming that there's enough demand for this, there will be an entire ecosystem where we can spin up dow after Dow after Dow. And what I think is incredible about that is that we'll have the opportunity to have all these funds that are all pointed towards funding projects in the blockchain space that are all synchronized on the back end. They're relying on the same smart contract code.
00:10:17.938 - 00:10:52.486, Speaker A: They're relying on similar tooling that we may be providing, which means that we can begin to build and really fund and rebuild Silicon Valley in the sky. Right. We can build it on ether, on Ethereum. Relying on ether and funding these projects on an ongoing basis. The other thing that we're really interested in exploring is using daos itself for fundraising. So in our sense, this model works better or represents a better way to raise capital and build decentralized token based protocols. We think that you can set up a software company or a foundation, if that's your choice.
00:10:52.486 - 00:11:44.474, Speaker A: You can create a dow to raise capital publicly from verified and accredited investors, and the protocol where project can request funding through a convertible note with tokens. What that means is that the members inside of the DAO are able to determine when the network itself is ready to deploy the token. When it's sufficiently decentralized, the members of that Dow, the investors, will enjoy limited liability to the extent permitted by law. And if the project's going sideways, instead of having your capital locked up in some sort of way like we've seen in other token based projects, you're going to be able to pull that capital out. So if you invested in a project for a small period of time, that's fine, you'll enjoy the proceeds of that investment. But if the project is not developing the way you thought it would, either because they ran into unexpected technical issues, or the team wasn't as strong as you initially anticipated, completely fine. You'll be able to pull your capital and kind of move forward.
00:11:44.474 - 00:12:21.818, Speaker A: So dows are coming. I know we've talked about them in 2016 and 2017, and then we kind of got and moved into the ICO and token boom era, but really, dows are an incredibly important part of the Ethereum ecosystem. They're coming. We're here on the smart contract side in order to start facilitating this, but we're also here on the legal side to begin to facilitate this here in the US. And I think that's incredibly exciting and really going to be the path forward for the Ethereum ecosystem going forward. So I don't know if there's any questions, but that's all I have. Questions.
00:12:21.984 - 00:12:43.694, Speaker B: Yeah. What are the limits in, let's see, what kind of limits do investors who are not accredited investors face in investing in these types of organizations? And are there any promising legal avenues through which, through restructuring things, you could start opening this up to people who don't have a million dollars?
00:12:43.812 - 00:13:20.438, Speaker A: Yes. So I think we're going to get there. So again, the way that we want to approach this is a lot like Coinbase, right? Coinbase started. They listed bitcoin off the bat. At that point in time, they could have listed a whole host of other assets that were there, but they started with one they complied with the law and then they block and tackled their way to building out a robust marketplace that can host a whole bunch of different assets. We think that's the right approach for dows themselves. So we're starting with accredited investors, but we have structures that we think can work and arguments to support those structures that we think we can begin to deploy once we develop a degree of trust to get non accredited investors involved.
00:13:20.438 - 00:14:14.554, Speaker A: But that's going to take a little bit of time to get there. The other thing that's interesting for dows themselves, and this is something that we're interested in exploring, is that dows can hire folks. Right? So maybe there's opportunities to get involved in a project or even in the DAO itself and ways to receive interest in that project by just participating or developing a relationship with that dow. So I think we're getting there. We're kind of starting at ground zero, but I think over the next 510, 15 years, we're going to start to see it bleed out so that we can begin to get unaccredited investors involved. And the reason I think that's going to work is that I think a whole bunch of folks online that don't necessarily know one another or trust one another, it's going to be pretty difficult for that group, through the majority voting of a Dow structure to defraud one another. Right.
00:14:14.554 - 00:15:07.526, Speaker A: And that's the big concern that I think governments are worried about. They're worried about somebody, somebody with a lot of power defrauding other folks instead of people coming together with equal access to information to do something productively together. Is there a way, a change in the law? We may just need some clarifications. So all the know, listen, the US has gotten a bad rap when it comes to the legal regime, but dows, we're able to launch member managed organizations here through limited liability companies that was birthed in Wyoming. And we have a lot of flexibility. Other jurisdictions can't do that. And even with the interests in those entities, there's a decent argument, one that we're going to probably need to clarify or push on, that those interests themselves may not be securities and that would enable accredited investors to get involved.
00:15:07.526 - 00:15:45.050, Speaker A: But we have to kind of work our way there. Obviously, dows are on the radar of various government agencies. They picked on the dow off the bat. So anything I think we do in this space, they're going to pay attention to and really take a close look at is there a way to use know your customer laws to get around the non accredited investor issue. So is there ways to get around that, such as a social, know your customer. So there may be. In order to participate off the bat, you're going to have to verify your identity.
00:15:45.050 - 00:16:16.040, Speaker A: We will not disclose that information. So if you want to participate in, allow or anything that we put together anonymously, you're able to do that. But at some point that information needs to be collected. That's one of the services that we're providing via Openlaw in terms of getting around that, if you've been paying attention, lots of governments, including governments around the globe, are trying to make sure that anywhere around the globe, you're not going to be able to get around some of those requirements. Yeah.
00:16:18.570 - 00:16:22.498, Speaker C: If you're doing all the back end, what service fees are you going to be charging the Laos?
00:16:22.594 - 00:16:50.880, Speaker A: Sure. So Openlaw will charge a 2% service fee in year one, but it will deprecate over time. So we think it's important that we're incentivized to develop the DAP and actually do what members may need as they begin to kind of explore the structure. But at the same time, we don't want to eat the fund. So our goal long term is to keep that rate as low as possible. But we thought 2% was a reasonable way to start, to start off for the services. Did you have a question?
00:16:54.130 - 00:17:27.302, Speaker C: This a little bit touches back on the accredited investor question specifically for you have to have a net worth of so high to be accredited investor in the US. You spoke a little bit to the anonymous part, whether you're proving your identity or not. But as far as being accredited investor, with having a certain amount of wealth involved, is there a legal path to not needing that requirement based off of the public knowledge of the Dow that might be invested in?
00:17:27.356 - 00:18:31.230, Speaker A: Yeah. So the big issue with all this is you can't raise capital for either funds or other projects if there's a general solicitation, if you generally request it from the public, unless you go public, you file all the paperwork necessary to be a publicly traded entity or you qualify for an exemption like you are an accredited investor. That being said, there's some strong case law in the US that suggests that if you're a member of a partnership, some sort of organization, where everybody is on equal footing, there's no dominant member of that entity and everybody has equal access to the information necessary to manage that entity, that the interest in that entity is no longer considered a security. So partnership interests, as an example, are not considered securities. If me and you started a company, we had equal rights to manage that, it would not be considered a security, the interest in it. So if it's not a security, you're not going to need to necessarily comply with securities laws. So there may be some avenues to kind of get there.
00:18:31.230 - 00:18:43.210, Speaker A: There's some questions about the extent to which that's going to apply in this space that we need to work through. Yeah.
00:18:45.340 - 00:18:56.440, Speaker B: Follow up on that question. In that scenario where you have like an LLC with 1000 members who are all equal and it's not a security, can people sell their share in the membership?
00:18:56.600 - 00:19:25.484, Speaker A: That's the vision that you can get towards at that point. The interest in the fund could be potentially fundrable at that point and tradable. So we're not there yet, but we need to start at ground zero. Right? We did that with the Dow as a glorious experiment, but we need to move beyond experiments and we need to move beyond grant giving. In order for us to really take this all to the next level, we're going to need to pull together our capital. Right. You can't do that much just through trading.
00:19:25.484 - 00:20:02.624, Speaker A: You need to pull together capital and deploy it for productive purposes. That's when we're going to have the real impact that I think many folks within this ecosystem want to have. And this is a good first step towards doing that. As we push towards this vision of permissionless organizations and permissionless financing and a Silicon valley that's not tethered to one area in the United States, but really is equally available to everybody across the globe. That's why I got into Ethereum way back in 2014 and 2015, and that's why I'm still here today. I think we need to build that. The system that we have now is not healthy.
00:20:02.624 - 00:20:29.850, Speaker A: It's a little bit rotten. And this is the path forward. Are you looking to eventually release your open law services to other governance, like Aragon and colony? Yeah, we are definitely open to exploring that. So we do have some public APIs where things can be integrated together. So if there's a will, there may be a way.
