00:00:03.050 - 00:00:30.422, Speaker A: Hey, welcome back to Uncommon Core, where we explore the big ideas in crypto from first principles. This show is hosted by Suzu, the CEO and chief investment officer of Three Arrows Capital, and Me hasu a crypto researcher and writer. Enjoy. Hey, sue, it's so good to see you again. I just checked and the last time we did an episode together, just the two of us, it was in June. Man.
00:00:30.556 - 00:00:32.790, Speaker B: Yeah, that's crazy. Almost half a year.
00:00:32.860 - 00:01:11.410, Speaker A: Yeah. Man, it's so good to talk to you again. One on one. You sent me a couple days ago a thread from someone on Twitter that went extremely viral about valuation models for cryptocurrencies, especially talking about layer one tokens, right? And in the days after that, two people I know from traditional finance who have none or very little crypto exposure also shared the threat with me and asked for my opinion on it. So I thought, man, this is something that we may have to talk about. Right?
00:01:11.480 - 00:01:12.562, Speaker B: Yeah, sounds good.
00:01:12.696 - 00:02:28.986, Speaker A: So to me it seems that there's clear demand to hear a little bit more about sort of how we think about valuation models in crypto now that we are making all time highs again and so on. So, yeah, I want to go through some the arguments and approaches that we've seen in the past. And to me it seems I just sat down before this call and grout door down what I remember as the valuation models that people have used in the past to look at cryptocurrencies. To me it seems they can be like high level categorized in two brackets and the absolute and relative valuation approaches. And I'm just going to give this super high level overview because don't want this to be some kind of lecture. So in the relative approaches, we have the ones where it's relative, people look at something relative to itself, right? So they look in bitcoin, they look at sort of, okay, what is the ratio of the stock to the flow in relation to the price, right? And then they sort of map this out, right, and get some kind of future price development. The rainbow model is in the same category, hoddle waves in the same category where you look at something that is internal to bitcoin, right.
00:02:28.986 - 00:03:49.910, Speaker A: Hoddle waves is sort of what's the hoddling behavior, what's sort of the velocity of coins in sort of the bitcoin economy and map that to price. Right? And many trading indicators sort of fall into this category. And the second big one is sort of approaches that model the price of a cryptocurrency relative to other asset classes or other external use cases. I think one of the first that we've seen that sort of Chris Berniski pioneered way back in the day, but that may also have been already like in some emails by Satoshi and whatnot is sort of looking at the remittance market back then when people thought cryptocurrency is mainly useful to send money abroad, right? So they look at like, okay, we have this thing in the real world. What is sort of the tam of it and how much of that can cryptocurrencies realistically capture and then arrive at some relative valuation there? And I think even more popular is look at like an asset class like gold, right? So people obviously value gold, something like bitcoin or ethereum. It does feel like gold in many ways. So how much of the gold market can we capture? And I think those are pretty sound approaches.
00:03:49.910 - 00:04:28.290, Speaker A: And then instead of the absolute approach bracket, we have seen people value with these tokens as a company. And recently that's a threat we are going to talk about as a nation state or a nation state economy we have seen, pioneered by John Pepper, like valuing these tokens as a commodity, such as oil that you consume for fees and of course, as money, basically. So, first of all, what do you think about this high level approach and does anything stand out to you?
00:04:28.360 - 00:06:19.446, Speaker B: Yeah, I think I would first preface by saying I think the desire to have valuation models has never been higher because of the entry of institutional investors who are used to these kind of models in equities and fixed income markets. So they want to have some kind of solidity, some kind of kind of solid ground to be able to say, okay, the market is undervalued because of this, overvalued because of this versus the model. So I think that's primarily where the drive to find these valuation models comes from. On the institutional side, on the retail side, for traders, they often want to be able to say how does this compare to previous cycles? How does this compare to can we map on chain dynamics to the prices? That's why on chain metrics, research type people are very popular on Twitter as well. So I think it's all people trying to make sense of things in the world, right, so they want to be able to tie facts in the world with prices in the world. So I think with that said, I think the relative versus absolute is a good kind of way to split it out, right. Because absolute wise stock to flow is really the prime example of this, right, where it's literally saying that we can make certain predictions about the price of bitcoin from the way that its supply changes over time through havings I think with all these models, there's like, strong elements of truth and then strong elements of things that don't quite make sense.
00:06:19.446 - 00:07:24.246, Speaker B: But a lot of times it doesn't matter quite as well because it's all about coordination points also. So I think stock to flow being an example where the question would be then why does stock to flow just apply to bitcoin? Why doesn't apply to other things? And then clearly there's quite a few times where they have to redraw or refit it. There's a lot of kind of I wouldn't call it pseudoscience, but I would say it's not necessarily something that can be traded off of. But at the same time, it's a very powerful coordination point for people in the bitcoin market. So because people know that other people look at this model, it becomes something that is reflexive as well. Just a couple of examples of this kind of reflexivity is that most bitcoin OGS know that on the previous soft fork SegWit, bitcoin went up 50% in about a couple of months right after. So this time with taproot.
00:07:24.246 - 00:08:08.458, Speaker B: If they remember that and they believe that other people would know this, then they also want to hold for that, right. And then similar for havings as well, where people know that post having the price goes up a lot, then there's coordination points. Right. So I kind of see a lot of models as being actually almost like constitutions or playbooks that people can follow together. And you're seeing that in Ethereum now with the fee burning, where people are trying to say, well, we burn this much in fees today, hence we must hold our ETH harder. Right, because it's even sounder today. So there's kind of an element of narrative building whenever you have a model.
00:08:08.458 - 00:08:24.240, Speaker B: So while it seems kind of crazy to traditional finance people who really believe in the solidness of models, the sort of coevolution of models and narrative is something that's always happening, right.
00:08:24.770 - 00:08:29.786, Speaker A: So you're saying, are all valuation models ultimately just memes?
00:08:29.978 - 00:09:28.334, Speaker B: Yes, absolutely. Even if you take in traditional finance, right, you take a valuation model. Like when people look at foreign currencies, they talk about things like purchasing power parity, they talk about real interest rate differentials. They look at these things and they try to ascertain some relationships, right? So part of that is doing some kind of, like, backward looking science sort of econometrics, where they're saying, here is what happened before, and so we can extrapolate this. But at the end of the day, yeah, it's still something where you have to believe certain things about the world, right. And a great example of where the models of the past were shown to be, again, intersubjective, is the idea of value investing, right, which I tweeted about a while ago, and it's now been over 20 years that value investing has been sort of a disaster for those people. And I think that they had this idea that, well, there are no new paradigms.
00:09:28.334 - 00:10:17.794, Speaker B: There are no new paradigms. Well, if you look at 2005, the top stocks, we're talking about oil companies, and now 19 of the top 20 stocks are tech companies. Even if you think about oil itself, I mean, petroleum was found in the 1880s, right, or 1870s, I can't remember exactly. But there's kind of this desire for humans to say, okay, here's what has happened in the last 2030, 40, 50 years. And then. Now I've created a model and we're on solid ground now and this is like immutable and this is like truth that I found this truth. But really it's like we're just a species living on this planet and making up rules and seeing if we can coordinate behavior from rules and make sense of things.
00:10:17.794 - 00:10:41.706, Speaker B: So with that said, I think it's clear that in crypto, the graphs for a valuation model comes from that perspective. So it is very important to be aware of what other people think is the valuation model for things and then also to see sort of when that can be true and when that can be very false. Right?
00:10:41.888 - 00:11:55.454, Speaker A: There's two things I want to unpack here and the first is sort of maybe the most central element to all of economics is sort of the concept of opportunity cost, right? I'm curious when we look at these sort of quote unquote absolute approaches, whether there's really such a thing as an absolute approach. Because you have a great example, people had this meme that basically stocks are cheap if they are sort of below a certain PE ratio, right, for example. But nowadays sort of the sort of acceptable or standard PE ratio is like twice or sometimes like three times as high, right? For the most valuable companies, even higher. I think the reason is that you can only value stocks, for example, against its alternatives, right? So in the past people as an alternative or like they would put their money in bonds and now bonds are paying negative interest rates, right? So how can you possibly value stocks without looking at bonds and all other assets, right? So is there really such a thing as an absolute model?
00:11:55.572 - 00:13:10.770, Speaker B: People try to create models and call them absolute but there is really no such thing as an absolute model. Another great example is western investors have been burning money in emerging markets for many years now because they buy a stock that looks incredibly cheap on a peak. But then each year when they have earnings, they pay them out all to employees or they pay them out through other ways, right? I mean, especially Chinese equities, these companies are generally not run to create a profit for shareholders, so the company can make billions of dollars, but that doesn't mean shareholders are going to get any of it through dividends or through buybacks. There's kind of always implicit assumptions in absolute model, in models that purport to be absolute. There's always implicit assumptions in what people are trying to say. They're trying to sort of say this is the way that we can understand this versus other things and by doing so we will make some kind of progress. So I think that it's for that reason too that you'll see different coin communities have different models as well for what gives it value so bitcoin.
00:13:10.770 - 00:14:20.878, Speaker B: The fees are not quite high these days, so there's not much talk about fees or transactions, right. Because if you do that, then Ethereum or other chains look much stronger, but instead they'll talk about versus gold or they'll talk about hoddle waves or they'll talk about stock to flow. And so that is also a reaction to the realities of the world. Right, and similar for Ether, there's a lot of high fee volume on Ether, so they want to talk about fees a lot. And then there's Solana and Avalanche and high TPS chains where user accounts are growing very fast. There's always an implicit assumption behind every model, and I think that's quite key to understand crypto actually as well. Because anytime someone tries to sell you a model and say, this is the model you use to value all coins, and then you find like, let's say, crazy outliers where then you ask them, well, why is the market pricing this coin that way? And then you say market's wrong, or things like that, you probably get a sense that you're missing something as well.
00:14:21.044 - 00:15:20.354, Speaker A: You touched on one of my favorite pet peeves, which is I'm constantly talking about with people who tell me that you cannot look at DeFi tokens, for example, as equity. Like, because equity gets all of its value from the law, right? Basically you guaranteed that value as a shareholder of the stock. But I'm telling them, no, it's because of the social contract that a company sort of maximizes shareholder value, right. They could do whatever they want with their money and there's nothing really that even within the realm of what's legal, there's still so much they can do. I really like that you said that. And the other point that you made is also very good, where each coin and each sort of project wants to be valued in a framework or metric that makes them look really good. Right.
00:15:20.354 - 00:15:39.626, Speaker A: So that's why all of the high TPS chains, they want to only compare themselves with low transaction costs and high TPS. Right, and then you have something like Bitcoin that wants to sort of value itself in something that makes Bitcoin look good.
00:15:39.648 - 00:15:39.786, Speaker B: Right.
00:15:39.808 - 00:15:46.300, Speaker A: So each community is sort of its own sell side research, basically.
00:15:47.470 - 00:15:48.634, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly.
00:15:48.752 - 00:16:25.670, Speaker A: So when we look at these valuation models, I think something you said is that there's basically a beauty contest going on in crypto at all times or like a coordination game where you want to predict what valuation models other people are going to use and understand what, according to those models, what coins will do the best. Right. So there's basically like a meta how much focus do you spend on a meta game like that?
00:16:25.820 - 00:17:41.434, Speaker B: I think it's pretty important to understand, especially when people kind of overestimate certain narratives or underestimate others. So I think a good example of this was EIP one five nine, which was a very bullish catalyst going into it and extended through a bit after as people started to see the burn. But then as people started to think about it a little more logically, they started to say, okay, well, even if I'm burning a lot of fees now, but the chain is not scaling on layer one. But meanwhile all these new users are coming in and these are not necessarily wealthy people. These are people that want to be able to use DFI on $1,000. These are people that want to be able to use applications, then maybe having a culture where you're celebrating high fees can be a turn off, right, and can be quite dangerous also. So then we kind of saw a big surge in layer one activity where they kind of were able to capitalize on a lot of the news coming in, right, with BNB and BSc, but then also with Salana and FTX and with Avalanche and their Bridge and Phantom.
00:17:41.434 - 00:19:38.546, Speaker B: And there's a number of these layer ones that have performed incredibly well, sort of after Yappy Nine. So there's kind of an example where if you're purely from a fee perspective, you may say, well, it's burning the most fees, has the most revenue, has the most on chain revenues, hence it has the best PE ratio, then you kind of miss the whole point, right, of what the market will do next. Because the kind of reality is that there is also a philosophical debate there that can happen, where people might think, okay, well, you have the highest fees now, but if the next 1 billion users go to other chains, will not some of the users on your chain now go to those chains as well? To sort of join where the new party is? So this is kind of what's happening in the NFT space as well, unfortunately, as well, right, where ETH NFTs have really fallen quite a bit in large part because of Solana NFTs, right, because people can actually collect these, whereas no one's going to buy a one Ether NFT and pay 0.1 ETH in gas, right. So they're having to compete with these kind of bots to do that. So there is kind of a double sidedness to sort of each narrative, really, right? It is important to see sort of where that narrative can be coming a little bit dangerous and where it's sort of sort of less so. Right? So I think that bitcoin for some time it had a kind of a dangerous narrative where it was much too tied to elon pumping it, basically and things like so when Know started to talk about the Know cleaner dirty mining and then we had the China FUD as Know, that became very dangerous.
00:19:38.546 - 00:20:54.080, Speaker B: But then as the market kind of stabilized and increasing amounts of mining moved out of China and into sort of very renewable and very sustainable sources, I think there's something where I've seen a lot of people talk about how? Because ethereum is migrated into POS or POS is a strictly better consensus mechanism than POW. Then? Therefore once everyone realizes this then bitcoin will go to zero and POS coins will go to the moon. Right? That's kind of becoming understood. It's to the point that I've seen a lot of banks write research like this. That's been something where I think that if they zoom out, they'll probably see kind of the problem with that logic, right? Namely that we can create, umpteen, POS coins. We can create, umpteen, forks of POS coins as well. And there's kind of a reason why proof of work for moneyness has different properties than POS.
00:20:54.080 - 00:22:15.394, Speaker B: So I think that I've talked to some guys that are like some of the biggest farmers on ethereum, and they said they actually would prefer if it stayed POW because it's lindy. Like they know how it behaves, whereas if it goes to POS, then the lindy clock is reset to zero and they wonder where if they want to wait at least six months for farming big. And these are huge farmers on huge DeFi users on ethereum. So I think that the POW versus POS narrative is another example where if you take a model where any use of energy is waste, then you kind of will then say, well, then why is bitcoin number one, the market is wrong, right? And you kind of ignore the fact that now in the US stock market, there's a ton of bitcoin miners being listed, there's huge investment appetite, there's huge courting of bitcoin miners by states, by Texas, Virginia, west Virginia, all across the emerging market as well. So I just think that there's another example know for a while the sort of dangers of POW or sort of the ways that it could get attacked were underestimated. And then now it's sort of very overestimated and sort of the advantages of POW are not understood.
00:22:15.522 - 00:23:26.206, Speaker A: I mean, what people who say bitcoin is dying or the proof of stakecoin can replace bitcoin, what they also typically miss, I think there tend to be newer people in crypto, and what they tend to miss is that ultimately what matters is the strength of the community. And we touched on this with the cell site, the community being sort of a coin cell site research. And we've seen how well, if one narrative falters, then they can invent the next one. And bitcoin has transitioned narratives so many times now. I've tried to show this with my article visions of bitcoin in 2018 with Nick Carter. Looking at this really helped me understand just how good of a bet bitcoin is because there's really no one thing that can kill it, right? It's going to transition to the next narrative or the next use case. And ethereum at this point has also proven a similar sort of chameleon like quality, definitely.
00:23:26.206 - 00:24:00.386, Speaker A: So one of the things, and that's an interesting thing you said that I want to unpack. So one of the statements from that thread that we talked about is the value of a chain comes from how much economic utility it supports, not from how much it captures. And then you told me that this statement scared you. You said it's one of the seven unholy top signs, like the signs of the market topping out. So, first of all, why do you think that? And what are the other signs?
00:24:00.578 - 00:25:08.954, Speaker B: Well, first of all, the other signs are I haven't seen them yet, and there's some chance that I won't see them this cycle. So then there will be a super cycle as promised. But with that said, this is one of them where it's a similar concept to what I brought up during the top of D five summer in 2020, where there's sort of this idea of the fork, right, and forking of things. And you're kind of seeing this with Olympus now as well, where there's now 15 Olympus forks, at least on every chain, right? And it is kind of scaring some Olympus holders because now Olympus is launching to avalanche as well, because they are like, okay, well, there's now two different avalanche Olympus forks that are all doing really well. I can't ignore this anymore. Right. Forks have just a great ability to show people that what has been built, what actually is novel, and what can be copied, but also sort of where things might fail.
00:25:08.954 - 00:25:46.438, Speaker B: Right. Where if you see some of these forks fail that then you're like, okay, well, this may also happen to mine in the same way. Or also maybe long term, the value capture isn't quite as strong as they thought because a lot of stuff in crypto, it does follow a kind of thing where you need to be early in that thing. Right. So if you're not early in it, then it defeats a lot of the purpose of it to begin with. Right. So once things get to a certain point, there is this fear of not being early anymore.
00:25:46.438 - 00:26:38.794, Speaker B: And this fear drives people into things where they think there are higher chances being early. And so when that happens, then the question is what kinds of investments make sense given that and what kind of investments are more exposed, right. The idea that the way to value blockchains is by the economic utility of them and not the value they capture, and then more so to value them as nations. Right. I think this is very tricky. I recently talked to Maddie, who we had on our podcast as well, and he was talking about the idea of tribes and sort of what he was positing. A similar concept where he's saying what crypto does.
00:26:38.794 - 00:26:53.166, Speaker B: Is it? Enables tribes to come together, and there are many different tribes, and then these tribes just are creating a lot of this value because of their ability to coordinate and their ability to do economically useful activities for each other. Right.
00:26:53.268 - 00:27:01.502, Speaker A: And I think creating like FOMO and other people who want to join the tribe, but they sort of need to buy the token to become part of the tribe.
00:27:01.646 - 00:27:29.850, Speaker B: Yeah. And we discussed privately and then he later on said yeah, he actually thinks most of the tribes that are formed now will fail. Right. Like 95% plus, he said. There you kind of see the point where yes, it is very easy to create tribes in a bull market where the coins are going up. The question is what tribes are sustainable when coins are going down a lot. Right.
00:27:29.850 - 00:28:26.026, Speaker B: So as we saw in 2018, 2019, ethereum had reasons for people to stay involved even though the number went from fourteen fifty to eighty dollars in a year, less than a year actually, whereas other coins that happened and then everyone left and it didn't really bounce back. Economic activity on the chain, capturing value, these kinds of things, there definitely needs to be some value capture mechanisms long term. So in the case of Ethereum, it's now through this fee burn process, but also through the use of Ether as pristine collateral in DFI, which is great. Right. And then also in other chains that are similar to Ethereum, like Avalanche, they have a similar concept right, where yeah, p one five nine and they have deflationary coin and similar with Tron, similar with other coins.
00:28:26.218 - 00:28:27.630, Speaker A: And proof of stake. Right.
00:28:27.700 - 00:29:21.710, Speaker B: And proof of stake as well. Right. Where you have some kind of like mev capture potentially. And you also have some kind of ability to earn a yield using the native asset. Right? Yeah. I think that while these are while these are very kind of important concepts, there's the it can be dangerous to tie prices to economic activity or to or to raw utility from any specific model. Because again, you must have a market where the people believe this is true.
00:29:21.710 - 00:29:56.380, Speaker B: Right. So some strong counterexamples, some counterfactuals to this might be something like a cardano which has almost no utility yet, but it's still doing extremely well. Right. It's one of the best performers since the bear market. And so it's a great community. And the first thing any normie ever asks you about, he'll ask you about your view on cardano. Probably the question is like well, what have they really achieved through this? Well, they've created a great meme, right? They created something that really speaks to people.
00:29:56.380 - 00:30:55.598, Speaker B: I think that that's something that always kind of throws a wrinkle into everything. Right. And similar with stuff like doge stuff like sheep, where there's then like memetic value as well. And then the question becomes, well, is there actually a lot of difference between chains with utility then having value or memes having value? Or are they both memes and they are memes that appeal to different people in a different way. You see what I'm saying? Because then if you go to Bitcoin itself bitcoin itself has one of the lowest utilities on chain but has the biggest market cap by bitcoin, in a way, has more similar things to some of the chains like Cardano or like Doge or like Sheep than it does to a chain which tries to say I'm tied to the utility on myself.
00:30:55.764 - 00:31:17.266, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, we see this not just in crypto, we see this now everywhere in stocks and so on. If you look at why is Tesla worth as much as the next, what is it, like three or four next biggest car companies combined? It's not because they sell more cars or have higher margins.
00:31:17.298 - 00:31:17.494, Speaker B: No.
00:31:17.532 - 00:31:20.550, Speaker A: It's because they are selling a story.
00:31:20.700 - 00:31:21.400, Speaker B: Right.
00:31:21.850 - 00:31:39.690, Speaker A: They let you be part of the tribe of those visionary people who are saving the planet and whatnot. Right? So in that sense, this is maybe a spicy question. What do you think is the biggest tribe in crypto that can still fail?
00:31:40.130 - 00:32:59.410, Speaker B: I think from a purely just philosophical perspective, anything can fail, right? So I think there's always failure points in all these things, just like there are failure points in all nations, in all companies, in all things. I strongly believe in the impermanence of all things. So I think that with that being understood, I think that then the question is which ones are they'll be uniquely susceptible if the market were to turn? And what things are less susceptible? Right. I would argue, like for bitcoin and Ether, because they spoke to some concepts of decentralization and they spoke to some philosophical concepts for people that people were willing to hold it and build on it during the bear market, even though they were maybe losing money. Right. Whereas something like EOS, once the money was gone and kind of the coins all went to a treasury and the ecosystem fund wasn't doing anything, then people stopped building on it or people stopped caring as much. Whereas ironically, something like cardano or Tron, they actually went and built communities and they tried to build utility.
00:32:59.410 - 00:34:19.322, Speaker B: It's kind of this thing where what kinds of projects really need the number to be high for anyone to care? And what projects does the number not need to be high for people to care? Right, so that kind of tells you a lot about the strength of different tribes. I think generally in crypto, there's strong members in every community. There's sort of a weaker large majority that will likely leave in the case of price going down. And then the question is how many of those people will get converted to the strong, right? And does this strong number grow over time? Because a lot of people who came in during the previous cycle, they came in for ICOs, they came in to flip stuff during the late stage. Maybe they bought the top of bitcoin and then they were like just as a punt, and then later they have to figure out, what did I buy? So I think there's a lot of evidence that the current. Top coins is relatively rationalist. I think they have all quite strong believers.
00:34:19.322 - 00:34:33.074, Speaker B: They have quite fast growing communities. And I think that I can't name any specific tribe that I think is uniquely about to fail or anything, but those are the kind of metrics that I would look at.
00:34:33.192 - 00:34:47.506, Speaker A: Yeah. Okay, so to summarize, maybe you're looking at which coins, which tribes did not yet have had to endure a bear market where they converted a lot of weak members into strong members, and those are the most likely to fail.
00:34:47.618 - 00:35:01.180, Speaker B: I wouldn't say the most likely to fail, but I would say that it is something to just keep in mind where there can be quite a lot of in the market that thinks numbers can only go up.
00:35:03.650 - 00:35:04.350, Speaker A: Right.
00:35:04.500 - 00:35:32.470, Speaker B: As long as that's true, maybe people will like it. But if the coin is uniquely designed in a way that as the number goes lower, then people have no point staying, then it gets quite dangerous. And you see this with some of the DeFi Ponzi games, right, where if the coin goes low enough, then no one will farm it. Suddenly the TVL will all leave. And then if you were looking at that as sort of your valuation model, then you get scared and you leave also. Right. You also sell.
00:35:32.470 - 00:35:50.170, Speaker B: So that's kind of sort of a canonical example of why, first of all, that metrics can be gamed by farming and by these kind of Ponzi games, but also that it's sort of by construction going to fail if the price goes low. Right.
00:35:50.320 - 00:35:55.386, Speaker A: I mean, it's basically a question of how much leverage and reflexivity is built into the token.
00:35:55.578 - 00:35:56.078, Speaker B: Yes.
00:35:56.164 - 00:36:41.374, Speaker A: And D, five Ponzi games are a good example. I would say Ethereum in 20, 17, 18 was maybe even the first big example of such a Ponzi game. Not deliberately or anything, but you had this ICO game that was happening on top of Ether and I don't know, like 20% or whatever of all ETH was locked, ended up being locked up in ICO. Treasuries removed supply from the market and pushed up the price. But then once the market turns, the ICO started selling off endlessly all of those supply back onto the market. Right. So you had it on the way up and the way down and that's why Ether crashed, like 95%, much more than Bitcoin, for example.
00:36:41.572 - 00:37:55.074, Speaker B: Yeah. I will say that the coins of this cycle, they are stronger in the sense that I do think there's something unique about high percentage being staked. If people don't care because they feel like they're still earning a yield and they feel like they're being productive, I do think there's something to that meme where they're less likely to sell it because they think they can wait it out, and then because they also know that everyone else thinks that way. There's kind of collective shelling points. Right. But with that said, you know, we really haven't seen yet anything where there's forced selling, right? Either through redemptions from funds or through crystallizations or through things like that, right, where there can be just or just profit taking or these kinds of things. I think that it's very much true that staking has created a very interesting flywheel because the more people stake, the more people see that staking and then they think supply circulating supply is lower and then they also buy.
00:37:55.074 - 00:38:42.866, Speaker B: And because they buy, then they want to get the highest yield on it. So then they also stake or staking rates have become sort of a broad benchmark for how healthy a network is, right, where the staking rates, if they're higher and going higher, that means people have more conviction and if people are unstaking and then selling, then it's like less conviction. So I do think that that's something that generally has seemed to work very well this cycle and that was one of our earlier sort of broader bets. But again, it's something where the downsides of proof of stake, or sort of not the downsides, but sort of the cyclicality of proof of stake is not understood at all by the market because it's never had to deal with it yet.
00:38:43.048 - 00:39:13.998, Speaker A: I think it's probably not really comparable to the ICO boom. I don't think proof of stake is going to introduce a lot of cyclicality, a lot of further cyclicality because of liquid staking. I think liquid staking will just completely replace any form of locked staking and then all of this like when you stake in ether, you have it immediately, have it back and can use it in DeFi. You can sell it at any time. So I think this sort of removing supply from the market effect no longer exists in that case.
00:39:14.164 - 00:40:41.914, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, it just comes down to the idea of locking up. So in proof of stake and sort of the value accrual of these models, there's an assumption there which is that by locking up supply the number will keep going up, right, and people will buy it because they see it locked, right? But again, we're at this point where we're at 500,000 x's in quite a lot of coins and also we're at quite broad understanding of these facts, right? Whereas during the bear market there was a very poor understanding of how proof of stake could create these kind of things. We kind of saw the first taste of it with tazos and baking where coinbase had to buy more tazos to support the baking of their clients. And so that created a quick move from one to $4 and that got people really excited about proof, proof of stake as a mechanism and also with some of the governance that was happening. We kind of had a taste then, but then it was generally not understood that proof of stake had this kind of a flywheel effect, right? Whereas now I think we are very much in the point where everyone believes this flywheel effect. So I guess all I'm saying is, yes, it has a flywheel effect, but everyone also knows it has a flywheel effect.
00:40:42.032 - 00:40:46.714, Speaker A: I agree. Yeah. It's no longer really relevant because everyone already believes it.
00:40:46.752 - 00:40:54.890, Speaker B: It's still true. Well, it's still true and it's still relevant. It's just that it's understood better. So that changes something. Right.
00:40:55.040 - 00:40:55.594, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:40:55.712 - 00:40:58.094, Speaker B: Versus when it's not well understood at all.
00:40:58.292 - 00:41:34.070, Speaker A: Something that sort of both the relative approaches and the absolute approaches completely ignore is sort of the cyclicality of markets. Right. We have to talk about this. We talked about all of the downsides of the existing approaches, why we think they're flawed, but also what elements might have some sense to them. So how do you think about reflexivity and cyclicality in the crypto markets? It seems like you can almost not value anything without putting this in the number one spot.
00:41:34.150 - 00:42:31.366, Speaker B: Yeah. So I think on viewed on very long term lenses, I think the cyclical doesn't matter as much. You can kind of just buy projects you like and then stake them and go into a coma, or buy them, put them in cold storage for the most part and that will generally work. I think that approach, it has worked and will continue to work. I think that in terms of weathering drawdowns or trading around the market in between kind of different coins, I do think that that approach requires a certain amount of understanding that crypto does have elements of boom and bust in it by its nature of sort of being hyper capitalism. Right. So we know that all markets have boom and bust cycles viewed on long enough timescales.
00:42:31.366 - 00:43:26.250, Speaker B: Just a matter of asking what does that boom and bust look like? Right. For instance, it can be a far higher number than you think. Right. Doesn't mean that bitcoin stops at could mean that it goes to goes down to instance. Or it could mean that like Salana did, it went from twenty cents to two hundred and then back to 115 or so and then before doubling again. I think that this cyclicality has a lot to do with when all the upsides have been priced in and when none of the upsides have been priced in, or when some of the downsides that haven't been priced in or sort of the risk of replication hasn't been priced in. Right.
00:43:26.250 - 00:44:00.130, Speaker B: So an example of this too was sort of with Sushi, right. Where Sushi forked uni and then there was a lot of excitement about it. First it went down and then there was a lot of buildings and projects and then it came up. Right. And then at that time, some people in the market, including ourselves, we had this idea that Sushi could do really well because it would go to all the other chains and it would do this and that. But then what we kind of started to see happening with BSc was that, well, actually cake. They made their own, right? And their own happened to have the support of the Bnbogs and it happened to have the support of the ecosystem.
00:44:00.130 - 00:45:07.854, Speaker B: So that was just the sushi of the chain. So we started to see this thing where it's like, actually you will just have that app, but on different chains. And then now with avalanche, as know, the sushi of Avalanche is Trader Joe. And Trader Joe, incidentally, also has borrowed lending on it, and it also has a bunch of other features on it. So there's kind of this idea that what are the things on that chain that actually make it properly unique? Where will the new users go, these kinds of things. I think viewed in that lens, I think that it's kind of easier for people to understand the L1 moves of the past few months, right, where they wanted to be able to say that everyone must value this decentralization of ETH versus other coins or other layer ones, hence they'll be happily willing to pay $400 fees. Or if they're not that, then they're just too poor, right? Well, actually, what happens is people just have different priorities, right, or they have different concepts of what they want to do, and you can fork all the applications and then go over there.
00:45:07.854 - 00:46:26.306, Speaker B: And I think there's also that idea then of like, well, all the innovation is on ethereum, but that's not true, right? We're already seeing incredible amounts of innovation through Phantom, through Avalanche, just in the EVM space alone, right? I think Spell is a really interesting example of that, but there's a number of other ones that are coming up as well. I think there's kind of this idea in crypto very often where it's like, okay, these are the coins that have made sort of the OGS rich, or like the previous generation rich, and now the new people have to all buy my coin. And that's how this works. But then the new people, when they come in, they buy other coins or they buy new things. There's these two strains of crypto, I would call it. One would be the very institutional USVC side, and then there's the sort of very grassroots or very user driven side, right? Another great example of this is like Kusama versus polkadot, right? Where Kusama has done really well and has a ton of this organic activity from the community. And that kind of also has an interplay with polkadot in the way it's valued.
00:46:26.306 - 00:46:51.630, Speaker B: So I think the cyclicality of markets, the most critical thing to understand is when there's replicability of the underlying thing that's supposed to give the thing you own value, right? Once you become aware of this, you start to see that a lot of things are on less solid ground than they look at first, right, or a lot of narratives are less solid than they look at first.
00:46:51.780 - 00:47:02.562, Speaker A: Basically, you have to understand how much reflexivity and leverage is a part of your existing narrative, how much of that is due to being in a bull market.
00:47:02.696 - 00:47:04.530, Speaker B: Yes, precisely.
00:47:04.970 - 00:47:17.880, Speaker A: My last question for you. What valuation framework will help you the most in the next six months and which one will work best over the next six years?
00:47:18.350 - 00:48:48.290, Speaker B: I think six years is a very difficult question to answer. I probably would skip that, I think, in the next six months. I think it's our general view that bitcoin is very under owned because there's entirely different type of valuation model that I think you could use on Bitcoin that you don't use on the other ones, which is sort of political. And I sort of alluded to this during my podcast with Jordy where we talked about Bitcoin and sort of soft bitcoin strength, sort of the quiet strength. And it's something where gold has been flat now for ten years and bitcoin has gone up a million percent. Right? And on top of that bitcoin, having the providence that it does as the first chain and having the fair launch that it does I mean, we can debate whether other chains have a better launch for promoting utility or not. But Bitcoin being the first, having the provenance of the first, that creates a very compelling coordination point for people to store value in because they understand that everyone else agrees with this, right? And more so I think that during the bitcoin scaling war debates, like should bitcoin become high utility or not, it's becoming increasingly clear, even among BCH people that I know that the way that bitcoin has done it is the right approach.
00:48:48.290 - 00:49:41.640, Speaker B: And now we've gone toward a sort of war of utility on every other chain, but bitcoin is sort of able to sit where it is and try to be the most decentralized. Right. So I think that this value proposition over the next six months to one year, I think is going to really come to the forefront because we are very much living in inflationary scenarios in a lot of countries. We have food prices going through the absolute roof. We have know basically holding Europe hostage over natural gas. It's also holding a lot of markets hostage over the price of fertilizer, china's holding a lot of the world hostage over rare earths and a lot of these other kind of phosphorus and these kind of things that go into a lot of supply chain. So there's basically an incredible inflationary push that's coming.
00:49:41.640 - 00:51:03.330, Speaker B: And I think that this kind of stuff is very bullish for Bitcoin because previously people would have wanted to buy gold, but they can't buy it now because it's not going up and they're just as it's not going up. And as they see young people buying Bitcoin and especially wealthy young people buy bitcoin, it's becoming a very Pascal's wager at this point. And I think that this is also where the element of proof of work, mining really comes into play. And this is a flywheel that people don't really understand in crypto, but I think it's very understood in infrastructure, where if you have miners that are mining bitcoin and they are very close with local governments, with the grid, with helping stabilize the grid as well, and also just creating infrastructure jobs as well. And now that the whole world knows that bitcoin is not going to die, that it has the support of the main nations, it's going to be incredible amounts of mining projects being announced in every country, right? We're seeing huge projects in southeast Asia, laos, Thailand. We're seeing huge projects in Latin America. And this will only continue because now people will view this as a digital commodity, and they'll say, okay, I can use the existing resources of my own country to mine bitcoin and then sell it on the open market or even just to hold it in treasury, right? Because I know that the rest of the world also created their bitcoin this way, and this is how they'll value it.
00:51:03.330 - 00:51:53.086, Speaker B: So this is kind of the incipient use case of crypto, the sort of the sound money use case. And I think that this is something that it's difficult to place bitcoin against the other coins on this metric. There's a lot of tech, these people that want to be able to do this. And so they'll talk about utility, they'll talk about TPS, they'll talk about scaling. But this is not really something that you can do, right? Like, you can't tell them to you can't tell them to buy another coin. You can't tell them to mine another coin. So I think that this kind of is still the most underrated narrative in the market and the most underrated sort of valuation model you could call it.
00:51:53.086 - 00:52:40.618, Speaker B: I mean, we could be in a world where, let's say, elon comes up with great solar mining, clean energy mining, and he starts a plant in Texas where we already see a huge amount of plants being put up, and then this kind of model inspires a lot of other countries to go in. This is the formation of a new world order very quickly, right? And I was speaking with the guy who did the MicroStrategy placement at capital. Capital being like a trillion dollar allocator of capital in the US. Right? And he said he thinks that in the long run, that bonds, people will sell bonds and buy bitcoin. People will not own government bonds as store value anymore. They'll own just bitcoin. So his target for bitcoin just is even higher than mine.
00:52:40.618 - 00:53:42.994, Speaker B: And this is a guy who's just traditional finance sees the potential of bitcoin to be a store of value. And so it's a different ballgame, right? And I think that this ballgame actually, if you zoom out, this ballgame was completely derided during the bear market. Like, no one thought that this was possible. This is all just some digital money, digital beans that we were all trading and this is one thing versus another. But now you're seeing very serious people talk about this stuff as the formation of a new world order, right? You're seeing politicians in the US. Especially in the GOP, but also in the center, say that this is actually a political philosophy behind it as well, right? There's elements of energy neutrality where people have the right to buy the things they want to buy without having woke capitalists, cancel them, for instance, or having people tell them that this is not something they can buy. And so there's like that confluence of sovereignty and confluence of coordination that is extremely powerful, actually.
00:53:42.994 - 00:55:13.360, Speaker B: That's why we're seeing all the senior politicians in the US. Really embrace Bitcoin because they see it as a very powerful wealth base, a very powerful voting electorate, and they also see a strong path to localism right? They see a strong path to local governments having more power, right? If they collect tax revenues and they convert it to Bitcoin, that's extreme power that they have over central governments, that's extreme power they have over more centralized forces. So I think that these kinds of things will make it very likely that Bitcoin will succeed at its sort of current most potent meme, which is to be valued against gold, to be valued against bonds, to be valued against all sorts of other kinds of stores of value that exist. Because once it's able to really be seen as a treasury asset for the largest saving institutions in the world and the largest pools of capital in the world, as well as for every individual that wants to save money in sort of a simple way, then this kind of flywheel effect, this kind of coordination point, is the most underrated among crypto natives. Right. Because there is a lot of very interesting tech happening as well in crypto. And I think that the interestingness of the tech doesn't take away from the potency of the Bitcoin monetary strength that it's entering now.
00:55:13.730 - 00:56:06.078, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree with everything. I'm surprised that you say on a six year time horizon it's harder to predict. I personally think on a six year time horizon, it's much easier to predict and sort of what the right valuation models are is much more obvious. Personally, I think it's just in the long term, this is like the next stage of the internet, right, almost. It's like where we bring for the first time we have value in the digital realm and stuff that you can own, like property. We are entering the property phase of the internet. To me, it seems that we can value Bitcoin and ether and maybe a few other coins as a form of monetary commodity, but also as a form of new, almost like super cooperation.
00:56:06.078 - 00:56:46.698, Speaker A: In the case of something like Eve, when you do have sort of the burn from, ERP, one, five, nine. You have sort of the money that gets transferred from transactors to stakers and proof of stake. You can't put a number on it, but I think you can really tell how is the space going to develop over the next five years and which projects are or which categories are going to be the big winners. Maybe that's not the same as a valuation model, but for me, sort of the view of the next six years, it feels much more clear and easier to predict than what's going to happen in the short term.
00:56:46.794 - 00:58:27.120, Speaker B: Yeah, I think you're right in a way, as well. I think that the sort of larger questions that loom over six years, I would guess stuff like zero knowledge proofs stuff like what kinds of things will get captured by application layer? What kind of things will get captured by layer one? Right now we have incredibly vibrant layer one communities and we also have the price going up 100 X, 1000 X as well. So when it stops going up 1000 X, I mean, we have to assume it stops going up 1000 X, right? So once that happens, what are the substitution effects? Right? What things will substitute? What things won't? This, for me, is harder to reason about, actually, because from my point of view, there's a world where you can do everything you want to do on Ethereum, on Avalanche or on another chain. So we can debate that centralization decentralization, but for a lot of users, that's what they believe. And so, like GameFi, I actually am more bullish on BNB for GameFi than any other chain because Binance has the clearest path to 1 billion users that I see. They have these incredible partnerships, they have these incredible fan, token fan things that are happening. There's also the question of what level of decentralization will the market value, right, will it value very high, very low, medium everywhere? These are quite tricky questions, actually, especially if not all numbers are going up.
00:58:27.120 - 00:59:29.918, Speaker B: And we are getting to a point where I still think we're in a super cycle. I think that drawdowns won't be too extreme, but I think that relative valuations of things versus other things, this is quite in flux, right? I mean, if you think about Just versus June, right, like Sol $30, AVAX like $10. Now AVAX $100, Sol 250. There's some very real moves happening. I mean, B and B, 40 to 650. There's real stuff moving around and happening. And even if you look at best movers on, being a sense of being a year stuff like Phantom is up more than even Salana and stuff that these are kind of all questions that I do have on the six year horizon, which is, how does this look in six years? Because I think I've noticed a trend from OGS or from people from the Precycle.
00:59:29.918 - 01:00:55.630, Speaker B: They want to prescribe more providence to smart contract protocols than actually exists. They want to say things like all the innovation is on Ethereum or they want to say things like all the activity that people are willing to pay for is on Ethereum. They want to be able to say these things in part because I think it also makes investing easier because it's just a simple decision, right? You just buy and you hold the biggest smart contract chain and we are seeing some of that mentality with institutional investors where they're like all these other chains are so complicated, why don't we just buy Ether? And that's like the biggest, the best one. It'll win. And now we're kind of the last few weeks we're seeing some of these guys saying oh shit, I missed like a 50 X here, I missed the 100 X here, I missed the 30 X, you know what I mean? Right. So now we're seeing this kind of interest come and I just think that the smart contract space is incredibly fast moving and the things that we think are going to be the next new thing are very rarely the next new thing and the things that we don't think are often become right? I saw this really good tweet from Degenetech Luis of Fingerprints dow the other day where he said everyone's talking about GameFi now and the chances that GameFi is the big Thing over the next year he thinks is not. Very high because everyone is talking about it now, whereas no one is talking about DeFi when it came out of nowhere and then no one was talking about NFTs when it came out of nowhere.
01:00:55.630 - 01:02:12.274, Speaker B: He does bring up an interesting point there, which is what actually is mass adoption. What does it look like? What are people doing? Are we all playing giant ponzi's? Are we all playing what exactly is it? I am excited by the idea of rapidly scalable chains now because you can do things where you can send people one cent, two cents, five cents and this is something that again, purists can debate how decentralized it is, but it does enable novel use cases. I have a very open mind when it comes to smart contract space. I try not to assume anything about how it looks in 510 years because I think it's truly in flux. If people had told you a year ago that Phantom is up 1000 x you would have said they're insane, but you would have been wrong. So you know what I mean, right? It's something that we like to ascribe a certainty to what has just happened and then predict it and then project it or we like to do these kind of things but really crypto because of the permissionless nature of it and because of also the boom bust nature of it. I remember when we did our top 20 coins thing, we said eventually the top 20 will be filled with DFI coins.
01:02:12.274 - 01:02:13.302, Speaker B: You remember this right.
01:02:13.356 - 01:02:13.670, Speaker A: Yes.
01:02:13.740 - 01:02:25.002, Speaker B: And we were both completely wrong. Right. Instead, they're filled with dog coins and they're filled with alternate layer one.
01:02:25.056 - 01:02:25.820, Speaker A: Right? Yeah.
01:02:28.590 - 01:02:38.350, Speaker B: I'm not arrogant enough to say that in five years, I know what smart contract protocols will look like. I think flux is really the nature of this part of the market.
01:02:38.500 - 01:03:09.270, Speaker A: I agree. It's always good to go back to these earlier episodes and almost look at them as these timepieces where you can exactly. And see how wrong you were and get humbled by the market. And I think not enough people do this. Right. I think we can debate about valuation models all day. I think the biggest takeaway is that, you know, what if the dominant valuation model changes all the time? It's just basically a game of narratives.
01:03:09.270 - 01:03:48.182, Speaker A: But there are some things that don't change. Right. I mean, some of the very long term trends that make crypto go up, I think they are very safe to bet on. And you can opt out of a lot of this game if you just say, I'm holding for three, two, like three, four, five years, and also stay humble about the market. Right. This sort of going back to actually writing down a thesis and coming back to it six months later and seeing how wrong you were, I think this is something that probably a lot more people would benefit from that then thinking about what is the next valuation model.
01:03:48.316 - 01:03:49.654, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely.
01:03:49.772 - 01:03:53.174, Speaker A: Okay, sue, thanks for the discussion, and see you around.
01:03:53.372 - 01:03:53.890, Speaker B: All righty.
