00:00:00.360 - 00:00:20.726, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 2 February 2022. Hi everyone. Let's get into it. Actually, just a quick note before we get into it, I know there were some quiet parts of yesterday's episode. I think it has to do with my microphone randomly cutting out. And I tried to kind of like diagnose the issue today.
00:00:20.726 - 00:00:41.250, Speaker A: And it also happened today. I was recording the Ethub podcast with Eric and it kept happening. It was super annoying. I had to end up recording off my laptop, but I think maybe I fixed it, I don't know. And unless I'm looking at the obs kind of recording software here and looking at my microphone, I'm not picking up me talking, I'm not going to tell if I cut out or not. So if I cut out again, apologies. I'm going to try again to fix it tomorrow.
00:00:41.250 - 00:01:06.420, Speaker A: If it hasn't been fixed by now, it just happens randomly, so it's really hard for me to test if it's been fixed or not. I think it had something to do with the power. My microphone was plugged into a USB hub. It wasn't a powered usb hub, but that's how it wasn't like, you know, I guess like a week ago. So I don't know what happened since then. Anyway, I'm not going to bore you with the details there, just in case it happens again, you know, why? It's just my microphone cutting out without me realizing, and then it comes back like a few seconds later. So, yeah, apologies for that.
00:01:06.420 - 00:01:30.252, Speaker A: But anyway, onto the news. So, well, onto a tweet that I put out today first. So I put out this tweet today where I said, bitcoin is talking about Ethereum's monetary policy again. The ETH BTC ratio must be going up. Now, I put this out because, I don't know, for some reason, the bitcoin has decided today was the day they would talk about Ethereum's monetary policy again. And of course, they don't have anything good to say about Ethereum's monetary policy. They always go on about how it can change.
00:01:30.252 - 00:02:17.036, Speaker A: It's not credibly neutral, you know, it's like the fiat system, blah, blah, right? We've all heard these talking points before. Now, I saw this and then I went and looked at the ETH BTC chart, and it's been going up the last week, right? It's kind of like bounced back very nicely from the lows, and it seems to be on an uptrend. And I just kind of look at that. I'm like, okay, well, every time that happens, the bitcoin has come out of the woodwork, and there's a lot of cope about it, right? They kind of, like, there's a lot of kind of anger about it. There's a lot of people being like, how could this happen? You know, to them, to the bitcoin, maximalist ETH is a quote unquote worthless shitcoin, right? So how can this thing be outperforming bitcoin? And it's ironic because there's so many things that outperform bitcoin, but just for the sake of what I'm talking about here, would just stick with ETH. And it was just funny how, like, I kind of saw that. Now, this was the topic of today's newsletter as well.
00:02:17.036 - 00:02:54.068, Speaker A: Today. But my point of kind of, kind of here is that there's a lot of tribes in crypto. I mean, we all know, right, there's a lot of tribes in, you know, in and outside of crypto, but, like, specifically in crypto, because we're so close to it, we can see all the tribes forming. There's a big bitcoin tribe, is an Ethereum tribe, there's a Solana tribe, is an avalanche tribe, is a blah, blah, blah, blah tribe, right? And there's so much kind of, like, hypocrisy between the tribes. It's hilarious, right? The amount of people who have kind of, like, shit all over Ethereum for months now about the high gas fees for years now about the high gas fees are the same people who preach, let's, you know, we're all in this together. Let's all kind of, like, work together. Let's not be maximalist, blah, blah.
00:02:54.068 - 00:03:24.574, Speaker A: And it's just kind of like, well, okay, if you actually believe that, then why are you always shitting all over Ethereum? There's. There's ways to be constructed constructive about Ethereum. You know, constructive criticism about the high gas fees would be, well, okay, the high gas fees on layer one are causing users to go elsewhere because the L2 ecosystem isn't, you know, where we want it to be yet. I mean, to me, it's pretty much where, you know, it's pretty much at a really good place right now. But just generally, that's like, the constructive feedback, the non constructive feedback is ETH l one. Or ethereum is so expensive to use, it's the shit chain. It's only for whales.
00:03:24.574 - 00:03:41.022, Speaker A: I'm going to go use this. I don't care about decentralization. Who cares about that? Blah, blah, blah. Like, that's just not constructive. That's basically just maximalism talking or tribalism talking. Tribalism, maximalism, pretty much the same thing, funny enough. But, you know, this is obviously played out for, you know, since the dawn of humanity, this tribalism.
00:03:41.022 - 00:04:18.708, Speaker A: But I think in crypto it's, it's very kind of like pronounced because of two factors. Anonymity, which, you know, anyone can spin up a Twitter account, you don't have to attach your real name or identity to it, and you can go and kind of like spread all the bullshit you want. And really there's no kind of recourse to that, especially for anonymous. If your account gets banned, you start another one, do it all over again. And second is the keyboard warrior phenomenon, where people feel a lot more comfortable, you know, saying certain things via a keyboard than they would in real life. Like, for example, there's a lot of people who throw insults out like they're nothing online, but in real life they'd be hard pressed to do that. It's a very, very different answer to the same person.
00:04:18.708 - 00:04:44.113, Speaker A: It's a very, very different dynamic. But those are two kind of thing things. They confound on each other. And then you have all the stuff in crypto, the economic incentive, the religiousness, the just general maximalism, all that sort of stuff, and it all comes together. So I guess, like, my overall point is that you got to be really careful not to fall into these things. You know, some people may argue that I fall into it and that I'm like an ETH Maxi and that I don't care about other chains. I never talk about them.
00:04:44.113 - 00:05:04.370, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, like, I'm sorry, I don't have the time to talk about other chains or to kind of like, look into other chains. And frankly, most of them don't interest me. Like I've said it before, and I'll say again, most of them take too many shortcuts for my liking. They're not doing what Ethereum is trying to do. I think Ethereum is cool and special. I try to keep up with the Ethereum ecosystem. It takes all my time already, so I'm not going to go and spend time in other ecosystems.
00:05:04.370 - 00:05:25.862, Speaker A: Does that make me a maximalist? I don't think so. Does that make me a bit tribal? Yeah, sure. I'm tribal over Ethereum. I get really upset when people are spreading crap about Ethereum. You know, even if there's an element of truth to it, it depends how it's being spread. Like, as I said, with the gas fees, is a constructive way to give feedback and there's a non constructive way. And obviously a lot of people take the non constructive way if they're trying to pump something else.
00:05:25.862 - 00:06:09.738, Speaker A: Like, if you're trying to pump another chain up, then you're going to basically make Ethereum look really bad and put a theorem in really bad light because it's better for the chain that you're trying to promote. So from that perspective, I mean, it makes sense, right? It's just all incentives at the end of the day, but it's also just really shitty to be around. Like, you remember a few months ago, guys, like, I put out that tweet where I said I can't get involved in the Twitter fights anymore in the Twitter debates, because it's just, I mean, it's too much. It takes a mental toll. And it also is a kind of a waste of time that there's no nuanced debate that can be had on Twitter ever. Like, I mean, I remember Vitalik did an experiment where he basically, I think there was, I think it was ud, and Vitalik did kind of like a back and forth and there was no replies allowed, so no one could kind of like shitpost a reply and they could quote, tweet it and stuff like that. But it actually ended up being pretty constructive as a debate.
00:06:09.738 - 00:06:47.874, Speaker A: But the thing is, it requires the two people debating. Maybe it's more than two people to be constructive to begin with. You can't have a debate with someone who literally doesn't want to kind of like, move their opinion or anything, is not open to changing their opinion on anything, and is not open to actually listening to the points that you're bringing up. And there's a lot of people out there like this, especially, you know, in the bitcoin maximalist camp, they are very, very religious about bitcoin, like, and, you know, even if you say anything kind of positive about another chain, it just, it doesn't register with, with them. Um, you know, it doesn't register at all. And they think that you're kind of like, spinning bullshit. They think you're a scammer, all that, all that sort of stuff.
00:06:47.874 - 00:07:26.708, Speaker A: And, you know, a perfect example of this, actually, was recently where Peter McCormack, who's very, uh, obviously well known in the bitcoin community, for years he's been trashing Ethereum, specifically around things like not being able to run a full node. Uh, the fact that an Ethereum full node is not equivalent to a bitcoin full node. You have to run an archive node, which is wrong. And he'd been saying this for many, many years, and all of us in the Ethereum community had been correcting him and constantly correcting him over this and constantly trying to educate him on this, and he didn't listen to it. He didn't care what we had to say. He never agreed with us. And then I think a couple months ago, Kobe, Crypto, Cobain, you guys know who Kobe is? He said the exact same thing to Peter in a Twitter thread that we had been saying for years.
00:07:26.708 - 00:08:00.128, Speaker A: And Peter said, oh, okay, well, that makes sense. So it's just, it's really insane to me, because the reason why Peter listened to Kobe and he didn't listen to me and the other ethereums is because Peter perceives me and the other ethereums as Ethereum, Maxis. He perceives us as bad actors, as people who, you know, kind of, like, occasionally trash talk bitcoin, so we're not worth listening to, and anything we say is not the truth. Whereas Kobe is positioned himself as more of a neutral party. He doesn't really belong to any kind of, like, one crypto tribe. You know, it's kind of, like, funny how he's managed to actually do that. It's pretty impressive.
00:08:00.128 - 00:08:23.150, Speaker A: But. But I think that's why he kind of listened to him, because it's, like a neutral third party. So if you're having a debate and it's just, like, two people, this is why you always need, like, a mediator in a debate, because it just makes it go. It go a lot smoother. But even then, like, if the mediator's shit and just lets the debate kind of, like, unravel and go. Go for itself, it can just be a really poor debate, and it's not limited to crypto. Again, it happens everywhere, I'm sure.
00:08:23.150 - 00:08:36.760, Speaker A: You know, I watched a lot of the US presidential debates between Trump and Biden. I don't know why. I mean, I watched the highlights. I didn't watch the whole thing, but it was just like, it was. I mean, it was really bad. Like, on. On both sides, it was just horrible.
00:08:36.760 - 00:09:10.134, Speaker A: Like, they didn't want to listen to each other. The. The kind of, like, mediator or the moderator. Um, you know, I guess I did a decent job, but still, like, it felt like they were letting them play out for ratings because those things get a lot of, a lot of ratings, so there's a monetary incentive there. It just becomes disastrous. What? The way I like to debate is if I know the person is open minded, and I know that they're kind of, like, not gonna just call me a maximalist, not just gonna kind of, like, come at me aggressively, then I'm happy to debate. But there are certain people that I don't think is ever worth constructively debating, or certain types of people, and there's plenty of them in crypto.
00:09:10.134 - 00:09:40.484, Speaker A: So, anyway, I'm gonna leave it that at that for now. Just a little bit of. A little bit, kind of, like, rant there. But you, obviously, you guys see these play out as much as I do, and I think it's just always important to kind of, like, take a step back and kind of, I guess, take stock about it, because the worst thing you can do is fall into this extreme tribalism, extreme maximalism, and, you know, not explore new ideas, not be open to new ideas, and think that everything that you already know is the way it should be. So. So, yeah. Anyway, moving on to the biggest news of the last 24 hours is that my crypto is joining metamask.
00:09:40.484 - 00:10:05.364, Speaker A: So, in other words, metamask is acquiring the. My crypto, I guess, like, application and team. Now, my crypto has a. Has a pretty long history. I mean, they spun out of my ether wallet a while ago, and, you know, my ether wallet was actually the first Ethereum wallet I used, I believe, um, at least first on the kind of like the desktop. I think there was a random mobile wallet that I used in 2017 before I discovered that it was a custodial mobile wallet. And I was like, no, I'm not going to use this.
00:10:05.364 - 00:10:21.676, Speaker A: And then I kind of, like, changed. And I think myether wallet was what I kind of, um, I kind of, uh, uh, as my first one there, and then my crypto spun out of it. Uh, Taylor Monohan leading, uh, the. The team there. And I started using my crypto a lot. Uh, and, you know, it's. It's always been reliable for me.
00:10:21.676 - 00:10:57.430, Speaker A: I mean, I think everyone's either used my ether wallet or my crypto at this point. Obviously, everyone's used metamask. But this is kind of really cool that the fact that then they're joining the Metamask team, metamask family here as a kind of, like, aqua hire again. And, you know, some people kind of, like, brought up some concerns about this, saying, you know, there's less competition in the wallet space now. I don't think so. There are so many wallets, web, three wallets, ethereum wallets out there right now that I don't think it's actually a bad thing. I think what's happening here is that metamask and my crypto get to join forces and become much better together than they were apart, because there are problems, obviously, with.
00:10:57.430 - 00:11:27.390, Speaker A: With metamask, a lot of problems with metamask, and I think, I'm not sure how much of that stems from the Metamask team itself versus consensus as an organization, maybe holding them back for whatever reason. It could be either or, because, as you guys know, Metamask is part of consensus. They're not their own company, whereas my crypto was an independent organization, was not part of anything else. Now they've been acquired by Metamask, and the team is there. They may be able to do some more stuff here. They may be able to do some better stuff to make metamask a much better wallet than what it is. Obviously, it's missing a lot of features.
00:11:27.390 - 00:11:49.952, Speaker A: The metamask desktop browser extension here. There are other wallets out there on other chains that are actually, you know, other browser extension wallets that are really cool. Like, Solana's phantom is actually pretty cool. Like, I'll give him credit for that. It's a pretty cool wallet. And they said that we're going to support a theorem eventually, but I doubt that's coming for a while. I feel like it being the premier wallet on Solana.
00:11:49.952 - 00:12:21.294, Speaker A: It's kind of, like, not in their best interest to support aetherium anytime soon. Maybe they. Maybe they'll prove me wrong, but, yeah, I think we should just work on vastly improving Metamask, especially because Metamask and the my crypto crypto team are ethereum aligned, whereas I believe the Phantom team is more of a kind of, like, Solana ecosystem play, and they're more aligned with Solana, which is totally fine, but I don't want to give up on what we already have. Like, Metamask is. Is awesome for what it is. It can be a lot better. So I'm hoping that this acquisition makes metamask a much better, a much better wallet.
00:12:21.294 - 00:12:37.006, Speaker A: I think it will. I think the. My crypto app is still going to be around. I think there was a question asked. Yeah, so there was a question asked from the left to us here, who said, will the local my crypto wallet continue to be developed? And then Taylor answered, yes. It's all. It's also being reward reworked.
00:12:37.006 - 00:13:17.514, Speaker A: So double yes and then the second question actually was pretty interesting. My crypto uses an open source license, but Metamask is a proprietary one. Will your license change? And as you guys will be aware, Metamask is behind a proprietary license where if you have more than 10,000 people using it, I believe this is the license terms you have to pay Metamask to use it. And then Taylor's response to this question was, there will be a fight to the death. So I'll keep you. I'll keep you posted. Dan Finlay, who is kind of like one of the founders of Metamask, or said, we've got some plans to move the metamask license more open again as well, likely BSL, which is a business license or something, while we explore other options and then lift her.
00:13:17.514 - 00:13:40.708, Speaker A: Says BSL obviously is not. Is not open source. I mean, Nicolas says here it kind of like, is open source. There's been a back and forth. I'm not gonna go through all that, but it's not like the traditional, kind of like, super open source license that we all kind of know and love from. From crypto generally. But, yeah, I mean, it seems like there's gonna be some changes around with metamask, and I think that's kind of like welcome, welcome changes there.
00:13:40.708 - 00:14:09.434, Speaker A: I really hope to see the wallet get better. I mean, I still use, I mean, you can see it in my browser here. I still use it all the time for a pass through for my kind of like, hardware wallets, for connecting mobile wallets and stuff like that. I love using it. It's reliable. Like, you know, once they fix the hardware wallet integration, it hasn't kind of like, stuffed up for me since then with the ledger, I. You know, the funny thing is, I use my lattice as well, but I have, like, both I use ledger and lattice, but since they kind of, like, fixed the integration with Ledger, that it's just been a smooth experience.
00:14:09.434 - 00:14:33.362, Speaker A: So hoping to see some kind of, like, positive benefits come out of this aqua hire here. So another Ethereum cat herders update for January 2022 is out. Now, you guys have. Will probably be familiar with this. I brought them up pretty much every month that they do these updates. But the Ethereum cat herders isn't, is a kind of like, organization that does updates on core Ethereum protocol development and research. It covers basically everything.
00:14:33.362 - 00:14:57.286, Speaker A: If you want to know anything about Ethereum core development, you need to check out their. Their kind of like, updates here. So this update is covers January. It covers things like the killing testnet, the girly shadow fork, the Kintsugi testnet, of course, Shanghai aips insights into different aips and a bunch more. You can go give this a read. It'll be in the blog post. Obviously it's a long, sorry to be in the YouTube description.
00:14:57.286 - 00:15:32.068, Speaker A: Obviously it's a long blog post here, so I'm not going to go through everything, but it has links to so much. You could spend a good week kind of just like going through all this stuff, like going into the links, going to the links that are, that are from there. And it can be really fun as well. So, I mean, I only recommend this to people who are interested in core development, the technical stuff. Some of it may be boring to you if you're not interested in that sort of stuff, but there's so much going on in Ethereum core protocol land, and this is corporate. This isn't so much L2 stuff, this is like layer one. Core protocol work across both ETH one and ETH two, or as they're known as execution layer and consensus layer stuff here.
00:15:32.068 - 00:15:59.326, Speaker A: So definitely go check this out. It'll be linked in the blog post, in the YouTube description below. So an update out of the EF ecosystem support program. So this is the update of their latest grantee roundup from December 2021, featuring a l two beat and the Gasol gas optimization toolkit from the Costa group. So this is just kind of like two projects and update here on what they've been doing. Obviously, you guys know l two b and all the, all the good stuff that they're doing. All the good work that they're doing.
00:15:59.326 - 00:16:18.994, Speaker A: I've been talking about them a lot for a few months now. So, yeah, this is just an update from the EF here. So I just wanted to highlight this. It's a small update. It will obviously be linked in the YouTube description, but you should definitely go check it out. So some Ens stats from January of this year that Brantley put out. So 67,000 new ETH registrations on ETH.
00:16:18.994 - 00:16:43.504, Speaker A: L1, l two is coming soon. Oh, l two coming soon for Ens guys. $4 million in protocol revenue, which all goes to the Dow. 40,000 new ETH accounts with at least one ans name total is now 291,056 new integrations total of 479. 66. Sorry, 99% of OpenSea volume for domains. So obviously EnS continues its monumental lead in the domain space.
00:16:43.504 - 00:17:12.254, Speaker A: There's a lot of people still registering their ETH names. I see a bunch of kind of like celebrities from every now and again registering their ETH names and kind of repping them on Twitter, which is really, really awesome. But. But yeah, it's just cool to see that the growth is still there. And I'm curious to see what their l two integration looks like as well. Like, I would really love to be able to kind of like do ans stuff on l two because the costs are going to, going to be kind of like be lower than on our one. Obviously, registering Ens name, depending on what the gas price is, can actually be quite expensive.
00:17:12.254 - 00:17:48.558, Speaker A: So it makes sense for them to obviously do an ll two integration here. So very nice to see this growth from Ens. Definitely give Brantley a follow. By the way, he tweets a lot about Ens. If you're interested in ENS, Brantley's probably the top fellow here, you know, besides the official EnS domains Twitter account as, as well. So another bridge has been introduced the last 24 hours called Scalyk, which is a cross chain bridge that's cheaper by using snarks and more transparent about security using optimistic relaying and fraud proof. So you can test it out right now by sending an NFT from Polygon Mainnet to this address here.
00:17:48.558 - 00:18:09.082, Speaker A: You can use Opensea's UI to do it. Now, obviously, this is highly experimental and not anything that you should be doing with kind of like any real sorts of value here, but this is really cool. This is. I think this is an independent developer. I don't know how to say their name. Is it Weij or something like that? I don't know how exactly how to say it, but it's not a team or anything. It's an independent developer kind of building this.
00:18:09.082 - 00:18:32.026, Speaker A: But this is. This is awesome. So once he explains how it works here, or he or she, once the bridge receives 16 nfts, or after two days have elapsed, it'll move them to arbitrary one you, where you'll receive a wrapped NFT. The steps needed to relay them back to Polygon will come in a separate post. There's a bunch more details here. Yeah, I mean, this is just really cool. It's another kind of like, bridge here, specifically focused on NFT stuff as well, which we haven't really seen much of.
00:18:32.026 - 00:19:27.054, Speaker A: Nfts are actually much harder to bridge. And, you know, I actually saw a question recently about why nfts are still on Ethereum and why other NFT ecosystems haven't really taken off. I think because it's so hard to move the NFT ecosystem from one chain to another because of the fact that they're non fungible. Fungible tokens are really easy to move cross chain because they're just all the same thing, right? Like I've talked about how the bridges give you ious and all that sort of stuff, but it's much easier to move that kind of like liquidity across because of it being fungible. Whereas whether it's non fungible, moving a profile picture collection across to another chain, like the whole collection across would not work, right? Moving the NFT, one NFT or two nfts from that collection to another chain, I mean you could wrap it or something like that, but like, it kind of doesn't kind of. It makes it just literally difficult for apps to integrate with it, to track it for like OpenSea to integrate with it, stuff like that. And then, you know, you might be buying the wrapped version of it instead of the real version of it, and you take on bridge risk and all these sorts of stuff.
00:19:27.054 - 00:19:53.608, Speaker A: So from there, I think it's the fungibility or the non fungibility aspect here that makes the NFT system on Ethereum so sticky. But also, I mean, Ethereum is like the culture hub, really. I mean, even if it's on l one, it's still the culture hub. And nfts are obviously very popular on Ethereum l one. And you know, there's projects on l two spinning up as well. So I thought that was just something really interesting that I've, that I've noticed recently as well. So Starkware put out some stats recently of their Stocknet alpha.
00:19:53.608 - 00:20:16.054, Speaker A: So there's 10,000 smart contracts with 60,000 account contracts and 70,000 contracts deployed on stock net alpha on the girly test net over the past ten weeks here. So just two and a half months. That's really cool. I mean, that's a lot, right? 70,000 contracts. I'd be curious to see what contracts they are. Obviously, they're not all going to be contracts that are part of like full blown applications. They could be certain contracts for, for different things.
00:20:16.054 - 00:20:46.318, Speaker A: I mean, tokens are contracts as well, so it could just be random tokens. People kind of like testing things out, seeing what's going on there. But I. Yeah, I thought this was really cool to see the traction that they're having here, because as you guys know, Starknet is not an EVM compatible or even equivalent network. Starknet is, has the, they have the transpiler, the warp transpiler from the Nethermind team that I've spoken about before. But if you want to develop natively on Starknet you need to use their own language or Starkware's own language. Cairo, along with Starkx, you don't use solidity and the EVM.
00:20:46.318 - 00:21:26.468, Speaker A: So I like seeing traction and ecosystems that are non EVM to see, just like how much demand there is for that. The only other big non EVM ecosystem I can think of is Solana, which uses kind of like rust and the own kind of like Solana virtual machine there. And then there's also, I think, Terra as well, but Terra is, Terra's a bit different. They're trying to do like a stable coin ecosystem thing, not just like a generalized platform, at least from. That's from what I've seen, I'm probably going to have some terror. People yell at me for saying that maybe, maybe I'm behind there, but in terms of kind of like L2s, it really is just like starkware right now. Plus I think the Polygon teams and Zksync has some stuff that they're doing right now as well.
00:21:26.468 - 00:22:10.628, Speaker A: Like, that's not EVM, but I don't think much of that is out just yet in the same way Starknet is. So, yeah, cool to see this traction on stocknet here. So Ed Felton from off chain labs, the team behind Arbitrum, put out a great thread today about all the innovations that arbitrum has kind of come up with over the years. Now, for those of you who don't know, arbitrum has actually been working, or off chain labs has been working on L2, interactive fraud proof systems, optimistic roll up systems before they were called optimistic roll ups since 2014. So this predates Ethereum mainnet because Ethereum mainnet went live mid 2015. So they've been working on this for a while, and there's a lot of innovations that have come out of it. So in this thread, Ed goes through all the innovations, well, not all of them, but a lot of them, especially around fraud proofs.
00:22:10.628 - 00:22:34.866, Speaker A: You should give this thread a read, by the way. It's actually really good. It's not a long thread, but it's actually really good to see, like just how much innovation have come, has come out of the off chain labs team over the years and how long they've been at it for. I mean, 2014 is a long time ago now, guys. That's like seven years ago, or even more than that, depending of what part of 2014, but let's say it's about seven years now. As I, and as I said, it predates Ethereum. So it's basically all of a theorem's life and then some, I'm not sure.
00:22:34.866 - 00:23:05.116, Speaker A: I think this video here that he's linking to is, I can't remember what date or month that was kind of like in, in 2014, but it might even predate, kind of like Ethereum's ICO, which, which happened in mid 2014, I believe. So. So yeah, just a cool little thread here that I highly recommend you guys go and give a read. So a new project announced itself today called man, I don't even know how to pronounce these. Kuiper, kupa. I don't know, maybe they've got how to pronounce it in the, in the blog post here. I don't actually think so.
00:23:05.116 - 00:23:45.700, Speaker A: I'm just going to say cuper for now. So Cupa Finance describes itself as a new public protocol for indices and baskets, aiming to make the benefits of portfolio diversification available to all. So the protocol is a set of rules, rules governing how four key participants interact, the index publishers, the asset issuers, the basket rebalances and the holders. And then they go on to kind of like describe what makes Cooper unique here. So just a quick kind of like mental model for you guys. This is pretty similar to set protocol, if you know, if you're familiar with set protocol. As you guys know, I'm involved with set protocol in terms of like just creating like infrastructure to build these, I guess, asset management products on top of and sort of things like that.
00:23:45.700 - 00:24:14.204, Speaker A: So that's a kind of mental model to have there. But the way Cupa is doing it, they're kind of like going for governance minimization. So you can see here, the protocol is permissionless. I mean, sets for permissionless as well, but they, but after it's been deployed, there is no upgradable contracts, there is minimum viable governance. So governance can only tune three auction parameters and can raise its split of streaming fees up to a maximum of 20%. And uses Ethereum mainnet as a settlement layer here. So that is I guess like a key difference there where it's very, very governance minimized.
00:24:14.204 - 00:24:41.542, Speaker A: And they're going to be launching this as part of a soft launch. So the contracts have not been obviously tested yet or anything like that. And you know, please evaluate the risks of being a participant before participating. The contracts, I think, were audited from with code for arena and a private review of a final mitigations, blah blah. So there's much more info in here and if you want to join the team as well, you can apply to get involved there. But I think this is cool. I mean like as much.
00:24:41.542 - 00:25:11.656, Speaker A: I mean, it's kind of like. I mean, obviously, I'm still advised, I'm still an advisor to set protocol, and I think they're doing a lot of amazing work. But competition is always good. Competition breeds innovation. It is not something that I think I would be kind of, like, disappointed if there was, like, set protocol was the only asset management protocol on ethereum, and they kind of, like, had a monopoly on it. I like seeing competition because it pushes every team to be better, and it pushes every team not to stagnate, because if you have, like, a monopoly, you tend to stagnate. We see this all the time in various industries that have monopolies.
00:25:11.656 - 00:25:34.176, Speaker A: They stagnate and they stagnate really, really bad. So from that perspective, you definitely want one competition here. But, yeah, I thought this was, this was interesting. You can go check out more information at the site as well. At Quipa Finance, the apps already kind of live here. I think if I wanted to connect my wallet to it, metamask just popped up. Then, you know, you can propose a new index and things like that.
00:25:34.176 - 00:25:49.696, Speaker A: You can kind of like, manage your basket. Enter contract address. It's still early, right? This is not something that's, that's for the faint of heart. It's obviously something that you kind of, like, need to know your way around. And there's docs as well if you want to read these as well. So there's an faq, there's governance docs. I mean, it's kind of light right now.
00:25:49.696 - 00:26:12.518, Speaker A: But as I said, this was just announced. It is very new. So definitely go check this out. If you're interested in this, it'll be linked in the YouTube description. All right, finally, we have another announcement out of DevConnect. So Devconnect is scheduled to take place in Amsterdam between the 18th and 25 April 2022. So in this post, they've detailed all the events that are happening so far.
00:26:12.518 - 00:26:44.344, Speaker A: There is so much going on, guys, like, holy crap, I am getting so excited. Like, I looked L2 Amsterdam ETH economics, defi day staking gathering with east. I mean, and it's all being hosted by different groups as well. Like eats taker is hosting staking day, l two B is hosting the L2 stuff. ETH economics is being hosted by the robust Incentives group, who work at the Ethereum foundation and have done a lot of great work about AIP 1559 and other Ethereum economic related things. And I mean, there's so many more events here, so definitely recommend giving this a read. I am so pumped for this.
00:26:44.344 - 00:27:18.404, Speaker A: I've started looking into, like, what the, I guess, go is for getting to Amsterdam from Australia. And I saw on the, on the list on the Netherlands website that Australia is still considered a high risk travel zone and so is, like, the United States and Canada and, you know, a lot of the other popular places in the world. I'm hoping that changes by the time April rolls around, because if it doesn't, really, the only people who will be able to go to this conference will be people that are based in Europe. So I'm hoping it changes. I think it will. I mean, April's still, you know, a couple of months away, I guess, more than a couple months away now until April 18. But this would be the own.
00:27:18.404 - 00:27:29.036, Speaker A: That would be the only thing that barred me from going to this conference. The, the COVID Restrictions. If the. If the co. If there aren't those restrictions, I'm definitely going to be there. I, I've never been to Amsterdam. I've heard only good things about it.
00:27:29.036 - 00:27:51.262, Speaker A: I heard that it's actually similar to Melbourne and it's multiculturalism. And obviously, I love Melbourne. As you know, I've lived here my whole life, but very, very excited for the events in general, too. I'm planning to go to so many of these, you know, as many of these as I can, and I hope to meet a lot of you there as well. Like, I've saw a few of you have already said that you're going to be going as well. It's shaping up to be an absolutely amazing conference. So on that note, I'm going to end it there.
00:27:51.262 - 00:27:59.374, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
