00:00:06.400 - 00:00:25.361, Speaker A: Hello everyone. My name is Yuan Gao. I'm the. I'm the co founder of Gradient Network. Today I'll be sharing three things. First, our vision to become the open layer for Edge Compute on Solana. Second, our approach to make that.
00:00:25.361 - 00:01:06.315, Speaker A: To make that a reality. Last but not least, I also want to introduce our first product, the Sentry Node, which we just launched nine days ago. So what is Edge Compute? Edge Compute is about bringing processing power closer to the user. The key word here is low latency. The real time user experience is a very essential aspect of many of the emerging compute use cases. Unlike the traditional cloud services which are focusing more on the centralization and scale, what Edge Compute requires is very different. What it requires is locality and also dispersion.
00:01:06.315 - 00:02:34.427, Speaker A: So that's where DeepMind comes in. It offers a way to efficiently organize compute resources on the edge and form a unified compute layer. So we see Edge Compute as one of the most exciting areas in deeping, with huge potential to fulfill the ever growing demand of real time compute, we have established a framework to identify the verticals with very high potential in the space, guided by five core principles. First is market size, edge efficiency, cost reduction, minimum viable scale and also stainless of the computer. The three key verticals we have identified so far are serverless functions, CDN and streaming, and also AI inferencing. So for today, due to the time limit, I will not go into the specifics, but we'll be releasing a very lengthy article to explain the outline of our framework and also like our deeper analysis of all these three verticals that we have identified so far. So next I want to talk about how we the building blocks to achieve our vision to lay the foundation, we want to build a pervasive connectivity layer for Edge Compute.
00:02:34.427 - 00:03:39.655, Speaker A: It doesn't make sense to have a relayer in between because that will wipe out all the potential benefits of Edge computer really want is peer to peer connection. It's more efficient, it's more resilient and with no central point of failure in the middle. We want to build a homogenized compute layer. What it does is it virtualize and commoditize heterogeneous compute resource into a single unified compute layer that different kinds of use cases can access to. On top of that, we also want to build a very robust adaptive orchestration layer that different use cases can use. So regardless of the nature of the use cases, every use cases can tap into the compute resource layer seamlessly, effortlessly and also permissionlessly. So that's the three main building blocks of our project.
00:03:39.655 - 00:04:33.631, Speaker A: Here is a bird eye view of all the building blocks, all the products that we'll be having in the future. But for today I will be focusing on the Sentry Node. Sentry Node is our first product. It's a lightweight client that in the form of a browser extension. What it does is it can enable a peer to peer connection between two arbitrary nodes in the world and measure the latency in between the connection. So Emani serves two goals. First, we want to establish a global and local connectivity topology map that would help us a lot when in the future we want to orchestrate services, we want to match processing power with users.
00:04:33.631 - 00:05:22.035, Speaker A: Secondly, when our ecosystem grows, there will be a lot of decentralized roles in our ecosystem. Sentry Node will help to safeguard the liveliness of all those decentralized roles in our ecosystem. So here is a snapshot of what we have achieved. Seven days after our launch, we have 70k verified nodes in more than 117 countries and regions and we have already completed 400 tabs. That's the peer to peer connections between nodes. So that's most of my presentation today. Please feel free to try out the gradient Sentry.
00:05:22.035 - 00:05:26.595, Speaker A: All comments and suggestions will be welcome. Thank you.
