00:00:00.490 - 00:01:13.570, Speaker A: Hi, I'm Roger Brogan, director of solutions architecture at Chainlink Labs, and today we're going to be discussing Chainlink proof of reserve Chainlink is the industry standard for essential infrastructure and services in web three, with over 1000 decentralized oracle networks providing more than 5 billion data points on chain, as well as critical services such as automation and randomness. Today we're going to be talking about Chainlink Proofreserve. We're going to explain what is Chainlink Proofreserve? How it enhances transparency and how it sets the foundation for a new wave of trust minimized applications. We're also going to see why it is an essential building block for web three going forward. Over the past several years, we've witnessed massive growth in onchain tokenization, from stablecoins and tokenized commodities to wrapped and crosschain assets. We're just scratching the surface. Today, gold, currencies, real estate and commodities are worth over 40 trillion.
00:01:13.570 - 00:01:40.540, Speaker A: However, only approximately 200 billion of that is currently represented as tokenized assets on chain. Now that's just 0.5% of the addressable market. What does that mean? Means a tremendous opportunity for growth. But there is a problem. Blockchains can't verify if these tokenized assets are fully backed. Neither can the protocols that are built around them or those that use them.
00:01:40.540 - 00:02:55.982, Speaker A: Without onchain transparency, users are forced to rely on the promises and reputation of the protocols, dapps and exchanges that they use. What's needed are verifiable guarantees regarding the underlying reserve data of these assets. This is what Chainlink proof of reserve does. Proof of reserve is a new standard for verifying off chain and cross chain assets based on user demand for security and transparency. Proof of reserve leverages the same Chainlink Oracle infrastructure that has already helped enable trillions of dollars in transactional value to reliably and timely report reserve data using automated attestations. Simply put, proofreserve feeds provide blockchains with the data smart contracts need to verify tokens backing as web three grows in complexity and developers build increasingly sophisticated financial products, there is a growing need for a reliable, transparent and decentralized standard to help verify the reserve assets. Backing wrapped or crosschain tokens with proof of reserve, users protocols and issuers no longer need to trust a single party or monthly audits.
00:02:55.982 - 00:03:50.018, Speaker A: Instead, Chainlink ProofReserve provides a superior and automated way to verify an asset's underlying collateralization. ProofReserve is helping developers build the future of web three. Across several use cases, including real world assets, stablecoins wrapped assets and cross chain bridges. ProofreServe utilizes Chainlink's blockchain agnostic oracle infrastructure and here are the four main steps in the proof of reserve process. Step one proof of reserve leverages the same Chainlink Don architecture and process that helps secure tens of billions in defi. Step two the Don continuously monitors reserve balances through an API connected to an external adapter. Step three the proof of reserve feed is then updated based on either a predetermined deviation threshold or heartbeat time interval.
00:03:50.018 - 00:04:32.580, Speaker A: Step four this enables real time verification with fresh data the moment you need it. Proof of reserve can be applied to both offchain and crosschain use cases. In offchain proof of reserve, Chainlink node operators pull data from auditors, custodians and even vaults. This could be the balance of fiat currencies in an account, or could also be the measure of gold secured in a real world vault. With cross chain proof of reserve, Chainlink nodes monitor and report data across multiple blockchains. Now this can be used to check collateralization for tokens like wrap bitcoin, and it can also be used to help verify the collateralization of bridges. And this is just the start.
00:04:32.580 - 00:05:22.830, Speaker A: Chainlink proof of reserve infrastructure helps enable the secure tokenization of a range of new assets. This could even include things like paintings, wine or memorabilia. Proof of reserve provides transparency on the number of tokens locked in the original blockchain and the tokens minted on the destination blockchain, so any user or DAP can verify the collateral backing the token on the destination chain. It also adds extra security when implemented into the minting function of these assets. With users able only to mint as many tokens as there are in the reserves and no more. Chainlink Proof Reserve is essential infrastructure as a security layer for the next generation of web three products and use cases. Check out our documentation, ask a question in discord or set up a call with an expert.
00:05:22.830 - 00:05:25.990, Speaker A: Thanks for watching. Subscribe.
