00:00:03.520 - 00:00:51.608, Speaker A: Hi everyone, I'm Anna and I work with amazing ecosystem teams to build a financial paradigm on Solana, starting with stablecoins. I'm so glad to be a part of this resilient community for the past year and a half and see how far we have grown in the past year. My talk today will be macro focused and forward looking. If you're interested in learning more about the current landscape, you can check out my talk with existing stablecoin issuers at the innovative stage on Friday. In addition, check out our validated podcast with my colleagues Amira and Austin and Circle. It will be a great primer to see why stablecoins are crypto's killer app so why should you care about money? It might seem like an obvious question. It's been answered a million times by capitalism.
00:00:51.608 - 00:01:44.400, Speaker A: But what if I told you that your money is not your money and that you could lose 9% of the value in a few weeks? For some of us here, money is not stable. It's an exploding, wobbly number that changes every day we wake up. It's a privilege to think that money is a constant, what we call a stablecoin. However, our generation's constant is not the norm, it's the anomaly. Since the United States got off the gold standard at Bretton woods in 1944, the dollar has only been the reserve currency for less than 100 years. With that in mind, let's zoom out in the timeline and watch money evolve. Why should you care about stablecoins? At its peak, stablecoins $260 billion issuance is a drop in the bucket compared to the multi trillion dollar market of dollars that exist outside of the United States, also known as the euro dollar.
00:01:44.400 - 00:02:36.084, Speaker A: However, just like bitcoin exists outside of the traditional financial system, stablecoins reimagined where money could exist. Bitcoins made trustless peer to peer transfers possible, but forcibly cannot scale into a payments network and thus resort it to a storage of value. Solana, however, can potentially power the global money machine. Stablecoins are a necessary settlement token for financial activities, including capital efficient payments, which visa and Worldpay were talking about earlier. In the last two cycles, stablecoin adoption skyrocketed majority due to trading volumes on centralized exchanges. In the next cycle, we'll see stablecoins outgrow crypto trading into powering real economic activities. In the next few cycles, I hope to see stablecoin powered finance de risk the world from a us centric economy and reshape m two monetary policy.
00:02:36.084 - 00:03:28.580, Speaker A: But we will leave that for another breakpoint in the future. So how does money exist today? A small proportion of money exists as barren currencies in the form of cash, free to switch hands, yet unwieldy in large quantities. The majority of money today exists as digital money. It's still expensive, even though scalable and especially expensive to pay across borders. Just like consumer goods, money comes in wholesale and retail. Consider the retail payment networks you may have come across, such as PayPal or Alipay, and their counterpart wholesale networks, which are interbank networks. Many of these are private networks built on top of decades of legacy infrastructure with a ridiculous number of intermediaries.
00:03:28.580 - 00:04:22.754, Speaker A: What I talked about before with euro dollars, it actually settles on a private network called chips instead of a public network. The third version is fiat backed stablecoins. Fiat backed stablecoins circumvent the technical debt by rebuilding money movement on public blockchains on chain data even in this market of deep crypto, winter demonstrates product market fit with rising volume of USDC and USDT. However, this is considered oftentimes a threat by tradfi and regulators because of its radically different structure. The potential to eliminate intermediaries and displace profit can cause incumbents knee jerk reaction against stablecoins. At this point, the majority of central banks have experimented or researched or piloted privately issued stablecoins or central bank digital currencies, also known as wholesale stablecoins. Stablecoins are for sure here to stay.
00:04:22.754 - 00:05:06.414, Speaker A: However, as privately issued stablecoins grow, the issuers also become the gatekeepers between fiat and the on chain world. They harness immense power, and with that power, sometimes that means bullying other companies in a way that is against the ethos of blockchain. Fortunately, I see signs that may shift from oligopoly to free market in the near future. Since money is always evolving, I'm sure some new money experiment will catch on and take off within our lifetime, which is super exciting. So how will money exist tomorrow? There are three trends. The first one is diversified collateralization. Using other assets as collateral for money is a tale as old as time.
00:05:06.414 - 00:05:47.824, Speaker A: In modern times, money is backed by regimes. In ancient times, it's often and most often backed by scarce assets such as gold. Today, backed by regimes, money is nothing tangible, but only backed by the regime's power and the economy it controls. Regimes can print as much or as little money it needs at the expense of its currency holders and often citizens with blockchains. However, we have a choice. We can choose to transact with stablecoins, cryptocurrencies or flat coins like the ISC on Solana UXD is another example on Solana, which is a synthetic dollar backed by assets other than its fiat counterpart. The dollar economy is a recent reality.
00:05:47.824 - 00:07:00.874, Speaker A: So who are we to say that our current iteration of the monetary system is the best one can? And will a portion of our future money be collateralized by sovereign individuals existing outside of the means of the fiat currencies? The second trend is a deeper divide between us and non us. So in the US, I think that the trend will become more like a crypto mullet, web two in the front and web3 in the back. There's a term coined by some people talking about real world assets, but I believe it applies to stable coins as well. Us institutions are more interested in ETF's and derivatives, so crypto will not disappear in the country. However, the country is facing a midlife crisis, identity crisis, because the US dollar has long been the tool that the country uses to enforce its economic hegemony. The rise of cryptocurrencies and eurodollar stablecoins challenges that while the US is figuring out its over, in my opinion, overreaching regulations, the rest of the world is eyeing on chain finance as a tool for a better future by distancing itself from the US banking system. Yet ironically, we're getting into a future closer to dollarization.
00:07:00.874 - 00:07:41.740, Speaker A: The market demands euro dollars, preferably distributed across networks of custodians and issuers. It's an interesting reality today where nobody wants to deal with the US regulator or banking system, yet everybody wants to use the dollar. The third trend is that programmable money and the convergence of storage of value and medium of exchange. What is storage of value? Storage of value is oftentimes an asset you use to grow in wealth. A medium of exchange is what you use to transact and trade and pay for people. Unless you're an institution, a large bank or a multinational conglomerate. These days you have to face a dilemma between choosing, paying and investing.
00:07:41.740 - 00:08:16.904, Speaker A: There always has to be an ideal pool of buffer cash you use to avoid liquidity crunch. With yield bearing tokens, this will no longer be a forced choice. Money will be used to transact and earn. So tokenized TBIL issuers such as maple Finance are the first step towards bringing yield on chain. However, most tokenized t bills are only available to accredited investors and best used for DAO or corporate treasuries. I think that will change in the next few years. Whether that will come from legal innovation or technical innovation is to be determined.
00:08:16.904 - 00:09:23.470, Speaker A: Some of the projects on Solana, such as Etherfuse that just launched today is allowing everybody who can pass KYC to purchase yield bearing mexican sovereign bonds and freely transact with it. So how is that relevant? I believe that economic future on Solana will be built by use cases that are only possible here. The step one is to maximize accessibility and education. The ability to move fiat and stable seamlessly is extremely important, and it's an initiative that many of our projects on Solana such as DCAV, Espresso, Cash and others have taken on. It's also an initiative that super team members Yash and Satish have been working with myself to build out this website, community managed website called Solanapayments Fund where we list projects. What you're seeing here if your project would like to be added, please contact this website. We have a couple of new additions with 90% of centralized exchange volume in Africa coming from stablecoins, which is kind of a shocking fact considering that those are crypto exchanges.
00:09:23.470 - 00:10:12.910, Speaker A: We've added one of the popular exchanges there. Yellow card supports Solana USDC as a cheaper alternative to higher gas fee chains in addition to accessible fiat ramps and a thriving payments ecosystem. Educating key players like visa on the merits of Solana builds the kind of credibility that our industry desperately needs for wider adoption on the counterpart to visa. There are also new payment networks such as CFX labs on Solana and Sling that are building similar networks but completely on chain with over $1 billion natively issued. Circle and tether have paved the way for anybody anywhere to get exposure to dollars. Borderless dollars combats inflation and goes a long way for global trade settlement. However, dollarization is not the end state for stablecoins.
00:10:12.910 - 00:11:10.384, Speaker A: We can be more embedded into the existing so called tri fi money movement until we are the money movement ourselves. As a tiny step towards that future, I am pleased to announce that euro from membrane Finance, canadian dollar from Stablecorp, the swiss franc from VNX and us dollar from Braille are now live on Solana this year. Thank you. If you live in Europe, Canada or Mexico, I hope you will try mint in some of your local stablecoins and build new use cases around them. The second trend is foreign exchange. 99% of stablecoins are dollars and most believe that this trend will continue. However, I agree with the Cumberland paper here that non USD stablecoins will have its own set of use cases complimentary to the dollar.
00:11:10.384 - 00:12:36.024, Speaker A: The most obvious ones for FX use case or non USD stablecoins are crypto trading and punting large FX bets. But beyond trading, there are real world benefits that an accessible and liquid on chain FX market can power as an international former international student and immigrant, I struggle with frozen bank accounts and delayed tuition payments combining with stablecoins with crypto cards such as the ones available from Stablecorp, the canadian dollar issuer, internationals and global citizens can avoid costly foreign transaction fees without the need to set up a local bank account. Small business owners and cross border global business owners and funds can also use non dollar stablecoins for granular treasury management to reduce FX exposure. Using the euro and canadian dollar stablecoins as an example, orca here actually has better rates than wise, albeit frankly, liquidity is still limited, and we hope to build that out in the near future for institutional players. If they prefer to use on chain limit order books, Phoenix can update 1000 orders with instant settlement. Jupiter, in addition, can source liquidity and aggregate liquidity across the entire ecosystem. Thanks to Solana's low gas fees, it doesn't really matter how many hops you take or how many combinations you use.
00:12:36.024 - 00:13:29.982, Speaker A: All that matters is the best price execution. With this, there's no end of day or end of week settlements, no lengthy legal contracts and email notifications of manual margin management. Programmable money means programmable trading so the third trend is an example that I came up with introducing the clam burger. Clam originally stands for concentrated liquidity automated market maker. In this case, the clam is usually represented by the graph in the middle, but in this case, a clam burger is kind of like a stable swap that concentrates liquidity using bridge as an orchestration layer. Bridge APIs seamlessly allow conversion of fiat and different stable coins across multiple chains into a stable coin of your choice. So what you're seeing here is that you can put in the different stable coins above through bridge.
00:13:29.982 - 00:14:17.520, Speaker A: Get one kind of USC stablecoin that the pool predetermines, put it through a matching engine of some sort. It could be an amm structure or an order book structure or combined structure and spit out the other side of a stablecoin and convert it back. So instead of having different permutations of the stablecoin, now you can have a unified pool that concentrates liquidity together. But really, Clan Burger is just an example of what is possible on Solana. With the majority of stable coins issued that live across multiple chains. I believe Solana is arguably the best execution layer for financial activities, and with that you can combine liquidity together. The fourth step, next step is arguably pretty far away.
00:14:17.520 - 00:15:06.474, Speaker A: A huge question mark. How do we build a financial system on Solana, and what will that look like you'll hear from a lineup of amazing founders that are working on stable coins, real world assets and on chain finance at breakpoint and experience the absence of 3% merchant fees using vending machines. But instant FX transactions are only the beginning. The possibilities of finance on Solana are endless. With the budding ecosystem, we can build use cases that combine payments and financing. What I talked about earlier with yield is one side of the coin and the other side is loan and borrowing. First step is to move more assets to increase transparency and settlement times, and that also serves as collateral for lending.
00:15:06.474 - 00:15:54.084, Speaker A: With compressed nfts and privacy features, Solana can support complex debt structures such as tranched RWA, collateralized lending and cash flow financing. Now combine that with programmable information rich payments using Solana pay. Crypto is no stranger to innovative and fun use cases such as meme coins and jpegs. Who are we to say that we can't incorporate DeFi with real world economic activities, even if that means the idea of looping bonds or yield farming carbon credits sound ridiculous at the moment. They may not be in a couple of years. What about liquid stake bond backed stablecoins? We crazy people will figure something out. Lastly, I want to leave you guys with a question.
00:15:54.084 - 00:16:38.474, Speaker A: We've touted 24/7 markets and incident settlements as features, not bugs, but time and time again, crypto has seen irrational panic in moments where we really wish that we could pause or reverse transactions. How do we reconcile that difference? I believe it is a feature, not a bug, that Solana is 24/7 fast and cheap, and all the advantages that we have as a layer one chain. However, consider and keep that in mind how we can work with the traditional financial system and avoid such panics, because that's ultimately bad for the long term of our ecosystem. So to all the builders here, I hope this inspires your next venture. Only possible on Solana. Thank you.
