00:00:00.240 - 00:00:20.638, Speaker A: Thank you for staying for this last talk of the day. So I'm not sure why the presentation was supposed to be in orange. It's in blue. Oh, no, it's in orange now. Good. So maybe today we're going to talk about liquidity. It's interesting because it's linked to the past two talks, and it's kind of going to make the links with some of the arguments that the previous speakers have made.
00:00:20.638 - 00:00:42.552, Speaker A: In general, the idea is to understand how crypto is actually going to create value in the ecosystem. A lot of people keep saying that crypto does not create value. That's wrong. It's been wrong since the start. It's just that there's a very different definition of what value is. And my point here is to explain that liquidity is kind of an oracle to understand this value creation. So first, we've heard liquidity a lot over the past few talks.
00:00:42.552 - 00:01:05.684, Speaker A: You hear it always in crypto. You're going to hear a lot about it in finance in general. So I just wanted to start by quickly talking a bit about what is liquidity, my personal definition, and it doesn't come from me, I didn't invent it. It comes from fintech blogger. That's called fintech rumination. It's that it's the efficiency at which an asset can be converted into cash, and the opposite, vice versa. Right.
00:01:05.684 - 00:01:48.064, Speaker A: What does this mean? That's actually really interesting if you stop on this, because it means that in a sense, liquidity is a pricing mechanism. If you have liquidity, you're able to understand the value of a project. And I think that's really important, because in the end, if you think about it, it means that liquidity is the underlying oracle of a product, of a price, of an asset. The more liquidity you have, the harder the actual pricing of something is. The less liquidity you have, the less reliable the actual pricing is. So in finance in general, it's important to understand that this concept is basically the underlying of any value that you're going to have. Something maybe that I should add is that value is very subjective.
00:01:48.064 - 00:02:39.500, Speaker A: The family here might be super valuable for you, but the market will probably market down to zero. Right? So here, when I mean pricing liquidity, I mean how other people are actually pricing. And that's important because in traditional finance, liquidity is basically just supply and demand, right? People want to buy something, other people want to sell it. So the way it has been built is that we have created giant order books. This is what traditional exchanges look like simply because what we do is we aggregate all the people who want to buy, all of the people who want to sell, and it should be super efficient. Right? Has anyone here traded on centralized exchange or any stock exchanges in general? I see one person does no one trade? Two, three. But what's important about this is if you look at it, there's going to be a spread.
00:02:39.500 - 00:03:25.398, Speaker A: Basically, there's a split between what's the price people want to buy it and what's the price people want to sell it. And the convergence is more than likely often made by market makers. So there are huge inefficiencies in this market. And the other thing that I want to talk about is the real problem in this system that's better in a sense. There's something that I call evaporation, which is when there's no demand, when there's no supply, one of the two sides of what you're seeing here, there's basically no liquidity, right? Does it mean that if there's one of the sites that's missing, the asset has suddenly no value? That's a good question. If suddenly no one is ready to buy or no one is ready to sell, has an asset no value. That's actually not true, because let's say something is really rare.
00:03:25.398 - 00:04:03.758, Speaker A: If you think about Gresham's law, right? If an asset becomes really rare and suddenly everyone thinks there's a lot of value, let's say an exotic car, for example, no one wants to sell it, does the car have no value? No, it has. It's just the market is not able to define the value. And that's where am, as we're going to see, come in and create something very interesting. Because when there's no liquidity, everything stops working in terms of pricing mechanism. So when everything goes wrong, let's say there's a crisis for any type of commodity. What could potentially happen is the liquidity entirely dries out. That doesn't always happen, but it can happen.
00:04:03.758 - 00:04:49.140, Speaker A: For example, if you look, during the russian invasion, every single russian stock basically went to zero, but the companies were not worth zero. So that's why crypto is reinventing the flow of value creation, because with amm, we're totally reinventing the way we can understand and price liquidity. So that's just the part for trit five. That's why I wanted to introduce amms. I'm not going to go into the hyper complex stuff. The idea is just to understand that the basic invariant formula is a logarithmic curve, which enables people to deposit two pairs of tokens and they can be used to trade. People basically trade over it, and it enables you to value the price without one of the part of the Lego piece I just said.
00:04:49.140 - 00:05:43.306, Speaker A: So you can actually trade and have a pricing mechanism that's updated without one part of the two markets. So why is this important? Because resilience, what it means is that once you have liquidity on an Amm instead of an order book, you basically have liquidity that does not need human interaction to function. And that's really important because it means that if you're in a place that's sensible, if you're in a high frequency environment, if you're using a very niche asset, you do not need to constantly interact with humans. It also means that you can have much more compatibility in what you're doing. So at some point, the value of an amm versus traditional liquidity in an order book is simply the fact that it's permissionless and it's immutable and nothing's going to happen to it. There's always going to be liquidity. It's just going to be very down.
00:05:43.306 - 00:06:21.758, Speaker A: An amm, theoretically, in the basic configuration, cannot go to zero, but it can go the closest to zero without being zero. So it means almost no value. So I like resilience. I think that's the whole point of crypto, and I think that has a lot of value, as I mentioned just before. Why and who provides liquidity? I want to go a bit into details into why this is actually useful and then explain what are the risks to understand where we're going with this in liquidity, as you've seen what we showed just before, this kind of formula, that was in 2018, right? We've evolved a lot. You have curve, you have Univ. Three, you have bouncer, a lot of other much more complex models.
00:06:21.758 - 00:06:57.674, Speaker A: But this space of resilient liquidity is what actually enables to create value. Because when you talk about meme coins, you can think they have no value. But that's not true. As long as there's a liquidity pair and there's actually a pricing market, you can actually sell into and create value. So when you create an item, the value is going to come from who is going to buy it here in crypto and to amms, it's going to depend the depth of your liquidity pool. That's why we talked about Oracle before. Right, sorry, going back, I'm going to stop hovering between slides.
00:06:57.674 - 00:07:49.404, Speaker A: It's going to become a bit more confusing if I do, but there's three types of people who are actually providing liquidity in DeFi, and this is basically the very basic type of people who are actually participating in crypto. You have the projects, the people who are actually creating the assets, who are creating products, the funds, so very large investors, and then retail users who are basically all of us. Why would these projects create liquidity and provide it? Well, because they can benefit from the actual volume, the actual trading activity of their assets. It also means that once they have this liquidity, they can actually basically start a composability machine. Almost nothing is doable without liquidity. If you have an asset, but you do not have liquidity, you don't have an oracle, you can't do integrations, you probably are not going to get into lending protocols, etcetera, etcetera. Liquidity is basically the base building block that enables projects to do so.
00:07:49.404 - 00:08:23.494, Speaker A: And of course, you enable people who have your asset to do correct trading experience. The second one are going to be funds. So funds, probably investors, but not just are people who think they can profit from providing liquidity. They can hedge as an investment. For example, if you put a significant bill into an asset and you're pretty convinced it's going to be resilient, you can create liquidity pair. And basically it means that you're progressively selling the asset into basically harder assets. And the last is that it basically enables a better valuation of their investment.
00:08:23.494 - 00:09:03.750, Speaker A: As I mentioned before, the more liquidity you have, the more robust pricing environment you have for the assets. Lastly, retail users. So let's be honest, retail users, when they deposit liquidity, most of the time they get screwed. The reason why they get screwed is simply that they don't have as much knowledge as funds or projects, maybe internal or external. And unless they go for edge opportunities, they get diluted very quickly because they simply don't have the size necessary to basically do this at scale. That's very quickly for the people who are providing liquidity. We're basically in the third column, most of us, and we're getting wrecked because there's all of these risks that are happening.
00:09:03.750 - 00:10:00.274, Speaker A: I'm not going to go into in depth all of what these risks mean and do, but this, the idea is to understand that you have technical risk, you have economical risk, and then you have human risk in a sense. And what happens is that liquidity providing is simply not just depositing funds and getting them out. There's actually value that's being transferred in and out at every trade. And that's why we're building new versions of AMm constantly, because we realize there's a significant amount of value leakage, right? So if there's value leakage, why would people actually provide liquidity, especially the retail part? Because there's actually money to be made. There is a trilemna of this money to be made first is the swap fee. That's the classic one, right? It's basically just people to be able trading and paying for the ability to trade. But that doesn't bring in enough fees to basically really attract unless you have huge amounts of levels of volume that's actually happening inside.
00:10:00.274 - 00:10:37.820, Speaker A: That's actually the biggest problem, because as I mentioned before, a lot of assets that start, that are basically created, we start by mm, liquidity. And the problem is that they don't have volume at the beginning. So if they don't have volume, there's no swap fees. So what's the incentive of depositing? Unless you're the actual project. And for a project to deposit, they need significant funds in harder assets in order to pair them and to risk them. Once you start having volume on the other side, you can have rebalancing rewards where they're not very significant, outside of basically rewarding newer people and taking more risk to rebalance the pools. So the first solution is basically additional incentives.
00:10:37.820 - 00:11:11.768, Speaker A: You're going to pay for liquidity. That's a very important point, because it's a comparison that hasn't been made a lot. But basically it means that you can actually compare the price of paying for liquidity on chain today in amms to how much certain companies are paying to have market makers. Because the way it happens is that the more your asset is liquid. If you're Google or Facebook, you don't pay for market makers. People pay to work with you because you're making so much volume that it's a business to actually work with you. But the less volume you have, the more you have to struggle to hire people to find people.
00:11:11.768 - 00:11:56.002, Speaker A: One very interesting thing is, I don't know how many of you know or use Euronext, which is the european stock exchange, but if you look at the Paris office, there's 871 stocks that are basically public there. And out of these, 25% have not been traded for the past 48 hours. So basically a quarter of all euro next is not liquid. That means that the order book system does not work for them. Now, what happened if most of these companies were actually making a profit, instead had an AMMLP, right? People would be able to trade against it. And it's not just about trading, to be honest, because if you don't have a robust price fit, you can do lending, which means it's going to be much harder to basically find loan terms agreements. It's going to be, all of this is going to get more complicated.
00:11:56.002 - 00:12:41.622, Speaker A: So there's an incentive in saying that LP's in general are solutions for low volume projects. The question is, if you're a low volume, is it more interesting to pay for a market maker who's going to be paid on the spread and who you're going to have to pay? Or is it more interesting to do direct liquidity incentives? In crypto, we basically mostly do direct liquidity incentives, but what we do at Paldin, that's why you see all of these little orange guys. That's us. Well, we basically try to understand how much you can pay for these market makers, how much you can pay for liquidity incentives. And we try to find. We're progressively trying to find the right way to allocate this. So liquidity mining is what sparked the bull market in 2021, right.
00:12:41.622 - 00:13:09.692, Speaker A: It's basically just deposit tokens. Hopefully they have a liquid value. Right, market value, sorry. And basically you just directly pay people to provide liquidity. That's a very brick and mortar approach. Then came vote incentives that were pioneered by curve JDI. Is that the protocol natively does liquidity mining and can basically pay in order to direct this? The good thing is that because the asset is massively used for this strategy, it's much more liquid, has a much more robust market value.
00:13:09.692 - 00:13:54.096, Speaker A: It's more efficient. Usually you have a multiplier and the efficiency, but it's more time consuming because there's complexity added. And the last one, which is the flavor of the month, it's points. I'm not a huge fan simply because it's illiquid. So there's a huge asymmetry of information between the people who are taking the bet of basically saying points are going to be valuable and the actual teams who are organizing this and who get to choose the value of these points. Now, it's very much a lottery, but for people who have played around with Pendle, for example, if you had insider info and you were able to actually gauge the value of a point, could just buy the yield out of people who didn't know, and you could make 10, 20, 50 times the actual value that was expected by the people who sold. So there's a huge problem of asymmetry of information on points.
00:13:54.096 - 00:14:47.126, Speaker A: But in general, that's the three options we have to incentivize of course, against a traditional company, basically just paying for a marketplace maker. That's kind of the comparison. So we talked about who are the LP's, we talked about how do we track them now, why do you want liquidity? We talked about the fact that it was interesting to create as a pricing strategy, but basically it's a bit more granular than that. And what we do a lot at Pellin is just trying to understand what are the strategy of this project in order to basically get more liquidity. Do you want to create demand, which basically means do you want to reach a threshold where you have so much volume that you basically don't need LP's anymore and you just can go more into an order book style. So to understand, only the biggest assets in crypto are able to do that. Something like Uni, some Aave LDO, and things like assets like Steve now have enough volume, as Adrian just mentioned in the previous talk, have enough volume to be able to have an order book style.
00:14:47.126 - 00:15:21.898, Speaker A: But almost all of the assets after that, they don't have enough volume to do that. They're way too small. They're ultra low cap in a public type of environment. So have two choices. If they can pass the decree demand threshold, either they can find LP's, so they can find partners who are going to provide liquidity on the long term. These guys usually either are paid as market makers, or so they can be paid through liquidity mining, by the way, or you find people who find a profitable way to do a strategy. And the last one is, if none of these fit, you can actually build your own liquidity.
00:15:21.898 - 00:16:19.904, Speaker A: And I think that's the most interesting one. That's the one we have built internally also, because it means that as a project today, you can ignore the fact that you need one part supplier demand of your project for it to be functional, in the sense that you can simply just own your own liquidity, profit from the speculation that's happening around it, and be resilient on that front. Because once you become a public company, once you have a token as a crypto project, which are two very different things, never confuse them or you're going to get caught by the regulators. What's going to happen simply is that you can stop caring about this and you can focus on the actual important things, which is building your product, building your company. Okay, so now that we've talked about liquidity in general, the final thing is to understand where liquidity is going today. As I mentioned, liquidity is much more complex than simple environment constant that we talked about from unit for from. That was actually coined by Vitalik.
00:16:19.904 - 00:16:54.234, Speaker A: But today we're seeing a convergence towards traditional markets and a divergence, which means we're building more and more complex products that are looking like order books. And probably with the idea, if you look at Univ. Four, for example, Univ. Three, then Uni v. Four, to rebuild an order book on top of resilient liquidity. So it's basically reinventing the wheel, which is the specialty, apparently, in crypto. And then the other part, which is the divergence, going fully resilient, very simple LP's, and acknowledging that these are two very different products.
00:16:54.234 - 00:17:18.483, Speaker A: The fact that order books are made for high volume and high in demand assets, and that LP's, in general, amms are made for liquidity, that's most likely going to be much rarer. But it's going to be liquidity that's always going to be there. So when your company crashes down, when there's a huge problem, when the market goes to shit, literally your LP will still be there. That's it. I don't know if you have any questions, but now's the time.
