00:00:00.360 - 00:00:43.266, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily Refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesano, and today's the 19 October 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So another kind of thread from Polynyar here today that I wanted to go through. I wanted to run through a few things here because I thought it was a really great one, but essentially Polynyard was replying to a tweet from James Wang, who said, or asked the question, what's the pros cons of building a new chain on Cosmos Polkadot versus doing it as a ZK roll up on Ethereum? So please. Polinar goes on to answer this question by saying it's wickedly difficult to build a programmable ZK rollup. At most, five or six teams are capable of it, but we're seeing multiple optimism forks such as Metis, Boba, Nami, and more.
00:00:43.266 - 00:01:17.146, Speaker A: Once ZK Rollup's tech is open sourced, we'll see many ZKR forks too. Long term, I don't see any reason not to build a roll up. And then Polynar continues, unless you must have your own monolithic, self sovereign chain for whatever reason, in which case the two easiest options are building a cosmos SDK chain or an EVM chain. There are a gazillion of the latter already, of course, but a roll up will be so much easier in the future. Why easier? You don't have don't have to boots up a consensus mechanism, a native token, get centralized exchange integration, build network effects, et cetera. You can do the latter too, but it's optional. Just plug into the most secure layer in the space.
00:01:17.146 - 00:02:00.356, Speaker A: If you want extra data availability, just build a volidium instead. And then Polyuner gives a simple example where they say arbitrary is the only chain other than the than Ethereum, with all the blue chips deployed or committed to deploying uniswap maker, RB, sushi, balancer curve, etcetera. All their bsc polygon pos avalanche has some of them through incentives, but not all. It's a no brainer, so. And as crypto maxi notes here, polygon is only missing uniswap. You know, it's funny because polygon not being, you know, the PoS chain not being, quote unquote a true l two, it doesn't really matter. They've still been able to attract the kind of like quote unquote defi blue chip projects because of their allegiance or alignment with a furium, which I think is really, really positive but what I wanted to kind of like focus on was a few points here from, for Poly.
00:02:00.356 - 00:02:52.990, Speaker A: Now, one, one thing that I've kind of like been saying for a little while on, on the refuel is exactly what Polyno's been saying about, you know, why would you want to create like just a roll up or your own L2 instead of creating a layer one? And I've talked about, you know, constantly about how I think that there's just not going to be these l one spinning up anymore. It doesn't make any sense to do so. It's much more, it makes much more sense to just launch a L2, but it's also going to be much more profitable to launch a L2 as well. So even if you're kind of like motive is just money and just profit, it's just still better off launching a layer, too. As polynomial notes here, we've already seen this with multiple optimism forks such as Metis, Boba and Nami. But, you know, Polina said, like, why is it easier to launch kind of a L2? And it's because you don't have to boot chopper consensus mechanism is a major reason, which means you don't have to bootstrap your own network of, I mean, not really miners these days, more like validators. Right.
00:02:52.990 - 00:03:18.766, Speaker A: You don't have to issue a native token to do it. You don't have to get like a token distribution out there. You don't have to have all these expensive kind of running costs. You don't have to worry about consensus or at all, really. You just have to worry about, you know, kind of like paying the security on a layer one ethereum, which isn't too much of a worry because if the product that you create at L2 is good enough, people will use it and pay fees to use it. And then you can use that fee revenue to pay for layer one and then profit the difference, right. Which is actually quite high.
00:03:18.766 - 00:03:39.390, Speaker A: You know, you remember that optimism is, is donating all profits to public goods while they're already donating a million dollars to public goods. Right. And, you know, optimism really isn't even that. I would still say that their network is still in Alpha. It's like, still got a whitelist on it. Not many apps on there yet. Still seeing some really nice growth, but they're generating what, 100, $150,000 a day in revenue.
00:03:39.390 - 00:04:12.322, Speaker A: Same for arbitrum. So these L2s, they're going to be very, very lucrative in terms of getting kind of like fear revenue. So you're definitely going to see a lot of people spinning them up and, you know, not, not having to worry about to bootstrap a consensus mechanism either, which is huge, right? They don't have to have a native token. I mean, I think they're going to have a native token, but for different reasons. They definitely want to decentralize out their sequences and their validators, which is different to a layer one. And as I mentioned yesterday, it's just much easier, and the path is much easier for these L2s to decentralize over time. You know, they don't need to get centralized exchange integration.
00:04:12.322 - 00:04:44.128, Speaker A: Uh, they, they probably will as time goes on, but it's not critical to them, right. You can just basically bridge in from Ethereum layer one to these, uh, to these L2s. And um, you know, pretty much every exchange has Ethereum integration already, so you don't have to have to rely on that. Uh, I mean, I pretty, you know, not even just pretty much, I think 100% of exchanges, um, have ethereum integration. So you can just withdraw to Ethereum and then, you know, building just general network effects as well. You plug into Ethereum, you inherit all of Ethereum's network effects. And that's why we've seen so much L2 growth, which I'm going to talk about in a sec with regards to uniswap.
00:04:44.128 - 00:05:15.476, Speaker A: But we've seen so much growth so quickly because it's just very easy people to get into it. And this is growth without native token incentives. There is no native tokens for these L2s yet. You know, you might look at some of these side chains, DBM side chains, and be like, oh, they got lots of adoption really quickly. Well, they had massive liquidity mining programs. Like if you, if you can imagine a L2 with a massive liquidity mining program, I'm betting tens of billions of dollars would flow into these things as well. And we're almost at 4 billion TVL without these native incentives, which is, which is pretty cool, you know, at least I think so.
00:05:15.476 - 00:05:59.786, Speaker A: It's just going to kind of like get supercharged from there. But you know, the example that Polina gives here about, I guess like arbitram one and you know, crypto Max is saying even the polygon pos chain, having all these blue chips as well, is very important because users are going to go where the apps are and the apps are only going to be deployed to things that developers feel like that there's actually going to be traction on and is actually going to be long term health on. You know, the funny thing is, is that Aave hasn't deployed to arbitrum yet, but they deployed to some EVM side chains, some of the newer ones as well. And people are like, well, you know, why aren't you deploying to arbitrum? And I remember one of the people at Arvair said, well, we don't want to deploy our old tech to Arbitrum. They want to deploy their new tech there. So they're happy deploying their old existing tech to these EVM side chains because it's just very easy for them to do so. Right.
00:05:59.786 - 00:06:25.586, Speaker A: It doesn't take much. They can just basically port it over. They don't have to get new audits or anything like that. But if they're building something new, like rv three, for example, then they definitely want that their flagship product to be on the flagship platform, that being ethereum and its l two ecosystem. You saw the same thing with Uniswap with v three. V three is the only thing that's launching on these kind of like l two s. And, you know, I'm hoping Uniswap also launches on the Polygon Pos chain with v three.
00:06:25.586 - 00:06:59.020, Speaker A: That'd be really cool to see. But, yeah, I mean, I could give, like, examples from, from, like, the other examples, too. But generally, you know, the users aren't going to go to chains that just don't have the apps on them. And that's why all the EVM side chains exist and why they're the ones that are getting adoption is because beforehand, pretty much all the chains that didn't have EVM compatibility and, you know, they didn't really get any adoption. They were ghost chains because of the fact that it's much, much, much harder to boost up an ecosystem from nothing. And, you know, I guess, like, one thing that Solana is doing that I actually respect for them doing is trying to bootstrap an ecosystem from scratch. Right.
00:06:59.020 - 00:07:32.344, Speaker A: They're not even compatible right now. They have, like, a new programming language, not a new one, like a different one called rust that people can work in. They have different kind of architecture of how they're doing transactions with parallelization and stuff like that. But in saying that, they're also going to have a, I guess, like a platform building on top of Solana that allows for EVM compatibility as well. So it's going to be interesting to see how much adoption that gets over the vanilla Solana chain. But all the other kind of things, like the avalanche sea chain, Phantom. I mean, the Polygon pos chain, of course, as well, they're all EVM side chains.
00:07:32.344 - 00:08:12.882, Speaker A: And that's exactly why you've seen kind of like this rapid kind of deployment of these top protocols that have typically been deployed to only Ethereum. And you know, the kind of like polygon is a bit of a different example because the POS chain isn't just like your regular side chain, right? It has kind of like commitments to Ethereum and it also um, has its staking logic on Ethereum. So uh, and I guess like, as I said, like it's more politically aligned or I guess like socially aligned with Ethereum as well. So yeah, I mean, just a really great little kind of like thread from Polynya here. And then I think there was a bit of forks in the thread that came off of this. And I think people kind of like asked uh, asked some questions about like um, about different things. I mean you can go read this for yourself if you want.
00:08:12.882 - 00:09:02.252, Speaker A: It'll be linked in the YouTube description of course. But um, yeah, just another day, another polynomial shout out. So Ross Middleton from diversify here announced that the polygon to diversify polygon pos chain to diversify stablecoin bridge has now enabled over 1000 people to avoid the high l one gas fees. Now this is what I've, I think I've mentioned this before on the review where I basically said you can have bridges that basically go to an ethereum l two without actually touching the Ethereum main chain. So this is going through polygons pos chain to diversify, which is kind of like ethereum, like L2. I mean it's technically a validium, but like it still kind of like verifies itself with ethereum, verifies the proofs, proofs there. And you can see like the medium transaction size, the medium trans, the mean transaction size, the most popular token and the fee.
00:09:02.252 - 00:09:44.544, Speaker A: So the fee is only a dollar to kind of like move between, between here. If you had to go through ethereum layer one, the fee would probably be ten or $20 or something like that. So obviously a nice order of magnitude decrease here. I think we're going to see much more of this as well. I mean, what's really cool is the fact that, I mean, the thing with the bridges though is that you have to remember, as I've explained on the refill, I think, I think I explained it last, last week, last Friday, is that it depends what bridge you're using because if the bridge has a bunch of like admin keys or if the bridge is centralized in any way, if it's got a multi sig or whatever, then your funds are only as safe as, as kind of like the bridge there, depending on. Kind of like, depending on what you do. Because if you.
00:09:44.544 - 00:10:34.020, Speaker A: So, so this is the funny thing about bridges is that I'm gonna give an example here because it's a bit difficult to reason about, but it'll make sense if I gave an example. If you bridge from, say, the polygon pos chain through this, this bridge to diversify and you have your funds on diversify, say you have like some stable coins on there. Well, while those kind of like. And you, and kind of like, say you wanted to go back to the, to the pos chain, well, if that bridge gets compromised, then you wouldn't be able to go back the same way you came in. Now, if you removed your funds from diversify and went to ethereum layer one, then the risk goes to someone else because you have the funds on layer one and you've basically kind of like removed that risk of holding that, that bridge risk from yourself to someone else. So it gets really complicated. And that's why I always try to, like, warm people about these bridges.
00:10:34.020 - 00:11:17.366, Speaker A: Obviously, I'm a big advocate of them, but also warn people that not all of them are created equal. Like, a lot of them still have centralized controls. A lot of them can be, can be compromised. And it is definitely not, not something you should be putting like lots and lots of money into. But in saying that you could, in terms of, like, what's safer using the kind of like native bridges, like the arbitrary and optimism bridge I consider to be safer, but still they're centralized because of the fact that there's upgradable contracts and stuff like that. But, you know, it's, it's still just trade offs at this early stage of the game. But I think just understanding, like, where your funds are, what the risks are when doing, when bridging between different chains is very important, but it's good to see the kind of like, bridges bypassing ethereum layer one to save users costs.
00:11:17.366 - 00:11:48.198, Speaker A: At the end of the day, like, obviously not everyone's going to be able to afford to bridge passing through layer one. Having alternative options is really important, I believe. All right, so I did mention that I wanted to talk about Uniswap's growth on L2s recently. So uniswap v three. I mean, Hayden put out a tweet today where he said uniswap v three on L2, arbitrage plus optimistic Ethereum doing an all time high volume of $115 million. And then he went on to say, l two season is here. Now, I've got the stats up here on uniswap.
00:11:48.198 - 00:11:56.326, Speaker A: You can kind of, like, see it here. Basically, this is uniswap. L1 volume foot. Just v three. This isn't v two. V two's over here. It's separate.
00:11:56.326 - 00:12:19.494, Speaker A: I'll go through that in a sec. But v three over the last 24 hours had $1.33 billion of volume, which is obviously a lot of volume. It is by far the, you know, the largest Dex on ethereum processing the most amount of volume. And, you know, that's been that way for a little while now. Then you can see up here, you can switch from Ethereum to optimism. So if we switch to optimism, we can say over the last 24 hours, they did $10 million worth of volume.
00:12:19.494 - 00:13:05.644, Speaker A: But I think Hayden was going off this kind of state here, the twelve, like $12 million. Then you can see other times it's done, done even more like 20, 20 million plus here. But basically, we count the last 24 hours, which is about, say, 1012 million, then we can switch to arbitrum and see that arbitrum is doing a lot of volume, like $80 million, if we look at the same day here. And that's definitely because arbitrum has more apps live on the network than optimism. So there's more activity going on, on there. But taking those two together gets to, gets to Hayden's kind of like 115 million, like, volume here. Now, what I wanted to talk about was the fact that if you take 115 million and you kind of, like, map it out to our ones volumes, which were, what, 1.33
00:13:05.644 - 00:13:25.830, Speaker A: billion, or if we take, if we go back to the, to the day here, it's like, yeah, sorry, let me just get back to the day here. It's like 1.4 billion. Just say. Then you can, you can kind of say that, like, what's around 8% or something like that. So l two s are doing 8% of layer one volume so far, and they've, and they're still very fresh and very new. So it's really, really cool to see the increased adoption here.
00:13:25.830 - 00:14:07.722, Speaker A: I think once optimism removes their white list and opens the floodgates and arbitram releases things like Arbitrum, Nitro, and we have more apps go live there. We'll slowly see more of a transition happen here as well. And remember, on Uniswap, kind of like v three on layer one, there's also a lot of liquidity mining programs happening there. Not from Uniswap itself, but from other projects having lp pools on there. Whereas those programs may be happening in some limited fashion on l two s, but not in a big way just yet. So slow and steady, really. 8% is kind of, like, great to see there, but at the same time, I mean, you know, a theorem layer one volumes and unisopping ethereum layer one has had many, many, sorry, much more time to gain network effects here.
00:14:07.722 - 00:14:31.826, Speaker A: And this is just v three. Like, it surprised me because I looked at that and I looked at v two, and v two did, like, what if we go to the same date yesterday, $400 million of volume yesterday on v two? So, yeah, it's not just like 1.4 billion, it becomes like 1.8 billion. So. And that means our l two s would be a bit less there. But I think, you know, we've seen other l two s kind of.
00:14:31.826 - 00:14:57.320, Speaker A: I've got l two beat up here, but we've seen other l two s, like dy Dx have a massive amount of value locked in there, but doing a massive amount of volume as well. Like billions of dollars of kind of, like daily volume during volatile periods on their exchange. So, you know, if I. I don't think it shows that on l two beat here, the kind of, like, trading volumes, but like, the TVL kind of, I guess, speaks for itself as well. It's like a lot more people using the. The exchange too there. But you can kind of, like, see.
00:14:57.320 - 00:15:18.376, Speaker A: And the reason why I have l two beat up here as well is because on the topic of l two growth, you can see it's becoming much more distributed. Right. When we kind of, like, skyrocketed up the first time, most of the value was locked in arbitrum, but now it's becoming more distributed. Arbitrum has 2.25 billion locked. The YDX is 838 million. Optimism is at 261 million, loopring at 122.
00:15:18.376 - 00:15:46.526, Speaker A: And then you have, like, the kind of, like, long tail here, and it's just increasing over time. You can see that we're basically at all time highs in terms of value locked, which is really awesome to see. But I've mentioned before that value locked is kind of, like, not a great metric to use anymore. I feel like it just became kind of like a target rather than a great measure. But the volumes, as I just went through, speak for themselves. People are using these things and they're paying to use them. As I mentioned, like, if you go to cryptofees dot in fo, you'll be able to see uniswap and arbitrum generating these, this fear of a new for their network.
00:15:46.526 - 00:16:38.336, Speaker A: So this, the reason why I always point to fear revenue is a really great kind of view into network usage is because it is, it isn't impossible to fake it, but it's expensive to fake it. Like, very expensive. That's why people always, I sometimes see people kind of like, say, oh, how do you know that ethereum's l one activity isn't all just wash trading in bots? It's like, well, because they're paying a lot of money to use the network, right? And the thing is, is that 80% of that value is being burned as well. So you can't even bring up the argument that our miners are colluding to basically take all the fees and, and basically pay themselves and, you know, faking activity on the network. You can't even use that logic, because even if they are, they're burning 80% of the value to extract that 20% from it. And I mean, that this doesn't make any economic sense. So from that point of view, it's just like a really, really great measure of kind of activity.
00:16:38.336 - 00:17:10.072, Speaker A: And then on top of that, you know, for the l two s, you people could say, oh, well, the l two s is fake as well. Like, what if it's optimism team? Kind of like just running bots or whatever and paying themselves the, the fees? They're not right. They're actually committing to give away all the profit to public goods. So I don't know, people, people kind of trying to bring this up, and I always, it always just puzzles me. But I think it stems from the fact that there are networks, I believe, that do fake their, their kind of like, fee activity. And I've mentioned before how I think that BSc binance smart chain is. I mean, I don't have any, I haven't looked into it.
00:17:10.072 - 00:17:28.266, Speaker A: I don't have any proof, like, definitive proof. It's kind of like, very hard to prove this. But I have a hunchback that they do this because for two reasons. The first reason is they control the validators, basically. So they're essentially are paying themselves the fees if they wanted to. Right. If they wanted to fake fear renew, it doesn't cost them anything to do that.
00:17:28.266 - 00:17:59.580, Speaker A: And two, why haven't they implemented fee burning yet? BNB always gets burnt, right? Like, I don't know about lately, but, like, traditionally, BNB has been burnt based on kind of like, profits and revenues from. From binance, the exchange. So why haven't they introduced a IP 15 nine style burning onto BSc. It's very easy for them to do that, because it's the same code, like, and they can just literally steal it from a theory and put it onto BSC. Why have they not done that yet? Well, my. My hunch is that because they're faking the fee. The fee revenue.
00:17:59.580 - 00:18:16.268, Speaker A: And why are they faking the fee revenue? Because people look at the fear of a new. As a kind of, like. As a. As a measure of, like, activity on the network. And if. If you go to crypto fees, dot in fro, I'm pretty sure BSc is, like, number three on there, generating, like, two to $3 million of 24 hours fee revenue. I don't think that that is organic.
00:18:16.268 - 00:18:30.812, Speaker A: I really don't believe that's organic. And not. I'm not just saying it because I don't like BSC, because I think it's centralized and all that sort of stuff. I'm not saying that at all, just based on the facts. That's what I think. Because if. I mean, it's very obvious that CZ wants to pump BNB, and why wouldn't he? It's his token.
00:18:30.812 - 00:19:00.422, Speaker A: So why not introduce fee burning for BSC? And I just really think it's because if they do that, that means that, like, 80% of the fees would be, you know, burnt forever, which means that they would, um. It would be not economic for them to fake the fee revenue. But anyway, that's a bit of a tangent there, but that's why you have to look at different metrics and. And kind of, like, different statistics in. In kind of like a holistic view. You can't just look at one and draw conclusions. Just like, you can't look at TVL and be like, oh, this project got $5 billion of TVL within 24 hours.
00:19:00.422 - 00:19:14.452, Speaker A: It must be good. And then you miss all the kind of context around that. It probably has a massive liquidity mining program. The TVL probably left a week later. The actual protocol was just crappy and was just farmed. This has happened multiple times before. This isn't like me just speculating here.
00:19:14.452 - 00:19:51.462, Speaker A: It's actually happened. So you have to take everything as a holistic view, and you have to actually look at each metric and kind of, like, draw conclusions from it based on. Okay, why is the capital here in total value locked? You know what? It doesn't make economic sense for the capital B to. To be here. Is it sticky capital? Okay, what's the fear of a new, like, where are the fees going? Is it easily faked? And spoofed, like is it, is wash trading easy to be done here, all that sort of stuff. So definitely something to consider. And, you know, hopefully I can kind of like, hopefully I've, I've kind of like given you something to think about around that as well because I just see too many people looking at metrics and kind of like just pulling insight from them.
00:19:51.462 - 00:20:24.270, Speaker A: When you need to pull insight from, you know, much more than just like one metric, you have to take a holistic view of things. All right, so seller network announced that their Seabridge 2.0 testnet is now live at test dash cbridge dash v two seller.net work. It comes with a simple ux, it's not two click anymore, it's one click lower cost, so lower gas and efficient pricing, easier exit, easier lp, no need to run a node, single click liquidity management and farming integrated. And it's built to support billions of dollars of volume every day. So.
00:20:24.270 - 00:20:56.578, Speaker A: And they go on to say, you know, answer the question when Mainnet, then they say we treat security with the highest standard with three audits and a rigorous internal process, a review process ongoing. A couple of new features will be rolled out during testnet as well. Based on the auditing timeline, we plan for a mid November mainnet launch. So if you've been using the kind of like Seller C Bridge here or interested in using kind of like their 2.0 bridge on Testnet, definitely go check this out. I'm excited to see it go live on Mainnet here. And, you know, very excited to see just more kind of like something like seller network continue to build because they've been around for quite a while, actually.
00:20:56.578 - 00:21:20.562, Speaker A: I remember meeting Modong, I think he's their CEO and co founder back in 20, I think was 2019, early 2019 at Edcon. I remember having a chat with him there, really, really great guy. And actually recently had a call with him as well. Just talking through these sorts of things. They're still building, right? They've kind of like, you know, building tools that people are actually using as well and seeing a lot of adoption here. And I'm just really bullish on the project over overall. I don't hold any seller tokens.
00:21:20.562 - 00:21:51.040, Speaker A: I'm not just saying this because I'm shilling my bags. I'm just very bullish on the project and think that they're doing really, really great work. So definitely go check them out if you haven't yet. So this is finally been publicly announced, Obel network, which I think, oh boo. I think that's how you say it. O network today announced that they have raised $6 million to build a kind of like multi operator validator network for ETH two. And it's basically, I participated in this, that's why I know about, and that's why I said, finally, it's public.
00:21:51.040 - 00:22:30.178, Speaker A: I participated as an angel investor in this because it is sorely needed. And I'll explain why this product is solely needed. So essentially what this product does, and you can see kind of like a nice graphic here, is that the, and I'll just explain kind of like in the tweet here what they say. They said the herbal network is designed to be built on top of, with the intention of accelerating the innovation robustness of future staking products. The project will begin the mission by focusing on proof of stake Ethereum. So it's not just going to be Ethereum, it's going to be other proof of stake networks as well. But obviously, just focusing on Ethereum here, the kind of like, this is the way the network works, where you've got like the overall network validators at the bottom, and then people can kind of like build on top of it.
00:22:30.178 - 00:23:53.084, Speaker A: The, the whole point of it is to basically provide infrastructure for individuals, enterprises, pool operators to do, to kind of like spin up better staking infrastructure themselves. So for example, with, with Ethereum staking, there's something called SSV, or secret shared validator, which is essentially a way to split up the kind of like validator keys so that you still keep your withdrawal key, you know, if you're delegating to a pool or something like that, and being able to kind of like withdraw your funds at any time while they still, they run the validator for you and they can, you know, validate on your behalf or whatever, but your funds are not at risk from that pool operator kind of going offline or not processing your withdrawal, which is really cool. And the second kind of thing that they're trying to do as well is make, make it so you can run kind of like an active, active setup where essentially you can have like two active instances of the kind of like the same validator, but you're not going to get slashed because you're not going to sign the same kind of like attestation or attest to the same kind of like blocks because that is a very stiff kind of like slashing event there if you do that. And that's just like not natively supported within the Ethereum protocol itself. So there's tools being built on top of it to kind of like to kind of like make that happen and make it easier for people to kind of, I guess, get involved there. So, yeah, I'm really excited about this. This is one of the projects that I've backed lately that I'm most bullish on and I was just really excited to be involved with.
00:23:53.084 - 00:24:29.400, Speaker A: You can see here that they have like a bunch of different supporters, you know, Coinbase Ventures. What is it? Like, familiar names here, the lao chorus one, staking facilities, Delphi Digital, and then a bunch of angels as well, myself, you know, David Hoffman, Ryan, Sean Adams, Evan Van Ness, Marion Conti, a bunch of others in there. And they've also got a kick ass advisory board too, in kind of like, I think it's on their website. But basically they have, I'm not sure if they've, if they've got it on the kind of like press release here from the block. God, where's the website right now? I'm going to have to go to here and go to the website. Maybe they've got it listed on their website, maybe not. I'm not sure.
00:24:29.400 - 00:24:48.144, Speaker A: Not sure. But yeah, I mean, they do have a very kick ass set of people kind of like working on or working with oval network and kind of like, you know, making sure this, this is built correctly. So I'm really excited to be part of the team. Definitely. Go check this out if you haven't yet. And if you want to learn more about it, there's a thread here. And of course you can go to their website.
00:24:48.144 - 00:25:25.900, Speaker A: All right, so draft Kings announced today that them and Polygon have entered into strategic, a collaboration for DraftKings Marketplace. And additionally draft Kings is also now available, now able to become a validator on the Polygon network. Now, I don't, I didn't know what DraftKings was until recently. And apparently it's kind of like a fantasy, fantasy sports thing. And you know, after I heard that, I was like, okay, well, that's why I don't know what it is because I don't follow sports or anything like that. But what I find interesting about this is not the only the NFT kind of portion of it obviously, being fantasy sports. Draftkings is doing the NFT stuff through Polygon's pos chain.
00:25:25.900 - 00:26:11.574, Speaker A: What I find really interesting about this is draftkings actually becoming a validator for the Polygon network. Now I mentioned before about oval network basically opening up ETH two staking to more enterprises, kind of like getting them more involved here, I think, you know, the same thing's going to happen for all of these networks. And I think that we're going to be seeing, like, these big, kind of, like, companies become validators or public validators in these networks, which I think is really, really cool. At the end of the day, having kind of like, the support, I guess, like, of these companies, while they've got their same products on the network, is definitely a net positive there. So if you're into fantasy sports, you want to learn more about DraftKings and Polygon, definitely. Go check out this press release here. All right, so there was a bit of news that came out, I guess, from the Walter Bloomberg account that the New York attorney general's office is directing two crypto companies to shut down.
00:26:11.574 - 00:26:41.004, Speaker A: Now, it's funny because, like, I don't think it's been officially released what those companies are, but there was actually a leak in kind of like the word documents that were attached to kind of the press release. Yeah. And you can see that the two companies that were named were Celsius and Nexo. Nexo denied, I think. Yeah, Nexo kind of like denied, you know, getting any kind of like cease and desist because they actually weren't offering their own product and exchange in New York. So it makes little sense for them to be receiving assistant desist. So it's a bit of confusion here.
00:26:41.004 - 00:27:30.234, Speaker A: But I guess what I wanted to focus on was more around the fact of the fact that, like, I mean, there's, from what I've read, there's actually been no clear path that these regulators have given these kind of like, centralized crypto institutions to actually get regulated or to get compliant with the financial regulations. And that's why a lot of them just simply say, well, we're not even going to bother with kind of like operating in this jurisdiction, and we're not even going to bother operating in the US. There's plenty of Defi apps that have basically said, well, Defi front ends, I should say, not the smart contracts like Dy DX, for example, that are basically said, well, we're not going to serve us users because it's just crap. Like, there's just no pathological to get being kind of like, you know, compliant with the regulations and all this sort of stuff. And I've ranted and raved about regulations plenty of times. I'm not going to kind of go into that again. But, you know, obviously in New York, there's a bit of a protection racket going on because of the Wall street and stuff like that.
00:27:30.234 - 00:28:01.884, Speaker A: But this is just crazy. I mean, if you don't have a path to being compliant and then, like, you get a cease and desist letter because you're not compliant. Like, how is that even fair? It goes back to the SEC bullying coinbase into essentially stopping its lend product because for whatever reason, it was just so unfair and definitely not something that kind of, like we want to see. But at the same time, it's beautiful that they can't stop the Defi smart contracts. They can go after Uniswap labs as much as they want. They can never stop Uniswap smart contracts. You know, maybe I shouldn't say never.
00:28:01.884 - 00:28:23.876, Speaker A: They could if they took over the entire entire Ethereum network. But good luck doing that. Right? It's not, it's not an easy task to do, and I don't think that they would even bother going that far or they would, you know, know how to do that each way. Especially when we move to kind of proof of stake, I think it's going to be even harder than. Even harder than it is today with proof of work because that just, they have to buy the stake, right. To kind of like take over the network. That's a whole different discussion.
00:28:23.876 - 00:28:52.054, Speaker A: I'm coming up on time here, so I wanted to talk about one other thing, which is an interesting tweet from Marius from the Geth team, where he basically put out a tweet that said, did you know that Ethereum processes the same amount of gas per, per day right now as the first 1.2 million blocks? These 1.2 million blocks were mined over a period of eight months. We've come a long way both in usage and performance. So, I mean, this might be obvious to some people. And, you know, the funny thing is the gas limit was actually much, much lower back then than it is today. I think it was.
00:28:52.054 - 00:29:30.198, Speaker A: I think it was like 1 million or something like that. Maybe even. Maybe even less than that during the early days. But essentially the growth of ethereum has been just amazing to see. Right? I mean, now we're probably going to visit, revisit this in a few years and see that the amount of gas that ethereum is using per day, kind of like, you know, in a few years is going to like dwarf what we're even using today, especially with sharding. Like, it depends how sharding works and if it measures it by gas, you know, gas limits or something, something similar to what we have today. But it's just, you know, this just illustrates the point that these networks can start off like very small, basically from zero, have no activity for quite a while and then blossom into what we see today.
00:29:30.198 - 00:30:04.752, Speaker A: And it goes back to what I was saying about these l two chains and EVM side chains and things like that. There's a very kind of like simple path for these EVM chains to gain adoption, and it's very easy for them to do so as well because of the fact that there's just like these network effects around the EVM and it's easy for projects to deploy and all that sort of stuff there. So I just thought this is a little cool little factoid from Mario Sia, and I'm glad that he shared it because it kind of like, it goes into a thread as well. So you can read the little thread here, but it was just an interesting little thing to see there. But on that note, I think I'm going to end it for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the YouTube channel.
00:30:04.752 - 00:30:10.424, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
