00:00:06.330 - 00:00:30.600, Speaker A: We're going to go to our last, but certainly not least, talk. So thank you again to our last panelists. And yeah, going to invite Pooja to the stage. Hey, Pooja, feel free to share your camera, unmute yourself and welcome to the stage. Excited to hear about the FBM bootcamp from Puja and always wonderful to have Puja be a part of anything we're doing, basically. So welcome to the show.
00:00:31.290 - 00:01:04.370, Speaker B: Thank you. Super excited to chat about this today and also very excited to be participating in the hackathon this time. So that's been yeah, I will share screen. Awesome. Well, yes, as Jacob mentioned, I'm here today to talk about the SEM bootcamp, also formerly known as the Radius Fellowship SEM Edition. And so for those of you who may not know me, I work with TEFRA Labs, and Radius is a project from TEFRA Labs. It's a decentralized talent marketplace.
00:01:04.370 - 00:02:07.286, Speaker B: And so for the Radius Fellowship, this is a program we recently launched. And we basically saw that there was a need for people within the Web Three space to have more protocol specific training if they were interested in finding future opportunities within Web Three and maybe in that particular protocol ecosystem. And because we know and love the filecoin team so much and also have been watching the progress of Fem and Febum really closely over the last few months, we thought we would run the first version of this protocol specific training program with Fem. So the Radius Fellowship more broadly is an advanced training program for folks who are interested in learning how to build with new protocols. We are really excited to kind of introduce a community element to it. So this is a cohort based program and folks apply to be part of the fellowship. We go through a little selection process so that we can make sure that the cohort will have really great connections and really start to build that sense of a network and community amongst itself.
00:02:07.286 - 00:03:09.142, Speaker B: And then we're also working with the various protocol ecosystems to identify grant opportunities for the folks who participate in this cohort so they get an opportunity to build something that's real, sort of like get we all love hackathon prizes. So it's sort of a similar vibe in the sense of getting some funding to work on something that's meaningful within this ecosystem, building a community, getting the training to know how to really confidently build within that ecosystem, and then seeing what that sort of opens up in terms of future opportunities after the program is done. The first cohort, as I mentioned, is focused on FBM, and we're starting this program in early January next year. The applications are closing next week, but they're still live now. So if you do want to take a peek at that, the website I think, was on the previous slide, but that's at fellowship Radius Space. And we are looking for folks who especially for this first cohort, we want to make sure that everyone is really set up for success. So looking for folks who do have a few years of engineering experience, but it doesn't have to be in Web Three.
00:03:09.142 - 00:04:26.658, Speaker B: So I think a lot of the folks who are maybe participating in this hackathon could be a really great fit for the first version of this program. And then we are currently charging a fee for the course, but there are fee waivers that are available as well and that's something that we are planning to be fairly generous with. So ultimately, if you are interested in participating in this program and you would be really excited to complete all the assigned work and participate in projects with other people in the cohort and really just do the work of going through this boot camp, because it will probably be a fairly intense experience for the folks who are participating. For this first version, we'd be happy to waive the fee. It's mostly just about making sure we have people who are really excited about this and willing to put in the effort it takes to be successful. So just to give a little bit of an overview of how we're thinking of structuring this program, it's a four week program officially, but there are a couple of precursor weeks, I would say, or kind of preparatory weeks for folks who are newer to Web Three. The first week or week negative one as we're calling it, is kind of a more general introduction to Web Three broadly, sort of like the ideology of the space and especially how that ideology and some of that ethos translates into how we think about building projects in Web Three.
00:04:26.658 - 00:05:17.894, Speaker B: I think it's like a very unique space largely because of just how many shared values and principles there are and how that does translate to how people think about building software and projects more generally. So I think it's always important to start with that. And then we'll also be doing a little bit of a deep dive into Solidity. The first version of the FBM boot camp is going to be focused on Febum because also just because of the timing, it's early 2023 and so Febum will be pretty robust, I'm sure, by that standpoint by that time. But I believe the timing of the FDM itself is scheduled for later in Q One 2023. So that's why we're sort of focusing on Febum for the first version. But we will be doing a little bit of a deep dive into Solidity for folks who this may be like their first time kind of experiencing it, or they're sort of like newer to working with Solidity.
00:05:17.894 - 00:06:26.086, Speaker B: And then the full program which everyone will be participating in who's accepted into the Cohort is the four week program and the first week of that will be focused on filecoin protocol fundamentals and also some of the architecture of FBM. Starting to do some introductory content on that front. The second week will be more of a deep dive into how FVM itself is structured and some of the tooling that folks can use if they're looking to deploy projects. We'll also this week talk about use cases and start to brainstorm and ideate on really valuable opportunities that might exist in the File Queen ecosystem to build high impact projects on FBM. And then the third week will sort of kick off formally working on bigger projects. There will kind of be like smaller projects that everyone is kind of doing the same thing the first couple of weeks and then week three will be more like choose your own adventure type of projects with teams that will help you form and then if you're interested in that, you could also work solo. And then week four is kind of like wrapping up those projects or deciding what the next steps would look like if they are going to be longer term, helping to construct portfolios and so on, if that's interesting.
00:06:26.086 - 00:08:01.446, Speaker B: And then the last piece of it would be thinking about how to set folks up in this cohort for whatever future opportunities might be interesting to you. So whether that's looking for grants to continue the work that you were sort of doing during the program or finding new grant opportunities, whether it's looking for full time opportunities in the FBM or sort of that general ecosystem, or other ecosystems or finding teammates to continue working on exciting projects with. This is a little bit of just today how we are imagining the weekly structure will kind of look. So we've planned basically a live session every weekday and there will be some amount of async work as well pretty much every day, although a lot of this will kind of be at your own pace. The non live sessions at least every week we'll sort of have a project assignment as I mentioned and then we're trying to introduce other sessions to make this fun and expanding horizons in terms of thinking about opportunities in web three more broadly. So we're planning on doing weekly guest speakers who are all amazing humans and also giving cohort members sort of like private AMA sessions and so on with those speakers also doing small group sessions so that we can really start to build that network and community within cohort mates. Some of the types of live sessions that we are planning on organizing include live coding sessions, lectures on many different topics sort of governed by the theme of the week and then a number of different deep dives which we'll be happy to sort of organize and schedule based on interest.
00:08:01.446 - 00:09:07.894, Speaker B: But these are some of the topics that folks have already mentioned being interested in that we're planning on covering and then also just throughout the program we are really here to basically support. We're doing this because we want to see how we can help set people up for really amazing careers in web three and so there will be numerous opportunities to kind of get feedback and mentorship from the folks who are running this program and also others within the ecosystem. And as I mentioned, we're working to identify projects and grant opportunities for folks to kind of pick up during the program as well. So you sort of get that real life experience a little bit. This is the current group of folks that is organizing the fellowship and it's myself, Rohan and Steph, all really friendly people and yeah, excited for you to meet them if you decide to participate in the program and that's pretty much it. If you have any questions, feel free to email us or DM us on Twitter and the website is fellowship radius based and you can take a look and apply if you're interested. Thank you.
00:09:07.894 - 00:09:08.646, Speaker B: Amazing.
00:09:08.748 - 00:09:33.450, Speaker A: Thank you. Pooja it sounds really exciting and I mean also a perfect segue from like if you hack this weekend and really like what you see and want to keep going. And this seems like an awesome way to sort of take that deep dive and go through a really rigorous experience and maybe at the end of it, it probably will be life changing for some of these people. So I'm really excited to hear that and I'm glad that we talked about this at the hackathon. I think it's perfect timing.
