00:00:00.520 - 00:00:28.070, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today is the 1 February 2021. Hey, everyone. Welcome to a new month, February. I guess we're getting out of ifuwary in January and now into February. But I guess it still works, right? A lot of, one of the traders that I, that I follow, Benjamin Cohen on YouTube, he was calling it fuary. And I always read that, read that as February for some reason.
00:00:28.070 - 00:00:56.426, Speaker A: So I guess it works for, for February as well. So we have two ethuaries. Hopefully we see, you know, I guess, ETH going up more in price this month like we did in, in January. So we can, we can, you know, stick to that name. It's looking good, but we'll have to see what happens there. But, yeah, anyway, let's get into what happened over the weekend and on Friday. So I think the biggest news maybe over the weekend was that Elon Musk edited his, edited his Twitter bio and basically added hashtag bitcoin to it.
00:00:56.426 - 00:01:33.416, Speaker A: There's nothing else in there right now, just hashtag bitcoin, which got a lot of people talking, right. People were kind of speculating, you know, does this mean Elon has bought, you know, BTC? Does this mean that Tesla or SpaceX has put it on their balance sheet, all this sort of stuff? I mean, it hasn't been announced that any of that happened. And, I mean, he also had a tweet to go along with it where he said, in retrospect, it was inevitable. And I think, you know, people were speculating on that, saying, oh, is he talking about bitcoin? Right. Because he put this in his bio, and now he's tweeting this cryptic stuff. And who knows, right? It's all speculation. We don't know kind of for sure what's happening here.
00:01:33.416 - 00:02:11.324, Speaker A: You know, he actually jumped on Clubhouse last night, which was basically an app that allows you to do, like, voice calls with a bunch of different people, and you have, like, people listening in and stuff. And he briefly spoke about crypto, I think, for, like, a couple minutes. And basically, you know, I think someone asked him what his views were, and he basically said, you know, he thinks bitcoin is, like, gonna, you know, entering kind of the mainstream consciousness. He thinks that in entering traditional finance now. And, you know, he kind of thinks that he was, he was late to the party on it, and he kind of, you know, regrets that. So, I guess very positive thoughts there from, from Elon. And, you know, he is the richest man in the world right now, too.
00:02:11.324 - 00:02:36.840, Speaker A: So it's not like he's. He's a nobody, you know, and he, and he's obviously been around for a while. He's a serial entrepreneur, founded Tesla, SpaceX. You guys know the drill. So I think, you know, that's what gets people really excited is that, like, this person who's the richest person in the world, like, incredibly famous, you know, does all this really cool stuff. He's talking about bitcoin and, you know, maybe even the wider crypto ecosystem in general. Now, I think he has tweeted about bitcoin and ethereum in the past, and obviously he's.
00:02:36.840 - 00:03:05.800, Speaker A: He's a big fan of dogecoin, too, so that's not new. But, yeah, him putting it in his bio and then speaking positively of it, like in a non kind of jokey manner, seems to have gotten people, like, really riled up. And, you know, if you go to other kind of high profile celebrities, some of them have just hashtag bitcoin in their bio as well. You know, Jack Dorsey, Twitter CEO, has obviously been a big fan of bitcoin for quite a while now. And he has it in his bio. He's had it there for a while. And I think I saw another one called Mister Beast from YouTube.
00:03:05.800 - 00:03:33.872, Speaker A: He's basically a philanthropy, philanthropic youtuber who makes these videos that go viral and then donates the money to people and gives it away and stuff like that. He has it in there. I think there's a few other kind of celebrities that have it in there. So, you know, there seems to be this kind of movement, I guess, right now, which is cool to see. You know, obviously, it's just bitcoin doesn't say ethereum or anything like that. But, you know, a lot of people's first kind of foray into the crypto ecosystem is through bitcoin. So I don't think it really matters if it was, you know, bitcoin or ethereum in there.
00:03:33.872 - 00:04:24.178, Speaker A: They're going to find Ethereum anyway. And I actually toast wrote about this in the Daily Gray newsletter today. I believe that even though, you know, they have bitcoin in their bio or hash bitcoin, Ethereum is still going to be the biggest beneficiary from any new users coming into the ecosystem. And basically, I summarize it. But I can summarize what I wrote by saying that the reason it's going to be the biggest beneficiary is because bitcoin is a one trick pony, you buy BTC, right? You discover why people believe it has value, why it's considered a store of value, and, you know, why it has potential to go up in price. But then after that, there's not much left to do, right? You, you go and then you discover Ethereum, and there's like a million different things to do. I mean, I don't have to explain it to you guys because I'm sure you're all aware, but of, you know, Defi and dows and NFTs and all this kind of stuff happening, right? It's just very, very hard to not come into Ethereum and not get sucked into all these rabbit holes.
00:04:24.178 - 00:04:53.620, Speaker A: So I definitely think Ethereum is going to be a big beneficiary of this, even though, you know, people are putting hashtag bitcoin in their buyers instead. I don't think that really matters at the end of the day. Following on from that point, Santiago from Paraphy capital, I've spoken about him before. He put out a tweet today, which I thought was really brave of him because it's a bit controversial. So I'll just, I'll just read out the tweet for you guys. So open quote. I'm increasingly of the mind that ethereum and D five will be larger dash, much larger dash than bitcoin.
00:04:53.620 - 00:05:34.708, Speaker A: Bitcoin is a store of value substitute, like gold. Ethereum is also a store of value substitute. And Defi unlocks entirely new economies and use cases. Case in point, bitcoin on ethereum. Defi, end quote. Now this is following on to what I was saying before about how I think Ethereum is going to be the biggest beneficiary of, you know, this coming wave of people coming into the ecosystem, even though they're coming in through bitcoin first, right? So, you know, you could consider bitcoin just another door into Ethereum, really, because, I mean, as Santiago says here, bitcoin within Ethereum and Defi, the BTC, the asset, is being used a lot. There's billions of BTC now on Ethereum, and that's only happened over the last few months, right? And it's not even like it's, it's super trustless either.
00:05:34.708 - 00:06:12.030, Speaker A: It's like the centralized wrapped bitcoin is like the leader, and then we have these other kind of decentralized attempts at it, right? These kind of fully trustless, like TBTC and Ren BTC, but they're not ready yet. They're not ready to scale, they're not something that's kind of like got a lot of volume or got a lot of kind of liquidity around them. So there's that. And then, you know, he also says that Ethereum is a store of value substitute, like bitcoin. So ethy asset. And then, and then, you know, DeFi unlocks entirely new economies and use cases because of this. And ETH, the asset is typically referred to as a programmable asset, right? So, or programmable store of value.
00:06:12.030 - 00:06:55.210, Speaker A: Whereas bitcoin on, on the bitcoin network can't really do much or you can't program it to do like all the fancy stuff you do on Ethereum within DeFi, you have to bring it over to Ethereum to do that. Whereas if ETH, because ETH isn't the, you know, the native asset of Ethereum, you can do whatever you want with ETH, right? You can program it to do, you know, any number of things and be used within the Ethereum economy to do any number of things. And people are obviously doing that a lot. So I think that, you know, Santiago's tweet here is definitely brave because a lot of bitcoiners aren't going to like this. But I do think that this is kind of like what's going to happen where bitcoin and BTC, I mean, BTC, the asset will exist for a long time. It'll attain value. I have no doubt about that.
00:06:55.210 - 00:07:44.248, Speaker A: I don't even own any BTC, and I know it'll still keep going up in value. Like, it just, it just will, you know, it has a lot of attention for different reasons, but that's its only use case, really. I mean, people, I wouldn't say number go up is its only use case. But, you know, that's the reason people, most people buy the asset, right? Or interact with bitcoin is to buy BTC for number go up. You know, some people buy it as a hedge against fiat, right? Some people buy it as a store of value or like basically a way to flee capital controls and stuff like that. And that's all well and good, but the predominant use case is definitely, it's used for speculation, right? So, you know, ETH is the same. I'm not going to try and sugarcoat it and say ETH is being used in any different way, but ETH gets extended by the Ethereum blockchain, whereas BTC is stuck on this bitcoin blockchain, which really is extremely limited.
00:07:44.248 - 00:08:47.218, Speaker A: I would consider it like a dying kind of blockchain as well, considering the long term security issues with the bitcoin blockchain, but then you bring it over to Ethereum, and then you just supercharge bitcoin, right? You basically supercharge this Petrock asset that does nothing on the bitcoin blockchain, but on the Ethereum blockchain, it can do the same things as ethics, except that it is not a fully trustless asset. As I just explained before, a lot of the tokenized bitcoins, like wrapped bitcoin, are fully centralized. So they're not the same as ETH on Ethereum in any capacity. And I was listening to Justin Drake on, on the Bankless podcast the other day, and he said that he doesn't think that we'd be able to get a fully trustless bitcoin onto Ethereum for the next 2030 years. And that's because of unsolved problems, problems with, with cryptography. Or at least, I think the, the, at least I think he said that the theory for the cryptography to make this happen is sound and has been worked out. But the computational kind of effort that you need or the computation that you need to kind of make this work is too much for today's technology.
00:08:47.218 - 00:09:20.880, Speaker A: So we have to actually wait for it to evolve and to get faster and to get better and more efficient. So, you know, then we have TBTC, which is basically called trustless BTC, but it doesn't use cryptography to make it fully trustless. It attempts to use crypto economics to do so. And there's problems with this because with TBTC, it's inherently unscalable because you have to post collateral on the Ethereum side. So to mint TBC at the moment, I think you have to post 150% of ETH collateral. So it's very. It's kind of like what maker suffered from by having just ethos collateral.
00:09:20.880 - 00:09:45.780, Speaker A: It's, it's, it. There's a. There's a kind of a ceiling that you hit, and it's very hard to scale, and it's extremely capital intensive. So from that point of view, you know, TBTC hasn't really taken off, I think, because of that, whereas wrath, bitcoin has. But again, it's centralized. So, yeah, I think in general, I mean, if people want to use their BTC on Ethereum, most of them are just going to do it in a centralized way. But that's definitely going to lock out a bunch of people who think that they don't want to do this right.
00:09:45.780 - 00:10:03.716, Speaker A: They just want to kind of play with a fully trustless asset, which is fine. I mean, I totally get. That's why I play with ETH a lot of the time. So, you know, that's. That's kind of a hindrance there. But I think, in general, that hasn't stopped people from bringing their BTC over to a theorem. And we're gonna keep saying that, but that just reinforces a theorems network effect.
00:10:03.716 - 00:10:20.078, Speaker A: Right. The Ethereum network. And then the Ethiop is the heart of that network, which just reinforces ETH as an economic and store value asset. So, I guess, to Santiago's overall point here, you know, bitcoin is. Is basically a subset of a theory. I'm now. Right.
00:10:20.078 - 00:10:54.328, Speaker A: Ethereum sits at the top, and then within Ethereum, you have Defi, and within defi, you have, like, BTC. It's just one of the assets. Right, where. And ETH is another one. But ETH is a better asset than a lot of the tokenized BTCs that we have. So, I mean, yeah, when you really, really do think about it and think about the implications of this and kind of like, I guess, the mainstream implications of this, you come to realize that ETH as an asset and Ethereum as an. As a network is just so much more composable, so much more kind of like extensible and programmable than bitcoin, the network and BTC, the asset.
00:10:54.328 - 00:11:11.880, Speaker A: And you know that because the network and BTC, the asset will never be able to compete in that arena. They're not trying to compete because they don't want to write for one reason or another. And that's a theorems opportunity to take. So, yeah, I really like this tweet from Sanzo. Had my brain spinning today, if you. If you haven't noticed, so. But, yeah, I'll digress for now on that.
00:11:11.880 - 00:11:50.860, Speaker A: We'll move on to the next kind of things that happened over the weekend. So, Zero X is a guess. One of their original decentralized exchange platforms. I'm sure many of you are aware of it, but they actually did their ICO in 2017. I think they launched in 2018, but they had some MVP's in 2017, where they basically had a kind of like this trustless OTC model, which I thought was pretty cool at the time. And for those who weren't around 2017, decentralized exchanges, really, that was, there wasn't much options. There was ether Delta, which was a fully on chain decentralized exchange, which was extremely inefficient because every single action was an on chain transaction.
00:11:50.860 - 00:12:26.394, Speaker A: And even though the fees were cheap back then, it was still cumbersome, and it wasn't an AMm model, so the liquidity was, was crappy and had all these issues. Right. So Zero X is one of the kind of projects that was birthed to, I guess, like, rectify this. And they've had a slow start over the last few years, but lately their volume has just been exploding. You can see from this chart here that their volume is just the highest it's ever been. Basically, you know, you can't see all the way back to 2017 here, but I'm pretty sure this is the highest the zero X protocols volume has ever been. And this growth, I think, can be attributed to a few different things.
00:12:26.394 - 00:13:02.430, Speaker A: Matcha. So Matcha is their Dex aggregator, which is really beautiful. I really like the side. It kind of reminds me of like Robin Hood, but like, for crypto, and that's driving a lot of volume, which has zero X protocol, the code underneath it, kind of powering matcher. And then there's a popular wallet in Asia, in particular China, called Tokenlon, which is also using zero x for a lot of volume and driving a lot of volume through zero x. And on top of this, Zero X has a proprietary market maker model. From what I know, which they, it's basically permissioned market maker.
00:13:02.430 - 00:13:25.446, Speaker A: It's basically permissioned. And market makers can sign up and add liquidity and provide liquidity on the Xerox network for token, lawn and matcha and anyone else to kind of tap into. So these are the three, I guess, main growth vectors for zero x and why they've grown so much over the last few months. So it's really awesome to see. And, you know, I mean, the growth has really been like. It just. I mean, it took me from by surprise as well.
00:13:25.446 - 00:13:58.240, Speaker A: When I was looking at the Doon analytics dashboard for the Dex decentralized exchange metrics, you know, I saw zero x, it was like third or fourth, and I'm like, what? What? That's insane. It was only behind, like, uniswap and sushiswap and curve, right? But curve is just a pure stable coin. I get, well, mostly stable coin amm. So, you know, you can say it was third behind Sushiswap and uniswap. And as I said, zero x is not an AMM model. It is at the moment, it's a permission liquidity kind of model, where they've got market makers providing liquidity, and, you know, they're originally doing kind of order book models as well. I'm not sure on the status of that.
00:13:58.240 - 00:14:35.078, Speaker A: But, yeah, in general, this is, this is really, really cool. And you know, I think they, they kind of, you know, built through the bear trying to find like some product market fit. You know, while AmM started taking off, they were trying to differentiate themselves and I think they really have, you know, I think Matcha, their Dex aggregator, is gonna be very usable by noobs because they're gonna, it's gonna be a familiar intercept face for them. They don't have to deal with most of the jargon. I think matchup for some pairs is covering gas costs as well. So that's another big kind of plus there. But yeah, really, really great to see zero x continuing to improve and grow here.
00:14:35.078 - 00:15:01.498, Speaker A: So kudos to the team for, for doing this over the last few months. So another protocol that has had amazing growth throughout 2020 is DYDX, which I spoke about. But in 2021 they're having even more growth here. So they started off 2021 strong with 1.5 billion in dollars of volume in just January alone. And this is for their perpetual kind of protocol. And they're not on L2 or anything just yet.
00:15:01.498 - 00:15:31.950, Speaker A: I know there's perpetual protocol, the literal other project that has been doing a lot of volume as well. But they're on L2, or I think they're on XDAi. They're using some scalability solution, but basically dy DX isn't. So they're all on layer one, Ethereum, but they're still doing $1.5 billion in volume on their perp product, which I thought for that, for the month of January, which is, which is massive growth. You can see here the cumulative volume over, I guess, the last year and last six months and last 46 days and 20 days. It's just been growing really, really quickly.
00:15:31.950 - 00:16:14.672, Speaker A: And also on top of that, they've been teasing their L2 implementation coming soon, and they're working with Starkware on this. So I've spoken about starkware before, how they're using ZK rollups to scale similar to what loopering is using. So I think this is going to be really big because as you can see from other projects like perpetual protocol who are using scalability technology, once that is kind of enabled, the volumes just explode and get much better and the user experience obviously gets better and the fees come down, all that good stuff. So I actually think Dy DX is going to have a massive 2021. I spoke about last Friday how they raised $10 million in a new round. I spoke about how I think their token is coming soon. So I think, yeah, they're going to have like a huge 2021, especially with a token launch, which I'm sure they'll do.
00:16:14.672 - 00:17:02.394, Speaker A: A retroactive airdrop with L2 coming with the continued growth on layer one. So they've even got more of a network effect there. Yeah, this is just going to be really, really great. And, you know, it's funny, I have traded on Dy DX a few times, and I think what definitely what's holding back the kind of perpetual product within a theory is the scalability thing. And I think they saw perpetual protocol growing on L2 and they probably sped up their L2 plans, whereas I'm sure they've been working on it for quite a while already. But they just sped up their plans because, you know, competition requires that you don't want to lose out on volume and trading fees and growth to your competitors, essentially. So, yeah, really, really crazy to see this dy DX growth and hope it continues.
00:17:02.394 - 00:17:26.190, Speaker A: So I put out this tweet last week that basically 7.2 million ETH is now locked in DeFi, 2.8 million ETH is locked in ETH two, which gives us a total of 10 million ETH, which is 8.8% of the current supply that is being put to work to power the ethereum ecosystem. Last week that was $13.4 billion. I think it's around the same as when I put this tweet out.
00:17:26.190 - 00:17:45.640, Speaker A: I think I only put this tweet out like on Saturday or something. So not exactly last week, but over the weekend. But anyway, my main point here is that this is a massive amount of the supply being put to work. Right. 8.8% of the current supply, and I think that's actually going to go up to 10% rather quickly. But, yeah, I mean, 7.2
00:17:45.640 - 00:18:17.584, Speaker A: million ETH in DeFi, most of it in maker and Uniswap and sushiswap and other, and compound and stuff like that. So really being used as kind of collateral or a base quote quote asset for, for trading pairs. And then obviously 2.8 million ETH in ETH two, which, which is obviously staking in ETH two, which is actually locked. I know when we say locked in defy the most of the time the collateral, I mean, the ETH isn't actually locked. It can be withdrawn at any time, whereas with ETH two, most of that 2.8 million ETH is locked.
00:18:17.584 - 00:18:52.606, Speaker A: It's not done through a custodian, which can, which can kind of like tokenize a deposit. So you've got free liquidity there or a service like Lido that does this as well. Most of it is, you know, people just putting their EtHn and staking on their own or kind of exchanges doing. And some exchanges not even offering that kind of guess, like, I guess you could call it like the immediate liquidity. So yeah, this is, this is quite amazing. But what I really, besides the ETH two thing, what I really wanted to focus on was the, the ETH locked in Defi and how it's powering that kind of defi economy. Because ETH.
00:18:52.606 - 00:19:25.250, Speaker A: So ETH has three core value accrual pillars, right? And we have two of those today. We have, each uses trustless collateral within Defi, which is where the $7.2 million ETH comes in. We have staking with, with ETH two, which is another core value accrual. And then the third one, which we kind of half have today, is its use as gas fees or as kind of like fuel for the ethereum network. But the other half of that is ERP 1559. So when that goes in that third, that third kind of thing becomes a value accrual pillar because at the moment it's not.
00:19:25.250 - 00:20:01.836, Speaker A: At the moment it's actually detrimental to eats value, I think, because that ETH is going to miners and miners just dump that ethnic, you know, for profits, right. Or at least most of it. Whereas with ERP 1559, we'll be burning it and giving the value back to ETH and ETH holders and stuff like that. So those are the three core value accrual pillars. And, you know, the fact that ETH is, is being used as trustless at 7.2 million ETH is, most of it is being used as trustless collateral within DeFi is quite insane. Like, I think most of that ETH is in the lending markets like maker compound and Aave and some of the other ones.
00:20:01.836 - 00:20:41.758, Speaker A: But I think, you know, it's used within maker is probably the one that we should focus on the most because when it's used in maker, it can't actually be borrowed by anyone, whereas the ETH on, on these money markets can be borrowed. The ETH within maker is literally just sitting there backing up the die. It can't be, you know, borrowed by anyone. It can obviously be withdrawn and the debt can be paid down and can withdraw your ETH and all that sort of stuff. But it is actually just sitting there powering this kind of massive maker economy, all these dai economy which, you know, dai is being used across the entire ecosystem. So, yeah, I mean, and maybe, I guess those three value accrual pillars. You could say that there's maybe their fourth one of each use as a store of value.
00:20:41.758 - 00:21:02.636, Speaker A: But I think ETH use as a store of value can kind of meld into points one and two where, you know, people are using ethos trust as collateral because they want to hold on to it, right. They want price exposure to their ETH. So they're basically using it as a store of value. And same with staking. They don't want to give up their ETH. They want to stake it. They want to be exposed to its price and get some yield on their ETH, essentially.
00:21:02.636 - 00:21:27.398, Speaker A: So I mean, yeah, that kind of covers both of those things there as well. So. Yeah, I thought that was, that was really cool. I'm curious to see what we get to by end of year here. Maybe we get to like 5 million ETH in ETH two and then 10 million Ethan Defy, which brings us to 15 million total. Maybe I'm being conservative, maybe it'll be more. But you got to think as well that if you expect eats price to go up, right.
00:21:27.398 - 00:21:51.414, Speaker A: You know, the maybe, maybe, you know, there's less eat that needs to be locked for. For us to achieve kind of like $100 billion worth of ETH locked in, in kind of defy, for example. So, yeah, we'll see how it plays out. I honestly didn't know how it was gonna play out in 2020. I think at the start of the year there was. I can't remember how much ETH was in at the start of the year, but it wasn't very much. And I think it blew, blew away a lot of people's expectations.
00:21:51.414 - 00:22:02.720, Speaker A: And ETH two did as well. Right. No one expected this much east to go into ETH two. I didn't expect this. I expected at most 2 million for a while. But yeah, 2.8 million already and growing every day.
00:22:02.720 - 00:22:36.792, Speaker A: And, you know, a lot of centralized exchange cuz you know, kind of staking services haven't come online yet. I think Coinbase is coming online soon. They did say Q one, so they've got another two months, but that's probably going to add another, you know, few hundred thousand, maybe a million ETH to this pile. So it's going to be quite crazy to see. To see this kind of ETH to lockup continue to grow. So Peter Pan put out this really interesting image here and he basically has this image of how communities endows, develop operational autonomy. So for those aren't listening in, you won't be able to see the image.
00:22:36.792 - 00:23:19.540, Speaker A: But basically, it paints a journey of how, you know, you start with the initial core team. I think my camera is blocking it here, but you can see it in the small image. Then on the left side here, it starts with the initial core team, and then it goes on to your first ten to 20 group of casual contributors, your first community driven working group, and then some more casual contributors. And then towards the end of it, you have like multiple working groups. And this kind of gets you to autonomy. Now, what he's trying to paint here, or at least the picture he's trying to paint here, is that to become an actual Dao, you can't just have like a central team that's kind of controlling everything. You need to decentralize it out by recruiting new casual contributors or for, you know, at the start, but then you need to start forming working groups.
00:23:19.540 - 00:24:24.266, Speaker A: And what these working groups are, and we do this at the index co op, is that they focus on specific things. So we have working groups for like the investment committee. We have working groups for like the design of the website and developing kind of stuff there. We have working groups for handling, you know, maybe recruiting new people into the ecosystem, media and marketing and all this sort of stuff. It's basically like the working groups are essentially teams you would have in a centralized organization, except they're this, they're decentralized, they're part of contributors that are basically not, you know, kind of working for any one company, but contributing to the protocol because they want to and because they, you know, maybe want to get rewarded with, with tokens and stuff like that. And then you, you know, you get to the end when you have, and if you want full autonomy, the initial core team that kind of bootstrapped this thing just becomes one, one of these working groups, right? You can, you can have the core team working group and you have like maybe five or ten other working groups with, with all the community members in them to kind of automate this, this kind of decentralization you're trying to do with, with your dao. So, I mean, Peter's really great with this community stuff.
00:24:24.266 - 00:25:06.032, Speaker A: He's got a bunch of great blog posts. I'm sure you can find them. If you, if you go to his twitter here, I'll link it in the YouTube description and you'll be able to find it there. But he's thought a lot about this and thought a lot about growing communities. And he was actually the inspiration for the index co op and how we've, how we've managed the community there. He's been invaluable and in kind of steering us and guiding us and giving feedback on things because he really, really does understand how to get to this kind of path of autonomy and decentralization, which I thought was, it's really cool. I mean, for those who don't know, Peter Pan currently works at a fund called one KX, but he's also responsible for meta Cartel and venture Dao, which are some kind of, I guess meta cartel is like a venture Dao.
00:25:06.032 - 00:25:40.312, Speaker A: I mean, he's, I know he's part of venture Dao as well, but like a venture capital kind of like Dao that, you know, would invest in companies or give them their first checks and then kind of like help them grow and help them kind of become decentralized and dow fide and all this sort of stuff. So yeah, he knows what he's talking about, which, you know, I've read a lot of his work and it's really great. He knows exactly what, what people need to do to decentralize over time and to get to that point where you're an actual Dow. And this image is just one example of that. So yeah, I'll link it in the YouTube description. You can go check it out for yourself. So biconomy introduced this over the weekend.
00:25:40.312 - 00:26:17.110, Speaker A: It's a new product for developers called biconomy forward. What this does is it allows developers to integrate this into their apps. And what it does is it allows end users to pay gas fees in any ERC 20 token and stable coins as well. So obviously everyone knows that we currently pay gas in ETH, right? You need to have ETH in your wallet to pay gas fees to do anything on the Ethereum network. Now, what viconomy forward is, it's this thing called meta transactions, which have been around for a while. But basically what it does is it takes your ERC 20 tokens or stable coins. It runs it through a relay network.
00:26:17.110 - 00:27:07.798, Speaker A: It does do the conversion to ETH, and then it pays the transaction fee using ETH, but on the front end. And what you pay as a user is that you pay in like an ERC 20 token or a stable coin rather than paying Ethan. Now, the reason why you would do this is obviously better user experience, but also there's another hidden reason in that you can save money by not using your ETH. You know, you know, straight up, right? Because for those who have visited the fees WTF website, you'll be able to see that, you know, the address that you've got. You're able to see how much you spent on fees in terms of ETH and in terms of dollars, because let's say you did a lot of transactions a year ago when ETH was 100 something dollars, right? It's gone ten times since then. So the fees technically cost you ten times as much. So whatever you were doing back then better have been worth the opportunity cost of ten times the value of that ETH.
00:27:07.798 - 00:27:29.496, Speaker A: But it probably isn't for most people. It definitely wasn't for me. So what this aims to do as well is to make it so that you don't have to give up your ETH. You know, you can just pay in the token. So that's what I thought was really cool as well. And I don't think this would, this would kind of trigger a taxable event either, because it's literally the fee being paid and you don't get any benefit from this. But that's not tax advice.
00:27:29.496 - 00:27:45.048, Speaker A: I mean, that's probably a very gray area. I'm not sure how the tax officers would treat that. But yeah. Anyway, I thought this was cool. If you're a developer, go check it out. It'll be in the YouTube description. So hot protocol came out of stealth this week and now basically what hot protocol is.
00:27:45.048 - 00:28:12.014, Speaker A: It's kind of similar to what I've spoken about in the past, where there's another project called connects Vector, which is trying to kind of connect all the L2 and side chains together on Ethereum. And this is what hot protocol is trying to do as well. So it wants to be that kind of bridge from roll up to roll up to sidechain to sidechain, all this sort of stuff. And they've got a white paper here. I mean, it really is just a white paper right now. I don't think there's any workable kind of thing. It's being made by.
00:28:12.014 - 00:28:36.336, Speaker A: I mean, the only person's name on here is Chris Winfrey, who is the founder of Ethereum, which is a ethereum wallet. But basically it's a short white paper. You can go check. Sorry, go read it to see what it's all about. But the reason why I'm interested in this sort of stuff is because, as I've explained before, on previous refuel refuels, we need to bridge the L2s. We cannot leave them all isolated. They need to be bridges.
00:28:36.336 - 00:28:54.532, Speaker A: Liquidity need to be. Liquidity needs to be bridged. And we need neutral infrastructure that does this and that is kind of decentralized and trustless. So I'm glad that we have connects vector I'm glad that hot protocol is also announced. Now. I'm pretty sure there's others being worked on. We need this, and I'm very glad there's not just one or two solutions.
00:28:54.532 - 00:29:27.276, Speaker A: I'm glad that there's going to be multiple solutions looking at this because if we only have one or two solutions, then it kind of like by virtue, centralizes a bit and we're kind of not exploring the entire design space that we can be. So yeah, I'll link this in the description. You can go read the white paper to get a better idea of what hop protocol is. So your latest update from Ben Edgington on ETH two came out this week. It's linked in the YouTube description, of course. But basically, for those who don't know, this is the best newsletter to keep up with ETH two available. It's available at ETH two news.
00:29:27.276 - 00:29:48.440, Speaker A: This is where I get all my ETH two information from. Without it, I don't think I'd be able to keep up with ETH two. So yeah, definitely go check this out. But basically this edition was interesting because he, he was taught, he talked about the first hard fork that's going to be happening for the beacon chain. I think it's trying, it's going to be happening mid year. Yeah, mid year, he says here. And you know, there's a bunch of different things that are going into this.
00:29:48.440 - 00:30:20.094, Speaker A: I think they're going to fix a couple of things with the rewards. They're going to add a few things to it on the technical side of stuff. So yeah, that's going to be really cool to see. There's a bunch of, he includes in these updates like explainers, so he calls them the great explainers, which is a bunch of different resources for you to look at with regards to ETH two. He's got media here. He tracks the ETH two devs, dev calls and all the upcoming events and things like that. So this is really the, I guess the quintessential kind of ETH two resource.
00:30:20.094 - 00:30:52.322, Speaker A: If you are not reading this, you do not have a view of ETH two, basically. So, yeah, definitely go check this out. I'll let you read this edition yourself. I won't go through the whole thing because it's packed full of information. And yeah, I really enjoy this from Ben. So kudos to him for keeping this up. So I mentioned last week that Giorgio is from paradigm kind of published a blog post on kind of optimism's optimistic roll up, and now he's published another piece that basically explains how optimistic rollups really work and what I guess, sorry, optimism's roll up really works.
00:30:52.322 - 00:31:18.228, Speaker A: So this is optimism focused, not just general optimistic roll ups, but optimism's implementation of it. Now, this is very technical. If you are not a technical person, you probably won't get much out of this. You, you can see on the screen as I'm scrolling, if you have no idea what this means, then you're probably not going to be able to follow along with this blog post too, too much. But in saying that, I still suggest going over it, skimming it, seeing what parts you do and don't understand. You might learn something. Right.
00:31:18.228 - 00:32:01.764, Speaker A: That's what I did. Because I definitely, I mean, I know what this stuff is on the screen, but I mean, from a very, very high level, I don't, I can't read it, for example. Right. I can kind of say what it is, but, um, basically it really does explain, like the, I guess, like on the technical side of things, how, how optimism's roll up works and how, you know, we can enable these kind of trustless optimistic roll ups that inherit ethereum security and scale ethereum. So yeah, definitely go read this if you're more the technical type. But I would suggest reading his first blog post, which is on the same website, which is a higher level overview, so you don't need to, you know, know much of the technical details to kind of get the gist of it. So definitely highly recommended reading both of those blog posts.
00:32:01.764 - 00:32:26.354, Speaker A: All right, finally here. So Vitaliks out here being the best guy he can be, he donated, I think, $4.2 million to charity today. So you can see on Etherscan here, you know, $4.2 million worth of USDC he sent to, what is this website here? He sent to givedirectly.org, which you can do as well. And I suggest you go, you go and do that.
00:32:26.354 - 00:32:49.754, Speaker A: This if you can. I think they give to a bunch of different charities here. He makes a joke here that they don't take doge, which is funny, even though he just gave them $4.2 million. But basically, yeah, give directly is helps people in poverty and they do it. They're doing a bunch of COVID relief in third world countries as well. So yeah, if you're in the donating mood, definitely, you know, go and donate.
00:32:49.754 - 00:33:08.292, Speaker A: Vitalik sent 4.2 million. I mean, obviously we can't all afford to do that, but every little bit counts on these with these donations. So definitely, if you're in a position to, I suggest you go and do that. Alright, that's it for today's refill, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to go and subscribe to the YouTube channel.
00:33:08.292 - 00:33:15.124, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Join the Discord channel, subscribe to the Daily Grey newsletter and I will catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
