00:00:01.400 - 00:00:12.942, Speaker A: Hi, my name is Laura Shin, and I'm here at the modular summit with Josh Bowen, the CEO and co founder of Astria. So why don't we start by having you tell us about Astria. What problem were you trying to solve with it?
00:00:13.046 - 00:01:17.070, Speaker B: So Astria, we define it as a shared sequencer network. And the problem we're trying to solve, really is more one of decentralizing rollups, and specifically decentralizing the sequencing aspect of a roll up, which is more related to, I would say, the liveness properties of it. So what, an end user's kind of like immediate interaction with the roll up is going to be in an arbitrum or an optimism system that's going to be relying on a centralized sequencer. And while they are going to get some decentralization from forced transaction inclusion via Ethereum's l one, we're frankly ideologically opinionated that we do think the kind of initial interface that a user interacts with should also be decentralized at that kind of initial block production time. And that's what we're really focused on. Why we're a shared sequencer is fundamentally because we think that's a necessary kind of architectural and market structure component to be able to provide an appropriately decentralized network. Just to kind of, you need to be able to support multiple roll ups if you want to be able to fund the cost of decentralizing a network.
00:01:18.170 - 00:01:22.820, Speaker A: And how did you come to tackle this problem? Like, what's your background?
00:01:22.930 - 00:01:55.436, Speaker B: So I've been in crypto for not quite four years now. Maybe it's three and a half. I joined full time in January of 2021. Before that, I worked in big tech. I was at Google for right about five years, mostly working in cloud on kind of distributed systems, kubernetes, adjacent things. And so a lot of that biases my kind of way, I think, about systems design is in this very, say, boxes and arrows approach and system architecture. I joined Crypto in January of 2021 because really I was like, five years was long enough to be at a big tech company.
00:01:55.436 - 00:02:23.954, Speaker B: I didn't quit big tech to go right into crypto. I quit big tech because I didn't want to be there in crypto with the thing that had been happening. I've been around crypto since as early as 2009, finding bitcoin very, very early. But I'd never seen it as something that I thought had a professionalized industry that was sufficient to justify committing my full time to I joined. My first job was at the graph. While I was at the graph. I was in this very kind of product and research mixed role.
00:02:23.954 - 00:02:53.774, Speaker B: I did a little bit of due diligence for some of their venture side, very much on a technical side. So I spent a lot of my time in this early 2021, which was kind of immediately post plasma research in the Ethereum space. And my job was essentially to read white papers and to give a synthesis of my view on the market to the internal work. And that's where I found out about celestia. At the time. It was called lazy Ledger and the data availability problem. So I joined Celestia as a relatively early employee in November of 2021.
00:02:53.774 - 00:03:18.010, Speaker B: And Astra itself is a project that kind of evolved out of my time trying to build rollups for celestia native rather than for rollups that simply use celestia as their DA layer. I wanted to have celestia be its own ecosystem that stands on its own, and I thought that required a fully vertically integrated roll up stack. That was celestia from the start. And so that's where Astra came about.
00:03:18.870 - 00:03:36.442, Speaker A: Well, that's interesting. And so, as you mentioned in the beginning, you're working on this decentralized and shared sequencer. But let's start with the context of what roll ups today tend to look like in terms of their sequencer, and then we can contrast that to talk more about the benefits of decentralizing it. Sharing it.
00:03:36.506 - 00:04:37.819, Speaker B: Yep. So there's going to be some nuance in the technical definition, and then maybe what I'll say is, like, the practical reality, or kind of like, which pieces are, like, architecturally centralized versus what pieces are centralized in a practical way, in that maybe this is two logical components, but they are, in practice, run by the same entity. And so there's not really a separation, but it's useful to understand the separation. And so when we think about sequencing, fundamentally, what sequencing is, is it is the act of receiving transactions, and it is putting them in some ordered sequence, and then it is committing to that ordering with some level of guarantee. So there is a relative strength of the commitment in existing l two s. Notably, arbitrum optimism, are the ones I'm most familiar with architecturally. They run what's called a centralized sequencer, and that the entity which is responsible for ordering the transactions and making a commitment over them is generally the lab or foundation entity or contractor thereof.
00:04:37.819 - 00:04:58.608, Speaker B: But it essentially the developer of arbitrum or optimism, and they are the only entity running this sequencer. And the commitment strength is essentially a trust based commitment. It is saying, well, it is nothing. An optimism's best interest, or is not an arbitrum's best interest to be malicious with the act of sequencing transactions for their users.
00:04:58.744 - 00:05:08.168, Speaker A: Right. But so with a decentralized sequencer, then the importance is to not have trust in any particular one.
00:05:08.344 - 00:05:56.440, Speaker B: Yeah, and I guess I would say people often say they want system to be trustless and that's not strictly accurate. We want them to be trust minimized and so we run our sequencer to decentralize it. Fundamentally, doing a decentralized sequencer is creating another blockchain network. And what I mean by that is you're going to have a new network with multiple node operators in the network. They're going to need to come to consensus through some consensus mechanism. For us, we use comet BFT, formerly known as tendermint, which is a practical, byzantine fault tolerant consensus algorithm, and it fundamentally relies on a two thirds honest majority to be secure, essentially. And the other benefit of a PBFT practical, byzantine fault tolerant algorithm is that you get single slot finality for it.
00:05:56.440 - 00:06:21.928, Speaker B: And so while there is still trust, it is trust up to a two thirds honest majority. So at least one third of the, if one third plus one actors in the network are malicious, then you have risk there. But we still think that's a significant improvement over there is a single entity that could unilaterally change the operation of the network, and that may be hard to detect.
00:06:22.024 - 00:06:24.744, Speaker A: How do you incentivize them? Is it proof of stake or what?
00:06:24.792 - 00:07:06.332, Speaker B: So at the phase we're at now, we have a defnet up. We're moving to a testnet in ASAP. Right now, the fundamental reality of blockchain engineering is hard, and you're always progressively working towards launching, and when it gets done is when it gets done. But from an incentive mechanism, we're going to start with proof of authority, or more generously, you could call it a proof of governance, but the governance is going to be authority and that's going to be me. But we're going to pick what is a well known set of node operators in the space. If you come out of the cosmos or comet BFT kind of ecosystem, there is a cottage industry of validator entities that are relatively well known running chains. We're going to pick a trusted set of those entities and they're going to operate the network.
00:07:06.332 - 00:08:08.490, Speaker B: How they're going to be incentivized fundamentally is through fee revenue. And so the use of the network has to have a token, but we're not going to have a native token at launch. We're fundamentally going to use Celestia's Tia token as the fee paying token for our network, and then the validators are going to be paid out of the fee revenue from the chain. And that actually goes back to why we're a shared sequencer, to provide decentralized sequencing, is that when we looked at doing decentralized sequencing, we talked to a lot of these node operators in the most common BFT space. And what we heard from them in mid 2022, is when we were having these conversations, was that they're running a lot of cosmos change, maybe 50 or maybe 70 of them, and they're saying, we're losing money on the vast majority of these, and as the market is downturning, we're going to stop supporting a lot of them. Our view was the roll up thesis assumes there's going to be more rollups than there were existing cosmos change, which is order of 100 or so. And so we saw that the long tail, or whatever you would like to call it, of the chains, was not economically sustainable.
00:08:08.490 - 00:08:39.040, Speaker B: And so we said we think it's important to decentralize the sequencing role. But if there's going to be more roll ups than there are existing chains today, we know there's just a practical economic reality that you can't have. Each one of these chains have the overhead of standing up their own set of operators. We intend to have one operator set for this shared and lazy sequencer, and then we will incentivize them out of fees, where those fees will be the aggregate fees of the roll up, submitting transactions to the shared sequencer network.
00:08:39.420 - 00:08:43.524, Speaker A: Okay, and how many roll ups would you imagine this could sustain?
00:08:43.612 - 00:09:21.468, Speaker B: So it is very speculative, fundamentally. The lazy design is interesting in that it's, I'll say, mostly agnostic to the number of rollups using that. And that from its view, it is just receiving transactions. Those transactions may be tagged with a namespace or a roll up id, but fundamentally the limitation is going to be the bandwidth. It's just I have this many nodes in my network. I have this block time that requires all of those nodes to come to consensus on the ordering of however many bytes I want to fit in that given block, and that's giving me my limit. That limit could be filled by one very large roll up submitting all of the transactions, but it could be, it could be 1000 roll ups.
00:09:21.468 - 00:09:52.696, Speaker B: The fundamental operation of the system is mostly agnostic to this. There's some subtle details over, like how large a transaction is versus how many transactions there are. But by and large, about the same. How many we can support quite a lot. I'm not going to know numbers off the top of my head, but our bandwidth's going to be fundamentally limited by we write data to Celestia. And Celestia is currently running two megabyte blocks at about eleven second block times. And so what we're running right now is we are running two second block times or so, and so we get about five blocks.
00:09:52.696 - 00:10:36.380, Speaker B: There's a little bit of variance in these things, every celestial block. And so we are currently capping our block sizes at 200 or 250 kb, such that if we bundle five blocks, we're at 1250 kilobytes of data, or like 1.25 megabytes of data. And then we batch that to Celestia. And so fundamentally, we put that 800 or so kilobyte boundary to avoid overloading celestia and having a situation where we're trying to push more data than we can fit and we start kind of hanging. But that's actually our limitation, is how much data we can push. In very kind of early load testing, we're doing kind of internally on our network, we're supporting somewhere around one to 2000 TPS, but that's also going to vary transactions per second.
00:10:36.380 - 00:11:19.900, Speaker B: And TPS is like a bad metric because that's going to vary depending on what type of transaction you're doing. So, for example, in a test roll up we have, we'd run an EVM roll up, and if it wants to have Univ two, like Uniswap v. Two on it, and it wants to have a pool and it wants to do a swap, we see that taking about between 455 hundred bytes of data on our sequencer network, there's going to be different roll ups, maybe, that are not an EVM that could have a significantly smaller, like I say, or a significantly higher density of data per transaction. But those are the rough numbers we have, and you can work back from there. But the important thing is we're agnostic to how many roll ups it is. Fundamentally, the limitations can just be the bandwidth of the distributed system.
00:11:20.460 - 00:11:36.508, Speaker A: Okay, this is so fascinating. Well, so there's a number of other projects that are also working on decentralized or shared sequencers, such as espresso, Phantom's sonic. There's another one called radius. So how is what Astri is working on different?
00:11:36.644 - 00:12:11.206, Speaker B: So, no, I'm not very familiar with Phantom sonic specifically. I'm aware they're working on that, but that's a relatively recent thing. I have not had the time to dig in that I'm generally familiar with Espresso and a bit familiar with Radius. The core differentiation from us at a high level is kind of, I'd say, like ecosystem positioning in that. Fundamentally, Astria came about as a project out of my time, as an early employee of Celestia and again wanting this vertically integrated stack of celestia native roll ups. And so we're only focused on Celestia rollups right now. We're not focused on Ethereum rollups.
00:12:11.206 - 00:12:57.770, Speaker B: Fundamentally, our network and the roll ups that run on top of us have no interaction with the Ethereum network. They use the evm as that's one of the optional roll up, we'll say execution engines or execution layers they could use. But the actual Ethereum main net network, we have no interaction with that. And I think that differentiates us from Espresso and Radius as well. Again, Phantom, I'm not familiar with how sonic interacts with Phantom, the network. Whereas Espresso, as they've moved, they're focused on a sequencing marketplace, is what they're doing, and that they want the shared sequencer to be one of many options for a given chain kind of sequencing. We assume that all of the roll ups that use Celestia are going to be net new rollups.
00:12:57.770 - 00:13:51.400, Speaker B: We're not trying to convince an existing roll up on Ethereum to migrate over. And the large reason for that is, I think, political. And that optimism and arbitrum kind of came about from a similar path dependency as Astria. But for Ethereum, right, they were people who were very Ethereum aligned, who wanted to work, build their own thing to scale Ethereum, we wanted to build a thing to help scale and bring Celestia to market. And so from a design perspective, that gives us a little more simplicity, because we assume anyone who is using Astra, that is the first thing they kind of like start with or the only thing they're using for sequencing. It's not someone already has an existing sequencing solution and they're migrating to Astra. We assume that we are fundamentally onboarding whether they're app developers or people who are interested in being a roll up developer, whether they've built another one before.
00:13:51.400 - 00:13:59.740, Speaker B: But the roll up they'll build is new for Astra. Really. I think ecosystem positioning is going to be one of the core differentiations of Astra.
00:14:01.320 - 00:14:08.512, Speaker A: I know that you're in this phase of rolling out, but do you have specific partners that you already have in mind?
00:14:08.656 - 00:14:39.492, Speaker B: Yes, we focused a little more on, I'll say incubating and vertically integrating to go to market. There's a couple of reasons for that. Most notably, we have forma. Forma has been running, it's not running on what I would say is the Astria network, but it's using what we call the Astria stack, and that it's using all of the tooling and the open source software that we've created. And we operate the network in fundamentally a centralized capacity. And that does run a sequencing network. There are multiple nodes in it, but all of those nodes are operated by us, but it does write its data to Celeste German.
00:14:39.492 - 00:15:13.496, Speaker B: Forma is. There is a forma team, and it is a joint incubation partnership between us at Astria and some folks at Celestia to provide this NFT focused chain for the modular ecosystem. And then similarly at Astrae, ourselves working on Flame, which we haven't publicly announced previously, which is going to be our own chain, focused on Celestia native Defi. And the reason we're incubating these projects and vertically integrating them is for a couple reasons. One is fundamentally, we're an engineering organization. That is my expertise and my background. And I am the non technical of the co founders.
00:15:13.496 - 00:15:56.500, Speaker B: I am the CEO. My CTO is again, more technical and less in the kind of public light. And so our team is made up of myself, my CTO, and 13 engineers, and then a handful of people on marketing and strategy. But 75% of our team is engineering. And so we saw it as easier for us to provide an end to end go to market that provided this roll up that reaches end users, people who would actually interact with the roll up state machine as they would an optimism or an arbitrum. It was easier for us to just build that in house than it was for us to build a business development or a partnership expertise and go get external partners. And the other reason is really the kind of what I'll say is the nascent see of the modular ecosystem.
00:15:56.500 - 00:16:26.494, Speaker B: Fundamentally, to your early question, Ray, when we went and talked to people, they said, oh, I want it to be an Ethereum roll. And it's like, why do you want to be in Ethereum world? Well, that's where all the assets are. I don't know the prices today. There's a half a trillion dollars worth of Ethereum sitting on the market. Celestia is somewhere around a $7 billion fully diluted value, with somewhere around 20% of that floating. So it's just a much, much smaller number of assets, and it's a nascent ecosystem. If you start in that, it's harder.
00:16:26.494 - 00:17:09.494, Speaker B: It's fundamentally being a startup versus an incumbent like Ethereum. But that was why we started the project. And so when we looked at the market, there weren't that many people who were kind of jumping at the bit to build a celestia native thing. And we said, well, that's what's important to us. And so we'll do everything we need to do ourselves to kind of reach our end goals. And the last point I'll make is fundamentally a shared sequencer is middleware, and I come from a b, two b kind of software background, and middleware is hard to sell because middleware is often, and sequencing falls into this category. It's sticky in that if you use it, if you commit to using it, you look like an ERP and business finance land.
00:17:09.494 - 00:17:52.038, Speaker B: If you use it, you're probably not moving off of it. What that means is people don't want to be the guinea pig and the first user of a piece of middleware that's important to their business. Our view was we need to prove that our stack works, that this is good enough, that a decentralized sequencer can provide a competitive user experience to a centralized sequencer. And we just said it's going to be easier and we're going to provide a better product to our end users if we do that ourselves and bring that all the way to market, and that will dramatically reduce the amount of business development effort we need to do. Once we've proven the legitimacy of our platform and we've demonstrated, we really take an idea of, we want to show people that our stuff works, we don't want to simply tell them that it works and have them trust us.
00:17:52.134 - 00:18:09.574, Speaker A: And so when you have something like an arbitrum or op mainnet that have been around for longer, and they did start with Ethereum, is it just not possible even for them to integrate this type of thing? I know you're focused on Celestia, but I'm just trying to understand on a technical perspective, could they even do it.
00:18:09.662 - 00:18:44.006, Speaker B: On a technical level? It is theoretically possible, but it's theoretically possible in that kind of like software engineering design space where, well, it's all just code, and most of the code is open source, and you could change the code or write new code and do it. It's somewhat non trivial. One of the big reasons for that is fundamentally Ethereum has a very different concept of finality than celestia. Celestia is a comet BFT chain asteroid. The comet BFT chain. Ethereum has this kind of two phase. I'm going to mess up the names Casper, FFT, whatever.
00:18:44.006 - 00:19:30.634, Speaker B: But it has this heaviest chain with the finality gadget much later on these twelve to 15 minutes or something. Timing sausage and not an expert on Ethereum consensus. For us, it's relatively easy. We get to simplify our design by not worrying about reorgs, essentially, and having single slot finality. We'd have to change a bit of stuff in our system to integrate within Ethereum and then just generally from an existing roll ups perspective, I would analogize this too, in a b two B environment, doing a lift and shift for a database migration. The reality is you have a two to three year old system that a blockchain is a database and it's been running. If you want to lift and shift that database, that's going to take a lot of work, it's going to take a lot of planning.
00:19:30.634 - 00:19:59.876, Speaker B: And maybe more importantly, the database in this case is money. It's a high risk endeavor to do a lift and shift migration of a blockchain. And so we'll be able to have an experiment on this, because right now form is running on its own Astra network and we want to migrate it to Astra Mainnet. When that's live, hopefully in about two months. But that's going to be a first opportunity for us to do a lift and shift, and then we'll have a more clear answer. That's not a theoretical answer on like, yes, we can change the code. Yes, it's just code.
00:19:59.876 - 00:20:22.910, Speaker B: We say we've actually done it, we have state here and we did that snapshot or whatever, and we lifted it and we moved it over here. And from this block onwards, it's that. So again, in a technical sense, everything is possible, but in a practical sense, we've never structured the company, the project, the go to market as assuming we were going to convince an existing kind of large player to migrate over to our system.
00:20:23.650 - 00:20:33.912, Speaker A: Right? So in this world of decentralized and shared sequencers that you're building, what are things that people cannot do in Defi today that they could in that world?
00:20:34.066 - 00:21:20.812, Speaker B: So I think as Defi stands now, fundamentally, I'm not convinced. There's like a Peter Thiel esque zero to one moment that we're necessarily unlocking. To some degree, we think decentralized sequencing is the correct way to do this. And it's correct in largely like an ideological fashion. My view, very strongly held, is the point of working in crypto, the point of developing cryptocurrency technology used broadly is to be decentralized, and if you're doing a centralized solution, fundamentally you're taking a shortcut. And the existing roll ups that use centralized sequence are extremely well aware of this. They've had this concept of progressive decentralization on their roadmap for three years.
00:21:20.812 - 00:22:15.556, Speaker B: In some cases, they always had decentralized sequencing on the roadmap. Fundamentally, they're not going to do that because it's unlocking a zero to one improvement to what an application can actually do. Because what an application can do is fundamentally going to be very dependent on what execution framework they use, whether that's an EVM or another thing. It's because it's the correct way to do it. Our view is that the incentive structure of running a centralized sequencer and collecting all of the revenue from said centralized sequencer, and fundamentally providing end users a centralized user experience, definitionally, it's going to be better than a decentralized user experience. There is a cost to decentralization. By presenting users a centralized option, they have made users comfortable and expectant of the centralized option, and they've kind of hidden the reality of being a decentralized system from the users and to themselves as well.
00:22:15.556 - 00:22:56.630, Speaker B: They've now generated a revenue stream that's extremely valuable to them on the order of five to $10 million a month on good months. For some of these projects. It's very hard to break yourself out of this. There's a saying very hard to convince a man of something when his salary depends on him not being convinced of it or whatever. We see it as very important to be decentralized by default because the incentives are such that if you start centralized, your users will get used to that. Then providing a decentralized thing may be a step down for their user experience. And yourself or the project are fundamentally going to have to confront that hurdle of I have a revenue stream and I'm giving up that revenue stream and I'm giving it up to the decentralized network of operators.
00:22:56.630 - 00:24:05.420, Speaker B: We think it's important to be decentralized by default, but at an app level it doesn't unlock that many things. I will say the architecture we have is less coupled to the EVM than I think a lot of the existing roll ups are because they come out of an ethereum space. The EVM's fine, but one of the things that myself and my co founder decided relatively early when we started this was saying, look, we're willing to confront this hard problem, we're willing to commit a lot of work to it. But we're not comfortable being stuck owning an EVM forever and saying that is what we're going to be stuck with forever, because we have some qualms about its technical design. And so when we built the shared sequencer Astria, the sequencing layer, we made sure that its integration with the roll up specific state machine, the thing an end user actually interacts with, which could be an EVM, was agnostic to the EVM BitDe, such that, yes, we're going to use evms to go to market. Forma is an EVM, flame is an evM. But the framework and the APIs and the tooling is designed such that people can build a much more diverse set of, whether they're virtual machines or app specific state machines, for the future.
00:24:05.420 - 00:24:14.000, Speaker B: And that's what we're excited about. But there's a reality of, we need to bootstrap this nascent ecosystem, and the EVM is a kind of low hanging fruit to kind of make a first move into the market.
00:24:14.470 - 00:24:39.726, Speaker A: Right, right. It's like taking something like ethereum because it's the original. They had to do everything themselves. But that meant that then some of the early stages of, like, ways of scaling relied on centralization. But now we have more tools that enable people to build, like, the fully decentralized vision. And frankly, it's interesting. I feel like it's a mashup of.
00:24:39.726 - 00:25:04.966, Speaker A: Of web two and web3, in the sense that, in a way, what you're describing is very similar to, like, a SAS concept, where there's so many different little players that provide each of the little functions. But of course, they're not centralized, they're decentralized. So at this summit, you've also announced the flame EVM, which you referenced. I understand it's in testnet, but why don't you describe what that is and how it fits in the Astro stack?
00:25:05.038 - 00:26:00.012, Speaker B: So flame fundamentally is relatively simple, and maybe not that novel from, like, a technical space. It is an EVM. It uses what we call Astra geth, which is our modification of go Ethereum, which is the kind of flagship, maybe too strong a word, and people would contend with that, but it is the dominant execution client for Ethereum Mainnet. It is what is modified for op geth and arbitrum. And it is kind of the primary thing used by rollups right now. So we've built that to integrate with Astra itself. And Flame came out of this idea that we say we think there needs to be celestial, native Defi and that's really the positioning we're having for flame, and we're building it because we fundamentally, when we started Astria, we were wrong in the thesis that we could start building middleware and we could sell that middleware to someone else without having sufficiently dog fooded it ourselves.
00:26:00.012 - 00:26:37.522, Speaker B: And the analogy I often reference is we look at AWS today, Amazon Web services like this big thing, and people think, oh, my God, AWS is great. Fundamentally, AWS came about as a solution that Amazon built to satisfy its internal needs for Amazon shopping. And then they were able to sell the middle bit as a generic service. We were aware of that, but we thought, oh, we'll just build the middle bit and we don't have to build the end bit. When we actually looked at it, we're like, no, we do need to build the other thing. It's just too much work to convince people to build it. So flame is our attempt to get something all the way to market in the hands of end users, and also to provide this Celestia native defi.
00:26:37.522 - 00:27:24.996, Speaker B: And what we mean by that is the gas token used on this roll up. It's not going to be ethereum, it's going to be tIa. It's going to be Celestia's native token. And the primary asset that we are targeting getting on this roll up is going to be tIa. Fundamentally, what we want to provide is this not novel, but just status quo defi environment, vertically integrated within the celestia ecosystem, so people can bridge their tia in one click from celestia onto flame. And then there will be a lending protocol on flame that will allow you to deposit your TIA. And we'll also have USDC coming from Noble on Flame, and you'll be able to lend your TIA, and you'll be able to withdraw under collateralized or an over collateralized loan of your USDC, and you'll be able to use that as an asset to go do defi.
00:27:24.996 - 00:28:21.640, Speaker B: And this is the classic flywheel of what DeFi looks like as it stands today. You have a lending protocol, recall, you have a decentralized exchange, probably a uni v three clone, and that just doesn't exist in the celestia landscape right now. And we think it's very important that Celestia has a version of this. And I'll say again, it's not that novel on an application level, but it's something that we think is an important stepping stone to demonstrate the feasibility of building a decentralized roll up and giving it to consumers, but also the feasibility of having celestia native roll ups that are not using celestia just for DA and still using Ethereum for settlement and Ethereum for gas and Ethereum as their primary asset in their ecosystem. We want to build this decentralized finance flywheel fully within the celestia ecosystem where you use TIa as your asset when you pay fees to the chain, those are paid in Tia. That Tia all flows down to posting data on Celestia. And that's really what we're trying to do with flame.
00:28:21.640 - 00:28:58.416, Speaker B: And again, what we said earlier, it also gets us kind of over this hump of saying, look, the shared sequencer works. It provides a good enough experience while remaining decentralized. And so it's kind of a we're open for business, look at what we've done ourselves. We are more than happy to help others build what they want on this platform, and we want to kind of show them that it works instead of just telling them that it works and having them have to trust us that we've done something we want to say, look, you can poke and touch and use the platform we've already made and an example of what we've built on top of it.
00:28:58.608 - 00:29:25.636, Speaker A: And who are you going to be targeting to attract to flame? Will it be existing DeFi projects on Ethereum or on the various roll ups right now? Or is it someone who maybe is at a similar stage where they are building, they're looking to roll out to mainnet in the next year or so? Are you trying to target brand new defi? Entrepreneurs just poured over some of that.
00:29:25.668 - 00:30:24.288, Speaker B: So a little bit of a mix of both. When we look at applications, and if you go through Defi llama and you dig through all of the other l two s, mostly they're using either an Aave clone or a compound clone for their lending platform. Some of them, the larger ones have the blue chip native version of compound Aave, but frankly, they're slow to move intentionally. They have many things they're not working on every single nascent roll up, same thing on Uniswap, you often have a uniswap v two and a Uniswap Uniswap v three clone. Maybe the larger ones end up getting a native uniswap deployment, so we're looking to provide that kind of out of the box because we think it's a relatively low hanging fruit to deploy these existing open source contracts and provide a front end to them. When it comes to trying to attract defi innovators, it's part of a like, I'll say like a like provide every option possible for someone who is interested in the modular ecosystem. If someone wants to build a roll up, we provide the shared sequencer itself and we'll help them build their own roll up.
00:30:24.288 - 00:31:06.192, Speaker B: But if someone says, I want to be part of the modular ecosystem, but I am a smarteende contract developer and I just want to deploy my smart contract as I know how to do. We want flame to be that environment specifically. We're starting to see a new wave of Defi entrepreneurs. It's still a relatively small cohort of people, but we're talking to some of the newer projects in this space that are taking what I would say is a multi chain first or maybe a modular approach and saying, we're not necessarily going to say, oh, we're on esl one, and we'll primarily be on esl one. They're saying, ok, if I'm going to build this smart contract, there's no reason this smart contract can't be broadly deployed. And there's a bit of overhead per chain, but there are a lot of projects that are very interesting. They've similar to us.
00:31:06.192 - 00:31:32.356, Speaker B: They've learned from the lessons of the status quo, the incumbents in the space, and they've done their small innovations on top of it, or in some cases very large innovations. And they're also looking at the market structure and the way it's going, and they're open to deploying on a broader number of things. So we're kind of open to all people who are interested for going to market. Again. We're an engineering focused company. We are not a business development focused company. We're expanding our marketing reach, we're expanding business development reach.
00:31:32.356 - 00:32:09.670, Speaker B: We're expanding our understanding of Defi and from both an internal and also a partnership perspective. But we are planning to bring at least a lending protocol and a decentralized exchange protocol, I'd say in house as this minimum viable starting point, so that we can provide a product to the modular ecosystem, so the customers that are existing TIA holders that want to do Defi in this Celestia native way, and we can give them out of the box. And then we have a broad range of platforms to provide services to any entrepreneur, whether they're a smart contract developer or whether they're a roll up developer.
00:32:10.410 - 00:32:13.754, Speaker A: All right, and is there anything else on the Astra roadmap that you would want to mention?
00:32:13.882 - 00:33:06.100, Speaker B: So generally, I'd say we're going to be, by the time this interview goes out, hopefully we are on Testnet, though I'm cautious to give specific deadlines now and then. We're going to be trying to move to Mainnet as soon as possible, ideally maybe within a month or so of testnet. So look forward to that. And really, if anyone kind of hears this and says, ok, I'm a roll up developer, I'm a defi developer, or if you're an NFT developer, we are more than happy to connect you with whether that's us as working on flame, whether it's deploying a roll up on Astria, whether it's understanding what the optionality of deploying a roll up on Astri and what the design space is, or if you want to do an NFT and you want us to connect you to the forma team, I guess I would just say we now feel we're at a point where we'd like to signal that we're open for business and we're open to having these conversations because we think we've done enough work now that we're able to provide an actually interesting kind of development environment for all of these entrepreneurs in the space.
00:33:06.520 - 00:33:08.984, Speaker A: Great. Well, it's been a pleasure talking to you. Thank you so much.
00:33:09.032 - 00:33:09.480, Speaker B: Thanks so much.
