00:00:00.560 - 00:00:40.524, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano, and today's the 15 January 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into the news from the last 24 hours. So actually a couple days ago I mentioned this project railgun that was kind of announced on Twitter that was centered around privacy. Now, Roman from Tornado cash actually dug into this project a bit more and he says that it might like, you know, it's highly likely that's kind of a scam here based on a few different things. So he says that there's no code or white paper published, you know, only marketing. There's a token presale with a minimum contribution of 100 ETH.
00:00:40.524 - 00:01:26.244, Speaker A: They disabled discussions in their telegram group and there's an on devs associated with it. He does clarify that he doesn't have anything against an on devs, but that combined with the rest of the red flags is a major problem here. So I mean, you know, a couple days ago when I spoke about this, I did say that the information was scarce and it, you know, I was waiting for information to come come out about this before, you know, digging into it more. But yeah, unfortunately it looks likely like a scam, especially if they're doing like a token pre sale and you know, having a minimum contribution and they're disabling discussions and stuff like that. But, you know, we'll have to see what happens here. I'm not going to call it an outright scam just yet, but yeah, unfortunately this project might not be something new, you know, some new privacy kind of thing. Privacy magic on Ethereum might just be a scam instead.
00:01:26.244 - 00:02:26.082, Speaker A: So I just wanted to kind of give a warning there as I did speak about it a couple days ago. So Jake Trevinsky tweeted out today that FinCen, one of the regulators in the US, has extended the public comment period on its proposed rule around, I think this was around self hosted wallets by 45 days, citing the robust responses provided so far. So, I mean, this doesn't guarantee that the rule won't go through, but it takes us well into, you know, well past January 20 and into the Biden administration. So I mean, I mean, I spoke about this a lot on the daily wear refuel, about these kind of like self hosted wallet regulations and how they could be rushed through. But due to the overwhelming responses that FinCEn received from the crypto community, you know, in large part due to Jake's kind of marketing, I guess, of this and kind of like championing it on Twitter and everything like that. It worked. And, you know, they've delayed, sorry, extended the current period by 45 days, which is a pretty large extension.
00:02:26.082 - 00:02:51.166, Speaker A: And as he said, it goes into the new administration, which apparently is supposed to be friendlier towards crypto. So, you know, it's more likely that maybe this rule doesn't go through than it does go through. But, yeah, this is really, really cool to see. Shows the, I guess, the power of the crypto community when they can come together and stop being tribal for a couple of minutes. Right. And kind of, you know, realize that crypto as a whole is kind of like fighting the same enemy. Right.
00:02:51.166 - 00:03:14.082, Speaker A: You know, government regulations, you know, central banks, all this sort of stuff. Like that's kind of what the ethos is there to decentralize all this sort of stuff. So it's great to see the community come together at times like this. And, you know, I'm really happy we have someone like Jake in the industry. He's a great one, I guess, great, great crypto lawyer. You know, he, for those who don't know, he. Hooks is the general counsel at compound.
00:03:14.082 - 00:03:35.036, Speaker A: He's been there for quite a while now. He's doing a few different things within the industry. So, yeah, he's. He's a great champion here, and I really respect him for what he was able to push through with this because I think we owe him a lot for this. Definitely. He was one of the, if not the biggest cheerleader of this, of getting people to submit things to this. So, yeah, thanks, Jake, for that.
00:03:35.036 - 00:04:10.680, Speaker A: You might have saved us from some bad regulations here. All right, so Tyler Winklevoss tweeted out today that Gemini are releasing a credit card where you can earn up to 3% back in bitcoin and ether or any other crypto when you use it for purchases. It's not out yet. You have to join the waitlist to get early access. So I'll link that in the YouTube description if you want to do that yourself. But, yeah, this is just really cool. I mean, I personally really want something that I can trust, like, from a trusted brand like that I can use, you know, for my everyday purchases to get back these crypto rewards.
00:04:10.680 - 00:04:47.294, Speaker A: Like, I'd love to get ETH back every time I spent money, right on something that I just feel really great. And another thing, the Winklevoss twins have actually, like a bit of an aside here, but they've been kind of tweeting a lot more about ETH lately. And whenever they tweet about bitcoin. They tweet about ETH as well. And I mean, this is great because it signals to me that ETH has kind of, like, matured to this point where it's on the same level as bitcoin from, like, I guess. I guess you could say, like macro perspective, where whenever people talk about bitcoin, they also say, okay, what about a theory, and what about ETH? Whereas this wasn't the case, you know, just a few shorts short months ago. And since then, we've kind of seen this here.
00:04:47.294 - 00:05:24.972, Speaker A: So, you know, ETH is maturing. It's being kind of put on the same pedals as bitcoin in the macro sense, even though within crypto, we all know that ethereum as a network pretty much, like, flips bitcoin on, like, lots of different metrics, right? You know, fees generated, value settled, even node count, I think, is up there. There's a bunch of other metrics as well. So it's really great to see ETH getting more macro attention because, you know, Tyler Minkovoss and his brother, they have a lot of connections within the traditional finance world, right? They are not crypto natives. I guess they're more like traditional finance natives. But they've been around in crypto for ages. I mean, they bought bitcoin very early on.
00:05:24.972 - 00:06:08.270, Speaker A: I'm pretty sure they earn a couple hundred thousand bitcoin or something like that. They bought ETH very early on as well. And they're in a bunch of different things, too, of course, but. And they obviously have a crypto exchange. But I would still say that they've spent a lot more time in that traditional world of things. They're not like people who sit on, you know, crypto Twitter in the community, responding to people all the time and, like, getting involved in all the shit, posting and stuff, right? They're out there talking to banks, of course, because they have a crypto exchange, right? Talking to regulators, talking to all these people that you could call, like, old money, I guess, because I think their, their family, or I guess, like their father was, was big in that world, too. So, I mean, and I mean, it's the Winklevosses, right? Everyone knows them, you know, from the Facebook days and things like that.
00:06:08.270 - 00:06:28.774, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, it's just great to see them pushing on this front more. You know, I haven't used Gemini myself. I haven't an australian based exchange that I use, but I've never heard anyone complain about Gemini. So I'm hoping they get more love out of this, definitely. Go check them out if you haven't yet. So a walkie from Gitcoin put together this. This.
00:06:28.774 - 00:07:10.352, Speaker A: Well, he put out this tweet today, sorry, that said that he's working with Yale or from Metacartel. I mean, he's yellows, does a bunch of different things here, like gitcoin, meta cartel, wailer, dow, raid, guild. I mean, he's doing a bunch of different things here. But anyway, he's working on basically a website that helps developers choose what L2 tech to build on. So you can see here in the image, obviously, if you're listening, you won't be able to see it, but you can see here that there's a bunch of different kind of like L2 solutions here. And then they've got different kind of rows for, sorry, columns for type, transaction cost finality, consensus max transactions per second and all that sort of stuff. So I thought that was really cool.
00:07:10.352 - 00:07:37.764, Speaker A: And I think this is very sorely needed. It's not ready yet, but it's kind of in development. And I think you can help because it's open source and everything, obviously. But I think it's really cool because there's going to be a lot of this happening. I mean, I've spoken a lot about L2 lately and how it's going to be a huge thing in 2021, but it's also going to be a little bit hard for developers to choose which one they want to go on. And that's why I believe we're only going to see a handful of winners here in terms of like, massive network effects. Right.
00:07:37.764 - 00:08:30.928, Speaker A: But this is going to help developers choose and, you know, kind of look at the differences between them and kind of see, like, how secure is that? Like, is it right for my application? You know, I've described before how there's a massive difference between L2 and side chains where L2 is secured by the Ethereum network and side chains have their own kind of security that they rely on and they just bridge into Ethereum. I think a lot of the high value financial apps need to be on a L2. If they're on a side chain, it's not good because you can't have a billion dollars on a side chain, right, being secured on their assets because that's a very big honeypot for the limited security to go after. So I wouldn't trust that for that sort of stuff. And I would trust it on L2, whereas I would trust a sidechain for like gaming, for example. Right. And gaming assets, obviously, you know, potentially you can maybe have a billion dollars worth of gaming assets on there, and then the lines kind of blur.
00:08:30.928 - 00:09:09.710, Speaker A: But I mean, you can still host the assets on Ethereum as their home, and then on the side chain, you can have all the other logic going on, right? And, you know, anything could be a side chain. Doesn't even have to be something like xdai or matic network. It can actually be just a centralized exchange or another blockchain that just sacrifices decentralization to achieve scale, which means it's pretty much centralized. But, you know, it doesn't have to be one of those things. It can be coinbase, it can be Gemini, it can be any of these. It can just be a database, right? In like, in like a Dropbox folder, like a spreadsheet or whatever, Google sheets. It can be a database like MySQl or something like that.
00:09:09.710 - 00:09:33.132, Speaker A: As long as, you know, you can record this sort of stuff and bridge in. That's kind of like what a side chain applies to. So the terminology definitely gets mixed up on crypto, Twitter a lot. Kind of a pet peeve of mine, because I don't want people kind of like saying, you know, putting the things into wrong buckets and saying, you know, this is a L2 when. No, it's a side chain. There's this, this and this. And I know I'm being pedantic about this, but I think it's important to make the delineation here.
00:09:33.132 - 00:10:00.518, Speaker A: But, yeah, really great to see a walkie and yellow kind of working on this. You know, I can't wait to see it live because I think it's going to help developers especially to choose which, which kind of L2 solution they want to use here. So wire or yearn? I don't know how I should say it. I always change between the two. Wire and or yearn. I'm just gonna say yearn from now on. They put out this really cool promotional video about curve.
00:10:00.518 - 00:10:35.078, Speaker A: So basically, on curve, you can do permissionless, permissionless pools now with, with year and finance. So basically on curve, it's obviously a stable coin exchange. You weren't able to put in your own pools or create your own pools, right? You had to go the governance process and all that sort of stuff, and it was kind of annoying. But now you can create permissionless pools, which is the same that you can do on like, uniswap, right, where you can create a pair on uniswap and it's. It's all dandy. Balance does the same thing, sushi swap, all that sort of stuff. Surprisingly, this wasn't on curve yet.
00:10:35.078 - 00:11:13.970, Speaker A: Right now it is. So I think that's a big deal because there's a lot of different stable coins out there that people would love to experiment with and put them into pools, right? So you can imagine having, like, all these algorithmic stable coins in the same pool. And can we make, like, a meta algorithmic stable coin out of it, or can we, like, get trading volume through there? Can we do some. Some kind of stuff there? Right? As I've said in one of my newsletters before, I think those algorithmic stable coins aren't really stable coins. They're like, I guess you could call them. I mean, I'm not gonna call them Ponzi games, but they are money games. I like to use that term because it's more of a game to see kind of like how much money you can make, essentially.
00:11:13.970 - 00:11:38.940, Speaker A: So maybe, you know, that's something that gets spun up on these permissionless pools and kind of gets some popularity there. But there's a lot you can do here. So really great to see that from curve and yearn. And also, I did want to clarify that some people thought that curve acquired yearn or something. It was something weird going on on Twitter. That is not what happened. This is just a collaboration partnership, definitely not an acquisition or anything like that.
00:11:38.940 - 00:12:28.648, Speaker A: So just wanted to clear that up for anyone who saw that. And Andre from, from yen, he put out an update yesterday of this website called I hedge finance. And what this is, it's basically a view only dashboard of sushi swap, single sided and hedged impermanent loss positions. So, I mean, I don't know if you have been tracking this lately, but Andre is trying to solve, or maybe has even solved impermanent loss. So if you're a liquidity provider on, you know, uniswap, sushiswap, any of these amms, you do suffer from impermanent loss. Now, Andre and a few other people working on this have claimed to solve this by using single sided liquidity positions and hedged impermanent loss positions. So I guess this website just lets you view them if you're in one of these positions and see kind of like your.
00:12:28.648 - 00:13:27.946, Speaker A: Your position, your debt, your profit, your shortfall, your balance, all that good stuff. So, yeah, that was a really cool site there. But just in general, I'm really curious to see, kind of like, if this actually works at scale, right? If that you can actually, quote, unquote, solve impermanent loss. And by solving permanent loss, it's more like you know, can you make it less painful? I don't know if you can take away all of the impermanent loss. You know, impermanent loss is really just another way of saying that you're taking on, I guess, like an opportunity cost where you believe that you, by entering into a liquidity provider position, you're gonna make more money than you would have just holding on to the token from fees, you know, and all that sort of stuff. And you believe that the price is gonna oscillate around a certain amount or a certain ratio depending on the pool that you're using. So if there is a way to solve that and to basically make it so that you, you don't have to take on that risk can and kind of like assume that you might outperform it or whatever, I think that that's huge, right.
00:13:27.946 - 00:14:00.218, Speaker A: It's a massive breakthrough, but I don't know if it's, if it's going to work at scale. I haven't seen it at scale yet, but I'm going to keep my eye on this. And, you know, Uniswap's been talking about this for a while as well, the Uniswap team. So maybe they've got something installed with Uniswap V three. We'll have to wait and see for that, but very exciting times in the Amm space, I think. So Tim Bico put out this Twitter thread yesterday, basically summarizing the 9th EIP 1559 implementers call. So these happen every couple of weeks, I think.
00:14:00.218 - 00:14:31.422, Speaker A: Or maybe, maybe not even every couple of weeks, actually. I think it is. But anyway, they happen quite frequently and they basically discuss all the IP 1559 implementation details. So there's like a kind of summary thread here that you can read through. Obviously I'm not going to read through it right now, but yeah, I mean this is, can get quite technical. Of course, you can visit the kind of GitHub here and it links to different things like that. But if you want to read through it, I'll link it in the, in the YouTube description there.
00:14:31.422 - 00:14:53.936, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, it's funny because I've said it and I'll say it again, 1559 has never been in a better position than it is now. We didn't have these implementers calls until a couple of, I guess a few months ago. At this point, if this is the 9th one. Right, and it happened every two weeks, it's like 18 weeks ago. So like a few months ago. Yeah, before that we didn't have this. We didn't have any structure around it.
00:14:53.936 - 00:15:20.756, Speaker A: We didn't have anyone leading it. And now that we do, all this stuff's happening and it's great. I mean, it's absolutely amazing. I can't, I can't, like, I can't even express how great this is because this, this to me is like when Danny Ryan joined on as the ETH two coordinator, you know, the e three effort was kind of like split. There was multiple teams working on different things. There was no kind of clear path, I guess, or clearly defined path of how to get to mainnet for a long time. And then Danny Ryan jumped on board and kind of defined that path.
00:15:20.756 - 00:15:39.906, Speaker A: And we got to mainnet really quickly after that. So I think the same is going to happen with 1559. And as I've said, I'm speculating that we could see it as early as July, but that's. Speculate, pure speculation on my behalf. Do not take that and quote that as. As kind of gospel or anything like that. But definitely still, I think it's still going to happen this year for sure.
00:15:39.906 - 00:16:01.854, Speaker A: So, yeah, go read this thread if you want to get an update on what they discussed on the 9th. Implementers call. So a tweet from loop ring today saying that their Zk roll up has now holds over $100 million worth of value. There's 29,000 ethan there. It moves swiftly. Gas. Gas freely, unencumbered by l one congestion yet completely securely.
00:16:01.854 - 00:16:17.108, Speaker A: And they go on to say, this is a moment 3.5 years in the making for us. We are so happy and grateful. Thank you. Tis a theorem l two season. I mean, I talk about loopering a lot on here, and I don't even really hold any LRC tokens. So it's not just me trying to show my bags or anything like that.
00:16:17.108 - 00:16:49.160, Speaker A: I just absolutely love that they're leading the charge here on L2 in such a big way. They are the pioneers here, 100% the pioneers here. I mean, you can see on the chart how quickly they've grown lately because they did a liquidity mining program right, get the liquidity on there. The high gas fees is obviously being kind to them because people are motivated to move across. Their exchange is just works so well and their interface is really great. So they're getting a lot of this market share now. And I'm really happy that they are because there have been a, you know, plugging away at this for quite a while now.
00:16:49.160 - 00:17:15.736, Speaker A: Loop ring has been around for ages, since like 2017. I remember their ICO or all their token sale. I think at the time. So, yeah, great to see this. I think, you know, synthetix should be going live like today or tomorrow with their optimism, soft main net launch. So that's going to be another big thing that happens on L2 here. But loopring is definitely ahead of the game right now, and I hope to see them continue growing even as other players enter.
00:17:15.736 - 00:18:03.236, Speaker A: And, you know, that's just going to the fact that other players are entering. We're going to have all this competition is just going to breed more of this innovation and more of this kind of like, growth in L2. And I mean, I fully expect to see many billions of dollars worth of liquidity in L2 within the next six months. It won't even take us to the end of the year. We're going to see a ton of value in L2 and people are going to be like, how did I live without L2? Basically, you know, why was I using layer one for so long? I mean, as I mentioned just on yesterday's refuel, I went on to loop rings exchange again and use their layer to exchange again, and I was just like blown away by how quickly it was, how quick it was. And obviously, I mean, I don't understand how at least surface level of how ZK roll ups work and how they secured by Ethereum. I felt very comfortable on that exchange and exchanging value on there.
00:18:03.236 - 00:18:27.212, Speaker A: It wasn't a huge amount, right? Because a lot of this stuff still early, so I wasn't going to risk like a massive amount on there. But even still, I mean, loop ring is really, really dedicated to getting things right. So. And I've been incredibly impressed by their progress over, over the last few months here. So, yeah, kudos to them. Hope to see this growth continue. So a bit of a meme here from cryptocat, which I found quite funny.
00:18:27.212 - 00:18:47.660, Speaker A: He says, quote, okay, ethereum, since Cecil Zero X has committed to a BTC level, a BTC development level of CT activity, we need to pick up the slack. All right, just, I want to pause there and say that that's hilarious. It's one of the best memes I've seen about me being off Twitter. I just. I mean, I absolutely love that. So kudos to cryptocat there. That was, that was really funny.
00:18:47.660 - 00:19:04.904, Speaker A: Made me laugh. But the point of the tweet is that over 2.5 million ETH is now staked in ETH two. That's a massive amount of ETH. That's over $2.5 billion worth of ETH. Securing ETH two, obviously not securing much right now because it's just a beacon chain, right? It's just securing itself, I guess.
00:19:04.904 - 00:19:22.144, Speaker A: But still a huge amount of ETH has flooded in over the past, like, I guess couple months. Right. ETH two. Beacon chain has only been live since the December 1, it's been six weeks, the deposit contract, November 1 been ten weeks. So in ten weeks, we've managed to amass $2.5 million. 2.5
00:19:22.144 - 00:19:48.936, Speaker A: million ETH in ETH two. And this is going to keep growing. This staking service is going live. Coinbase is going live with their exchange staking soon, which I think is going to be quite a big deal. Lidar is getting a lot of attention lately for their steth, which is their staked ETH kind of token where you can stake ETH with them and then get this IoU token that you can use to like, yield, farm on curve and things like that. So that's really, really cool. But, yeah, I mean, I.
00:19:48.936 - 00:20:26.542, Speaker A: I don't expect this growth to stop. I mean, it's slower than it was, for sure. And I think it's kind of peaked in terms of how fast it's growing, at least from individual contributors. It might grow really fast one day because Coinbase comes online and has like a million eat they chuck in there or something like that. That might happen, and I actually expect that to happen. But in terms of, like, the speed of individual contributors, that slowed down a bit, I think, at this point because, you know, there's only so many people who want to either trust a service to kind of stake for them and get, like, this kind of IOU token, or there's only so many people who would basically lock up their ETH for an undefined period of time. Right.
00:20:26.542 - 00:20:48.146, Speaker A: It's a stake, and that's fine. You know, the early stakers are getting more rewards. I think the rewards are still around maybe 12% or something a year on your 8th, which is, which is really great. And you still get to obviously be a validator and help the network out. So, yeah, really great to see this. And thanks, cryptocurrency, for tweeting this out, because this is something I would have tweeted out if I could, but, you know, I didn't. But hopefully soon.
00:20:48.146 - 00:21:17.366, Speaker A: You know, I've got so many tweet ideas in my head of things I've been wanting to say. I'm probably gonna be quite annoying when I come back, but I'll try not to. But I mean, as I've said, every, every kind of day on the refuel I think that the memes are amazing. I actually really love it. It's quite heartening to see that, you know, my spirit still lives on, on crypto Twitter, even though I'm off crypto Twitter for now. And, you know, I see a lot of people still saying that, you know, me retweeting things is cheating. Like, I don't care.
00:21:17.366 - 00:21:56.082, Speaker A: You can say I'm cheating. I can tell you right now that retweeting doesn't fill the void of not being able to tweet my own kind of ideas out there. But yeah, anyway, I digress there for now, but really great to see this kind of, this traction on ETH two here. Alright. The last thing I wanted to quickly talk about was this kind of book from stateful work. So for those who don't know, stateful works is writing a book about ETH, two contributors, and this is just their first project. They've got other projects in the mix here, but basically this thread summarizes what they're doing and who they are, what, why they're making this, you know, and it's going to be a physical book as well.
00:21:56.082 - 00:22:38.874, Speaker A: It's going to be kind of, I guess, like the haiku book that I've spoken about just to kind of like put a spotlight on the ETH, two contributors, like, you know, all the people that made this thing a reality, from the researchers to the developers to the community members to, you know, the designers or across the entire stack. Right. Basically there's a lot of people that you would have never heard of before. You've obviously heard of like the top people. Like, I mean, I say top people, but, you know, the core researchers like Vitalik, Danny Ryan, Justin Drake, there's a bunch of them, right? I'm not going to list every single one of them because I can't, because I don't know every single one of them. His name. But there's so many people working across, you know, the beacon chain.
00:22:38.874 - 00:23:12.018, Speaker A: Phase one, phase two roll ups which fall into ETH two, you know, the merge, are incredibly important. You know, the ETH one, devs also work on ETH two stuff sometimes as well. So this book just aims to basically shine a spotlight on all of them, which I think is actually really important. Something I'll definitely buy. I'd love to read through that as I don't have full knowledge of the entire breadth of the ETH two development squad. It has to be in like the hundreds of people at this stage, maybe in terms of like contribute contributions from everything that touched ETH two is maybe in the thousands. It was, it was such a big effort over so many years.
00:23:12.018 - 00:23:50.786, Speaker A: Basically, I guess you could say over six years worth of development and people coming in and out. You know, maybe someone just did something small once, right, or something that is small that, that seemed small at the time but had a big impact on ETH two. There's a few of those things that happened. You know, you can even consider, like the auditors, ETH two contributors, right? Because without them, and without them auditing and formally verifying this sort of stuff, it wouldn't be as secure as it is. Because the deposit contract, obviously, sending ETH into a contract that essentially, like, burns the ETH, right. Once it's sent there, you can only get it back on ETH two. When the merger happens, the deposit contract itself will not refund you.
00:23:50.786 - 00:24:18.770, Speaker A: There's no kind of clawback there. So, you know, making sure that that worked correctly and functioned correctly was critically important. So I think the auditors definitely played and the formal verifiers played a big part there as well. So, yeah, if you want to keep up to date with what is going on here, definitely go follow the statefulworks Twitter account. I'll link this in the YouTube description, of course, for all of you to go have a look, look at it and check out what it's, what it's all about. Alright, that's it for today, everyone. Thank you again for watching and listening.
00:24:18.770 - 00:24:37.474, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, subscribe to the YouTube channel, give the video a thumbs up, join the discord, subscribe to the Daily Grey newsletter and I will see you all next week. Hopefully I'll be back to tweeting by then. We'll see if ETH can muster up the energy to get to all time high this weekend. It keeps teasing us. It's over top hundred. We'll see how we go. But yeah, have a, have a really great weekend, everyone.
