00:00:00.160 - 00:00:17.422, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delegate refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, and it's Asana, and today's the 4 October 2023. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So, apologies for missing yesterday's episode, everyone. It's funny cause I didn't miss an episode last week, but of course I had to miss one this week. But that means there's more news to cover.
00:00:17.422 - 00:01:07.066, Speaker A: So let's get right into it. So, first off, we have some positive news. The SEC has lost in court again. So a judge has rejected the SEC's motion to appeal in the ripple case here. Now, I don't know if this was an expected outcome of the appeal, but it's a pretty strong signal from the courts yet again, that they're kind of fed up with the SEC, right? They've kind of gotten to this point where they're like, the SEC is acting in a way that is not consistent with the law and they're not giving the SEC anything, really. So them denying this kind of like appeal is a pretty big deal from, from that, that angle. And Paul Grell here, the chief legal officer at Coinbase, put together a thread on their case where the SEC actually filed its opposition to coinbases motion to dismiss the SEC's case against Coinbase.
00:01:07.066 - 00:01:41.554, Speaker A: And he wrote a little thread here. But I've seen some kind of talking heads, I guess, like talking about this on Twitter, some lawyers talking about this on Twitter, and some of them are putting the odds of coinbases, sorry, SEC. The SEC's case against Coinbase being dismissed at like 50%. Now, now, I don't really have any special insight here, but from what I've read, that seems to be kind of like the general vibe. And the reason is because, as I said, like, the SEC has lost in court again. And that's like the fourth loss, I think, major loss. I mean, I don't know if losing an appeal was like a major loss, but the three previous ones I've gone over plenty of times on the refuel.
00:01:41.554 - 00:02:24.568, Speaker A: But this is just another loss. And if the SEC wants to stop losing these kind of things, then they shouldn't be, I guess, like bringing cases against companies where they pretty much, like, are trying to win based not on the law, but based on what they think the law should be. And obviously, Gary Gensler, being the head of the SEC, is dictating a lot of this. And I was thinking about this today, and it kind of occurred to me that the SEC, you know, even just 18 months ago, had much more credibility than it does today. Like, Gary Gensler single handedly has completely discredited the SEC as, as a respected agency of the US. And I feel like in the near future, there's going to be a major shake up there. I mean, obviously there will be a shake up if the, the presidency changes next year.
00:02:24.568 - 00:02:46.920, Speaker A: You know, if the Republicans win the presidency, there'll be a major shake up. But I can't imagine the Democrats, like, really are that happy with the s. The way the SEC has been run. I know what they say in public is that they're happy with it. They think that the SEC is doing a good job, but the SEC keeps losing in court. And as I said before, the american legal system works on precedent and losing in court is, you know, sets precedent. And that is not a good thing.
00:02:46.920 - 00:03:17.880, Speaker A: That is not a good thing for the SEC. So if, if the, if the SEC doesn't want to lose in court again against Coinbase, for example, whereas I said before, I feel like there's a really high chance Coinbase would win in court against the SEC. It would take quite a while, but I feel like there's a high chance that they would win if the SEC doesn't want to run that risk and doesn't want to lose to Coinbase. Yeah. They have the option of, obviously, of dismissing the case against Coinbase. Now, in my mind, this is like the best possible path for the SEC. They get to save face a little bit.
00:03:17.880 - 00:03:44.624, Speaker A: I guess, by not losing in court, they're still going to have egg on their face from the fact that they brought this case to begin with. And obviously, it's really good for Coinbase and it's really good for crypto generally, because as I said a bunch of times on the refill now, I feel like the regulatory kind of stuff from the SEC that the, I guess, like fud or actions has kind of bottomed out and bottomed out a few months ago, but. Because they kept losing. Right. Because they kept losing in court. And it feels like the pressure has been mounting on. On the SEC and Gary Gensler in particular politically.
00:03:44.624 - 00:04:12.190, Speaker A: And the language has been changing as well. And obviously we had the ETH futures ETF's go live, which I'm going to talk about in a second, how that changes things. So the SEC has definitely softened up, I think, against crypto over the last few months, even though it may not feel like they have. They definitely have, if you look closely and read between the lines here, but I'm curious to see what they do with their Coinbase case. To be honest, I don't know if they will dismiss the case against Binance. Obviously, Binance is not a us based company. It's a very different company and entity compared to Coinbase.
00:04:12.190 - 00:04:35.772, Speaker A: But Coinbase is a publicly traded company in the US. Right. The SEC approved Coinbase's ipo. Right. And let them go public. And it's also a darling of the US startup culture because Coinbase obviously was a startup that became very successful. And it is a darling among crypto enthusiasts in the US because there is, I think, over 50 million registered users, registered Us users of Coinbase.
00:04:35.772 - 00:05:08.772, Speaker A: So, yeah, we're not playing with small fish here, and I think the SEC realizes that. So I'm going to be curious to see if they actually dismiss the case outright or decide they're going to go, you know, all the way in court and then eventually probably end up losing against Coinbase. At least that. At least that's my view there. Now, sticking on this topic of the SEC is the 8th futures ETF stuff. Now, before I get into. Into the 8th futures ETF's, there was some, there was some other news, actually, that grayscale filed a 19 B four form to convert their $5 billion Ethereum private trust ethy into an ETF.
00:05:08.772 - 00:05:57.126, Speaker A: Now, this was not unexpected. They've obviously, obviously had done this for their bitcoin trust quite a while ago, and they won that court case against the SEC where the SEC denied the conversion and the judge was basically like, you have no good reason to deny this conversion. Take another look at it. So Grayscale is taking this opportunity to be like, well, you know, if there's a high chance that our bitcoin conversion is going to go through, then we may as well convert our ETH trust as well, because obviously there is a large amount of money in that trust, and converting that to an ETF would be a big deal there. Now, in saying that, obviously, as I was, you know, as I was talking about when it comes to the SEC, they've been rather hostile towards ETH for quite a while now. Gary Gensler has said that he thinks ETH is a security, but he's. I feel like he's been walking that back lately and not, not in so many words, like he hasn't literally said, I don't think ETH is a security, but.
00:05:57.126 - 00:06:21.254, Speaker A: But I feel like he's kind of gone on. Gone off the attack. He's not attacking anymore. And I mentioned the other day how the word, his wording has kind of changed from all, all crypto assets are securities except bitcoin, to the vast majority of asset of crypto assets are securities. Right. He's still wrong on that, but the fact that he's changed his wording there to me is a bit of signal. But, you know, and it might not just be his words, it might be the SEC in general's words as well.
00:06:21.254 - 00:07:13.804, Speaker A: But people will kind of bring up the question of like, okay, well, what are the chances of this, this conversion going through for ETH? Like, what's the chances of ETH getting a spot ETF? It has the futures ETF's which, as I said, went live. And there is some data here from Eric Balkan us basically showing the trading value, trading volumes. The trading volumes for these ETf's was not high. I'm sure you all saw that on Twitter, but I feel like that was missing the forest for the trees, which I'm going to go, which I'm going to go over. But there was a great tweet here from Brian Quintez, who was a former CFTC commissioner, where he said by approving ETH ETF's based on ETH commodity futures contracts, the SEC has officially provided clarity on ETH status as a non security. With so much innovation being built on the Ethereum blockchain, this creates a clearer path for builders. It's ridiculous and insulting that it took so long to get here, but it's a big win for the crypto space and more importantly, for the future of the Internet.
00:07:13.804 - 00:07:45.288, Speaker A: And this is the real story, guys, and I tweeted about this this year where I basically said, you know, crypto, Twitter is a peanut gallery of bad takes. And I was referring to the bad takes on the ETH futures ETF's volume. The reason to be bullish about the ETH Futures ETF's is not the futures products themselves. It's the fact that ETH chance of getting a spot ETF in the next one to two years just went up dramatically, stopped missing the forest for the trees. That is the real story, guys. That is the real signal. As I've said before, the futures ETF's, they're not like products that any crypto native is probably going to buy.
00:07:45.288 - 00:08:31.836, Speaker A: They're not great products because, you know, you don't own the underlying right. It's not, it's not a spot product. So really, the low volumes doesn't, doesn't produce any signal for me about demand for ETH in an ETF. And Eric Balkanis also had another tweet where he said that the, the bitcoin futures, or ETF futures that launched, were launched at the height of the bull market, pretty much like the picotop of the bull market. And people were saying, well, those, you know, those products did like, I think it was, what, $500 million of volume in one day or something like that, whereas these ETF's did like seven to $8 million. Well, that just shows you that at the top of the bull market what the insanity was like for these products. Right? Because I bet you that if the futures ETF went live at the top of a bull market, it would seem similar inflows there.
00:08:31.836 - 00:09:20.684, Speaker A: But that's not, as I said, that's not signal. That's just market kind of like dynamics playing out there. The real signal is that historically, you know, the SEC has been hostile towards ETH, saying that it thinks it's a security, but it can't really say that anymore. As Brian Quintus says here, like, you can't approve the Eat futures ETF's after losing the case to, to, to grayscale right in court about converting their bitcoin trust to an ETF and not convert and not basically accept an ETH spot ETF eventually, which I believe that they 100% will. I, you know, I said here, maybe in the next one to two years timing. I don't know exactly on the timing here. I still think that a bitcoin spot ETF is getting approved, you know, within the next few months, as I said, towards end of the year or q one, definitely, like, I mean, not 100%, but like, I feel like the chances of that happening are over 90% at this stage.
00:09:20.684 - 00:10:02.004, Speaker A: It's. It's just obvious to me. And there was actually a tweet here from Nate Gurachi, which is a, another ETF analyst who, who said that the issuers are clearly feeling more confident in the SEC approval for, of spot bitcoin ETF's because of comments on CNBC. Bitwise's CEO Matt said, I expect we'll see a spot bitcoin ETF this calendar year. And Vanex CEO, I said, it looks like in early 2024 we will probably see a spot product. So as I said, towards end of the year or 2024. And apparently I saw another tweet from one of these ETF analysts that said that the people, or I guess like the companies that have applied for a bitcoin spot ETF have actually been invited in to the SEC offices to discuss these things in more detail.
00:10:02.004 - 00:10:42.116, Speaker A: And that has never happened before. Right. So I mean, really, if you read between the lines and you kind of see the obviousness going on here of what's going on here, you can have relative certainty, as I said, 90 plus percent certainty that a bitcoin spot ETF is coming towards the end of the year or early next year. But then in terms of like an eat spot ETF, the question remains, when does that launch? You know, could it launch in 2024? Sure. What are the chances of that happening? Don't know. Right. I haven't really seen many, much signal around this, but as I said, the biggest signal here of the SEC approving the futures ETF's especially faster than they otherwise would have is the fact that ETH now has a very clear path to getting a spot ETF, which is the real story, which is the thing to be most excited about.
00:10:42.116 - 00:11:02.162, Speaker A: And I think that that's what obviously all of us are excited about, especially people in the US who want to put this in their 401K or the retirement accounts. They don't want to put futures products in there. They want to put a spot ETF's in there. You know, spot eat ETF's in there. And they're going to get the opportunity to do that sooner rather than later. At least that's my take on things. But I'll keep you guys updated on all of that.
00:11:02.162 - 00:11:39.132, Speaker A: But I think that covers, that covers the ETF stuff. But I did say in the daily grade discord that I wanted to give a bit more of a bullish rant here today. And I'll add a bit more context to, to my tweet here where I said that the real story was this spot ETF stuff. I think when you look at the ETF's and you look at, like, the trading volumes they have and the inflows that they have, what you need to remember is that, like, the day to day inflows in trading volumes is kind of meaningless. Right. Um, just like how it's meaningless when you look at the spot crypto markets, for example, the non ETF spot crypto markets, day to day, week to week, it doesn't really have any signal there. It's more about the month to month and year to year movements of these things.
00:11:39.132 - 00:12:05.640, Speaker A: Right. So if you have, like, constant inflows into these spot ETF's products, even if they're not exactly high inflows each day, that's cumulative. Right. And obviously, if you don't have much outflows as well, you kind of look at the inflows versus outflows. And you see the net increase there and then you see what that number looks like, you know, in six months, in twelve months, in 18 months from when they go live, that's the signal. The signal is not day to day movements. I don't know why people get so hung up on day to day movements all the time and week to week movements.
00:12:05.640 - 00:12:35.512, Speaker A: And I actually had something that I, that I wrote up to some friends recently on how I actually think about the markets generally from that lens. And I'm just going to bring it up here. I've just got to scroll up here. Yeah. So I basically said, you know, this is the way I see, see the market. I don't know if I've, if I've articulated this on the refill before, but I figured it was worth articulating just because this is how I think about things. But basically when it comes to the markets, the day to day movements, movements is literally just traders playing technical analysis lines and narratives, right? It's very short term stuff.
00:12:35.512 - 00:13:07.416, Speaker A: It is not anything based on fundamentals. It's literally based on some lines drawn on a chart. Week to week is pretty much more of the same, except traders may keep positions open longer if there's some kind of narrative. Like for example with the ETH futures ETF narrative. You know, there was a couple of weeks there where, where ETH started going up. And then obviously we saw a bit of a sell off recently because it was a sell the news events. This is more of that week to week trader kind of like action happening, but based on a narrative rather than just some kind of lines, right? And then you get into the longer term stuff like.
00:13:07.416 - 00:13:41.876, Speaker A: So month to month is where investors who are playing kind of the medium term trends sit. So for example, let's just say there's a new trend happening in the fundamental side of things. Let's just say there's a trend like L2s kind of getting more usage or something like that. Or maybe some of the L2s have a major narrative happening and it's happening in like one to two months. Like for example, Eip 48 44. Traders may attempt, or traders and investors alike may attempt to play this and basically buy the l two tokens, for example, to play that narrative. And then once that narrative is over, you'll see like a bleed in those tokens.
00:13:41.876 - 00:14:04.580, Speaker A: So it's a month to month move there, because these things don't just happen week to week, they're known months ahead in advance. Then you get to the year to year timeline. And now this is where all the long term investors sit. This is where probably the majority of you guys sit. This is where I sit. And these long term investors typically like to play the actual four year crypto cycle that has played out. Right, where essentially you buy during the crab years.
00:14:04.580 - 00:14:41.678, Speaker A: Like, right, for example, you would buy during this year, and then you would start taking profits when the market's heating up again, maybe approaching all time highs or after all time highs, a hit on BTC and ETH, you start taking profits that way. And those are year to year trends because they do not change overnight. They do not change week to week or month to month. They change based on year to year. You have typically with the four year cycle, you have two years of a bull market and two years of a bear market. And within that you have different markets. You have the first year of the bull market is the what, what I like to call the wall of worry bull market, where essentially we're kind of going up that wall of worry.
00:14:41.678 - 00:15:10.162, Speaker A: We're climbing it, and eventually we get to all time high. Then the actual real bull market starts, and that can last a year as well. Then you have a year long bear market where everything just completely nukes and goes down only for like a whole year. And then you have the crab market. Right? So that's the typical four year crypto cycle. Right now we're at the tail end of that four year cycle, guys. Like, we're about to begin a new, essentially a new four year cycle, which, which should happen the early next year or into next year, where essentially we've been in the crab market all year.
00:15:10.162 - 00:15:54.500, Speaker A: Crab markets coming to an end towards the end of the year. And then next year, as I've explained before, it is poised to be really, really, really exciting. Now, I know some people will say, well, what about the macro environment? What about this? What about that? I've given my thoughts on the macro environment before. I don't have enough insight there to give any good analysis on it. All I know is that if something breaks in the macro environment and the fed needs to step in, what do you think they're going to do? What do you think they're going to step in and do? They're not going to keep raising rates if something breaks. And from what I've seen, from all the analysis that I've seen from people that I follow and I respect, all the analysis that I've seen points to the fed pivoting, reducing rates and starting the money printer again. Now, what do you think that does for assets, that, that, that's going to be really good for assets, in my view.
00:15:54.500 - 00:16:49.686, Speaker A: So even if you want to take the, the macro view of things, which as I said, I traditionally don't, but even if you want the macro bull case for crypto, that's, that's really the bull case because from what I can see, you know, things are probably going to start breaking in the macro environment and people like to, like to be doomerism about this and basically say, oh, it's all going to break. It's all going to go shit. But the thing is, is that there are always tools at the disposal of nation states, of governments around the world, especially when it comes to monetary policy. And if you think that they wouldn't start printing again just to stave off inflation, you've got it all wrong there. From what I've seen, it's much better to have high inflation than it is to have the alternative, which is a death, a debt spiral, which is what I mean, a lot of the macro pundits think the US is in right now, where essentially the debt just keeps ballooning and the higher the rates are, the worse it is. So they've got a lower rate and obviously start quantitative easing again, which is money printing, essentially. So we'll see how that plays out.
00:16:49.686 - 00:17:15.366, Speaker A: But as I said, like, I'm not an expert on the macro. I don't really pay attention to it that much and it doesn't inform my investing decisions. I am playing the four year crypto cycle until it's proven otherwise, that the four year cycle is not intact. And that's why I said that, you know, those year to year trends is where the long term investors sit. And that's why I've always said, you know, my strategy for these markets, not that you should copy this strategy. My strategy has always been buying the crab, selling the, you know, sell off to all time highs. That that's always been my strategy with within crypto.
00:17:15.366 - 00:17:39.528, Speaker A: I played it nicely last cycle and I'm hoping to play it nicely this cycle. But that's what I've been doing all year. I've just been buying stuff all year. I've been buying ETH, of course, and a few other things here and there, doing some angel investments. And then I hope to take profits past all time highs after that. You know, it's not, not a guarantee that it's going to play out like that, but that's my strategy. I don't play on the day to day, week tweak or month to month timeframes I haven't played on those timeframes in years.
00:17:39.528 - 00:18:01.628, Speaker A: I'm all about the longer term here. And you guys know, with my ETH, I don't plan to sell it. I just want to keep stacking it and staking it. But other things, obviously, depending on how heated they get, I decided to take profits here and there, stuff like that. But yeah, that's my general strategy. But hopefully that's the bullish rant that was promised, and hopefully that's bullish enough for you guys. Moving on from all the markets and ETF talk, there is a bunch of fundamental stuff to talk about.
00:18:01.628 - 00:18:45.246, Speaker A: So apparently UBS is going to pilot a tokenized money market fund on Ethereum. Now, UBS is an asset management company, I believe, and they said here, UBA, oh, I think they're a bank, but like they've got an asset management arm. It says here UBS Asset Management has launched a pilot of a tokenized money market fund on ethereum. The fund, part of something called Project Guardian, is the first of several live pilots UBS plans to launch. So it says the block continues in the article, saying the pilot allows UBS asset management to test various fund activities on chain, including subscriptions and redemptions. The firm said Monday UBS has utilized its in house tokenization services, such as UBS Tokenize, to launch the pilot of the fund. So pretty cool to see them just building this on Ethereum here.
00:18:45.246 - 00:19:16.906, Speaker A: I think that, like the, the discussion around kind of banks building things within crypto has heated up a lot recently, and not because of ripple. I think it's heated up because of Chainlink, to be honest, because chain link has this whole CCIP thing. Sergey recently went on bankless to actually give the thesis on this. You should actually go listen to that episode. It's pretty good. But there is this kind of thesis where all these banks are going to want to be connected to blockchains. They're going to want to do all of their normal banking stuff, you know, on blockchains in a digital native world and on chain world.
00:19:16.906 - 00:19:39.220, Speaker A: So how do we connect them all? And that's the whole kind of idea of CC IP. It goes beyond that. But that's like the general high, very high level gist. I know some link marines are going to say, no, it's more than that. I mean, I know it's more than that, but I'm just giving the high level gist here. But, you know, when it comes to, I guess, like, interacting with different protocols on chain, they're obviously going to start with the biggest ones, like, like Ethereum, they can't really do anything with bitcoin. So it's a theorem.
00:19:39.220 - 00:20:38.242, Speaker A: First, maybe it's a L2 second, I doubt many of these other layer ones are going to be of interest to them, to be honest, because when it comes to banks and moving large amounts of money around, they're not fee sensitives, so they're not going to give a shit if they're going to have to pay like a few hundred dollars in fees a day to move stuff around on the Ethereum chain, or even more than that. Like it's, it's probably going to be even cheaper than the way they do it now. And it's not just cheaper from like a pure cost perspective perspective, but it's also from an efficiency perspective. Imagine being able to cut down the time that it takes you to do things by like 90 plus percent, which is what blockchains allow you to do, by the way, especially when it's widely adopted. If Ethereum is the global settlement layer and it's widely adopted everywhere and it has the network effect spread out everywhere, the communication between banks will be vastly improved. And obviously tools like chain links, CCIP will sit in the middle of that and kind of facilitate that. But they're still going to be passing through Ethereum to maybe, you know, maybe there's a, there's a private blockchain that these banks have that they're using as part of like an intranet sort of thing.
00:20:38.242 - 00:20:57.610, Speaker A: And then essentially from there they all just interconnect. And, and I guess like CCIP becomes like the Internet for, for, for connecting all of these things. And Ethereum sits in the middle as like a settlement layer. So it remains to be seen how exactly this is going to play out. But that's kind of the vision right now. But it's going to take a while, guys. Like, it's not going to happen overnight.
00:20:57.610 - 00:21:39.640, Speaker A: This is a long term play, probably still decades out before, before we reach, you know, full maturity here. But it's going to be interesting to view, to see play out. And as I said, if you want to learn more about that sort, sort of those sorts of things, definitely go listen to the podcast bank listed with Sergey from Chainlink. It's really great and it really taught me a lot about what chain link is trying to do there. All right, so some big news out of the ultimism ecosystem. So the op stack's first fault proof or fraud proof system is live as an alpha on the op girly testnet. This system leverages the power of the op Stacks modular design to lay the foundation to build out a multi proof dispute system that can include ZK proofs as well.
00:21:39.640 - 00:22:20.296, Speaker A: Where my haters at? Where my optimism doesn't have fraud proofs haters at, right? I mean, you're still technically right. Optimism does not have fraud proofs. The op stack, I should say, does not have fraud proofs in a main net capacity right now. But it is on testnet that is obviously one of the final sets before it goes to Mainnet. And sooner rather than later, the op stack will have their fault proof system in place that will be able to work with both fraud proofs and Zk or validity proofs here. And that will be a huge boon to the ecosystem because as you guys know, currently op mainnet base, all these other op stack chains that, all these other chains that are built using the op stack are completely centralized because of the lack of fraud proof cr. They're pretty much the same thing as a centralized exchange.
00:22:20.296 - 00:22:46.050, Speaker A: If I'm being honest. I don't want to sugarcoat it here. You guys know I've talked about this a lot in the past, and l two b actually lists out all these risks as well. But once these fraud proofs alive, that's a huge, huge step in the right direction for the op stack here. And then from there they can, they can build upon that. And then obviously there are other kind of spokes to descent to decentralizing out these l two s into making sure that they don't have centralized points of failure. But that right there is a big one.
00:22:46.050 - 00:23:19.170, Speaker A: Now of course, arbitrary has this arbitram one already has fraud proofs in place, but even with arbitram one, it's still a permission system right there. It's not a permissionless fraud proof system. And I think that the op stacks fraud proof system will probably be permissionless permissioned for a little while as well. But that's okay. Being permissioned is better than not having them at all, right? And obviously the optimism has come under a lot of, I guess, criticism for not having these. But to their credit, they've been working on them for quite a while now and they finally got it released on Testnet here. So if you want to learn more about this release, you can go check out this blog post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:23:19.170 - 00:23:47.934, Speaker A: But in terms of when they go live on Mainnet, I'm not exactly sure. I don't know if they've actually said anything in the blog post, but I think they're trying to target main net probably towards the end of the this year, early next year. So not too far away here. But if you want to play around with it on Testnet or get involved with it, as I said, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Something I came across on Twitter today was something called Dawn AI, which has been integrated within the dawn wallet here. So apparently it is.
00:23:47.934 - 00:24:11.846, Speaker A: They're calling it your intelligent gateway to access Ethereum. And if you play the video here, you can actually see what this looks like. So apparently you can simply talk to your wallet and have a trusted teammate by your side, the teammate being AI. So you can see what they've done in this video. They're basically typing out send $10 worth of ETH to Coyd ETH and then sends the message. And then you obviously confirm the transaction here. You sign the transaction and then you've successfully sent that to coid ETH.
00:24:11.846 - 00:24:46.188, Speaker A: And there's another example. Buy 100 or buy RV for 100 USDC. Then it does it all in the background and you confirm it and that then it's all well and good. This is what I was talking about the other day about the levels of abstraction that can happen at the wallet UI level here, where essentially you're just talking like, to anyone else you would talk to. And the AI runs all this in the background and extrapolates everything away from you. You can see here when you do the swap, it's not telling you what it's using to do this swap. All it's telling you is that you are selling USDC for Aave, or you're buying aave with USDC from your address.
00:24:46.188 - 00:25:13.956, Speaker A: Here's the estimated gas fee and here's your total. That's it, right? That's all you're doing. That is a huge amount of abstraction already. And this can be abstracted away even further. But you can ask it even more complex questions like how much does it cost to borrow USDC? And it gives you the rate. This is actually a pretty big step forward in terms of like wallet UI UX guys, and I highly recommend you guys go check out, check out this wallet. It's at dawn, Wallet XYZ or I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you, for you to check out here.
00:25:13.956 - 00:25:32.270, Speaker A: But this is the future of wallets. The future, the current state of wallets in the ecosystem. As I've said many times before, especially when it comes to wallets like metamask. That is not the future, guys. The future is a complete abstraction. 99.9% of people are never going to dive into the weeds of these things unless they have like a really good reason for doing so.
00:25:32.270 - 00:26:07.794, Speaker A: And those good reasons usually come from like a bull market where people will get fomo and they're like, oh my God, I can only, you know, buy some asset on channel, buy some kind of like ponzi on chain. I'm gonna, I'm gonna learn how this works. That's not what the end state looks like. The end state, where this technology is actually providing a lot of value to people and not being inherently speculative, requires wallet user experience and a user interface that actually is very, very easy to use and is abstracted away, which is exactly what dawn wallet does here. So highly recommend checking it out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, a couple of Farcaster updates.
00:26:07.794 - 00:26:56.310, Speaker A: So Dan Romero shared on Twitter something called passkeys on Farcaster. So what passkeys allow you to do is automatically back up your farcaster recovery phrase to the iCloud keychain. You remain in control of this phrase and it's secured by Face ID, so no password to remember. So I've talked about this in the past about how a lot of different crypto applications are going to be taking advantage of the Apple secure enclave, which is obviously integrated with Face ID here and about, and with iCloud keychain, of course, and allows you to back up your, your different kind of like recovery phrases or seed phrases and things like that. And in this world you don't even have to show the seed phrase or recovery phrase to the user. You just basically tell them, would you like to back up to icloud keychain? They click yes and then it's just all abstracted away from them here. And Dan Romero actually articulated here why it's important.
00:26:56.310 - 00:27:32.164, Speaker A: He says, to date we've always had to ask new users to back up their far caster recovery phrase during onboarding. As I was just alluding to, it's a bad first impression for non crypto natives and we received consistent feedback about this. Talking to users and even crypto natives revealed preferences was a 10% loss rate of the mnemonic. So 10% loss rate of the recovery phrase is pretty big, is a pretty big deal. With passkeys and the protocols on chain recovery system, there are multiple user friendly layers to prevent account loss. This helps compound protocol daily active users. More importantly, users can onboard to farcaster without knowing anything about the underlying crypto no seed phrase or crypto required, yet every user has the power of a user controlled bit.
00:27:32.164 - 00:28:00.332, Speaker A: 39 mnemonic and ethereum wallet under the hood. Again, abstraction guys, this is the abstraction age that we're in right now. The next few years, everything that you know and love in crypto, or maybe not love in crypto, user experience is going to be abstracted away. There's not going to be fiddling around with Steve phrases or private keys anymore. There's not going to be fiddling around with bridging stuff like that. It's just going to all be abstracted away. And we're going to have such a seamless experience where you just do what you want to do without having to worry about anything else.
00:28:00.332 - 00:28:35.250, Speaker A: And that is where we get mass adoption. We don't get mass adoption with the current state, but it's always improving and it's getting much better at a much faster rate than it ever has because the infrastructure is there, it's just on apps to take advantage of it, which is what Farcaster has done here. So yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. We'll link it in the YouTube description below. And the other update on Forecaster is that there is a new Doon analytics dashboard that tracks forecaster related metrics here. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below. But this is a pretty comprehensive dashboard if you're interested at all in Farcaster analytics and metrics and what their kind of growth looks like and everything in between.
00:28:35.250 - 00:28:49.474, Speaker A: So you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
