00:00:02.800 - 00:00:50.690, Speaker A: So yeah, they say it's always good to introduce yourself, but I was also told it's better to just say a story rather than to just mumble about what you did previously. But I'll do a bit of that. So just to give you too long to read, I was born at zero years old, and fast forward, I turned 18 and started studying logic, which is kind of merge of pure math and philosophy. And I was an idealist. Then I was 2021, and for some reason I got accepted for a job in Middle east where they were opening a new data center for the Central bank of Oman. So I had to cut my dreadlocks and move to Middle East. I was there for a year and something, and I started a company which had nothing to do with blockchain.
00:00:50.690 - 00:01:27.034, Speaker A: While I was studying, I discovered Silk Road and crypto. And all of that didn't interest me really. It was just this magic Internet money. It was like I didn't care about finance money or anything. My job pain of mine was fairly technical, but I got a sneak peek into how the technological aspects of banking works. And yeah, I was just doing my thing, but then with Ethereum, and I'm also, again, reiterating on what Claudio said before, I'm super grateful for the Ethereum project starting. And it's also a funny coincidence, as this was ten years ago here in Switzerland.
00:01:27.034 - 00:02:14.174, Speaker A: And then finally with like, discovering Ethereum 2016 2015, I started coding in solidity. I was a freelance deaf and auditor for about two years. Then I joined the Ethereum foundation in 2018, and my life flipped again from kind of doing the traditional type of thing into diving into these new waters of actually living in crypto and not just like, being on the sidelines. So while I was at EF, I decided to get my salary in crypto. And that's kind of one of the merits of what I want to cover today. Because I was earning crypto, I was getting ETH every month, and I had a regular contract. I was about to get 30.
00:02:14.174 - 00:03:00.594, Speaker A: I was like, hey, let's do the adult thing and let's go to a bank and let's ask for a mortgage so I can buy the roof that I'm living under. And to my surprise, even though I was making a good buck for a person in my age, I got rejected because, well, they essentially told me, well, it's nice that you have all these transactions, but that's not real money. I was like, how come I pay taxes on this? How come this is not real money? But I was like, yeah, you have to prove your credit score. Is this risky? Whatever. So I did. So I faked having an income for almost two years, basically by transferring bits of crypto on an account, like sending it to the account of the bank that I wanted to get a mortgage from. And all of a sudden, fast forward two years, I even switched my contract to get fiat.
00:03:00.594 - 00:03:35.494, Speaker A: The Internet banking showed, hey, you are pre approved for this amount. So I was like, yeah, finally went to the bank again, everything looked fine, and I got a form in front of my face which just like, where I ticked all the boxes. It was like one extra box, which asked, are you exposed? Do you trade or own any cryptocurrency? I was like, well, work for the Ethereum foundation. There's no way I can hide this. So I ticked the box, and boom, that's the end of the story. And I got upset. I was like, hey, well, there is this entire world of Defi.
00:03:35.494 - 00:04:37.722, Speaker A: What are we even doing here? And that's how Pondao started and Pon as a project which essentially targets crypto natives and this entire cohort of people living in crypto, maybe making their salary from Daos or from other crypto companies earning cryptocurrencies. And the target, the goal, is to give them access to the same financial instrument to mortgages. So what we do at Pon is essentially creating this setup for crypto backed mortgages. You can imagine, like, fixed rate, 510, 15 year term loan backed with crypto with no liquidation risk during the fixation. And the whole motivation was like, hey, this is my story, but there's a lot of people that I know being in the same situation, and there is this entire generation or cohort of crypto natives. And we got curious about, like, okay, so that's the assumption, right? But let's look at the data. Let's actually see if there is sufficient cohort that we could build a product for if there is actually enough demand and money in this thing that we call the crypto native economy.
00:04:37.722 - 00:05:14.382, Speaker A: So we started digging into this. So, finally, getting to the content of the talk here, I'm going to do an introduction of something that we call the crypto native economy report that we published for a third time now, and this is too long. Didn't read. This is basically my pitch to get you to look at the 40 something pages that we published on this topic. So, first of all, I'm going to start with definition of what the crypto native economy is for, is for us. Then we are going to look into the fees of infrastructure. L one s l two s dapps, and then finally say something conclusive.
00:05:14.382 - 00:05:55.910, Speaker A: So what is the crypto native economy? We basically looked at available on chain data. So basically looked at how much, what's the economic demand? Like, how much are users willing to pay for using the different protocols, the different dapps. So we separated the report into several categories. First look at blockchains as such, then looked at the actual dapps, like Dexs, liquidity, provider fees, bridging fees, marketplace fees, royalties and so on. That's already enough data for it on its own, but it definitely wouldn't. You know, I'm sure there is a lot of economies sitting here and it would be like, hey, that's not the whole economy. It's definitely not.
00:05:55.910 - 00:06:48.438, Speaker A: But this is what we are capable of doing just now. So what we skipped is basically all of the revenues of centralized exchanges, consulting and like DEF payments, which is also something that's attached to the crypto native economy. Dao paid salaries, Dao treasuries. That's also something that comes from my interest from EF, because I was looking into how much money it's actually needed for the core development to be secured. And you can see some of my older talks, which will give you a glimpse of how much money there is actually sitting in the ecosystem and how much is needed to basically cover the entire core development. We also didn't consider yields from basically lending, even though we actually built a lending platform. And something that we didn't include, but won't include because we don't think it's actually the right fit, is mining and token rewards.
00:06:48.438 - 00:07:33.730, Speaker A: So basically block rewards, validator rewards, which are from other source than actually user paid transaction fee. There are some other limitations which you can read in the report itself. So basically, all the numbers that I'll be presenting are denominated in us dollars. And because a bunch of these fees were paid these different cryptocurrencies, the conversion is basically considered at the time of the transaction. This also means that a lot of the data that you will see will be influenced by the price movements that you see. On macro level, we also excluded some of the minor categories, but it doesn't really matter, as you will see a bit later. So, just a quick glimpse into the 2022 numbers, because we did the report last year already.
00:07:33.730 - 00:08:16.702, Speaker A: So on l one s, the combined, let's say revenue was $5.4 billion, 80% of that was, if you remain net, the DAP fees were around the same ballpark, $5.98 billion. And the top 20 dapps were responsible for almost 90% of all of these fees, majority NFT marketplaces. So basically that was the year where OpenseA made over $1 billion just on people yoloing into buying nfts. And the other bigger cohort is decentralized exchanges, mostly uniswap. So this is the rough split.
00:08:16.702 - 00:09:14.930, Speaker A: And again, you can see this in the report itself, so I won't stay on this slide. Now, finally, 2023 numbers. So most people that I know of are kind of more on the side of like us being as an industry, being in a bull market, which kind of sparked last year. So we actually looked into like, did anything change between 2022 and 2023? Can we say it was a bull market start or not? So what has changed? So we basically saw, we basically saw September and October being kind of the bottom afterwards. Like things sparked back and the narratives kind of changed. So what picked up was lsds, liquid staking derivatives and l two s. And the narratives that kind of faded away, not completely, though, were metaverse and nfT.
00:09:14.930 - 00:09:50.396, Speaker A: So basically, part of the reason is decreased demand. Part of the reason is that there was this race to zero from all these NFT marketplaces that basically cut the fees. What we added as well is looking back into 2022 and comparing these numbers across the board. So finally, l one s, there is a slight drop, 17% drop from $2020 to $4.5 billion. Something changed, though. Something significant change is that Ethereum wasn't as powerful as the previous year.
00:09:50.396 - 00:10:55.594, Speaker A: As you can see, in September, end of summer, Ethereum was basically overtaken by all of these other l ones combined, which still means that Ethereum plays a major role in the ecosystem. But something definitely changed there, and we'll get into what that was a bit later. So here is just a long term comparison. You can see that 2021 2022 was definitely a much, much bigger year for Ethereum, mostly because the NFT hype, which is kind of interesting thing to say, even also another thing which is quite important, has changed, which is good to be aware of, which is, well, a bunch of l two s started 2023. So this is just for an anchor. So you can see the user base of Ethereum was actually pretty stable despite the l two s that picked up and the fees. I mean, it seems like it's not, but the fees stayed relatively stable throughout the year as well.
00:10:55.594 - 00:11:33.794, Speaker A: Now, this is the important graph. So these are the l two month link transactions versus Ethereum transactions. So as you see, ethereum transactions stay stable. L two s are picking up big time and basically surpass Ethereum around February last year. Bitcoin is another interesting, interesting phenomenon, which even last year is like basically maintaining a stable base. It's kind of past all of the hypes. There is definitely, definitely like a price hype or the hype that follows the price increase, but otherwise the user base is fairly stable.
00:11:33.794 - 00:12:20.188, Speaker A: Any guesses what happened in November last year, why the fees picked up? Yeah, so that's why nfts weren't actually that bad. And this was actually quite significant for bitcoin as such. Did I click the right button? Yeah, this is just a. Okay. Yeah, this is just so you can see the user base of ethereum actually stays fairly stable. How we explain this is basically the move of users to l two s. What was quite interesting is looking at projects like Tron, because they actually seem to be reporting increasing user bases despite the bear market and increased fees as well.
00:12:20.188 - 00:13:18.444, Speaker A: And there seems to be an interesting traction will be a subject for another report. On its own, I'm definitely not a person following trial as much. Bitcoin is basically caught up with the rest of the ecosystem, essentially thanks to ordinals. Again, the user base has the most rigid user base as it seems. Another interesting project, BNB chain, also one of the ones that has the most users, or at least that's what's reported, the fees were dropping and didn't caught up with the rest of the ecosystem. So essentially, if your favorite chain isn't in this table, I'm sorry, but these were the only meaningful ones that is actually worthwhile to report on. So the numbers here are basically the user paid fees, the revenues on these chains from different chains.
00:13:18.444 - 00:13:56.304, Speaker A: So it's essentially ethereum, tron, bitcoin, BNB chain avalanche polygon, Falcon Solana from l one ecosystems. This doesn't touch DL two s. You'll be actually quite interested. Interesting to see how these l two s would play with this. And anything below Solana is basically another order of magnitude lower. So yeah, you can say, well, fees are super cheap there as well, but, well, the reality is there actually aren't as many users either. So Dapps, finally, and I'll be slightly over time, sorry about that, we started late.
00:13:56.304 - 00:14:33.638, Speaker A: So Dapps, there was a bigger drop, 48% drop over 2022, $3.3 billion. So if ethereum used to be the chain from all of the l one s, then uniswap is the Dex of dexs. So you can see a graph comparing uniswap versus all of the other dexs combined. And these are the LP fees. So this was like mostly prior to the fact when Uniswap started charging fees. And again, this is a teaser for you to actually look into the report and find the tables with the numbers.
00:14:33.638 - 00:15:18.964, Speaker A: So we also don't have as much time. Liquid staker fees. So this is an area that was basically new, but started having interesting movements, started to mostly pick up towards the end of the year. Anything weird on this graph? Any hunches? Lido isn't there. And the reason why Lido wasn't in the graph because like if it was you wouldn't see anything. This basically it's like heavily occupied by Lido and this is like a 50 x from all of the other LSD's combined from last year. The space has changed a lot already in this quarter, so next report will look quite differently.
00:15:18.964 - 00:16:07.154, Speaker A: Lending platforms despite the bear market like January February, you could still see overall demand and using lending protocols and platforms. Towards the end of the year, when the speculation picked up again a slight increase. NFT marketplaces again we mentioned the reasons mostly decline. You can basically see the 2022 compared to 2023 in this graph here. You can spot the peak basically getting to around like $2 billion. L two s are definitely in error, which will be interesting in the next report. And as you see already, a bunch of these l two s can basically compete with a whole bunch of the l one s.
00:16:07.154 - 00:16:49.556, Speaker A: So there's definitely an area of interest. Yeah, I think we're on time now. So again, this was just a teaser. Please go to cryptonative pond XYZ or I'll show you a link later on to read the entire report. Give us feedback. What you like to see what do you feel is wrong even? We try to validate the numbers from two sources, the main sources token terminal, the other one I don't remember, but it's listed in the sources. And please also mention how do you wish this report evolved? So the 2024 numbers so far suggest that 2023 was the bottom for now.
00:16:49.556 - 00:17:51.624, Speaker A: Ethereum is migrating to l two s and the l two space definitely is interesting. It's not just the hype around it, the narratives have switched from the metaverse and nfts hype into the actual core infrastructure. Had a very interesting conversation in London a few weeks back with a guy from protocol labs, basically noticing that majority of the people around were actually working on infrastructure and like our own problems, but not really like the consumer facing stuff, which is another area, which I'm sure is like discussed on other conferences as well. The user base, although it's, like, fairly stable despite the price drops, the difference largely is in the USD denomination. So, like, the amount of fees actually kind of corresponds to the price drops. And, yeah, also, as you saw from basically having these, like, top, top ones or, like, the. You can say, like, the vendor take call situations with, like, Uniswap and Lido and so on, there still is a.
00:17:51.624 - 00:18:27.198, Speaker A: Is a huge opportunity space. Some of these things are very early and some of these races have started or are ongoing, especially on the l two side, but there's still a lot of rs where people can build interesting stuff. Special thanks to Victor, this french guy right here. This is a picture we took when we left KitKat in Berlin after NFT Berlin, though. So you can see they wouldn't let us in dress like this, I guess. And he basically spent a few hundred hours on the report. So thank you, Victor, even though you're not here.
00:18:27.198 - 00:19:11.084, Speaker A: And then finally, if you wanted to learn more, if you had to, this link, there is a link tree with links to the 2022, mid 2022 report or, like, mid 2023 report and the final report. And yeah, you can follow us on Pondao on either farcast or Twitter. And if you want more over time, if you have any questions, I'll be here for three days at our booth, so just feel free to come and talk to me about this. And, yeah, of course, I'm expecting there will be a lot of people from tradfi here, so if you don't think this is true, just please talk to me, convince me this isn't true. I've lived through this. So thank you. Thank you so much, Joseph.
