00:00:03.130 - 00:00:59.054, Speaker A: Welcome to Uncommon Core, where we explore the big ideas in crypto from first principles. This show is hosted by Su Zu, the CEO and chief investment officer of Three Arrows Capital, and Me Hasu, a crypto researcher and writer. Today we welcome Geordie Alexander, a former professional poker player turned macro trader. Turned crypto trader. Jordy, who competes in the Mindsports Olympiad, is an expert in games and game theory in general. Together, we discuss how to pick up new games and improve how you can apply game theory to the crypto markets, what Jordy and sue think about the market, especially the role of bitcoin and Ethereum, and finally, why sue is dogebilled and whether he can convince us of his thesis. Welcome to the show, you guys.
00:00:59.054 - 00:01:00.302, Speaker A: It's been a while.
00:01:00.436 - 00:01:02.830, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a good summer break, no?
00:01:02.900 - 00:01:08.420, Speaker C: Nice to catch up with you in this setting. Now, I've had a lot of chats with both of you, so I'm looking forward to it.
00:01:09.190 - 00:01:20.040, Speaker A: Yeah, likewise. Why don't you give us a quick introduction of yourself, sort of your background, both pre markets and then how you got into crypto and what you do today.
00:01:20.490 - 00:01:56.606, Speaker C: Sure. I'm always stereotyped as one of the poker players. I was a professional poker player for five, six years out of college. I played first no limit games and then increasingly got into mixed games. And I really liked the aspect of being good at poker in general instead of just one game. So I did that quite successfully for a bunch of years and transitioned into trading, which is, I guess, not uncommon for a poker player. But I guess the difference was it was HFT trading.
00:01:56.606 - 00:02:19.450, Speaker C: So it's much more on the algorithmic machine learning side. I did that about nine years ago, transitioned, and I still play a lot of poker, I still play a lot of games. I love games. I played chess, I play many games. I love strategy. And I bring a lot of that mindset to decision making in both trading and investing.
00:02:20.110 - 00:02:33.760, Speaker A: In some of the preshow discussion, you told me you compete in actually the Mind Sport Olympics called pentamine. So you are on rank four in the world, which is kind of crazy. So what is that?
00:02:34.210 - 00:03:18.246, Speaker C: Yeah, I would say, like, right now, the premier sort of multi game event where there's an event every year for three weeks where you can play multiple games, whether it's chess, poker, back, MN, bridge, board games like Catan and other things as well. And you get a score for how well you do in these games. If you score five really good scores, you actually have a chance for the overall title, which is the pentomime title, which actually Demis has Abis from AlphaGo won many times when he was younger and taking it quite seriously. But there's some really strong players around the world who train throughout the year, and I like to just kind of get in the ring with them and try to stay sharp.
00:03:18.358 - 00:03:21.738, Speaker A: How do you get good at so many games, new games in general?
00:03:21.904 - 00:03:58.970, Speaker C: I think the key thing, instead of focusing on the native aspects of a game, like in chess, you can just focus on openings and memorizing openings. Instead of doing that, you focus on the sort of Legos of strategy, the game theory, building blocks. And as you get very good at abstractions, you can easily move those into new games very fast, and you can just realize that, okay, this is that mechanism now, or this is a tactical combination here. If you get very much in that mindset, then you can apply your learnings to many more domains.
00:03:59.630 - 00:04:03.146, Speaker A: Sue, you have been learning chess recently, right? What is your process?
00:04:03.328 - 00:04:43.734, Speaker B: I have I've been taking lessons from Grandmasters every week with a friend of ours. It's actually really fun to learn chess because I think it's a very rules based game. It's a very incremental game, so you never really get worse. You can only get better. And you can see how you're seeing different patterns. I mean, at least at my level, I'm sure at Jordy's level, you can actually get quite a bit worse if you don't play a lot. But it's good to be able to see new patterns that you didn't notice before, or new kind of ways of building an attack or these kinds of things.
00:04:43.734 - 00:04:53.100, Speaker B: So for me, I'm still in that phase where it's just very exciting because you kind of see more and more opportunities each time you play the game.
00:04:53.790 - 00:05:18.770, Speaker A: One question I would have for both of you. Sort of this has always seemed very instrumental to me in learning new games and getting good at one game as well, which is sort of what feedback loop do you create for yourself that lets you measure whether an action was good or bad, like you should have taken it or whether you should have not taken it? Because sometimes the feedback that you get is always very delayed, right? You only know like ten weeks later whether something was good or bad.
00:05:18.920 - 00:06:11.860, Speaker B: I mean, chess, it's almost like with the engines these days, and with the analysis, it's almost the purest game in terms of like, you do an action and it'll tell you exactly how good it was and how other options could have been. And it's interesting too, because when you see the moves too, and you go through the moves with a Grandmaster, they'll say, like, well, the actual engine move, you could never have done it yourself because it's for these reasons, and that could have possibly been your plan. But these secondary moves are also very good, and you could have found these reasons, or you could have found these moves through this kind of thought process. So it's almost like there are general right answers and you have to figure out what are those right answers and how to have a framework to find right answers quickly as well, right? Because chess is best played in faster games too, where you have to think on your feet and you don't have time to think about it all day.
00:06:12.470 - 00:06:44.110, Speaker C: I would say chess has a little bit more juice in it. You saw alpha chess last year, the Alpha go guys, when they developed their chess program, it was playing completely differently than the engines and it was just crushing the engines. So it just showed that there is like a layer that's even deeper. If you want just very pure, you play back. MN, it's solved. You basically just any move that you do on the board, it'll tell you what's the exact EV probability of this move versus that move. The art of it becomes.
00:06:44.110 - 00:07:09.822, Speaker C: You learn from the machine and you say, what heuristics? Can I draw? Because if this situation is not exactly the same next time, I need to still apply the heuristic and the learning. So it drives you towards picking up the patterns and being able to kind of build an intuition that you can apply to a very similar, but not exactly the same spot. And that's definitely the case with trading as well, where history rhymes, but it doesn't repeat.
00:07:09.886 - 00:07:42.320, Speaker A: So Jody, you play a lot against, I assume, like a lot of heads up matches against players. For example, in the Mind Game Olympics, how much, like you mentioned, sort of backgammon is a soft game, right? So you know what to do if the other player is basically the quote unquote nemesis, right? It's the player who never deviates from the optimist strategy themselves. But that's not always the best thing to do if you're playing against another human who does make mistakes. How do you go about sort of deviating from the optimist strategy if you know what it is?
00:07:42.930 - 00:08:38.354, Speaker C: That's actually a very relevant question for crypto markets because when you look at poker, you can either play GTO, which basically means you play unexploitably perfectly, or you play exploitably, which is kind of more the. Phil Helmless gets made fun of a lot because he makes a lot of mistakes in the poker world, but he's very successful because he can take advantage of other players weaknesses and tendencies, even if he's not playing GTO. So I would say having that understanding in the crypto market is one of the main leaks that I had initially. Because coming in from traditional markets, maybe it's not efficient market hypothesis because nothing's really that efficient and there's always somebody making those adjustments. But in the crypto world, it was very easy for me to say, okay, something went up. Three x, I think last year sue gave me like salana at $2. I bought it, sold it at six, and I thought, this is like the greatest trade ever.
00:08:38.354 - 00:09:11.590, Speaker C: When you look at it in retrospect, you realize because of how inefficient the market is, you can have this GTO mindset. You should have a much more exploitative mindset like what is everybody else doing? This thing is just going to run. That also allows you to participate in a lot of the ponzi nomic sort of buildups where something just memes itself into some really high market cap. You can capture it because you're not thinking in a GTO mindset of where should this actually be trading at? You're more kind of playing the psychology.
00:09:11.750 - 00:09:17.146, Speaker A: Yeah. I would question if there is even something like a GTO strategy in markets.
00:09:17.178 - 00:09:17.374, Speaker B: Right?
00:09:17.412 - 00:09:31.086, Speaker A: I mean, we know even for the simplest multiplayer games that there aren't nash equilibria, but there's an infinite number of them and they have very different properties from the Nash equilibria you find in heads up games.
00:09:31.118 - 00:09:31.362, Speaker B: Right.
00:09:31.416 - 00:09:51.018, Speaker A: You know, if you play the optimist strategy in a heads up game, then no matter what the other person do, at worst you're going to break even for any mistake they make, you always make a profit. But in multiplayer games, like one person deviating from the strategy can actually cost you money, even if you play, quote unquote perfectly, which is like a very different game.
00:09:51.104 - 00:10:24.660, Speaker C: So I think that's basically the social element as well. And the combination of the two is something that is very relevant to some games. Like you said, not necessarily like heads up games, but something like know, I was playing catan yesterday, competing in this championship. You have to do the table talk and explain to people that, oh, I'm not winning right now, somebody else is winning. You have to divert their attention to certain places. There's a lot of game theory elements that are not just related to sort of optimal play.
00:10:25.590 - 00:10:31.634, Speaker A: Yeah, that's fascinating that this happens even on the highest level because it's something that always happens sort of in our home games.
00:10:31.682 - 00:10:34.914, Speaker C: In every game happens at all the levels.
00:10:35.042 - 00:11:06.946, Speaker A: Constant matter, discussion about who to create coalitions against and so on. I want give me some actionable advice like let's say my friends come over and they bring a new game and none of us have ever played it, or only one of us have played it. How do I get decent at it in the shortest amount of time? Even if you were sitting alone with the game on your kitchen table, what is your process for breaking the game open?
00:11:07.128 - 00:11:51.790, Speaker C: I think that's where everyone's individual strengths and weaknesses have to play a part. For me, I realized that the fastest way I can learn something is the most uncomfortable way. I basically inundate my brain with information and it feels very uncomfortable in that moment because I'm just not remembering everything. I'm dropping concepts, but I think subconsciously my intuition is picking up small pieces and if I do this, even though it feels like crap, very soon I'll realize that things are starting to form in my mind. Just connections between the different information pieces. I've fed it. So for me, I allow the kind of process to happen, even though it's not very natural.
00:11:51.790 - 00:12:18.950, Speaker C: Other people are much more structured. They have to look at all the cards in the game. Here's, like, you take a tan, there's 20 development cards, there's 15 knights and three victory points. And they need that structure around all the elements of the game and just kind of build upon it. So everyone's personality has to come in and kind of suit to their strengths.
00:12:19.530 - 00:13:26.798, Speaker B: I'm actually not that good at games compared to you guys, so I almost don't think I have a very good process for game theory. I think that it's, in a way, I find myself much more of a reflexive thinker. I try to think in terms of not what are the rules of the game and how do I beat the game, given those rules. I almost don't think of it that way as much, especially when it comes to markets. I almost try to think what are the things that I think are likely to happen, and if it were to happen, people would believe in it even more as it happened kind of thing. So soros talks a lot about this in his books, where he talks about how there are so many things where before they happen, it's not obvious, but after they happen, they become really evident and they continue that. So I guess I try to focus on things where it's not really zero sum or it's not really like player versus player, but it's more sort of like we can all believe something new tomorrow and what will this new thing tomorrow be?
00:13:26.964 - 00:13:31.258, Speaker A: Interesting. Do you have a process for identifying these things in advance?
00:13:31.434 - 00:14:10.410, Speaker B: I mean, just talking to people I spend a lot of time talking to people in the markets, just figuring out what people are thinking and how they view the markets. Because the market is like a mix of so many different types of people, especially in crypto, right? So many different mentalities, so many different time frames, and so many different narratives. I think from that I just try to piece together exactly how the market could evolve. And it's always different probabilities, different possibilities. But I think that the important thing for me is I try to be as open minded as possible to all the possibilities being likely in some world.
00:14:10.560 - 00:15:20.930, Speaker C: Yeah, I would just add that being probabilistic in your mindset and not being absolute, having some modesty, not thinking that this is 100% going to happen, that really unleashes so much power because you open your mind to many more pieces of information that you would otherwise be close to. Especially like once you start owning an asset and you start being part of that community and the ecosystem around it, you can very easily get into cognitive biases, where you're blocking out information that might actually fundamentally warrant a change in your thesis. And keeping an open mind and knowing that, okay, even though this is my current position, I should be open to other possibilities, I think is key. And with people that are very good at investing, the clearest point in their thinking is always when they're transitioning narratives because they've had to drop a belief that they've had for some time and maybe even publicly stated. So there is kind of like this loss involved. If they're willing to pay that price, you should probably listen because that's a point at which they're thinking clearly enough that they're willing to take kind of a short term loss.
00:15:21.430 - 00:15:38.360, Speaker A: This actually plays nicely into something that you taught me a couple of days ago. So that gave me a lot to think about, that you pride yourself most on the moments where you were wrong. But the process of even identifying that you were wrong is like, usually a big profit opportunity, right?
00:15:38.970 - 00:16:23.302, Speaker B: Yeah, because usually when you realize that you're wrong, at least for me. I think one of my skills for a long time, as a trick trader is when I realize I'm wrong. I realize exactly why it's wrong and how the counterarguments are even stronger. Because I also understand the people that would have had those similar beliefs to me. So basically, I think the key is like, in the moment of understanding where you're wrong, the totality of the arguments that you understand from both sides of any position, that's like your peak illumination. Basically, it's like you basically see exactly what's going to happen next, almost. I think a good example of this was the market when it bounced off 29.5
00:16:23.302 - 00:17:11.874, Speaker B: again after sitting there for 24 hours. I think that was a moment where it was a clear buy in opportunity because at that point, you just kind of saw that there were no sellers left. And you just also saw that how little volume it took to even support that price and how sort of casually it could bounce repeatedly. I think there were a few other elements there too, but just that kind of being willing to say, okay, it's time to go all in again. That kind of mentality is something that if you're the type of person to want to be right all the time, it feels bad to have to invalidate yourself. Whereas if you're the type of person to take pride in being wrong but being able to profit from that, then these are the best opportunities of your career.
00:17:11.922 - 00:17:27.574, Speaker A: Usually that's why I shouldn't be a trader in that context. You often mentioned sort of the idea of Bayesian thinking. How would you convey this idea to all listeners?
00:17:27.702 - 00:18:16.630, Speaker B: It's all about taking in new information, right? Like, each day you get more information about what just happened. And if your decisions don't change based on that, that could be correct because you could have considered it and then said, what I'm doing right now is still correct. But there have to be times when that changes right? It could be that you get even more bullish and you buy even more. Or it could be that you get bearish and you sell some. But there's always value in information. So I love that idea of, like, you flood your brain with information because the subconscious is incredibly powerful in discretionary decision making. We stand by it whenever we interview traders in the past, if they don't have this kind of understanding of the importance of discretionary, I always distrust them naturally because I don't know if they can handle all sorts of markets or handle all sorts of situations.
00:18:16.630 - 00:19:03.866, Speaker B: But I think that kind of understanding of taking in information every day and then doing something with it, that has to be part of every trader's process because otherwise you're sitting duck. Right. It also does contrast with the idea of the long term investor, in a sense, because the long term investor, there's kind of the myth of the long term investor, right, where he buys the coins and he goes into a coma for five years. And that's also good if you're an investor. But then if you are making decisions, like, every day, every other day, every week, then you have to also hold yourself to that standard. So it's fine to almost, like, compartmentalize it and say, if I buy bitcoin and ether for cold storage, I put it away. But if I'm also trying to beat the markets, then I have to be taking in new information.
00:19:03.866 - 00:19:06.086, Speaker B: I can't sort of mix the time frames.
00:19:06.278 - 00:20:12.894, Speaker C: I mean, in terms of that rejection of was such a strong rejection as well. The second time it bounced was so powerful that if you're thinking in a bayesian way and you have these two possible worlds, like, do you believe in a sub 30K bitcoin possible world or do you not believe in it? I think it was such a strong amount of new evidence that under 30K, there are last resort buyers that are there that when you add the new information, the risk reward suddenly just goes so much higher. Because if you know that no matter worst case, like if you have an emergency, you can always sell at least a upside of 6100 plus it makes the balance of the risk and the reward so much higher than 32 or 33. And I think this explosive move started based on that understanding that there is actually a floor that's the new information. And then I was very hesitant around 40 because we were expecting a huge amount of new information to come in, which is, what does the US. Government do? We already knew what China was doing. This was sort of priced in.
00:20:12.894 - 00:20:45.162, Speaker C: But then you have this completely new piece of the puzzle, which is, okay, someone's trying to attack crypto. It's the treasury. What's actually going to happen? And I think when the muscle that we saw from the crypto community lobbying senators and really kind of even though in the end they didn't actually manage to pass an amendment, we collectively saw that the Emperor does have clothes on. There is like a power politically as well now that should provide some cover going forward. And I think that's kind of been this next leg.
00:20:45.216 - 00:20:55.918, Speaker A: Now, I want to ask both of you, so how do you generally deal with large events of uncertainty? You know, there's an event upcoming that has a big impact, could be up or down. How do you position around that?
00:20:56.004 - 00:21:34.490, Speaker C: I always like to know what game I'm playing and I like to know if I'm having more information than the other players. Whenever I feel like there's inside information that I'm missing, I try to be very cautious. There have been a few big trades where I have, despite that kind of dabbled in. There was a big mobile coin trade last year where somebody had put on a $400 million short on FTX. We really had no idea exactly what was happening there, who was putting and what was happening. I usually like to know who I'm up against, like who's on the other side of the board. I like to understand their psychology and what's happening.
00:21:34.490 - 00:21:51.600, Speaker C: This was a situation where I tried to find out nobody really knew, but I thought that the bet was still worth making. So occasionally, even despite not having information, I will make a strong play. But usually I'll take the chips off the table if I feel like somebody else has more inside information.
00:21:52.210 - 00:22:49.460, Speaker B: I think events, there's almost no one way to play them. I mean, almost the idea of an event driven trade, there are some events where because everyone expects X and then X comes you see this in global macro all the time, where when normal people, when they see news, they're like, how come the market did this? Even though it was bearish? It's because, well, it wasn't more bearish than that. Or the market was already positioned in a way that sort of made the move the most natural outcome of the release of a release of pressure, basically. So I kind of see the Senate thing as almost that where we did get, in fact, one of the worst case scenarios for the amendments. But it doesn't matter because a lot of people actually derisked in front of it too, going into especially when we first rejected off 42, the first time, people just thought, okay, well, I saw some here. Worst case, I buy back higher. And so you had a lot of that happening.
00:22:49.460 - 00:23:24.926, Speaker B: And so there's kind of like these rubicons, right, that happen in the markets. We had that in January as well with the Minutian FUD, where I think it was actually December ish. But basically everyone was scared of the muchin travel rule FUD and then the market just ripped through everyone because of all that fear. And then when it turned out to be not as bad as people thought. The pressure upward is really high. So I almost think whatever we see FUD, you have to be really careful about buying or selling or these kind of things, depending. There's no news that's bullish or bearish, but thinking makes it so.
00:23:24.926 - 00:24:04.780, Speaker B: I strongly believe this in crypto, especially because it's so early bitcoin ether, these kind of things can go up four X from here, with no similar macro convergence happening in stocks, gold rates. It's just too early, especially when you get into altcoins. Any altcoin can five X without needing there to be a strong reason in the global macro or in sort of event driven space, the unlocks especially, right? Almost all these unlocks have been very bullish, but from the kind of person we're like, wow, investors must be selling these unlocks. Well, what if they don't? What if they don't need the money, right? What if they believe in the project?
00:24:05.390 - 00:24:53.034, Speaker A: What if they sold OTC or yeah, exactly. I had an eye opening moment like this, basically when I heard Light on up only a couple months ago or something. I think it was the episode before the Coinbase IPO. And the question was if he believes in the super cycle, right? And he said it doesn't matter how bullish the fundamentals of a market are because the prices are still set by humans, right? And it doesn't matter how good the market is, the prices can still get exuberant. Even the most fundamentally strong market can crash and likewise the most fundamentally weak market can rip, right? Because the price is only basically the result of expectations that people have in relation to whatever the market is.
00:24:53.232 - 00:26:18.686, Speaker B: I think, too, when he's talking about super cycle, I think what he's trying to say is that even if the fundamentals are very good, it doesn't mean we're almost like using different meanings for the word super cycle. I think for me, when I used it or when I kind of coined it on up only, I kind of think the basic idea is that crypto just reaches mass penetration, mass adoption across the world, right? Whether that's in the form of bitcoin, hyper monetization store value thesis or on top of that web three as well, smart contract programmable money. Just the idea that this is sort of the most important trend of our generation. I Think that is a very Different kind of understanding of super cycle than The Understanding That Some people have, which Is that The Market Can't Nuke know because It's almost like we're seeing a Lot of super cycle Type. Stuff happening now, right, the past few weeks, where you have Ted Cruz being very pro bitcoin and you have Texas going and courting miners, you have serious sort of geopolitical convergence on the value of bitcoin. And I think this kind of stuff, people ignore this stuff at their peril, I think.
00:26:18.808 - 00:27:04.446, Speaker A: And I mean, we've already seen that the cycle is different from previous cycles. We've never seen a break to the downside as big as the cycle without it being a bear market. Right. We know we are in a different regime and it's meaningfully different from all past cycles, but nobody really has yet presented a thesis that's more appealing and more predictable than it being like a super cycle where basically some of the original cyclicality is lost. And yes, even in this drop we have seen relentless investing and allocation from outsiders, right. Several billion dollar funds raising even when crypto was down 50%, right. This stuff did not happen in the last cycles.
00:27:04.638 - 00:28:21.580, Speaker C: I think something like pronounced in this cycle that maybe sue will disagree, we can discuss a little bit, but the effect of bitcoin dominance on the crypto cycle in general, I feel has been very powerful. Basically, we had this huge narrative of digital goals last year. It was a very strong meme. A lot of money and institutions and hedge fund managers piled in towards the end of 2020. And then once bitcoin started stalling out around, let's call it 55, where the incremental moves every day stopped being parabolic and there were sort of bitcoin will go up one or 2% and then you look at Coin Gecko and you have the top hundred coins on average between 20% to 40% up that day. It sort of created this fear, greed, imbalance, where a lot of people just went for what's going to give me a high return, exited bitcoin. And the bitcoin dominance going down can only be sustained to a certain level because at some point somebody looks at what we've created, which is just built a bunch of clouds upon clouds and things that are not fundamentally rooted anywhere where the digital gold narrative was no longer driving a lot of the prices in the whole space.
00:28:21.580 - 00:29:11.946, Speaker C: Having this correction that we had now to 30k. Normally it would be the end of the cycle because it's either like macro driven where the liquidity is being just sucked out of the system entirely or it'll be some regulatory driven. But I feel like what happened was you had elon, you had this ESG FUD, you had bitcoin stalling out versus altcoins. So people were just sort of ditching it for everything from ethereum down and then the cycle sort of reset itself and it's building again sort of through bitcoin strength. And we're going to sort of have these iterative cycles. I believe it is sort of one way to get reach an equilibrium where you kind of progress through cycles of bitcoin strength. Bitcoin weakness crashes the market as soon as bitcoin stalls and we kind of keep progressing up.
00:29:11.946 - 00:29:14.700, Speaker C: And that is a way that you get a super cycle as well.
00:29:15.310 - 00:30:08.830, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I agree with a lot of that. I think one of the points that it does take a lot of time in the markets usually understand, and I did find it. Impressive that Jordy kind of caught onto this quite early on from studying crypto. But it's that when you have a Bitcoin led market, it always will lead to an alt season because bitcoin wealth is created and then Bitcoin sell walls by OGS, by profit, takers by rotators, then lead to Ether going up, a lot of other coins going up. This has been the way of the market for four years now. I think that there's basically, in my mind, broadly, two types of worlds that can happen in crypto. There's a world where we get bitcoin up to 20 trillion market cap, 20 to 50 trillion market cap, and then the sum of altcoins, the sum of other coins will be around two to 10,000,000,000,002 to 5 trillion.
00:30:08.830 - 00:31:17.218, Speaker B: So something a lot less. And with that kind of a world, or you have a world where it's much more distributed, right, where you have Ethereum maybe 10 trillion, the next one being like 6 trillion, the next one being 4 trillion. These kind of distributions. I think that the reason I believe this is that if you have a very high Bitcoin dominance market, then all other coins, they get valued with much less monetary premium and they get valued in terms of versus each other more so than versus bitcoin. Right? Now we're in an interesting spot where or we have been in an interesting spot where Ether has contended for the throne quite aggressively, I think, in the past few months. And there is this desire to value Ether as a percentage of Bitcoin market cap and indeed to even flip it right. And so from this you would have a very strong Ether price in the market.
00:31:17.218 - 00:32:13.480, Speaker B: And this then puts a lot of value into alt layer one and into application layer, but especially into alt layer one because then a lot of alt layer one contend as a percentage of ether market cap right where soul should be X percent of that. Or avalanche or polka dot. You get this kind of postmodern interest objective value thing where it's like you can only value things versus other things. And because Ether contends to the Bitcoin throne and then things contend to the Ether throne, you have this kind of lower Bitcoin dominance market in this kind of environment. So the ways we get out of that there are two ways, right? One is that Ether flippants bitcoin and then we get into this world where we have very highly valued smart contract chains, basically, and we have very sort of fast turnover, very hyper capitalist, basically. It's kind of a system. And I think that's a very possible world.
00:32:13.480 - 00:33:39.810, Speaker B: Another one is that bitcoin, the people in society who are really going to put money into the space as a store of value, they buy a lot of Bitcoin because they see that it can't be disrupted by tech. You have more political or philosophically inclined buyers. And as this keeps happening, and as the rest of the pie keeps splitting, you have it pull away again, right? Because right now the market is in a situation where they don't really understand that bitcoin can pump again, but if they now see that it can pump while other coins don't go up by as much, it all turns very fast, basically. But these are really the only two worlds that we can be in, I think, from what I understand, of crypto. Because if you can imagine, right, it's very difficult to flip bitcoin and then have the next coin be 90% of dominance, because you will have already broken the veil of the idea that because it is the first, therefore it will collect everything, right? You are now fully in the world of tech, you are fully in the world of internet stocks. And once you're in that world, people will then happily value the second one at half or a third of the first one, like they did with Ether and bitcoin, right? So you get this fractal kind of behavior, even much more so, so it'll be very exciting. I mean, in that world, there will be absolutely insane profit opportunities.
00:33:40.790 - 00:34:36.014, Speaker C: I think knowing what game you're playing is a key learning for playing games, for investing and for trading, understanding the game you're in, what's your time horizon, who are your opponents, what are you actually trying to do? And for me, ETH does have a little bit of a problem in terms of knowing what game it's playing is it trying to tackle store value? You had people going out and talking about ultrasound money and then at the same time they are in a knife fight right now with a lot of layer ones and the layer two rollout is messy. You have matic, which is unclear how that's going to progress once the new ones come out. Eventually a lot of the layer ones will maybe even kind of compete with ETH on its sort of throne of smart contracts. So knowing what game you're trying to play can at least clear up a lot of the fog around your strategy.
00:34:36.062 - 00:36:03.438, Speaker B: I think I would defend ETH there too, though, to some newcomers in the space who I think they look at Ethan bitcoin and bitcoin appeals to a lot of people who are very objectivist. So they see Bitcoin is simple. It's clean, it's pure, it can't be corrupted in the same ways as other coins. But either kind of inherits the throne almost from the old Bitcoin, some of the ones who went to Bitcoin cash or something, but it inherits the throne of the idea that the money which has the most activity, that will be the real money that we use in the long term. So I think this argument is very strong, I think, as well. So I think that there are definitely two sides to that stone where I think we're basically going to have to see is are the philosophical buyers, are the philosophical qualities of Bitcoin stronger than the sort of fast moving, fast dealing economy of Ethereum? Right? Because there are some worlds where, let's say you even get a lot of smart contract activity on other chains, but Ether still benefits because it is the most commonly used money, it's the most deflationary money among cryptocurrencies that could be a world. Conversely, if the smart contract activity moves, that does hurt the EIP one five nine meme quite a bit, because you're saying that this burn will happen a lot due to activity, but then activity all goes elsewhere.
00:36:03.438 - 00:37:08.200, Speaker B: If fees keep moving off layer one, that would then hurt that meme. There's also potentially a problem if you get the sort of sense that if it optimizes for holders as opposed to users, then you do run into a risk of more political attacks. You kind of run into the risk that ethereum goes more in the way that what happened to Bitcoin in 2017 was that you start getting more and more battles, more and more Stalling, more and more sort of complex game theory among the constituents of Ethereum as well. So I think that the inherent strengths of ETH are sort of earned from those weaknesses that it creates as well for itself, right? You don't get anything for free, basically, but I would say in the long run, basically, this is kind of a classic example of like we don't even know if we have the right framework to analyze what will be the future money, right?
00:37:08.890 - 00:38:46.878, Speaker C: I think one thing that is true throughout history, though, that I would say is not talked about nearly enough when this discussion is had is the distribution. It's talked about generally, what's, like the number of wallet holders or does somebody have 30% of dogecoin? The distribution argument is key because it ties into human psychology, it ties into incentives, it ties into the base effect of the game, which is you have politicians, you have people around the world, they're just reacting to individual people's incentives. They're not reacting to what's a better, slightly better PPS or which one's going to scale a bit faster. They're really reacting to who's economically aligned, who's incentivized to support something as you get like presidents supporting Bitcoin or something else that will affect things in a huge scale and having a coin, for example, like dogecoin. The reason I can see Stalling at some point potentially, is if you do have one or two wallets that have 30% of the entire supply, can that thing really be worth a trillion dollars when there's going to be $300 billion sitting there? There is something very unstable in that. While bitcoin being first having had the largest distribution around the world, the largest amount of holders, the amount of incentive to allow it to survive and thrive is deeply ingrained in a way that can't be reproduced. And I would say this, I've done this thought experiment, thinking about what would the perfect money look like? You can design something a little bit better than Bitcoin.
00:38:46.878 - 00:38:57.480, Speaker C: Technology wise, even inflation wise, you can have just like a constant 1% inflation to stop people from hoarding too much, because you ultimately do want to have a little bit of inflation, I think.
00:38:58.190 - 00:39:02.394, Speaker A: Plus the security issue, also for security.
00:39:02.592 - 00:39:45.990, Speaker C: But also just when you look at Fiat or Gold or anything else, having a little bit of inflation stops people from not spending and hoarding it, and it allows this healthy circulation of the capital, and that's ultimately good. And I would say the first thing I would do if I was able to design this technology and we had this perfect crypto, I would start off by saying, you can do a one for one switch with your bitcoin and just get this other coin. Because the value of that network, the distribution being somewhat tied to real world distribution. Because in the real world, you have the US. Government having x amount of money. Saudis having x amount of money. China has this percentage.
00:39:45.990 - 00:39:55.980, Speaker C: If one of these countries is completely unable to participate in a currency, they will not allow it to survive or thrive in their community.
00:39:58.750 - 00:41:09.502, Speaker A: Also, on the issue of sort of distribution, I think one thing that people have long underestimated in Bitcoin is sort of counting miners also as important holders mining. I think that's one of the cool things that I've tried to convey for the last couple of years is that mining hardware is basically physical futures on Bitcoin that you get delivered at some point. So miners are structurally long Bitcoin. And I think we've seen now, or we are seeing now, what sort of downstream effects that creates in the political game, right, where countries are rallying behind Bitcoin instead of other coins. Like a big Thai telecommunications company getting big into Bitcoin mining, texas going big into Bitcoin mining and lobbying for it in the Senate. I think these sort of alliances are ultimately very important as well. This is something where your coin benefits, I think, a lot from having hitoro genius distribution of holders.
00:41:09.502 - 00:41:22.466, Speaker A: It's not like holders from very different backgrounds and colors. And I think this is something that you are definitely going to lose in a proof of stake system where sort of your validators are the same as your coin holders.
00:41:22.658 - 00:42:39.280, Speaker B: Yeah, I think one of the biggest reasons that we became sort of much more bullish on Bitcoin recently too, was I had dinner with Belajes the other day and he kind of impressed on me the idea of that Bitcoin would become the flag of liberty for the western conservative establishment. And he said that this was something that in a secular, post religion world, in a sort of world capitalist versus non woke capitalist world, bitcoin is the clearest rallying cry, especially for the GOPT party, he said. So this kind of complete mind know, mind space capture that bitcoin has been able to achieve it among these types. He sees it as incredibly powerful because he says you will have people willing to fight wars for Bitcoin in that kind of a case, right. Whereas same is not true for any other coin. And so I think that that's something that I do think that we've been around talking about markets since 2018, right, hasu I mean, we've seen money thesis versus tech thesis all day. I do think we're in a moment where the money thesis of crypto is very misunderstood by a lot of people.
00:42:39.280 - 00:43:56.006, Speaker B: There are some people out there that think that it's all tech thesis. And I do think we could get a resurgence of money thesis from some of the things that we see happening, right. The reason why Bitcoin as it goes up this time, if it were to keep going up, there are actually a lot of virtuous cycle types that could happen, right? Like African countries, now that they know that bitcoin will really not disappear, that it's part of a new global new world order, they'll enter mining, right? They'll actually go and say, okay, well, we have this energy here, we have this energy there, let's start mining, let's start doing this, let's start doing that. You can now do multibillion dollar infrastructure projects, assuming the existence of Bitcoin long term. And so this then creates even more stakeholders, bringing them into the system. And this flywheel can mean that every country then has this, right? And I think especially for the GOP, the reason why they see this as so strong is because they're also kind of broadly advocating for almost a type of a neutrality or like a freedom, where they're saying the woke capitalism wants to be able to say, you use energy for x, and that's bad. We don't like what you do.
00:43:56.006 - 00:44:41.400, Speaker B: Hence we want to be able to stop you from doing things with energy. And then for the GOP, for the libertarians, they say, well, we don't want government to be able to decide what is a good use of energy or not. We let the people decide. So if the people decide this, this is what they should do. So I think that there's that big philosophical political debate that happens there and I think because of that bitcoin is almost like the purest play for them to win sort of their broad political mandate to have that kind of world exist as opposed to the world where we are indeed in woke capitalism, where everything that everyone ever does can be canceled because it's not in line with what people are supposed to be doing at that time.
00:44:42.490 - 00:45:38.358, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it's almost like the money versus tech thesis is going through its own cycles, right, where sometimes you have the money thesis rule and then you get more and more tech and people start to question, well, can it win against the tech because the tech is so new and shiny. But then what happens is the tech can be copied while the money can't, and then you get like a supply basically flooding the market of new tech coins. And that's exactly what we see with all the layer ones, right? We see so many layer ones, but they have very little activity. But they are all very new tech. And I think they compete much more with Ethereum, which is kind of a no brainer, than with Bitcoin, right? And at the moment where people see that there's a lot of competition with Ethereum, they automatically go back into Bitcoin. So on the issue of politics, were you surprised how many people started to rally behind crypto during the sort of infrastructure bill issue?
00:45:38.524 - 00:46:15.778, Speaker C: It was a pleasant surprise. I think we were all kind of unclear what the balance of power would be on the US. Side. It's the first time we've seen that politically. It could be a single voter issue in the future, just as you have guns and other issues in the US. Being so dominant for individual voters. If their economic livelihood know basically attached to Bitcoin or crypto in general, you can see that overriding any other issue for them, especially with how messy the politics has gotten on every other issue in the US.
00:46:15.778 - 00:46:51.920, Speaker C: That I think a sort of constituent that focuses purely on this will drive a lot of political power, but it's going to take a while and I think it's a little bit overplayed right now, maybe like in ten years. Once millennials are kind of a much bigger part of the voting population, a lot of the kind of boomers are not voting anymore that will be even more powerful. So I think that's a long term trend. But at least in terms of being worried that we're going to get shut down across the board over the next year, I think things are looking a lot better now.
00:46:57.770 - 00:48:21.454, Speaker B: Yeah, I think I've been a little surprised by how weak actually Yellen or the treasury was after the bills started to go around where they know, expressed the things that they kind of agreed that on the exemptions as well. And it kind of seemed like they just really wanted to put up a fight, but they weren't that committed to the fight because they didn't want to have to deal with the political battles. So I think that that almost is a real interesting kind of experiment about governance, right? Because China, the example, is the opposite, where the high command says that this is not something that we like and therefore we do this, this and that. Whereas America, even if the millennials don't have the voting bloc yet, just like the backward induction, just the threat of the future voting bloc is already scaring a lot of people. And people are asking themselves, is this really a battle? Do I really want to die on this hill being anti crypto. Do I really want to go out this? So that effect I definitely feel like is getting really big in the US. Because I see broad appeal for crypto now across the population, right? You're seeing like Gen z talk about NFTs all day.
00:48:21.454 - 00:49:23.410, Speaker B: They're talking about creator economy. You're seeing the boomers who follow Michael Saylor, they're talking about sound money, they're talking about return to standards. There's something for everyone. Basically, I think what crypto really does is it allows these kind of micro communities to share ideas and then to say, okay, you know what, we value the things that we agree to value these things and we agree that we respect each other and these are the things we all adhere to. And so that's why I think this is really dangerous stuff for politicians to be against, right? Because you're going to put yourself in a situation where the people who might be on your side are essentially this kind of vague, semi authoritarian status concepts of we need to be able to track everything, we need to be panopticon. And on the opposite side of you are all your voters, like all the actual people of society. So I think it's actually a grand victory for individuals versus it sort of just really proves that individuals make up the government.
00:49:23.410 - 00:49:26.542, Speaker B: It's not the government as a separate thing from individuals.
00:49:26.686 - 00:50:05.460, Speaker A: Jordy, you mentioned earlier sort of what makes you good at playing a variety of different games is that you sort of have these Lego blocks, right, these abstractions that are the same across many games. And then when you find a new game, you can already identify that it has this or this abstraction in it and you know exactly how to deal with that particular scenario, like sort of an auction game or like a coordination game or like a discordination game and so on. So I would be curious to hear exactly how you apply this to crypto. What abstractions do you see in crypto and how do you act on them?
00:50:06.150 - 00:51:16.802, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean one that you see a lot, especially in the DeFi space where it's less about memes and you're supposed to have different tokens representing flows of cash from a project, something that builds into building blocks around that. Is the concept of is this a ponzi game or is this like a game that has fundamental value so everything looks like it has fundamental value because nobody wants to sort of appear as if you're doing something like yield farming, you ultimately want to have some value proposition. So even though we have a lot of DEXes, like Radium will say that, well, we're putting our stuff on the order book of serum, so this kind of makes us unique. Somebody else will say like one inch, we're just aggregating things. And I'll go down the list. There's a lot that you kind of question whether they're actually adding something substantial and if they're not, you can kind of predict a very normal building block which is kind of like the Ponzi building block. What that looks like is there is this initial surge of enthusiasm, high yields, high TVL.
00:51:16.802 - 00:52:02.310, Speaker C: It just kind of feeds on itself where the yields keep going up because the token price, your liquidity mining keeps going up. So you have this effect of this virtuous cycle. People just join in because they see the yields up at some point, either because of a supply shock there's like an unlock or potentially the period of the initial two months or three month incentive goes away. That's where you see things peaking. The yield starts flattening or going down. Other projects have better yield and once the TVL starts leaving, you kind of go in this downward spiral. So it's a very predictable building block that I have in my mind whenever I'm evaluating a new project either for VC investment or for yield farming.
00:52:02.310 - 00:52:33.680, Speaker C: So what I like to think about is would this exist without the money making mechanism? Does it have enough sort of use that people will use it even if they're not yield farming for a little bit? So Axie Infinity is a good example where you see that people in Philippines are doing it because they're making money, not necessarily like World of Warcraft people who are trying know, buy a very unique item. So we'll see how that plays out.
00:52:34.690 - 00:53:02.414, Speaker A: Yeah, I think this sort of is the same as we talked about in our Yam episode, right? So where you sort of introduced the concept of the pool one, pool two game. And I think this is one that you can find all across DeFi. And I think that is always very important that you recognize when projects use these kind of building blocks where you need a token, a project's native token in order to farm more of their project's native token.
00:53:02.482 - 00:53:02.666, Speaker B: Right?
00:53:02.688 - 00:53:20.318, Speaker A: And so instead of the demand for their token, that bootstraps the price of their token and if either of them reverses, then both reverse at the same time and you get this huge deleveraging in TV Island price, what would be another game.
00:53:20.484 - 00:54:03.498, Speaker C: So on the meme side, which is like the other part of the market getting away from the sort of fundamental equity investment side of the DeFi side, if you go into the meme side of the game touching upon dogecoin shiba inu, like, this type of economy that becomes very much a coordinated game where if you want the price to go up, you have to kind of have almost like a religious aspect to your approach where you're creating a community. You're even ostracizing people who leave the community who are selling. Obviously Bitcoin has had some of this with the whole sort of have fun, stay poor and all this kind of aspect as well. But even more so the meme coin community.
00:54:03.584 - 00:54:08.098, Speaker A: Sorry Hoddle, I mean the original hodl meme hoddle.
00:54:08.294 - 00:54:45.980, Speaker C: Hoddle is kind of more positive, I would say. I'm even talking about the negative side, where someone's attacking and you kind of go after them very hard. So anyone who is kind of against the in group gets sort of ostracized. That's kind of a very common thing. So with things like Dogecoin and shiba inu, it just becomes a pure, it's a game where the community has to have to really succeed. They have to have a vision that they all share and they're moving towards. There has to be cohesion nobody can just sell out and just kind of dump on everybody else.
00:54:45.980 - 00:55:37.338, Speaker C: As soon as that pump and dump dynamic gets created, the thing falls apart. So you need to have this coordination aspect. I think Dogecoin looked, and I know sue is bullish on Dogecoin. I'm kind of bullish in pieces and then I get very bearish and I try to trade it as a trader more. I know that that one, it looked like there was some coordination by Elon Musk where you could say that it has a leader and they're kind of following him on SNL, they're following him on different places and potentially they can coordinate quite a lot more than a headless token. But I feel like Elon has kind of shown himself to be a little bit unreliable, although I have to say, like recently with the foundation and know some of these things can create some long term coordination. I don't know.
00:55:37.338 - 00:55:38.970, Speaker C: What do you think about that one, sue?
00:55:39.550 - 00:56:39.182, Speaker B: I'm very bullish dogecoin. I've delved into the community, delved into what's been happening and what's kind of the broader thesis for people that own Doge, both in terms of normal people as well as investors. The best way to understand Doge, I think, is that if you look at Robin Hood, which is sort of the most blue collar style, just like of crypto investing, doge is 60% of their crypto revenue and crypto is 40% of Robin Hood revenue. So Robin Hood is basically a doge proxy. And I think that Doge has actually four times the name brand recognition over ethereum in many communities in the US. Not talking about smart people, but just talking about people, right. So I think that there's something just like, very understandable about Doge, right? It's just like the Dog money.
00:56:39.182 - 00:57:28.938, Speaker B: You put your money in Dog money and there's also something this is the only coin I've ever seen women shill other women. If you just look on social media, you look on TikTok Instagram, doge is the only coin where you can see a woman shilling another woman and not being paid to do so, but just doing so because she likes the coin. I think that Doge is really underestimated in terms of just that sheer virality and sort of the quality of the memes and the organicness of that. I do think that Elon, he's a strength and a weakness for doge. Obviously it net like a huge strength and I think he believes in it actually in a much stronger way than people realize. A lot of people when they analyze Elon, they think he's just doing it for know, shits and giggles, whatever. He's just doing it because he thinks it's funny.
00:57:28.938 - 00:58:09.020, Speaker B: But I think he has real commitment to it, right? He's been talking about Doge for a very long time. His early followers of it have gotten incredibly wealthy on Doge and they understand his concept, I think, which is almost like a William Bryan Jennings game theory. It's like a neopopulist concept where he like bitcoin will be the gold, but the real silver is actually Doge. It's not litecoin or it's not something else. It's actually Doge because it is the coin that people can own whole amounts of. It's the coin that can be sent around among people so it can have a high velocity. And also its memes are simple.
00:58:09.020 - 00:58:22.094, Speaker B: Like the man who drinks beer can understand it. Like the girl who posts selfies can understand it and she can just put her money in it and outperform everybody, right? Like if you bought Doge in January, you're up versus everybody but getting away from the money.
00:58:22.132 - 00:58:59.820, Speaker C: Thesis I made X return because obviously that drives a lot of people. I just want to make like a ten X bagger or 20 X bagger when you're talking about the real reasons why those people want to hold it. I can understand that. There's this community aspect for the laws. Obviously it started off as this thing on Reddit where people would tip each other and that was a lot more for entertainment and enjoyment. But when you touch about digital silver and these things, I started to question a little bit because things like Dogecoin acting as a store of value. What is value? It means somebody is willing to work or give their assets for that thing.
00:58:59.820 - 00:59:21.860, Speaker C: If their kids are going to go to college, they're put their money in this store of value so that in 20 years their kids are going to be able to afford to go to college. I don't see how something that is kind of like a meme coin, even though it brings a lot of happiness and enjoyment to people, can really reach that next level of storing value.
00:59:22.550 - 01:00:11.762, Speaker B: It's already happened though, right? I mean it's already happened. If that were not possible, then it would not have already become 60% of Robin Hood holdings. And Robin Hood are actually the real people that you need to buy your other coins, right? Like everyone wishes that their coin could be bought by Robin Hood people but instead Robin Hood people are actually buying Doge and they're buying it not even because they're shielded that hard by anybody. They're buying it because they see all the coins and they're like, you know what, Doge? I like doge. And that virality of normies shilling. Normies is only happening on Doge. It is happening to a lesser extent on some other coins, but it reminds me of XRP, of the previous cycle, but just better in every way, because one, there's no foundation that has a ton of it, there's no reliance on elaborate banks using it for payments narrative, it is just clean, it is just simple.
01:00:11.762 - 01:00:55.358, Speaker B: And it is also fair launch, by the way, so there's no risk of it having ever become deemed a security. Right. There's no risk of it having any regulatory issues ever. So I think that there's this big concept in crypto, I think, where it's just that crypto needs to be serious and the coins that are not serious are therefore somehow not going to make it. But I think that Doge, what it does show people, doge piss off a lot of natives because basically everyone is down in Doge, right? There's no one who's not down in Doge. You thought you were late in 2018, if you bought Doge, you have a billion dollars. So every native is down in Doge, so it pisses them off.
01:00:55.358 - 01:01:10.742, Speaker B: Normies are up way more in Doge than they are versus natives. So it's in a way, it's almost like Bitcoin was to traditional finance, doge is to traditional crypto, because it is just so simple, so obvious, but everyone misses it, you see.
01:01:10.796 - 01:01:47.466, Speaker C: Absolutely. No, absolutely. But the difference, I would say, is how strong are the beliefs of the underlying holders? Because there's people who will hold Bitcoin to their death. They're so strongly minded about sound money and what that means with Dogecoin once things stall out. And this is the same thing for XRP, if you just go from first principles and you say a lot of this community is there just because they want the return, they see the returns. They want to get rich. When Moon? When moon? So at some point, even if it's like ten X from now, 20 X, 50 X from now, it'll stall out, right? It'll reach a point where it just can't grow anymore.
01:01:47.466 - 01:01:51.762, Speaker C: So at that point you get this reflexivity on the way down as well.
01:01:51.816 - 01:02:38.026, Speaker B: I actually see the opposite of that, where I've seen a lot more interest from Bitcoin people to sell to Ether than I have. Like, if you go into the communities for Dogecoin people to sell to other coins, and I think the reason is, again, this big dilemma of how serious are you about crypto, right? It like the Dogecoin buyer, he buys a he's not like you, he's not giving two fucks about it, he's not thinking about which coin he needs to buy next. He buys the dog coin because he hears his friends buying it and they're all up money on it. And he also likes it. And he knows if he waits long enough, he's up money on it because the chart is so strong, it's so parabolic. Whereas a lot of the bitcoin investors that have come in, especially the last year, they come in, and then as soon as people talk about ultrasound money, they're like, okay, I need to sell my bitcoin for ETH. And then I need to sell my ETH for Soul.
01:02:38.026 - 01:03:30.254, Speaker B: I need to sell my soul for AVAX. You're getting a lot of that happening, actually. So it's actually ironic, but if you just look at patterns of holdings like if you just really analyze it, the Data Doge has actually the strongest single holding power among almost any coin where that, I think, is very surprising to people. But if you think about it from a broader point of view, it just shows the value of if there is a coin that's owned between $101,000 by many people, what coin would that be? I think that's almost the question you need to be asking. Will there be a coin where people who are worth, let's say, between 10,000 and $100,000, buy $1,000 of this single coin, and then don't think about it too hard? That coin is doge. Basically. You already see in the volumes.
01:03:30.254 - 01:04:05.550, Speaker B: You already see it in the I wouldn't bet against this trend because I think that the reasons for this trend are actually incredibly organic relative to what's contrived in a lot of other coins where they have to really do a lot of marketing, really do a lot of stuff. And I think that doge having more Catalysts as well. I mean, you saw Mark Cuban as well. He said 95% of people actually spending doge in the MAV store. I mean, 95% of the transactions of people actually spending the MAV store are using doge. So people actually like using doge. They like the idea of it moving around the economy.
01:04:05.550 - 01:04:31.214, Speaker B: Doge is almost the IQ bell curve trap, I think. Because for people in the middle of the curve, they see it and they're like, this is not serious. This is a dog. How can I invest in a dog? And they don't buy it. And then the people who don't take crypto so seriously and they don't think about it that hard, they just buy it. And they don't think about it again. And that's almost a definition of it, right? Where the 100 IQ people? They're projecting their own thought process onto 50 IQ.
01:04:31.214 - 01:04:55.446, Speaker B: And they're saying, well, I would think about what coin to own all my life. So therefore I'll sell out of my doge when it starts going down. Like. No. The reason he bought it is because he's not thinking about it too hard. He just likes the so you're getting this very interesting kind of effect of what actually makes people hold a coin, what actually gets people to go into the community. And I think, for me, Doge is actually the clear winner in terms of capturing that demographic.
01:04:55.446 - 01:05:20.470, Speaker B: And you see this in the Robinhood data. I think any argument that doge would get abandoned after it fell is already refuted in Robinhood data. And we can see each time Robinhood will post their quarterlies. But this is not something that I think is mirrored as well. Now, increasingly across coinbase, I mean, a few days ago, like doge volume went higher than ether. It's still very high volumes relative to other coins. On binance, it's regularly a top three, top five volume coin.
01:05:20.470 - 01:05:23.430, Speaker B: People want to trade doge.
01:05:25.290 - 01:06:20.166, Speaker C: I mean, one thing I've discussed on the dogecoin side that I do appreciate a lot is young people feel kind of left out of the financial ecosystem. The asset prices are so high, housing prices in many places are just really unaffordable for a lot of young people. And dogecoin in a way is kind of like this Woodstock economic rebellion thing where I'm going to buy this dog coin and I know how dumb it looks and that's the whole point. It's basically like it's like an Fu to kind of like this big financial system that's kind of priced everybody else out. And in that aspect, I do understand the huge community led dynamic in it. I just feel like from a game theory perspective, if there's not going to be a lot of coordination because it is a coordination game and if you just have random people in it but.
01:06:20.188 - 01:06:30.458, Speaker B: You'Ve almost answered your own question, right? It is in fact the coordination point for people who don't want to buy a serious coin. Start from the assumption that you don't want to own a serious coin, then what coin do you buy?
01:06:30.544 - 01:06:32.390, Speaker A: But why make this assumption?
01:06:32.550 - 01:06:48.500, Speaker B: Because you guys are serious people, but not everyone's a serious person. I'm actually much less serious than you guys too. So I get it, you two are a better game theorist than I am, right? Because you're more serious. So it's kind of this kind of mentality as well.
01:06:49.350 - 01:07:20.634, Speaker A: So crypto right now is sort of in a stage where people do not take it serious. And I wonder if this is not a big contributor to why doge can be so popular. And if there was a stock, for example, or like oil commodity that would be like doge branded or whatever. I question if in traditional market something like that could have the same amount of success and longevity. And if we believe in the super cycle, then doesn't crypto eventually become a boring market as well?
01:07:20.752 - 01:07:43.810, Speaker B: Absolutely not. Absolutely not. I think the fundamental of crypto is very meme, is very community and that's almost the entire point of it. And when you mentioned the past the idea of a meme coin as being very bullish for bitcoin, when people call it a meme coin, then by extension you must also extend this to dogecoin which has incredibly powerful memes, has actually the biggest meme lord on earth supporting.
01:07:45.830 - 01:08:03.190, Speaker C: Mean. I will say this, sue, compared to what I expected the price of GME to be like right now, months later, after the initial spike and the price of AMC, it is clear that if you get this huge community event, potentially the fundamentals start to improve as well. Get rid of the CEO.
01:08:03.270 - 01:08:03.706, Speaker B: Exactly.
01:08:03.808 - 01:08:07.066, Speaker C: Dogecoin can start doing smart the same.
01:08:07.088 - 01:08:37.940, Speaker B: Way that bitcoin itself grew. I mean, I know some very OG bitcoin. They're super long Angelo BDC who's like sort of the hero of the previous cycle, like huge bitcoin, OG, mega bullish doge because they saw the same thing happen in bitcoin because bitcoin also was not so serious for a long time, right? People are like what is this bitcoin? What is this thing? Ether is also not so serious for a long time. So I think if a lot of people are interested in it yet it's not seen as so serious. That always gets me really interested because it just tells me that there's something happening here that people don't understand.
01:08:39.110 - 01:09:14.734, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, to touch on one thing, that is a slightly different game and I guess Hasoop probably can relate to this as well. Based on your commenter just now. If you look at the alt versus kind of serious coin game, there is a little bit of like it can either be like a positive sum game which basically means we can all win if we coordinate in a certain way. And there are zero sum games. When you're trading futures on bitcoin, someone's losing, someone's winning, you obviously need somebody on each side. It's a zero sum game.
01:09:14.734 - 01:09:49.706, Speaker C: Crypto as a whole can be positive sum. Like money can enter the space from outside the space. So this sort of can make everybody in the space richer potentially. I think maybe Harsu's worry and my concern a little bit is too many of these things are happening where you're getting very badly poorly written code on many projects that results in huge losses of money from people hacking. It makes the headlines. So people see crypto in a way where I can lose my money very fast. And to be fair, that is true.
01:09:49.706 - 01:10:18.930, Speaker C: If you're not very careful, it is easy to get hacked that creates this sort of like negative sum for the entire community, while positive headlines can create a positive sum for everybody. And I think as a community overall, the crypto world should try to put social pressure on things that are bad for the community overall. I think right now people kind of glossed over too many things and potentially.
01:10:19.510 - 01:10:33.820, Speaker B: Allow but it's very hard to get people to agree on what is good or bad for the community. I mean, if you ask bitcoiner, Ethereum is bad for the world. If you ask ETH people, they tell you solana is bad for the you know, it's very difficult to get consensus on what is good or bad.
01:10:34.270 - 01:11:09.080, Speaker C: Absolutely. And this is kind of something I was thinking about just today, which is once you're aligned so much with one of these things and your mindset is so much supporting it, you start attacking other coins around you that you potentially view as a threat and that is actually negative for the overall ecosystem. So some coordination within the community can actually go a long way. And the fear is if you have too many things stepping on the same store value thesis or this thesis or that thesis, as opposed to kind of being Lego bricks that you can just kind of build together.
01:11:11.610 - 01:12:00.306, Speaker A: I think you kind of answered also your question earlier, like when you said for these meme coins, that includes bitcoin like any kind of store of value that has this coordination game underlying where all the holders take each other's hand and say, we don't sell. Which is kind of the whole idea right behind all of these coins. Right. You basically create strong hands and that makes the coin go up over time and attract more buyers to join this community. And for them it does make sense. It does make sense to a degree to be tribal and create these shelling fences against people leaving the community and selling their coins and buying it to other coins. And so it's really hard to get people to do something, what's best for the space versus what's best for their particular holding.
01:12:00.418 - 01:12:46.894, Speaker B: It is an interesting question too, because in every crypto cycle near the top of it, you got guys saying bitcoin is the Yahoo of crypto. It's going to go to, you need to buy the next one, all this kind of stuff. And then people get mad at them after the market dumps because they say, you should have been defending the Bitcoin shelling point this and that. But the way I see it is like Bitcoin and I think also ethereum at this point are here to stay. And I think that there's also a lot of new communities that will come and also end up here to stay. I don't think that the existence of Bitcoin is stored value means that everyone in crypto has to defend it all the time. It's already big enough, it doesn't need that defense.
01:12:46.894 - 01:13:13.900, Speaker B: I do agree that in 2017 it actually really needed it and I think it got it eventually, but I think in 2021 Bitcoin doesn't need that defense. Bitcoin that there's quiet buyers every day. They don't announce they buy. People just buying it and holding it, it's already there. I think Eric Wall just, he just put out a tweet saying why does he only tweet about either, not even though he mainly owns Bitcoin? Well, because he thinks either more interesting stuff happening, but that doesn't mean he's not just long Bitcoin only or.
01:13:17.970 - 01:13:18.298, Speaker C: It'S.
01:13:18.314 - 01:13:23.440, Speaker B: Not as important as it used to be for everyone to say, but by the way, we think Bitcoin is a store of value.
01:13:25.090 - 01:13:45.510, Speaker C: I definitely agree with that. I think something can have so much power that it just doesn't rely on if the idea because ideas are the most powerful thing in the world and if the idea is strong enough, ultimately the actions of individuals are not as important as kind of like the incentive structure that's built into the idea.
01:13:45.660 - 01:14:34.802, Speaker B: Yes, I think so. And I think ethereum people will eventually understand this too. I think right now the community is feeling a bit pained because it's like Salana is gaining traction and L two Arbitram is really not out yet and optimism has disappointed. And so people have kind of just been upset that scaling is going. And then there was some toxicity in Maddox versus ethereum people, right? Because people were like saying, okay, well, how does this feed back to ether value long term? What you guys are doing with this maddox yield farming. Now we have avalanche yield farming coming out soon, which is like 200 mil of incentives, which is going to bridge a lot of value over as well. I think I'm long term very bullish on ether.
01:14:34.802 - 01:15:18.020, Speaker B: Ethereum. If I wasn't, I wouldn't buy a lot of NFTs on ethereum. Right. But I do think that we'll have to go through the challenges that Bitcoin has gone through as well, which is that it has to understand that where it needs to be defensive, possibly, but where it needs to be a lot more just open to innovation from other chains. Learn from what's happening on other chains and find ways to work with them as opposed to just like I mean it would be a huge mistake for Ethereum to inherit the bitcoin maximism toxicity because there it makes even less sense. Right. At least for bitcoin it makes some sense because they're literally just sitting around holding, whereas for ethereum they are actually trying to build a platform, they are trying to build things.
01:15:19.910 - 01:16:32.154, Speaker A: That ties in with something that I've been thinking about the last two days. I wrote on Twitter that there was sort of this Eagle situation. Eagle is this token that basically bribes miners to tokenize the power to vote over the gas limit. And whenever I write something that's negative about ethereum, basically we have ten bitcoiners like writing follow up threads or bitcoin maximalists like retweeting that and saying, look how dumb ethereum. And then I said, jokingly, like half of the bitcoin maximalists to still follow me do so in order to get ammunition to dunk on ethereum, which is maybe that's a bit overstated, but I mean, it's definitely true to a degree and the other half has me sort of blocked or unfollowed or whatever. And I've been thinking, so why is this? Why do people like me sort of feel driven out of the bitcoin community? And I think it's because my working theory is because it just doesn't afford you as a creative person who wants to make it in the space and wants to contribute. It just doesn't afford you enough freedom to do things, enough opportunity, really.
01:16:32.192 - 01:16:32.358, Speaker C: Right?
01:16:32.384 - 01:16:40.426, Speaker A: Like what can you do, you can't build on bitcoin. You can't even criticize bitcoin. You just get logged. You dunked on relentless.
01:16:40.458 - 01:17:28.394, Speaker C: I saw Jack recently stirred some commotion in the theorem. I think maybe Hasu, you were tweeting about this as well, where Jack is obviously kind of very much on the bitcoin side and somebody tweeted basically saying that Ethereum is being treated by bitcoin as a scam. And the reason is because they're going around paying the foundation is paying developers to go around and talk about ultrasound money. So it's kind of being treated very negatively and very aggressively. And I think this is kind of where the game theory plays in. It's sort of like, if you just stay in your lane, we can all support each other, we can kind of build things together and all of kind of like the bitcoin can get wrapped, go on to ETH, get Yield Farm there. It could be like the bank for the bitcoin asset.
01:17:28.394 - 01:17:47.678, Speaker C: Everybody can kind of work together. That's a positive sum game. While this view of attacking, this is my only lane and you're getting into my lane right now, and I'm actually like the stronger one in this lane, so I will be like the ape and kind of smash you out. It kind of plays naturally. I think from the game theory dynamic.
01:17:47.774 - 01:18:24.590, Speaker B: That'S a very good point. And I think there's also a big dividing point within the ethereum community, too, which is that you got some types who say talking about flipping is toxic, we shouldn't even be talking about that. And then the bankless guys say, we're advocating like bed, right? A third bitcoin, a third Ether, a third DeFi, and sort of that. And I think that's really healthy. But I do agree with Jordy that a lot of the reason why bitcoiners are attacking Ethereum is, one, because they see it as the biggest threat. Right. It's also rational for them to be the most defensive about it.
01:18:24.590 - 01:18:48.934, Speaker B: It is a show of strength for Ethereum that they attack it because they don't attack other coins until they get really big. I think when Doge was at $0.70, actually bitcoin, I saw them attacking Doge. That's when, like, guys, this is now starting to scare me. Right? So Ethereum definitely scares a lot of bitcoiners. And I think that it's actually one of the you mentioned this to me three months ago. Actually, a lot of things you mentioned to me three months ago, I now adopt your view three months later.
01:18:48.934 - 01:20:04.954, Speaker B: But I think Ethereum is actually very bullish for bitcoin long term, because it does have this force under bitcoin saying, I am at a very high percentage of your market cap. If you don't get your shit together, eventually, there will be problems for you. Without that, the community might be even worse than it is now. But I do see some signs that bitcoin community not scaling in the way that Ethereum will scale or not scaling in the ways that other things will scale. But there is a lot of drive, right? Like, you're seeing that with the bitcoin beach, you're seeing that with the rise in you're seeing that taproot in November will be quite momentous for soft work in four years. I think that it's all still shit compared to what's happening on ethereum. But I actually think that stuff wouldn't even happen if there was no ethereum because there's some chance it would just really be people sitting around all day talking about holding and talking about eating meat, right? Even with DFI, right? When DFI first came out, I remember you and I, we were in telegram groups in 2018 talking about DFI, because that was when the first time the Dharma, they coined the term and everyone was laughing at the Etards that they were saying they're trying to make this on chain finance.
01:20:04.954 - 01:21:00.290, Speaker B: It's illegal. Stablecoins are illegal. I remember Nick Carter wrote this thing about how stablecoins are going to be illegal, all this kind of stuff, right? And I think now we're talking about how do we do bitcoin, how do we do DeFi on bitcoin, right? How do we do these things? So I think ethereum is one of the most important experimental grounds because it has this culture of experimentation and it has this thing. And I think that the moderate bitcoiners, they've always respected this part of ethereum and they've always understood it as being actually very important for ethereum, for even bitcoin long term, because it shows what needs to be done long term, potentially, right, to add utility, maybe, to these kind of things. And I do think there's an interesting game theory where a lot of bitcoiners will support alt layer one and not ether, because they think when they support alt layer one, it's not a threat to bitcoin. Sov whereas ether is already so strong that if you also support ether store value, then you break the entire shelling point, like we mentioned.
01:21:00.440 - 01:21:37.454, Speaker C: That's a fantastic point, actually. If you are a bitcoin believer supporting not being a maximalist in the pure sense and just saying bitcoin, everything else is a shitcoin. If you actually skip past number two and you go to number three, four, five down the list I don't know about cardano. I don't want to comment too much about that one, but if you kind of look at the other layer ones, it makes a lot of sense to support those and clarify kind of like the distinction between this is a smart contract platform, this is a store of value. And I think potentially a lot of the Solana and the other pumps that we're seeing can get driven by a lot of the bitcoin money.
01:21:37.652 - 01:22:15.820, Speaker A: Yeah. And we keep going back to things we've written three years ago, which is kind of funny in an article about religion in crypto. And it's like, why do some religions outside of crypto why do they tolerate other big religions? But why do they kill you if you're an atheist, right? So there are basically these groups that are tolerated, or these viewpoints that are tolerated even if they are not in group, and then there are the ones that are completely not tolerated. And being pro ethereum in the bitcoin community is like being an atheist, if you're like. I don't know.
01:22:16.190 - 01:22:32.430, Speaker C: Even a better example is kind of cold war, right? Like, you have US and USSR and there's all these proxy sort of nations that okay us going to support Turkey just because it's close to Russia and we want to have sort of a counterbalance to Russia.
01:22:32.850 - 01:23:04.940, Speaker B: I do honestly think, though, Too has to, that I think bitcoin toxicity is very overstated. I think the community that you were a part of was actually the most toxic part of possibly all bitcoin. And I warned you about this in 2018, too, where I said, these guys will cancel you over. You did tweeting a single good thing about ETH and these people, you will learn nothing from them and you will just get hazed all day. That's basically what's happening. But I know a lot of moderate bitcoiners. I consider myself one.
01:23:04.940 - 01:23:45.938, Speaker B: These guys are farming. I mean, Mike McDonald is a great example of a moderate bitcoin. He's kind of like the paragon of moderate bitcoiner, right? He holds 65% bitcoin, ish like maybe 5% ETH to 0%, depending how he feels. And then he owns punks, he actually uses ethereum and he farms a lot with WBDC, so he has no problem with ethereum, loves using it, gets NFTs punks OG has made more money on punks than most ethereums have made on ETH has made more on DFI than most ethereums have made on as well. He happy to use the chain, happy to buy ETH when he's bullish on it, but he long term believes in bitcoin as a store value. But he also believes in or. He likes to experiment on ethereum and other chains.
01:23:45.938 - 01:24:17.950, Speaker B: So I think there's 200,000 WBDC now. So clearly bitcoiners are happy to move their bitcoin over and use it, and I think that's all very healthy for the space. I really don't think the average bitcoiner is as nearly as toxic. It's almost like this straw man, I think. I mean, I point out this to some ethereums where they're saying, wow, the bitcoin maxi is so toxic. I think Gary Tan recently did a podcast where he was like saying, who are these toxic bitcoin maximalists? And I'm just like, these people really don't exist. It's like 20 dudes on Twitter, probably maybe 30 dudes.
01:24:17.950 - 01:24:44.278, Speaker B: And everyone else is pretty moderate, even Jack. I think he's relatively moderate. He has to be bitcoin only because of his focus and of his business, but he minted an NFT on ethereum for the tweet. He used vcent. He really dislikes the ETH as a store of value. Thesis so he's pushing back. Extremely reactively against that.
01:24:44.278 - 01:25:30.802, Speaker B: But I think if that thesis was gone, he would actually support a lot of other chains. So I think he's in that kind of fight or flight kind of thought process there. If you get bitcoin dominance over 70%, I don't think he'll be doing stuff like that anymore. So I think it's the same thing with ethereum, right? Like ethereum at zero two. There was much less toxicity toward ethereum from bitcoin people, too. There was more dunking, but there was less toxicity. I think it's very hard to categorize the average bitcoiner, I think, and I would say, especially once you get off of Twitter, then it's like, actually a lot of people just own 80 20 or like 70 30 anyways.
01:25:30.802 - 01:25:41.306, Speaker B: And so there's not even like a question of it. They're just market cap weighted. I think it's all in people's heads. I think for the most part you.
01:25:41.328 - 01:26:09.538, Speaker C: Make a good point, actually. Like, when you get off crypto twitter, there is still a big crypto community and you have this concept in US politics which is like the silent minority, which know all these people who are voters, they have sorry, the silent majority. Yeah, my bad. Basically there's a lot of crypto people that are not on crypto twitter. We don't see them dunking or meming or whatever. But if you go on YouTube, for example, there is like coin bureau. Some of these other videos have millions of subscribers.
01:26:09.538 - 01:26:31.066, Speaker C: There's obviously a ton of people who love, you know, on crypto twitter, you don't even see anybody sharing cardano. So there is this huge silent other part that's outside of crypto twitter that as a crypto community, it probably makes sense to at least be aware and sort of tap into what they're thinking and what they're seeing because it's not the same as what we're seeing.
01:26:31.168 - 01:26:53.358, Speaker B: Exactly. That's kind of a point of my tweet where I said, people wonder why crypto twitter is debating bitcoin versus ETH all day while they're debating cardano versus doge or other coins. That's actually so true. I don't see Normies ever debate bitcoin versus ether, actually. They just buy some bitcoin and some ether and then they decide what to do with the rest. And they asked me why I didn't tell them to buy more cardano.
01:26:53.454 - 01:27:20.218, Speaker C: The only point I would say is like the GME thing, again, getting back into that, which is basically there is like a huge force even of unsophisticated people if they get behind something that gets enough resources to then create fundamentals. Like, cardano was like a running joke, right? And then Charles started getting on YouTube. He does all these AMAs whatever. People get kind of religious about it at this point. They have enough capital that they can just fund a ton of developers to.
01:27:20.304 - 01:27:21.274, Speaker B: Try to build stuff.
01:27:21.312 - 01:27:40.306, Speaker C: I mean, we're still waiting to see what's going to come out, but they have a lot. Of capital, potentially. Like, for the first time recently, we were hearing people getting offered projects on cardano. Smart contract projects might start appearing, and it might be legit because they have a lot of fundamental of this, like silent majority money.
01:27:40.488 - 01:27:43.358, Speaker A: Guys, thank you so much for the discussion. It was a pleasure.
01:27:43.454 - 01:27:45.074, Speaker C: Thank you, guys. Now, it was a lot of fun.
01:27:45.112 - 01:27:45.790, Speaker B: Thanks, Hasn't.
