00:00:00.170 - 00:00:08.366, Speaker A: All right, moving into our closing speakers, we have a couple of big ones for you. We really appreciate everybody sticking around. So to kick it off.
00:00:08.548 - 00:01:01.310, Speaker B: All right, so, yeah, this is like a really interesting time. I think the timing of East Denver this year is really nice. Just given, like, you know, it feels like we sort of hit this inflection point where suddenly crypto in general and even like Ethereum and Defi and all these things have suddenly hit this kind of like this point where early mainstreamers are coming in. And it almost feels like maybe to somebody who hasn't observed the ecosystem too closely, a bit of an overnight success. Of course, anybody that's been in this for a while will tell you it certainly wasn't that way. It's taken a while, and I think one of the reasons is the no compromises approach with respect to decentralization. It's easy to build something scalable for the masses if you sacrifice some of those decentralized properties, but then you wind up again with the big blue machine, and that's what we're trying to get away from.
00:01:01.310 - 00:01:36.198, Speaker B: So next up we have Vitalik. And Vitalik, I think his singular vision from the get go was to avoid that at all cost. One of the fun things, if you have time, is look at some of the old writings of Vitalik back in the day, 2014, 2015, and you kind of see the vision even back then, and with specific things like dexes and stablecoins and decentralized lending, people kind of like, were hoping this would happen, building on it back in the day. And here we are in 2021, and it's really a thriving thing. So it's been fun to see that grow and evolve.
00:01:36.374 - 00:01:49.840, Speaker A: And just to make sure everybody knows this, Vitalik is so dedicated to this that he's literally up at one, almost 02:00 in the morning to do this for our community. So, Vitalik, good to see you. You actually look much brighter than I thought you would.
00:01:51.010 - 00:02:13.800, Speaker C: No, thank you. Good to see you, too, John. Okay, great. I'm going to share things. Let's see if this ends up actually working. And then. Do you still got it? Yes, I do.
00:02:13.800 - 00:03:04.070, Speaker C: Okay. Is it a full screen now? Yes. Concepts of membership in crypto. Excellent. Great. So today I wanted to kind of deep dive into one particular topic that a lot of us in the ethereum space have been thinking about recently. And that's just become more and more relevant, both as some of the concepts that we've been thinking about kind of start making their way out into the broader and of, quote, real world more and more than before, but also as the crypto space itself becomes more interested in decentralized organizations and daos and multisigs and all of these various kinds of contraptions.
00:03:04.070 - 00:04:10.590, Speaker C: And basically, the more that we get into trying to build the Daos and those kinds of concepts, the more we need to think about this concept of membership. Right. So this is something that's somewhat connected to the idea of identity, but it's also not exactly the same thing as identity. And I'll get into exactly what this concept is, what some of our existing ways of capturing it are, how some of these ways fail and are there, and if better ways that we could look into in trying to move forward. So what I mean by membership here is just generally formalisms representing the idea that some person, or it could be an entity, is a member, or kind of is an active participant in a company, an organization, a dow, a country, some kind of Internet tribe, any other kind of entity. And these formalisms, they could be purely symbolic. They could confer rights of a personal value.
00:04:10.590 - 00:05:31.602, Speaker C: They could also confer rights to participate in large scale decision making. And there's definitely kind of a fuzzy boundary between the last two of those, just because participating in very large scale decision making, you could argue that the effect of your own participation is very tiny. But then there's medium scale decisions and there's small scale decisions, and there's definitely cases where you can have significant impacts on things that matter to you personally, but where it's not just about a decision that you're making for yourself. So some examples of membership. One is that countries have had concepts of membership since forever. There's citizenship, there's permanent residency, temporary residency visas, short term stay visas, long term stay visas. Digital nomad visas have been the cool new thing that's been starting to come out of COVID Just in case people wants to travel, then why not do it once every six months instead of every two weeks or whatever the nomads were doing before? So there's a lot of examples in the countries.
00:05:31.602 - 00:06:10.910, Speaker C: Companies have a lot of examples. So companies have the concept of employee status, and there's different kinds of employees shares. So you could be a shareholder of a company, things like ratings and reward points. So you might have special privileges within the context of some application if your rating is above four point x stars from the people you interact with or whatever, if you accumulate enough reward points. Daos coins. The more dao coins you have, the greater an extent to which you're a member in the DAO. Participation in a trusted multisig.
00:06:10.910 - 00:07:34.698, Speaker C: So there are some daos that just say, here's some list of five or seven or 13 members, and the majority of them can vote on some protocol parameters. And if you're one of those, then that's a very high and a very trusted tier of membership. So there's a lot of these different concepts, right? And there's generally these ideas that the more committed you are to some kind of organization or entity, then the more kind of privileges you can get as a result, and the more ability to participate in decision making you can get as a result. And the more we get into kind of having online communities, the more this becomes important to think about. I'd also say there's this kind of broad trend in moving away from thinking about membership as being binary. So you're either a member with a high level of commitment, or you're not a member and zero commitment toward more kind of gradations and recognizing medium levels of membership. So various forms of part time employment, even some of the gig Economy applications are kind of the apotheosis of that, to some extent, countries offering part time savings, as we mentioned, coin holdings in cryptocurrencies.
00:07:34.698 - 00:08:20.250, Speaker C: Cryptocurrencies are one of the ultimate kind of things, where there's just such a natural gradation of a membership. And as much as maximalists don't want you to think in this way, it's very much not a binary thing. It's much more nuanced than you're either part of a cryptocurrency or you're not. You can participate in one a little bit, you could participate in one, in another one a lot more. And on the Internet, kind of moving away, I think everywhere. But on the Internet especially, moving away from binary membership is a great thing, but we could do better. So membership does end up mattering a lot in crypto when we start talking about decision making.
00:08:20.250 - 00:09:30.010, Speaker C: So here on the right, I have a couple of charts. These are the coin votes that non binding coin votes that the Ethereum community made. One is in response to whether or not to do a Dow fork back in 2016. The other is whether or not to decrease the issuance. This was, I believe, the first time when issuance was being decreased from five to three. So there was this question of basically, well, who is a real community member and who is an outsider, right? And when making governance decisions, this does become important, right, because different communities values differ, and people love imposing their own communities views on other people's communities, people from some cryptocurrency communities just love kind of going into other cryptocurrency communities forums and trying to push their own perspectives on, say, immutability, for example. And the fact that membership is not a binary thing is also important because there's definitely also just a degree of that that's kind of very healthy.
00:09:30.010 - 00:10:41.158, Speaker C: And especially just discussion is definitely something that should be kind of global and should not be siloed. But when you're starting to talk about, well, whose voice really counts, when there's matters of governance of something controversial, then it starts becoming more useful to try to tell, well, which of these voices yelling things actually are people who are deeply invested in this community and which ones are not. But cryptocurrency is kind of inherently a world which values studentimity and anonymity, values kind of just weaker ties and kind of much broader levels of ability to participate. And so kind of measuring who is a member and who is not easily becomes harder. We have kind of a few different paradigms for trying to think about this concept of membership, right? So one of them is coin holdings. So I mentioned the non binding coin votes that we've had. There's also dpos, coin voting, and just explicit coin voting governance.
00:10:41.158 - 00:11:24.738, Speaker C: So eos, Polkadot, tezos, and so on and so forth. There's chat rooms. I know there's a bunch of these on WeChat. I'm sure they exist in other platforms, too, where in order to join the chat room, you have to have at least end coins of some cryptocurrency, which is like, kind of strange to me. But hey, it's a concept of membership, and I'm sure there's people who value having discussions with fellow committed whales or something. Something. So, benefits of coin holdings, easy to implement, easy to administer, entirely automatable.
00:11:24.738 - 00:11:48.494, Speaker C: There's no subjective components. But using coin holdings to determine membership also has problems. Right. I've talked about this a lot. I've written many blog posts on this, but basically, problem one degree of membership scales linearly with wealth. And so decision making power gets concentrated in the hands of very few people. And those people tends to know all of the other wealthy people.
00:11:48.494 - 00:12:11.346, Speaker C: And because there's fewer very wealthy people, they're already kind of better at coordinating. So this creates this kind of power concentration. Dynamic. Coin holdings is a very imperfect measure of any intuitive conception of membership. So particularly coin holdings track money invested into a community. They do not do a good job of tracking time invested into a community. And it's also easy to buy votes.
00:12:11.346 - 00:13:08.146, Speaker C: And I've written multiple articles talking about why vote buying is bad. In fact, financial instruments basically can be used to buy votes automatically. Right? And this is one of those things that the various DAO protocols just have to keep finding ways to fight against. But there's just very deep, fundamental reasons why it's hard approach number two, one per person, whoever signs up. So what this does is it does kind of impose one de facto filter, which is just a minimum required level of human effort required to kind of set up a wallet, go through a five to 20 minutes process, sign up for the identity verification on Gitcoin grants, or sign up for a bright id or whatever thing it is that you're signing up for. But if you go through that effort, then everyone gets the same level of participation. Yay.
00:13:08.146 - 00:14:10.666, Speaker C: Examples in the wild Gitcoin grants identity verification bright id I mentioned well, Gitcoin grants now is using bright id as kind of one of its identity oracle sources upvotes and down votes on GitHub. That often becomes a kind of de facto governance mechanism in a lot of cryptocurrency contexts. So benefits, right? It's a very wide conception of membership. It's easy to become a member and it's egalitarian. And it's also simple to understand. The problems are like one is that it doesn't capture the difference between kind of low commitment and high commitment. It doesn't capture any degree beyond do they care enough to install this thing? And it's very possible that in the long run, hostile outsiders might be willing to just go through the process to sign up for these things and start screwing with the community, right? Like if signing up becomes too easy, then there's just no longer really a distinction between people who are part of the community and people who are not.
00:14:10.666 - 00:14:59.318, Speaker C: And also one per person is potentially vulnerable to fraud. People might try signing up for fake accounts en masse, and it requires kind of fairly active vigilance, at least so far, to catch attackers. And then approach number three is kind of duocracy, is this lovely phrase I heard from as a kind of positive description of what this is. And basically the idea is like, did you make a substantial work contribution? If so, you're in. So the ethereum, all core devs call, is kind of a duocracy. Like there's kind of a norm that every client team is expected to have a voice. So if you pass the threshold of developing an Ethereum client and being a client team, then you're part of the duocracy.
00:14:59.318 - 00:16:00.862, Speaker C: Eth two is also a, well, eth two is ethereum, but the eth one and eth two. Okay, these are horrible names. I know Danny Ryan's totally going to want to severely reprimand me for even accidentally saying this, but all aspects of Ethereum, including the EVM and the up and coming proof of stake chain, are kind of duocracies in this. You have a voice if you built a client kind of sense, and there's benefits to this. So if done well, it filters for deep technical understanding, it filters for a high amount of effort, it filters for deep commitment. But there is also a challenge, which is basically that this style of approach only potentially empowers a relatively small elite, basically people who do things big enough that the entire community notices them. Building a client is one example.
00:16:00.862 - 00:17:33.138, Speaker C: Right. We can list who all the clients are, but it's harder to think about, well, how do you scale that? So that this kind of approach empowers hundreds or thousands of people who have put their lives into contributing to the ethereum ecosystem? So what could we do now? Right? So one way to think about this is to just try to think about kind of these three polls and try to think about the balance between these three polls, right? So ethereum governance, for example, has aspects of all three, right? Like there's the kind of one vote, one person approach through Gitcoin grants, GitHub votes, the social media conversation, and some of these other mechanisms. There are coin holder influence that exists in the form of some of these informal coin votes that we've had. I guess one of the things that's not in this triangle is minor voting. I saw proof of work miners, but I would say out of all these categories, it's probably the most similar to coin holders. It is also kind of a very unique thing as well, and then influence the work contributors. So the kind of technical protocol discussions tends to go more in this direction, and going too far in each of these directions has different failure modes.
00:17:33.138 - 00:18:22.314, Speaker C: So I've already talked about some of these. So if you go entirely one vote, one person, then you get a lot of participation. For people who are not well motivated to have very high quality effort into their thinking, you might be vulnerable to attacks from outside communities. If you go too far toward the coin holders, you get plutocracies and financial attacks. If you just focus on work contributions, then it might become this kind of small technocratic clique. And then if you try mixing two of the three, then there's benefits, and then there's also some kind of risks that are common to two of the three sides. And then there's this possibility of, well, maybe you can get something reasonable if you kind of do a decent job of balancing all three.
00:18:22.314 - 00:19:03.686, Speaker C: And I do feel like at least right now, the ethereum community is trying to balance all three to some extent, which is interesting. So can we do even better? Right. So can we come up with other kind of membership formalisms? Here's just a few ideas. So one is proof of medium levels of participation. So like conference attendance or including online events. And I know the Pope protocol has been doing a great job of trying to formalize this. Maybe another possible example of proof of medium participation is passing some kind of examination, kind of proving some level of technical knowledge.
00:19:03.686 - 00:19:42.802, Speaker C: Another interesting one is a quadratic coin membership. So votes being the square root of your balance instead of being linearly proportional to your balance. So this is a little bit, well, significantly more egalitarian. It would bring my own votes down from 300,000 all the way down to 500. So much more egalitarian than fully kind of linearly relying on coin balance. And gitcoin grants already does kind of do this. And actually we've been seeing Gitcoin grants used kind of as governance signaling on a couple of occasions.
00:19:42.802 - 00:20:46.762, Speaker C: Right? So the big round of donations to EIP 1559 that we saw, I think, about half a year back, I thought that was like an interesting sort of online quadratic protest in some sense, and lots of people put in significant amounts of capital. And there is both this kind of democratic aspect of lots of people care about this and the aspect of measuring that people actually care really strongly about this issue. Indirectly verified proof of contribution. Can you potentially kind of allow some kind of indirection or delegation and basically make duocracy more scalable and kind of help communities better identify who and of larger sets of their contributors are. Are there more membership concepts from crypto to beyond? So a lot of these concepts that we're thinking about within the crypto space could potentially be applied going beyond the crypto space. And this applies to a lot of crypto incubated concepts. Right.
00:20:46.762 - 00:21:23.350, Speaker C: So the concept of provable token holdings is potentially a really powerful primitive. That's not really something that the wider world has at all proof of participation. So kind of pope like things. Also really interesting. And there's projects that are trying to do kind of blockchain based tested proof of monopartication. I bring up open certs a lot for this, and there's some other examples as well. Unique identity systems are kind of the unique human kind of verification.
00:21:23.350 - 00:22:36.800, Speaker C: So bright id type of things like that. If we do a good job of incubating that, that could also be applied to a lot of these other concepts or a lot of other places as well, and we should work on these. This is one of those kind of concepts that we're grappling with, and there's clearly a need to measure membership potentially. It could also just be something that kind of gets flagged. And just like various kinds of public conversations, there's definitely value that can come of just being able to better understand who really are the kind of core, important kind of contributors, or just who put a deep amount of effort into participating in some community. And if we come up with kind of good ideas here, then there's a lot of other places where we could use them. So there we go.
00:22:41.330 - 00:22:43.760, Speaker A: There we go. Thank you.
00:22:44.210 - 00:23:04.322, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks for the presentation, Vitalik, and for positing an entirely new type of trilemma. It seems like these wonderful trilemmas pop up a lot in the space, and I've always found it to be helpful to frame it that way in terms of the different inevitable trade offs. And I'm aware of a few projects that are implementing some of this stuff in these early stages.
00:23:04.386 - 00:23:21.054, Speaker A: Yeah, proof of contribution is actually something we're working on actively at Opelis. So it's really cool to see the kind of convergence in the thinking and sort of how we're evolving in the space. So thanks again, Vitalik, go get some rest. We will talk to you later, and we'll see you around the rest of the event later on.
00:23:21.092 - 00:23:21.500, Speaker C: Thank you again.
