00:00:00.250 - 00:01:02.110, Speaker A: Hello and welcome back to the Defiant. I'm Jack and today we're bringing you the latest on uniswap after 80% of Uni token holders voted in favor of deploying Uniswap's V three protocol on the BNB chain. Thank you to synthetics, an original DFI protocol with exciting new trading products coming out this month. Just yesterday, the community temperature check poll at Uni uniswap ended, revealing that 80% of token holders support a potential expansion to the BMB chain. The poll was proposed by ox plasma labs on behalf of the community. It cited many factors for the proposal, ranging from the total value locked on various chains to the large and growing user base and even finance's global presence, which they claim could help increase awareness and adoption of Uniswap V three among retail and institutional investors. The second section of the poll, which drew wide support from the Uniswap community, touched on why the BNB dfi ecosystem needs Uniswap v three.
00:01:02.110 - 00:02:16.706, Speaker A: The points mentioned the BNB chain's large DFI development community and its need for a more advanced Dex ecosystem, suggesting that uniswap could support BMB chain with capital efficient liquidity resulting in better prices for users. Finally, the poll argued that deploying uniswap V three on the BMB chain would offer BMB a more reliable Dex infrastructure, allowing them to provide their users with better trading experiences. So why did Uni holders support the poll? Well, perhaps the most important section of the poll for Uni holders and the main reason why 6500 univoters staked their tokens to vote yes, is because the Uniswap ecosystem stands to benefit significantly from deployment on the BNB chain. The main benefits appear financial and an additional $1 billion of TVL. Huge trading volume and earned fees for liquidity pools are touted alongside one to 2 million new users and uni token holders. There are also intangible benefits mentioned, such as huge respect and appreciation from Defi devs, although it's still unclear from the responses how much this point actually impacted the voting. Although it's only a minority, there are also concerns.
00:02:16.706 - 00:03:29.422, Speaker A: One community member suggested that the Uniswap protocol should not be run on centralized networks like the binance chain because the migration could have negative consequences for uniswap in the event that centralized exchanges like binance continue to be heavily scrutinized by law enforcement and regulatory bodies. He asked this in relation to Uniswap's pending business license application quote I understand you want to make money before April. But what will happen after April brackets? Sec can arrest CZ question mark and before we continue, a quick word from synthetics. Synthetics just released their V two perpetual futures trading contracts with the lowest fees of any decentralized perps markets available anywhere outside of a centralized exchange. Synthetix perps are available to trade with up to 25 x leverage on optimism through two partner Dapps, Quenta IO and decentrex.com. The community intends to launch dozens of unique assets and is developing plans for trading incentives by the end of the month. In other Uniswap news, a joint research report by Uniswap Labs and Circle found that decentralizing forex could reduce costs by as much as 80%.
00:03:29.422 - 00:04:42.866, Speaker A: Specifically, if foreign exchange markets start utilizing DFI protocols instead of the traditional financial system of intermediaries, the cost of cross border payments and remittances could be cut by up to 80%, according to Cointelegraph. The 20 page report was released late last week during a panel at the World Economic Forum. The researchers concluded that onchain FX can offer faster and more affordable transaction processes, as well as greater liquidity and stability. They added that cost cutting specific to remittances could translate to around $30 billion a year remaining in people's pockets, and that's if DFI protocols are adopted on a larger scale. We also reported last week that collaborations between DFI and tradfi could begin to emerge as a theme throughout the year in light of the wreckage left behind by FTX, Terra Celsius and other failures, the potential ties between Defi and Tradfi certainly seem to have been a topic of discussion at Davos, despite Morgan's CEO Jamie Dimon's renewed skepticism toward bitcoin. So please let us know in the comments what you think about the future prospects of Tradfi and Defi coming together. As always, thank you for tuning into the defiant.
00:04:42.866 - 00:04:43.810, Speaker A: We'll see you again tomorrow.
