00:00:01.160 - 00:00:40.250, Speaker A: Welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the show for crypto natives. Every week we do short but in depth conversations with the most important builders and investors in crypto so you can filter through what's noise and stay ahead of the markets. I'm your host, Jason Choi. Nothing of this show should be construed as financial advice, and my guests, myself, and my employer may hold positions and assets discussed on the show. Today's episode is brought to you by perpetual protocol, figment, and Aave. Now, as an active user of DeFi, I love how permissionless and open it is, but sometimes it kind of disturbs me that people are able to see everything I do on chain because everything is public and everything is open. Now, while I'm not doing anything illegal, so I'm okay with people viewing my activity.
00:00:40.250 - 00:01:36.478, Speaker A: At the same time, a lot of users also value a degree of privacy, which has led to a wave in development in privacy coins or privacy features built on top of existing blockchain ecosystems. Now, a blockchain ecosystem that has been around for a while called Secret Network has actually been quietly building this, and they already have a live product, which I actually encourage you to try out and test for yourself. Now, to understand what the secret network is, I am excited to invite Tor Baer, the founder of the secret foundation, on the show in this episode of Alpha leak, and we're gonna grill him hard on what secret is, how it works, how it compares to other privacy solutions, and we're also gonna talk about the sensitive issues around regulation and how he thinks about concerns that regulators might have around, like, money laundering when it comes to privacy network. So I definitely did not make this easy for Tor, and I'm really grateful that he's such a great sport, and he came on the show and took the time to explain all of this to us. So very excited to share this with you. And without further ado, here is our conversation.
00:01:36.566 - 00:01:38.114, Speaker B: So, Tor, how are you?
00:01:38.534 - 00:01:40.714, Speaker C: I'm doing awesome. Thanks for having me, man.
00:01:41.214 - 00:01:57.044, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. There's so much to talk about, especially because what you guys are working on is so important to this space and in a theme and within a vertical that a lot of people are discussing. But before we dive into any of that, what was the first crypto that you bought, and why did you buy it?
00:01:58.784 - 00:02:49.736, Speaker C: Bitcoin in 2013, and I bought it because I was an options trader at the time, or recently getting out of options trading. Actually, I just quit my full time job, and options traders are volatility junkies, and I had been an options market maker for four years, and nothing at the time seemed to be more volatile. Like, I traded commodities, I traded gold, I traded all kinds of stuff, and nothing was more volatile than bitcoin, which at the time was going through this massive, massive run up. And I just wanted to buy it, hold it, figure it out. But at the time, I wasn't digging into anything like wallets or anything else beyond market structure. I didn't even have much interest in the underlying tech. That changed very, very quickly.
00:02:49.736 - 00:03:05.444, Speaker C: But I can be fully honest and say that when I bought into bitcoin, I was buying into bitcoin as a speculative asset, just because it was so interesting to see something that moved so volatile, but didn't seem to be like anything else out there at all.
00:03:06.624 - 00:03:36.474, Speaker B: Yeah. And I feel like your story is similar to a lot of people, in that they were drawn in by speculation first, and then they kind of discovered the interesting parts about crypto, beyond the speculation, the kind of technical parts of it. And I'm also really interested because someone with your background, former trader, they usually come into the space and they either go to start a fund or they join a fund. So what was the challenge that you saw? What was the opportunity that you saw that convinced you to build secret?
00:03:37.334 - 00:04:28.054, Speaker C: Yeah, it's a great question. And you're right that most people who get into this space from the speculation side, maybe they tend to take it more seriously as an asset class immediately afterwards, but they do tend to like the investing and the volatility in that piece of it. And at the time that I was getting into bitcoin is also, like I said, when I was getting out of that job and I was looking to go back to grad school, I was actually a little bit dissatisfied with trading. I didn't see trading as actually creating value, necessarily. It was more about how to properly ride waves that came at appropriate times, and it wasn't terribly fulfilling. So I was applying to grad school, and I ended up at MIT in 2014. And I was very fortunate because it was right when they were starting their very first blockchain education courses.
00:04:28.054 - 00:05:34.776, Speaker C: And I don't think they had any idea how the space would evolve at that point. But MIT likes to be on the cutting edge of anything that seems to be cutting edge. So they had the digital currency initiative, they had some of the bitcoin core developers there. And I took one of the first courses that they offered on blockchain tech. And one of the instructors of that course was Guy Ziskand, and he was a researcher at the media lab and guy had just written a paper on how you could combine privacy technologies with blockchain technologies and create these next generation decentralized platforms for computation and all this stuff that was just so fascinating and a little bit over my head at the time here in 2015, like, ethereum hadn't even launched. One of the guest speakers in that class, I remember, was Joe Lubin presenting from an empty warehouse in Brooklyn. And it was just so early, right? Nobody knew where any of this was going, but I knew that these product ideas, these next generation protocol ideas, were going to be so much more powerful than just what bitcoin had already been.
00:05:34.776 - 00:06:01.608, Speaker C: And I did a lot of my graduate research on using blockchain for digital rights management, especially in the music industry. I'm a musician. I was interested to see if it could solve it. The long and the short of that is that music industry has way more problems than blockchain could ever solve. But maybe there's something there. So, yeah, that's why I got more interested in the product side, is because I was already getting out of being interested in the investing and the trading side. I always knew there was a potential to make a lot of money.
00:06:01.608 - 00:06:58.722, Speaker C: Looking at blockchain tech, it was obvious that it was going to be a big thing at some point, some way, after a great deal of volatility somewhere along the line, which is why I went full time in this space starting in 2017, to start contributing to this vision of secret network, or what secret network became this privacy focused blockchain ecosystem. But I did it in spite of my background as a trader, not because of it. And it was because I was trying to get away from that background into something a lot more tangible. And even now, I would say our thesis, even though it's been proved out in a lot of ways, everybody acknowledges privacy is essential to the growth of this space. We're still a long way away from proving what we set out to prove, which is that this is going to unlock an even greater phase of growth for web3 stuff. We still feel like we're still trying to prove the same things we were trying to prove in 2015, 2017. We're still trying to solve the very foundational problems of the blockchain space, even as we see all this growth in mainstream adoption.
00:06:58.722 - 00:07:12.908, Speaker C: There's so many, like, basic layer one questions left unsolved. And that's what excites me about continuing to get to build in this space that we're tackling. Still, these foundational questions, definitely.
00:07:12.956 - 00:07:30.464, Speaker B: And there's so many different parts of secret network that we can go into. There's the secret plasm bridge, there's secret swap. But before any of that, can you explain kind of what secret is? Because you did mention that it's a privacy network. So is it similar to something like Zcash Monero, or is it something entirely different?
00:07:31.014 - 00:08:12.976, Speaker C: Yes, it is something entirely different, but related. A way to explain it is going back to my first crypto purchase of bitcoin. Bitcoin being this sort of Genesis crypto asset. There have been these two parallel evolutionary streams in blockchain. One evolutionary stream was bitcoin to Ethereum, where we went from decentralized value storage and payments. This sort of transactional idea of bitcoin. Ethereum went to make that programmable, this idea of programmable money, programmable smart contracts, and composable programmable smart contracts, that's a really powerful concept.
00:08:12.976 - 00:09:02.494, Speaker C: And smart contracts had been an idea already. But to see this applied to blockchain was a really powerful evolutionary stream. And only now, I think in 2021, we finally starting to see so much of the promise of what that can unlock for Ethereum and similar smart contract platforms. But there's this separate evolutionary stream, which is that people looked at bitcoin and saw that everything on that blockchain was public. Everything you were doing transactionally, even though it was sort of pseudonymous, because you couldn't associate an address to an individual, it was still completely public. You could see the genesis and the flow of every single bitcoin across the network. So that's where you get these zcashes and moneros, this idea of transactional privacy, where the protocol is designed to obscure the transfer of value from one area to another.
00:09:02.494 - 00:09:48.112, Speaker C: So secret network is the recombining of these evolutionary streams. It's saying, what if we could have this programmable smart contract platform, but instead of it being public by default, like Ethereum, where every interaction with the blockchain is public to everybody else who can observe the blockchain. What if it was private by default, which returns choice to the user and returns choice to the developer, saying that some things in the network can be private, but you can selectively reveal them and make them transparent when they need to be. It's not really possible to go the other direction. You can't start with a public by default model and selectively obscure things. Encryption, cryptography, it doesn't work that way. It doesn't work in that direction.
00:09:48.112 - 00:10:24.632, Speaker C: If something is private, you can reveal it, but if something is revealed, you can't subsequently make it private. Again, unreveal, a secret. So secret network is a private by default blockchain network where smart contracts in the network have encrypted inputs, encrypted outputs and encrypted state. And to date, it's the only mainnet blockchain to have this capability. We added it in September of 2020, so it's been live on mainnet for eight months in the network. We've had a ton of applications launch leveraging this capability. One of the very cool concepts that comes out of that is privacy preserving tokens that live on secret network.
00:10:24.632 - 00:11:43.258, Speaker C: The same way you can have ERC 20s on Ethereum, you can have privacy preserving snp 20 secret tokens on secret network. So it's the recombining of these evolutionary streams, and I think it's actually the healthiest possible recombination of these streams because I don't believe that like a protocol that exists only for transactional privacy, that's always going to be looked at with suspicion. It's always going to be looked at as you're trying to hide your money from somebody else, you're doing something illicit. And if you look at a public by default smart contract network, I ultimately think that there's huge usability, scalability and security challenges like minor extractable value being one aspect of this, but just so many security challenges for users who have to interact with the public by default blockchain. So by having privacy at the application layer with secret network, what we're allowing to have happen is new kinds of web, three applications to be built that are not possible on any other network. And we're only now starting to see that application ecosystem emerge over the last few months on secret network. So at this really exciting inflection point where we're only now starting to see what that's going to unlock for all of these different web3 verticals that have been growing for the past year.
00:11:43.258 - 00:11:45.994, Speaker C: And that is super exciting to me.
00:11:47.134 - 00:12:48.084, Speaker B: That's really interesting. And before we kind of dive into the positioning, which I want to understand better, how do you think about the opportunity for privacy in crypto? Because I look at analogies in the bitcoin space, in the currency space, where Zcash and Monero arguably are stronger value proposition than just pure bitcoin, in the sense that you can do what you can do on bitcoin with trustless transactions, but you can also do this privately on Zcash. You can do it selectively privately on Zcash, and completely privately on things like Monero, but at the same time in the past few years, it doesn't seem like that was strong enough of a value proposition to really draw people in. And people were paying more attention to things like the monetary policy of bitcoin and the history of bitcoin, rather than whether they can do private transactions. So kind of bringing this to smart contracts, what gives you the conviction that privacy is strong enough of a pool for your average defi users?
00:12:48.664 - 00:13:32.804, Speaker C: Yeah, it's a great question, and I would say that it's very, very different. Whereas for transactions, privacy can be kind of a nice to have, when it comes to computations, it's a need to have. I can use a real world example very easily. If you look at how applications work in the web two world, you look at Facebook and you look at the Cambridge Analytica hacks. When that was happening, there was this huge outcry that somehow some non Facebook organization could get access and control to all this user data, leak it, share it in ways that the user hadn't consented to. You know, it was a big backlash. There were multibillion dollar fines discussed.
00:13:32.804 - 00:14:35.920, Speaker C: There was this new expectation. It had always been an expectation, but now, suddenly, it was in the public consciousness, like, wow, these web two apps are really bad at protecting our data. There are no controls for users. So in the web3 world, it's like that. But for every application, all of the time, no matter what, every time you're interacting with a web3 app, every time you're interacting with the DeFi app and all these public by default platforms, you are allowing everyone else in the network to look at every piece of data that's ever been associated with that address, you can see every single interaction, and you can say that transparency is good. And I agree that transparency in itself is not bad or destructive. But when you don't have choice, when you have no choice but to make everything transparent to all users all the time without incurring substantial, substantial costs, then you run into problems very, very rapidly, and it would be an unacceptable model.
00:14:35.920 - 00:15:22.504, Speaker C: In the real world, it would be completely unacceptable to use an Uber where everybody who ever interacted with the application or even examined the application could see your home address just from the virtue of you having interacted with the application. It's like you want to share it with your driver, but not with absolutely everybody who uses Uber. So this happens for every single web3 application that we could conceive of. And so far, even though we're seeing massive adoption, I wouldn't quite say mass adoption, but massive adoption of web3. And DeFi and nfts and things like that. Right now, the amount of experimentation and the amount of adoption is actually seriously limited because there is no privacy. Bitcoin can be everywhere without privacy, and it can serve this purpose of digital gold and a global store of value.
00:15:22.504 - 00:16:23.640, Speaker C: But if we really want to realize the full potential of a web3 design space, and we don't have this idea of what we call programmable privacy, that level of control for developers and users, we can only realize maybe 1% of what's possible because the other 99% of things will be unusable or they'll be insecure. So I think privacy for computations is actually where privacy gets interesting. And I've seen all kinds of takes where people are like, of course privacy doesn't matter, the privacy thesis has been debunked or whatever else, but they're always talking about transactional privacy, and there you're always up against bitcoin, something that's proven to be resilient in many, many ways. Maybe not because of its transparency, but certainly it's been resilient if in spite of, but it's not going to work that way. When it comes to just generalizable web3 applications, privacy is going to need to be everywhere. It's always been a public good, and I refuse to let us build a web3 world that's worse for user privacy, worse for user security than what we're already experiencing in the web two.
00:16:23.672 - 00:17:06.124, Speaker B: World that makes sense. And in terms of the positioning, I also thought it was really interesting how you mentioned that you can't have privacy by choice, you kind of have to have it by default. You can't just retroactively make something private. But at the same time, you also see these kind of newer projects that listeners actually may not be that familiar with. But things like Matterlabs that are working on ZK rollups on top of Ethereum, almost as a kind of privacy and scalability plug into Ethereum, understand the difference between the approaches where secret seems to be building a new network from the ground up, versus something like Matterlabs, which hopes to plug into existing networks like Ethereum.
00:17:07.104 - 00:18:11.644, Speaker C: Yeah, and without getting too technical, right? But you're right to say that, like, we're not the only project trying to experiment with this, but what secret network is, is it's its own independent blockchain with its own consensus. And in that way, we are an entire standalone ecosystem, but we also have the flexibility to bridge and support other ecosystems. So we are a cosmos chain. We're based on tendermint for consensus. We're delegated proof of stake network, and we can build standalone applications in our ecosystem that don't depend at all on Ethereum or the Ethereum ecosystem. You can launch secret DeFi platforms that only build on top of secret network, launch secret NFT focused applications and projects that only interact with the with the secretverse as it is. But at the same time, you know, we want the flexibility to still interoperate with Ethereum, interoperate with Polkadot, interoperate with the other cosmos chains, maybe via IBC inter blockchain communication protocol.
00:18:11.644 - 00:19:21.532, Speaker C: Or we want to interoperate with even things like Monero or Zcash or bitcoin itself to make them available as assets in the secret ecosystem, as privacy preserving versions of themselves. So it's just a different approach to the question. You're going to see a lot of experimentation at L2 on Ethereum. There's a lot of competing projects there, I think Aztec being another. But there's very few projects that have gone for this idea of generalized private computation as a standalone network. And where we're excited to see this go is to see just a sandbox, a privacy by default secret sandbox, where people can experiment with these new types of applications that build on top of this private by default model, which is really powerful for things like access control or things like gaming, or of course, things like decentralized finance and privacy preserving lending and credit. We just want to continue to contribute to that culture of experimentation without being tied so tightly to a single ecosystem and allowing people to sort of experiment in our standalone secret universe.
00:19:21.628 - 00:20:07.330, Speaker A: Now, before I continue, I'd like to take a moment to share some exciting companies that made this podcast possible. One of my absolute favorite products in crypto is Aave. Aave is a non custodial liquidity protocol, meaning you can earn interest on your crypto or borrow crypto assets without trusting any centralized counterparty to hold your funds. I personally have been using AAve for a long time to earn up to 12% of my USD holdings like USDC USDT or even decentralized stablecoins like Dai or exchange stablecoins like Binance USD, which totally blows my bank out the water. And if you're new to crypto and worried about security, Aave has been audited by security firms 13 times in 2020 alone and once already this year, which they disclosed fully. So I'm really excited to have a product that I love as a sponsor. So go on over to aave.com
00:20:07.330 - 00:20:58.130, Speaker A: aave.com to check out which of the assets you'd like to borrow and lend today I'd like to talk about our sponsor perpetual protocol. If you're worried about leaving your funds on an exchange that may be hacked, but you are also tired of paying for hundreds of dollars in gas fees in Defi, you should really check them out because they have built a fully on chain exchange on Ethereum and Xdai that allows up to ten x leverage. Now they've also released zero gas deposits in addition to near zero gas fees for trading. And if you are paranoid about smart contract exploits like I am, dont worry, because they have also obtained protocol level insurance via nexus mutual and unslashed finance to provide automatic coverage for all traders on perp exchange. Now today for users outside the US, if you have an Ethereum address, you can already start using perp exchange with no signups. So go to perp exchange blockcrench to check it out.
00:20:58.130 - 00:21:34.136, Speaker A: Thats perp exchange blockcrunch. I'm also proud to call Figmin a sponsor of the show. If you are an investor wanting to manage all your proof of stake assets in a single place, you definitely don't want to miss this. Figmin makes it simple for you to generate returns on your digital assets by managing all your proof of stake investments in one place. Their fully managed staking infrastructure and detailed user dashboards give investors the edge they need to stay ahead of the curve. Figment has some of the widest coverage in the proof of stake market, supporting over 30 mainnet blockchains like Polkadot Cosmos near the graph and cello. So it doesn't matter if you're an individual investor or you manage a fund.
00:21:34.136 - 00:21:41.088, Speaker A: Figment is easily the go to solution for everything related to proof of stake in your portfolio. So check them out in the show notes below.
00:21:41.216 - 00:21:50.524, Speaker B: What are some things that you'll be able to build on secret network, but maybe not on some of the plug in solutions like you said, aztec or metal apps.
00:21:52.504 - 00:22:30.814, Speaker C: I don't want to go out of my depth and say I know exactly what you're going to be able to do with matter labs, Nasdaq and things like that, because a lot of it still seems to be in progress. And I can only speak for what's already happened in our ecosystem on Mainnet, for example. So none of this is to say that you cannot do this in other ecosystems. But I can tell you what you can do on secret network that we're uniquely suited for, that you can't do in the public by default model. And it's possible that by adding their two solutions, you can approximate some of the same functionality. I think it'll work better in the secret network universe in our standalone environment, but I can at least go into some of those applications if that makes sense to do now.
00:22:31.434 - 00:22:33.174, Speaker B: Yeah, please do.
00:22:33.514 - 00:23:08.952, Speaker C: Yeah. So one of the things we're really excited about is just the concept, like I mentioned before, of secret tokens. And secret tokens can be really anything. They can be fungible tokens, they can be non fungible tokens. I'd love to see non transferable tokens like privacy preserving non transferable tokens could actually serve as a really interesting form of reputational value that accrue only to a select address and are not transferable under any circumstances. It's a cool design space, but all of this is part of the secret token concept on our network. So secret tokens are like ERC.
00:23:08.952 - 00:24:01.996, Speaker C: So I'll focus on fungible secret tokens, which we call SNP twenties after the ERC 20 standard. So these are fungible tokens in our network and they're just like ERC 20s, except that they are privacy preserving. So your interactions with that token contract are actually encrypted. So if I interact with the token contract, you could see that my address interacted with that contract, but you couldn't see the nature of that interaction. So whereas if you go to something like Etherscan and you look up my public ethereum address and you saw me interacting with an ERC 20, you would see exactly how much of that ERC 20 I hold. You would see exactly every time that I had sent it to any other address and when and maybe not why, but you might be able to infer it. Of course with secret tokens, you would look up an address, you would look up a token contract, you could potentially see when that address had interacted with that token contract.
00:24:01.996 - 00:24:52.242, Speaker C: But you can't actually see the nature of that interaction. Only you, as the address holder, can generate a viewing key. And that viewing key allows you to see your own interaction with that contract. So that allows you to see your balances, that allows you to see your transaction history with that token. It's another very powerful concept in our network where you're combining privacy, but also this aspect of transparency. So secret tokens are super powerful and they're also composable in the sense that they can become a primitive for a bunch of different applications on the network. So you can have privacy preserving DeFi applications on secret network that use secret tokens inside of those applications the same way that Uniswap can use ERC 20s.
00:24:52.242 - 00:25:49.910, Speaker C: Inside of Uniswap, we have an Amm on secret network called Secretswap, which utilizes secret tokens, and you can have liquidity pools of one secret token against another secret token. So not only are those tokens privacy preserving, but the liquidity pool itself has privacy protection. So if you interact with it, your interaction with that pool to make your trade is encrypted when it's being made. So there's better privacy protections, but there's also better security protections. This actually has big consequences for minor extractable value in our network. So those are some things that I think work really well on secret network secret tokens and, and secret swap, for example, being things like within a defi vertical that I think are really powerful concepts. Secret tokens went live on Mainnet in November, and secret swap went live on Mainnet in February, and the secret swap governance token went live at the end of March.
00:25:49.910 - 00:26:19.254, Speaker C: So it's only been live for a few weeks now, but we've already seen over 30 million in liquidity added. And I think I forget the exact number, but I think we've seen over like 35 million in volume in the last three weeks since the launch of the c five governance token for secret swap. So it's been very cool to see it because it's still very experimental, it's still very early days, but there's clearly something there and it's really exciting to see people come and discover it for themselves.
00:26:20.474 - 00:26:33.004, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think this is a great point to pivot and dive deeper into the design of the protocol itself. So can you help us understand where does the privacy come from? So how is Cicrit able to achieve this privacy?
00:26:33.664 - 00:27:39.526, Speaker C: Yeah, so you hear a lot of projects talk about, especially zk based stuff, or like zero knowledge based stuff, and that's more cryptography based privacy, like purely software based privacy. So when we started out thinking about secret network, secret network, the whole concept of a privacy protocol actually sprang from the original white papers. So the original white papers were written back in 2015 at MIT. These are the white papers that Guy Ziskin was presenting in that class that I took. And they actually touched on MPC multi party computation and using that in conjunction with the bitcoin blockchain. So for a long time we were exploring purely software based privacy solutions as a supplement to blockchain to achieve this vision of generalizable private smart contracts. And what the research was telling us and where the pace of advancement was going was telling us was that these were not going to be production ready for generalizable use cases for a very long time.
00:27:39.526 - 00:28:38.140, Speaker C: And I remember even in like 2019, 2020, we were talking with PhD researchers and things like that, who were saying like, well, this is all very cool, and we're working on it in the labs, and in a decade I think we'll be there. And when we were considering the problems facing the blockchain space, we didn't think that we had a decade to start working on these things in production. So where we've landed for today is that we actually use a combination of like encryption based approaches, but also secure hardware. And what secure hardware does in our network is that every node on secret network, which we refer to as secret nodes in the network, operates with this secure enclave environment. And actually the contracts are executing inside the enclaves. And what that means is the operators of the nodes themselves cannot access the raw data that's being processed by the contract. They can't see it themselves.
00:28:38.140 - 00:29:48.206, Speaker C: So it's a black box even for the node operator, and that's the main method by which privacy is achieved, because neither the users nor the nodes have access to that raw data as it's being processed. The smart contracts are effectively operating, as I said, with encrypted inputs, encrypted outputs, and encrypted state and secure enclaves. Really sit at that good part of the efficient frontier where you're getting strong usability, strong performance, and known security trade offs. I think that we've chosen it very deliberately versus other things where you have extremely high cost or extremely low performance, or you don't have generalizability, because it's a different technical approach. And there are some, like I said, everything is a trade off. There is no absolutely 100% perfect model for privacy or security or anything really in the blockchain, blockchain space, everything is trade offs. And in this case there are some known trade offs with the security models of secure hardware.
00:29:48.206 - 00:30:32.344, Speaker C: And by and large, they're all mitigated in how we approach how nodes have to operate in the network. They're required to operate with every known patch integrated. We have an extremely high bar for participating in the network. If there is a patch known and released, you need to operate with that patch in order to be accepted into the network as a node. So there's things like that that you can do to help mitigate any potential vulnerabilities. But that's definitely a distinguishing factor for us versus a lot of privacy focused projects elsewhere in the ecosystem. Our focus for today on secure hardware, but we are trying to explore ways to strengthen that security model again without losing usability, without losing performance, without losing generalizability.
00:30:32.344 - 00:30:39.704, Speaker C: And that's something that everybody in our ecosystem is motivated to find better solutions for and continue to iterate on.
00:30:40.744 - 00:30:58.484, Speaker B: And speaking of trade offs, I think it will be helpful to understand exactly what those trade offs are as well. Is the network maybe more centralized than others, harder to operate some of these nodes, or are there some usability trade offs? What would you say are some of the main things that secret network, quote unquote, gives up for this privacy?
00:30:59.184 - 00:31:31.914, Speaker C: Yeah, it's certainly harder to run a node than other proof of stake blockchains because there is this added hardware component. And again, that's by design. You want your nodes in any network to be performant, you want them to be secure, but it is a barrier to entry. So it's not as though we have thousands of nodes currently operating the network. Currently the network is, it's similar to a lot of other tendermint chains where it's capped at 50 nodes. There's 50 nodes at any time in the active set of the network. We have the maximum number of nodes currently operating the active set, which is 50.
00:31:31.914 - 00:32:06.212, Speaker C: So that's a part of the model that is not as decentralized as other approaches, but in other privacy models. Sometimes, no matter how many nodes you add, you can still compromise the privacy of the network by compromising a certain percentage of the nodes. And in secret network you can't really. What you need to do is you need to compromise just like any other network. You need to compromise over 51% of the network to compromise consensus. That's the same risk as other networks. So yeah, that's one trade off for sure.
00:32:06.212 - 00:32:52.558, Speaker C: I think most of the trade offs just come down to how much you trust and believe in the secure hardware approach. There's some pushback in the academic community, there's some pushback even in the practitioner community about the security properties of secure hardware. They're used everywhere in the web two world right now. They're being used by signal. You know, secure enclaves and trusted execution environments are used in your smartphone, they're used in all manner of different hardware applications, and they're being improved on continuously. But it's not one of these things where there's like universal acceptance of the security model. So something we're trying to do is prove that this is workable in production in the blockchain space.
00:32:52.558 - 00:33:17.934, Speaker C: And so far, you know, the network has been operating as long as it has, and this has not proven to be insecure in practice at all. And people, of course, are invited to do their best to find these security holes in the network and attack it. But to date, there's nothing that's actually been accomplished to compromise its privacy guarantees.
00:33:19.494 - 00:33:41.194, Speaker B: And speaking of the products on secret network today, I know you mentioned a few just now, but one of the main ones is obviously secret swap. So I'm very curious about the type of users in secret swap. What type of assets are they mostly trading? And I don't know if it's possible on secret network, but can you see how big these guys or accounts are? What type, what profile of users these guys are?
00:33:41.734 - 00:34:35.974, Speaker C: Yeah, it's an interesting question, like how much intelligence can we get on the users of these platforms if we're saying they also have privacy guarantees? So we have statistics in aggregate, we can see the size of the liquidity pools. We can see, generally speaking, the size of the trades, because we can see the impact on the liquidity pools when trades are being made. So generally, the pools that are the largest are the ones where there are currently yield incentives with the launch of the Cefi governance token. If you're a liquidity provider for certain high value pools on secret swap, you can stake your LP tokens and you can get more of this governance token of CeFi for mining. And CeFi is used to govern secret swap. It's been proposed that CeFi will accrue a share of the fees paid on secret swap. So there's going to be a value capture model for it.
00:34:35.974 - 00:35:22.278, Speaker C: So the high value pools, the ones that have been incentivized, are the ones that have attracted substantial TVL, total value locked for these pools. So that's like secret. The base asset of the network is scrt. So you have secret against ETH, you have secret against CFI, you have ETH against wrapped bitcoin. We also have secret against Link, which is on the day that we announced that secret link was being added to eligible rewards pools for C five, there was a million in liquidity, I think added in 20 minutes. So there's definitely people paying attention to incentives. And I don't think that secret network is special in the sense that like, well, we're just like every other ecosystem that people respond to incentives.
00:35:22.278 - 00:36:02.624, Speaker C: If you tell people that they can make money trading, then they're going to try to do it. But what we also tell them is that they can do it with higher security guarantees, with less risk of like being exploited by front running with lower fees. And also what we're trying to do is build more bridges to other ecosystems so they will also have access to more interesting sets of assets. So secret swap. Currently, we have native assets from the secret ecosystem trading against Ethereum assets, but we're also launching a bridge to binance smart chain. We're working, as you mentioned earlier, with plasm on a bridge to the Polkadot ecosystem. There's people building a bridge to Monero, there's people building a native bridge to bitcoin.
00:36:02.624 - 00:36:34.096, Speaker C: There's IBC integrations with the cosmos ecosystem. So there's all these things in development which we're hoping bring even greater asset access to everyone. But again, all these assets are represented in our network as secret tokens. And that gets you something really interesting with secret swap. And maybe this will give you a clue as to the types of users we're attracting. Basically, you can enter our ecosystem via one of these bridges. Let's say you enter with your Ethereum, and your Ethereum becomes secret Ethereum as a secret token on secret network.
00:36:34.096 - 00:37:42.094, Speaker C: You use secret swap to trade it, let's say, for secret itself, scrt. So you trade it for secret, and now you have this scrt, and then you can take the scrt and you can stake it. And then at some later date, let's say you unstake your secret, and now you trade your secret for a different asset, let's say Monero itself. You trade it for the secret token version of Monero, or secret version of Zcash in the network. Now you take that asset, you take Zcash, bridge it back to Zcash as a network, back over the Zcash bridge. And ultimately what's happened is you've entered the network of Ethereum, you left the network with Zcash, and everything that happened while you were on secret network, everything that you did there, you had privacy protections, you had security protections for all those interactions. So that's kind of, if you're a user that's active in many different blockchain ecosystems, if you're somebody who's very active in decentralized finance, and if you're somebody who cares about those types of privacy protections for yourself, that's the kind of user we're seeing.
00:37:42.094 - 00:38:06.294, Speaker C: Really attracted to secret swap. And even though it's early days and we've done sort of like very limited campaigns to ensure that people are aware of this opportunity, and we're still building a lot of these bridges, we've attracted over $100 million worth of Ethereum assets to the network over this one bridge without any of these other bridges. Live. And I think that it speaks to something really powerful about the demand for these kinds of solutions in our ecosystem.
00:38:07.674 - 00:38:36.594, Speaker B: And tar, here's the billion dollar question that you must have gotten a lot, but in terms of regulatory side of things, obviously there is a very compelling argument to be made in favor of privacy. But at the same time, you see all these regulators freaking out about money laundering and kind of terrorist financing and all these scary terms in crypto. So for a privacy focused network, how do you guys think about the risk of that? And. Yeah, how do you guys just approach even thinking about something like that?
00:38:37.294 - 00:39:27.604, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it's a very, very important question. And if you don't ask it, then you're already in trouble. And this is where again, I think the difference between transactional and computational privacy is so important because if you're a transactional privacy protocol and somebody can always say like, the only reason that your protocol exists is to hide the transfer of value from one place to another, you are definitely begging for trouble. You know, if you're Monero, and your entire thing is Monero exists to hide the transfer of money. And then of course, they tend to have a very like big brand built around that sort of counter, counter regulatory stance. Right? Yeah, you're always going to be at odds with regulators. Now they're embracing that, and that's their choice.
00:39:27.604 - 00:40:10.562, Speaker C: That's not what we're trying to do with secret network. And with secret network, we have this very deliberate choice that privacy needs to exist at the application layer because web3 applications are going to require privacy. So to flip the question, right, regular regulators actually enforce data privacy protections for users like with GDPR or, you know, like what, what they're doing with Facebook and Uber and Equifax and all these other companies. Like, they want data privacy to be protected. When it comes to data privacy, when it comes to applications, not protecting privacy is actually unacceptable. That's, that's what they care about punishing. It's, it's only this transactional side where, where your protocol only exists for transactional privacy that I think you get in trouble.
00:40:10.562 - 00:40:46.482, Speaker C: So with secret network, we actually don't have privacy at the token. Like the native coin level, secret itself is a public coin. If you send secret to somebody else in the network, that's a public transaction. So it looks just like in that case, the bitcoin blockchain, you can see every staking action, you can see every governance action that was taken by an address. All of that is public on chain. It's only at the application and the smart contract layer that you have privacy for users, which is exactly what you want for applications in the real world. So that's a deliberate architectural choice.
00:40:46.482 - 00:41:40.164, Speaker C: And again, we have this concept of viewing keys, which means that at the application layer, if you choose to interact with an application in some way, and then you need to prove the nature of your interaction, you can share your viewing key with some regulatory body or external agency to show that this was the interaction that you took with that smart contract contract or with that token. And you're giving the choice to the user and the choose, and the user can choose to comply. And I think that ultimately the need for privacy in these applications and the need for user security is so strong that like this is what we're going to want. We're not going to be able to accept the alternate approach, which is everything is public by default. So at least you don't see regulators complaining about that. But it's going to be the perfection of surveillance capitalism. It's going to be the perfection of what I consider to be such a dystopian state that I don't think we should aspire towards building it.
00:41:40.164 - 00:42:21.096, Speaker C: I think we should do everything in our power to avoid building that version of the web3 world. I'm going to be really pissed if that's what comes of the whole crypto revolution, is that we actually allowed for the perfection of a global surveillance financial state. That was not the bitcoin dream, that that's not the cypherpunk dream. That's none of this is what we were supposed to be after because that's the antithesis of empowerment and human freedom. So I really, really hope that, yeah, we're always going to get that pushback that like, oh, how are regulators going to feel about privacy? But regulators already value privacy. They value privacy for users and they punish corporations for not respecting it. And of course, states and regulators value their own privacy.
00:42:21.096 - 00:42:48.604, Speaker C: Governments value their own privacy very highly. It just comes down to what are we as web3 builders and users willing to accept? And where is the balance going to be in building systems that protect users and work best for users and keep them secure and then also satisfy the needs of the legacy world that is going to have to accept these systems as they become more and more popular and more and more adopted?
00:42:49.844 - 00:43:02.504, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a great answer. Thank you for that, Tor. And just to kind of close us off here, obviously there is the SDRT token as well, which we mentioned. So can you help us understand what is the use case for that token. And what can people do with it today?
00:43:03.444 - 00:43:31.022, Speaker C: So, secret, the token SCRT is the native coin of the network. So it's like Ethereum and ETH. So if you're interacting with a smart contract on Ethereum, you need to pay gas, and you're paying your gas in ETH. So on secret network, you're interacting with a secret contract, you're interacting with a secret app. And to do that, you have to pay gas. And the gas is in scrt, it's in secret. So no matter what you're building on the network, you need to pay secret to use it.
00:43:31.022 - 00:44:19.274, Speaker C: If you're interacting with a secret token, you're paying secret to use it, the same way you need to pay ETH to send an ERC 20 around ethereum network. So fundamentally, the biggest use case of secret is for network gas fees, for computational fees and transactional fees. But secret is also a delegated proof of stake network. So as a user, you can hold SCRT, the coin, you can either run your own node, or you can delegate your holdings of SCRT to somebody who is operating a node in the network. And over time, nodes get a share of inflation that's created in the network, so they get a share of all newly created SCRT. And as a delegator, you get a share of what the nodes are receiving. So a node might be operating with a 5% commission.
00:44:19.274 - 00:45:04.354, Speaker C: And what that means is you're going to get as a delegator, 95% of the inflation that that node is getting in the network. And the node keeps some submit some commission in order to cover its own operational costs. And if you are staking and delegating, that also allows you to participate directly in on chain governance. So, SCRT, if you're a holder and a delegator, you can vote in on chain proposals, you can submit on chain proposals. And on chain proposals can be used for spending an on chain pool of SCRT towards network initiatives. You can change on chain network parameters. You can submit signaling proposals for, you know, off chain changes you might want to see made, or to gauge interest on a particular development path for the network.
00:45:04.354 - 00:46:05.314, Speaker C: Those are basically the three main use cases, and those three main use cases have all been live since the inception of the network 14 months ago, primarily network fees and computational fees, but also staking in governance. Of course, when the application layer is maturing like it is now, there's also all of this interplay with secret at the application layer. So you can take secret, you can take a secret token, you can provide double sided liquidity to one of the pools on secret swap and as a result you're an LP, you get an LP token, you stake your LP token, you're earning yield. So there's all these other sort of supply sinks for secret that start to emerge at the application layer and over time the economy sort of stabilizes. Some people are going to stake, some people are going to keep secret for interacting with the network and paying the fees. Some people are going to be locking these things up in liquidity pools in order to receive these governance tokens which get a shift share of fees that are flowing through the applications. All of this is super healthy.
00:46:05.314 - 00:46:38.764, Speaker C: We're going to have to see how network inflation evolves over time to respond to the emergence of the application layer. But all of these use cases for secret are already exactly how you see it. Being used in production and gas use in the network is actually one of our key metrics that we track across the ecosystem and it goes up every week, every week we're seeing record gas use in the network and that's one of those unfakable metrics that, that I think is really, really signaling an inflection point in the growth of the network and I'm really excited to see it continue to expand.
00:46:40.064 - 00:46:53.244, Speaker B: That's awesome. And for people who want to check out the network and get a sense of all these new applications and really get to interact with the network, what are the best ways for them to do this? Where are the best resources that they should start with?
00:46:54.464 - 00:47:15.470, Speaker C: They should go to scrt.net work, which is the sort of community homepage for secret network. Or they can jump into the discord which is at chat dot scrt.net work. All of our announcements and network events and things like that. We feed that all through thecretNetwork Twitter handle. You should definitely check that out.
00:47:15.470 - 00:47:37.644, Speaker C: You can also follow me because I'm really annoying. I'm a shill for the network. Uncompromisingly. Sorbet boy a I r. You'll see me talk about a lot of secret stuff there. Sometimes I kind of spill secrets there myself and I'm proud to do it just because there's so much going on. I hate shutting up about it and I love to talk about this stuff.
00:47:37.644 - 00:48:09.684, Speaker C: Not just secret network, but the importance of privacy to web3 overall. So follow me there. But just the biggest thing you can do is jump into the community. We have a global community of secret agents, many thousand strong, who work on community projects, get funding directly from Secret foundation to work on projects. We have a $70 million ecosystem grant pool that we're actively deploying. So if you're listening to this and you want to build some privacy centric stuff, we are absolutely here to support you and just jump in, get in contact, and we'd love to work together.
00:48:11.024 - 00:48:21.080, Speaker B: Definitely. Well, thank you so much for taking the time to break down for us, what secret network is and how it works. I'll definitely include some of those resources in the show notes below. And thanks for coming on to our.
00:48:21.272 - 00:48:23.184, Speaker C: Yeah, thanks for having me, man. I really appreciate it.
