00:00:00.280 - 00:00:14.174, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of Deliberate Refuel where we kept the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan the designer. And today, the 2 August 2024. All right everyone, let's get into it. So today is Friday. It is the end of the second week of the Eth ETF's.
00:00:14.174 - 00:00:46.922, Speaker A: I will not be going over the Friday flows because I'm recording this at the, I guess like beginning of Friday. So you won't see the Friday flows till next week. But I did say I'll be updating you guys on what the ETF flows looks like on a week by week basis and then eventually like a month by month basis probably. But the second week has been pretty strong. Now, Nate Jurassic here on Twitter put out a tweet saying in one week of trading, the ishares ethereum eTF. So this is the Blackrock Ethereum ETF is already in the top 15 inflows of all ETF's launched this year. Top 15 out of approximately 330 new ETF's.
00:00:46.922 - 00:01:22.910, Speaker A: And this was before some big inflows came into Blackrock. This is on July 31. So I would imagine that is definitely probably top ten at this point because there were some big inflows that came there. But speaking of inflows, we have the far side website here in front of me, this table that I've been monitoring for a little while now, and I've kind of told you guys about before. But essentially we're basically looking at the flows from, I think it was the 26 July. No, not, sorry, not 26 July, the 29 July here, which was Monday all the way through to today, basically. So as I said, there's not going to be the Friday flows here, the 2 August flows, just the 1 August.
00:01:22.910 - 00:01:54.284, Speaker A: But you can see here there's two, two key things, really. The inflows have remained strong while the eth outflows have been weakening. So you'll know that there were some pretty big ethy outflows last week where you had basically over a billion dollars of outflows. Right. Like this is a pretty big chunk of outflows here, which was expected, of course. But then this week it's been a lot less than that. So this week, so far, there has been, if I'm just doing the head math correctly here, there's been about 200 100, 206, 200 3260 plus the 78 today.
00:01:54.284 - 00:02:28.392, Speaker A: So about $338 million of outflows this week from, from ETh only. But in terms of inflows, we had a few big days. So Blackrock had alone had 170 million plus. It's not here right now, but they had another, I think it was 80 million today or something that, like that. So they had about $250 million of flows themselves into the ETH ETF's just this week, and that's just Blackrock. And then you had the others like fidelity and bit wise coming in at second and third place and then the long tail here having less. But what we care about, obviously, is the net flows over, over time here.
00:02:28.392 - 00:02:49.420, Speaker A: And if we look@the.net flows this week we actually had a positive day on the 30 July, which was, which was Tuesday here. We had positive 33.7 million. And today is also a positive day at plus 25 million. And this basically means taking all the inflows and, sorry, taking the outflow, which is, which is ethy, and then adding the inflows to that. And that gets you the positive number here.
00:02:49.420 - 00:03:20.456, Speaker A: And that was the first positive day on the 30th since day one. And then we have the second positive day now. But as I said, the ETH flows are basically reducing. This week we had 210 million outflows on Monday, 120 on Tuesday, 133 on Wednesday, and then Thursday was 78 million. Don't know what Friday is going to be, but we'll see how that, how that plays out there. So it's all playing out as expected, I think, you know, big outflows out of ETH to start with and then tapering off over time, and then the inflows going into the other ETF's. Now.
00:03:20.456 - 00:04:19.064, Speaker A: We don't know how much of the outflows from ETH have gone into the other ETF's yet. I'm sure there is some, some, some outflows there or, sorry, some, some, I guess, like flows going to there. And there's also a bunch of people, I guess, like selling BTC ETF's to go into the ETH ETF's as well, which you can actually see if you go to the BTC etfemen dashboard here and actually look at what the flows have been like. There's actually been a bunch of outflows this week, not out of Blackrock, but out of fidelity and I believe Ark and bitwiser. So there's been a bit of flows out this week of the BTC ETF's, which you can presume have gone to the ETH ETF's, to be honest, considering that there has been inflows into the ETH ETF's, which is kind of interesting to see as well because it means basically that people are doing the. I mean, I imagine some people are doing the kind of thing where they're like, okay, well, I want market cap weighted exposure to Ethan BTC. I'm gonna be 70% BTC, 30% ETH, and then there'll be a group of people who are, like, only buying the BTC ETF's because that's the only crypto ETF they had access to.
00:04:19.064 - 00:04:45.796, Speaker A: But let's say they're much more bullish on ETh. Maybe they're trading all of their BTC ETF for the ETh ETF's now. So there is definitely that going on as well. But as I've always said to you guys, like, this is only two weeks worth of. Not even two full weeks worth of data. And the ETF's are a very kind of long term, passively flowing vehicle. And you can expect these numbers to be up only over time here, because the ETH flows outflows will cease at some point, and there is still a substantial amount left in there.
00:04:45.796 - 00:05:16.922, Speaker A: I mean, if you actually look at the AUM of all of these, all these products right now, even though ETH has had that $2 billion of outflows, that's. That means they've still got $7.2 billion left in there and $1 billion in Grayscale's ETH mini trust product as well. So there is still a substantial amount of AUM in those products. And then you've got the new products, which came out like blackrocks, at 620. Actually, this is over 700 million aum now, bit wise, at almost 300 million, fidelity at almost 300 million. So you have a substantial amount.
00:05:16.922 - 00:06:02.538, Speaker A: Right, one and a half billion in the first two weeks just into these new ETF's, not to count the other remaining funds in, I guess, like the minitrust, which is over a billion right now, and also the Ethi grayscale. Obviously, we can expect outflows to come out of that, but I think that really, there's going to be a substantial amount that stays there. So it's very strong. It's been a very, very strong launch, and I'm super excited to continue watching this go on. And as I mentioned just before, I will be covering this on a week by week basis going forward for probably the next couple of months, and then I'll switch to a month by month basis, because, I mean, I've seen this in the deliquare Discord channel a bunch of times as well, where people like to hyper fixate on the daily flows. It doesn't matter and you can actually look at the price to see that it doesn't matter. Like the price of ETH has still just gone sideways right during all of this, basically.
00:06:02.538 - 00:06:28.550, Speaker A: I mean it's down a little bit from when the ETF's launched. It's at like what, 31 60 today ETF's launched and ETH was like 3500 or something like that. But if you take the range that ETH has been in since basically March, I think it's still in that range. So that's why I think like hyper fixating on these daily, even weekly kind of movements with the ETF's is not relevant. It's not relevant to price. It's not relevant to anything. The price stuff plays out over the longer term.
00:06:28.550 - 00:07:05.046, Speaker A: The ETF stuff plays out over the longer term. So that's why I've kept it on a, to a weekly update basis now with the ETF's for the refuel and then we'll shift it to a monthly basis because I know people are still interested in this and they want to get my take on this. But at the same time, I just don't think it's relevant for price. Like there is no way really to look at this and make any kind of short or even medium term prediction on what it's going to do for price. Long term, obviously, I strongly believe that it's going to be extremely positive for price. But short to medium term guys, especially short term as I've described before, is a random walk. I mean I showed my spreadsheet a few weeks ago where essentially on, on the daily and weekly timeframes, you have a 50 50 chance of getting it right.
00:07:05.046 - 00:07:51.434, Speaker A: Getting the, you know, predicting what the price is going to be on any given day. On a monthly cadence it doesn't get that much better. It's like 58%, but on a quarterly cadence it's around 70%. So when you look at it from that perspective, really looking at the price of ETH every three months and just once every three months would be much better because that gives you much more signal than looking at it every day, looking at it every week. And the same goes for the ETF flows and this goes for BTC as well. And this goes for basically all of crypto. I mean, I think the long tail of crypto outside of BTC and ETH are even more sensitive to this where they spend so much time basically in like shit performance ville, if you want to call it that, where essentially they're either going down against USD or going down against Ethan, BTC, or they're just going sideways for a very long time.
00:07:51.434 - 00:08:22.126, Speaker A: This is just how these things work, because a lot of the tokens on within the crypto markets, they trade as if they're not still kind of really risky things during bull markets. When they are, you know, a lot of these things are basically seed stage companies, guys. They're extremely risky, but they trade during a bull market as if they're not. And that tends to trick people into thinking that they're buying into something good because it's gone up so much. But in reality, you're buying into a mania. And most of the time, if you actually look at the charts of these things, they go down only especially against Ethan BTC, and a lot of them never come back. So you got to be careful there.
00:08:22.126 - 00:08:41.452, Speaker A: But when it comes to BTC and Ethan, they're very long. You know, it's a long term bet. It's, you know, there's much more confidence in BTC and ETh. It's a much less riskier assets. But because of that, you're not going to get the same volatility, and you're also not going to get the same performance, like, for BTC to ten X from here. That's a massive increase in market cap. Guys like, BTC's market cap is, what, $1.5
00:08:41.452 - 00:08:51.732, Speaker A: trillion or something like that. Right now, if I look here, it's less than that because we dumped a little bit. $1.3 trillion each. Market cap, 380 billion. Let's. Let's round that up to 400 billion, just.
00:08:51.732 - 00:09:06.560, Speaker A: Just for the sake of math. Yeah. So 1.7 trillion ish in BTC ingesttainde ten x is 17 trillion. That is, like, so much bigger than the total crypto market. Even the total crypto market cap right now. And the amount of capital that needs to come in to get us there is a lot that's going to happen eventually.
00:09:06.560 - 00:09:37.212, Speaker A: It's not going to happen anytime soon. It's going to be like a decade before something like that happens. So when you look at it from that perspective, you can see that, yes, they're safer assets, but they're also not going to give you those outsized returns. And that's why people go down the risk curve and stuff like that. But I've gone off a little bit of a tangent here, but I just figured it was worth reiterating those points there for you guys. Now, last thing on the ETF's, before I move on, there is another dashboard you can keep on top of if you are interested in keeping on top of the ETH ETF's, well, everything that with regards to the ETF's, not just the flows. And this is a dashboard from Hill Dobby.
00:09:37.212 - 00:10:06.342, Speaker A: He makes some of the best dashboards that I, that I use on Doon analytics here. But this basically has pretty much everything you would need, not just flows, but also the flows into each of the ETF's, the Aum and so on and so forth denominated in ETH and US dollars as well. So you can go check that out. I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, moving on to some tech related news. So there is the latest call, the all core devs call update here from Tim Bico on Twitter. He's got the highlights here of what was happening.
00:10:06.342 - 00:10:40.018, Speaker A: Basically more of the same I guess. Nothing major here. Devnet two specs are staying as is, so we should get a Devnet two for Petra coming soon. Devnet three is already being worked on as well. It seems like EOF is being pushed ahead, the EOF ERP are being pushed ahead here, even though there was some resistance from particularly the Geth team on this and there was a bunch of other, other kind of discussions happening here, but nothing major I think. I think that everyone's obviously heads down working on Petra right now. There are a couple of new proposals around state expiry, some stuff got to do with verkle trees happening, but it's more of, more of the same here.
00:10:40.018 - 00:11:09.876, Speaker A: So if you wanted to dive deeper into this, you can go check out this tweet. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But as I said, work just continues on the Petra upgrade, which as far as I know is still slated for for mainnet early next year. There. All right, just wanted to put this on your radar. So Eigen layer tweeted out a nice little picture here of basically all of the use cases. Well not, maybe not all of them, but like all of the currently known use cases of avss or actively validated services as part of Eigen layer here.
00:11:09.876 - 00:11:59.804, Speaker A: Now, I've talked about some of these before, such as decentralized sequencing, oracles bridges, so on and so forth, but there is so much more than that. Like DA, obviously with Eigen, Daev, but there is so much more than that. As you can see here, avss can be used for things like AI, execution can be used for databases, ZK provers, proof of identity, like a fully homomorphic encryption, so on and so forth. There, there are so many different use cases for avss. And I think what's funny about this is because if you actually take a wider view on this and look at each of these categories, there are actually layer one blockchains that have been created for each of these categories. So for example, for something like decentralized storage, there is filecoin, there is Rweve, there's a few others out there that I know of, proof of location that's not. There are some DPin products that are trying to do this not as their own blockchains, but as they're kind of like own apps on other chains.
00:11:59.804 - 00:12:33.186, Speaker A: I know that in the Solana ecosystem, there's a bunch of this stuff happening there. Within Ethereum, we do have a couple of things happening. There's foam, which is definitely focused on proof of location, not its own chain, but it's its own app here. And then there are other things like AI execution. You know, there are chains being spun up about that to do that. But I think the same logic applies here that it does to L2s, where I've said in the past, essentially, that if you're creating a new layer one today, you are better off creating a new L2. New L2, or creating it as a L2, because you get all of these benefits.
00:12:33.186 - 00:13:18.518, Speaker A: The benefits really, I think the biggest benefit is a massive cost reduction. You don't need to spin up your own validator set, you don't need to get that going. You don't need to worry about decentralizing out the kind of entire layer one, because you're already inheriting that from Ethereum if the L2 is constructed correctly, of course. So I think the same logic applies to these use cases with AVSs, where essentially an AV's is just tapping into staked ETH, or I guess like restaked ETH, tapping into the existing ethereum node operator set. And then you get to basically bootstrap these things using that, instead of trying to bootstrap it and bootstrap an entire layer one, and basically get that layer one supported by all of these different exchanges out there. Like it just becomes a messy thing, right? It becomes very. It becomes an uphill battle.
00:13:18.518 - 00:14:01.722, Speaker A: So essentially what Eigen layer is doing here is collapsing all of those costs, collapsing that, making it not an uphill battle, but essentially flattening it all. So you basically just get a cruise. The experience of tapping into this existing node operator set that's part of Ethereum, and doing whatever you want with whatever use case you want. And as I said, like there's a list of use cases here. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. But all of these things exist today, whether as a layer one blockchain or as some kind of service that is pretty much centralized, right? Or as some pseudo decentralized thing where they say okay, well we have a bunch of different operators working on this, but really it's, it's not really different operators. It's basically the team essentially asking other teams or paying other teams and saying to them hey, can you run one of these for us? We'll pay you to do that.
00:14:01.722 - 00:15:02.286, Speaker A: Whereas it's not really enshrined in the protocol, it's not really an enshrined thing, it's more of an ad hoc thing, it's more of a subjective thing. Whereas within AVss you can have a more streamlined process here you can basically there's a marketplace of node operators that you can pull from and you can do whatever you want, whatever use case you want, which is I think very cool, and get better security guarantees, lower the cost here. So that's what I'm most excited about when it comes to restaking generally. That's why I've said to you guys before that I'm most excited about Eigen layer because I think that Eigen layer has the, the, I guess like best team working on AV's infrastructure. And they have the right idea about focusing on avss where, and they obviously have the most TVL right now and the most integrations in terms of getting that note operator marketplace bootstrapped and live for people to play around with. But there are competitors out there, as I've mentioned, the symbiotic, there's crack, but they're focusing a lot on, I don't know, doing restaking with other assets, which I don't think is like the best path forward. I think that they're just doing that because they really need to get TVL obviously to be competitive.
00:15:02.286 - 00:15:31.972, Speaker A: But I think that Eigenlay is definitely the one that's focusing on the right things, which is basically the long term sustainable thing of making sure that the AVss are looked after. The AV's infrastructure is in place and the marketplace is in place there. And I should definitely disclose here I'm an investor in Eigen layer. But I'm not saying this because I'm an investor. I'm saying this because I haven't really seen much out of the other two competitors. I think there's more than that, but I haven't seen much out of the other two competitors. In the form of making sure that they have a good marketplace for ABS, is making sure they have good ABS infrastructure.
00:15:31.972 - 00:15:59.928, Speaker A: I hope they do work on that because as I've said in the past, I think competition is overall good. But Eigen layer is definitely the category leader right now. All right, so Coinbase has announced that getting on chain is now free. There are zero fees to transfer assets from your Coinbase account to base in seconds. This is pretty like, I guess, obvious that they were going to do this. As I've said in the past, Coinbase is running base. They have a vested interest in making sure that base activity goes up.
00:15:59.928 - 00:16:36.620, Speaker A: And what better way for them to do that than offer free transfers to the base network from Coinbase to get all the new users on board? So you can see here that if you select base from, from the Coinbase website here or the Coinbase app, you essentially have a free transfer there. But if you look at the other chains, like arbitrary other l two s, like arbitrum, it's not that much more expensive. It's $0.01. So free versus one cent. I mean, obviously free is better. But the thing is, is that it's not like it's a substantial jump. Whereas for a theory, main net, it is, for example, ethereum main net, it's seventy five cents to send an asset to, from Coinbase to Ethereum mainnet, which is layer one.
00:16:36.620 - 00:17:17.944, Speaker A: So that's obviously a massive increase over one cent and obviously over free. So from, from that perspective, users are always going to choose base or arbitrary optimism or any other L2 out there because they're always going to be cheaper. But I'd be curious to see how many people choose free over one cent. And at the same time, I think a lot of the time when people are withdrawing to a L2 from Coinbase, they're doing it for a specific reason. And not just a L2, but like really any chain. For example, if you want to mint an NFT and it's only on arbitrum, well, you're not going to go to base to mint that NFT, right? You're going to withdraw your funds to arbitrary, even if it cost you more to do that. You're not, there's nothing, you're not withdrawing the base because that NFT mint is not on base.
00:17:17.944 - 00:17:58.174, Speaker A: Right? And that's just a simple example here. But I guess, like eventually in the future, all of this is going to be abstracted away anyway. So it's going to be fun to see how that all plays out and how that looks in the future. But yeah, it's just great to see that base has, has made it free here or Coinbase, sorry, has made it free to transfer to, to base here. And speaking of base as well, the euro is now on base. So circles Euro C or EuRC, I guess euro coin, I guess it's called here, is now available on a base. So if you're interested in transacting in a euro or shorting the euro and doing that within the defi, within the ethereum ecosystem, then you can now do that on, on base here.
00:17:58.174 - 00:18:15.710, Speaker A: I don't know how big. I haven't actually checked euro, the euro coin recently in terms of like how big it is. I'm gonna go on Coingecko right now. I think it's very small right now. Yeah, it's like $37.6 million market cap, which means it's only 37.6 million euro euro C in circulation right now.
00:18:15.710 - 00:19:07.420, Speaker A: If I'm reading this correctly, I may, I may be looking at the wrong one, but I think I'm looking at the right one because I remember that I definitely wasn't very, very big because of the fact that everyone wants us dollars. No one wants the euro. But if you, if you look at that and then look at USDC, USDC is $32.9 billion. So it's like 1000 x bigger than then the euro coin here. But I'm glad to see that circle is still pushing this. And this is something that comes up a lot when people ask me about AUD stable coins because I'm in Australia, I live in Australia, I go to local meetups and they ask, you know, when, when is there going to be like a popular or a big AUD stable coin? And I'm like, well, is there demand for an AUd stable coin? Like, does anyone actually need that on chain? Maybe there's demand for it far into the future when we bring everything on chain and the aud just becomes something that's on chain by default.
00:19:07.420 - 00:19:50.968, Speaker A: But in terms of demand for these assets, it's very clear that the only demand generally on chain is for USD, for tether, and for circle euro, there's very little demand for right now. And I mean, every other asset, there's not much demand for either. Because I guess, like if you're on chain in crypto and you want to go to a stable coin, you want to go to the strongest stable coin, you want to go to the strong, I mean, you, sorry, if you want to go to fiat, a fiat peg stable coin, you want to go to the strongest fiat, you're not going to go. So let's, let's give a concrete example here for a second. Let's say you're holding eth. You write it up during the bull market and you're like, well, okay, I think it's, things are really heated right now, but I don't want to go back to my bank. I want to hold, I want to sell off my eth, but I want to sell for something stable, you know, a fiat stable coin, obviously.
00:19:50.968 - 00:20:50.396, Speaker A: And I want to hold it for like a year or 18 months, or I want to hold it until the bear markets over and then buy eth again. So in that example, like, you're going to go for USD because why would you go into euro unless you needed to transact in euro in your, in your everyday life, unless you needed the euro for tax. And I mean, you cash out some for taxes, but then you're not cashing it out for the euro stable coin. You're probably just cashing it all out into USDC or tether, transferring some of that to a centralized exchange, cashing that out to euro, not a euro stable coin, and then paying taxes like that because you want to go to the strongest stable coin, you want to go to the strongest fiat asset, and that is USD and has traditionally been USD for a long time now. So I think that's a big reason why USD is so popular, of course, but also liquidity begets liquidity. There's so much USD stable coin liquidity that it doesn't really make much sense to go to anything else, especially if you're a big player. I mean, even as a small player, like, the amount of liquidity for the euro coin is very low right now.
00:20:50.396 - 00:21:08.902, Speaker A: Whereas for USDC and tether, it's absolutely massive. Like, I'm talking billions of dollars. Guys. Like, this is real whale games here, real whales out there. They're not going to go into these other things because the market cap is not even close to the amount of money they have. Like, yeah, there are whales that have more money than the entire market cap of the euro stable coin. Yeah.
00:21:08.902 - 00:22:03.266, Speaker A: That's not to say that it won't keep growing, but that's just explaining why the us dollar stuff is so popular and so big is because when money can move so quickly and so freely and so in such a, like, permissionless way on chain, you money is going to gravitate towards the best assets, towards the assets that people know are not going to lose value over time and they're going to be the strongest against other assets and retain purchasing power, which is exactly what the USD does in a bear market. It will give you the best way to retain purchasing power if you think that prices are going to dump like 50 plus percent of Ethan BTC and so on and so forth. So yeah, anyway, but you can go check this out if you're interested in this, you can mince it now. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, staying on the L2 topic, eclipse, the Solana Virtual machine l two is now open for builders. So you can now go check this out. It's on Mainnet.
00:22:03.266 - 00:22:39.010, Speaker A: Open for builders. There's a blog post here, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this has been a long time coming. As you guys know, I am an investor in Eclipse because I am very bullish on non evm l two s over the long term, and Eclipse is one of them because they're bringing the Solana virtual machine to Ethereum. But what I'm really interested to see now that this is open for builders is what kind of apps are built on eclipse versus on Solana. Because obviously the natural thing right now would be for these Solana apps, existing Solana apps to essentially just port themselves over to eclipse. Like a lot of the EVM apps ported themselves over to the EVM L2.
00:22:39.010 - 00:23:16.758, Speaker A: So a lot of the layer one ethereum apps which are EVM ported themselves over to the L2 EVM chains and then also the other layer one EVM change as well because it was very easy. It was like a copy paste essentially, and they got forked to, mind you. But when it comes to this, like, there really is not much to choose from. This Solana and eclipse, I don't know of any other SVM environment that there is to choose from right now. So are we going to see all of those Solana apps come over to the eclipse chain? But. But are we going to see like apps launched on Eclipse that aren't on Solana? I think we're going to see both. I do think we're going to see some apps from from Solana come over to eclipse.
00:23:16.758 - 00:23:49.406, Speaker A: But I am most bullish on seeing people build apps that are unique to eclipse rather than just copying apps from Solana. I want to see like the GMX of Eclipse, for example, because GMX was very big on arbitrum. It's not a new thing, right? It's not a new primitive, but it was a new app that wasn't copy pasted from everything anything else. And as far as I know, it didn't deploy on layer one, it just deployed on arbitrum and has, I think since expanded to other chains. But I really want to see something novel deployed on eclipse that doesn't exist on, on Solana layer one today. So that's gonna be exciting to see. But yeah, as I said, this is now open for builders.
00:23:49.406 - 00:24:19.870, Speaker A: So if you are a builder and you're interested in this, you can go check this out. I'll look it in the YouTube description below. And I'm very much looking forward to seeing this go live for everyone and open up for everyone because I want to see, you know, what the fees are like, what the speeds like, what the ecosystem is going to be like compared to the other l two s out there. Because obviously there are a lot of l two s today. They're all competing with each other. And essentially it's going to be interesting to see what, how, how eclipse does since it is a non evm l two, because the top l two s today are all evm. So eclipse might be the one that breaks into the non EVM arena here, but we'll have to see.
00:24:19.870 - 00:24:51.070, Speaker A: And staying on the topic of non evm l two s movements, public testnet is now live. So for those of you don't know, movement is building infrastructure based on the move language. So this was a language that was invented by Facebook as part of their project Libra. And movement has been doing a lot of great work in this area. Now, as I said, this is the public testnet that's live. So this is going to be essentially a way for developers to get involved with movement and l two on top of Ethereum using the move language. But everything that I just said for Solana applies to movement because there are already movement.
00:24:51.070 - 00:25:32.824, Speaker A: There are already move based chains live such as aptos. So what I want to see is I don't want to see people copying what's on aptos over to movement. I want to see people building novel products on top of movement, on top of the movement, l two on ethereum that don't exist on Aptos, because that's how we push the industry forward. That's how we push the l two industry for the l two ecosystem forward generally. And actually, before I keep going, I should just disclose here, I'm an investor in eclipse and an advisor to movements. Like I, whenever I say that, I think people just assume that I'm involved in these projects in some way. But I, in terms of when it comes to l two s I typically get involved with them in any way that I can because as you guys know, I'm very bullish on the l two ecosystem, but I don't know which one's going to win long term.
00:25:32.824 - 00:26:01.446, Speaker A: And also, I'm really bullish on non evm l two s because there's so many evm l two s right now, and I believe most of them will fall off. But if we want to push the industry forward, we want to onboard new builders into the ecosystem. It has to be non evm. It has to be essentially new and novel things that get people excited, such as with Solana, it's rust, with movement, it's move. And there's others out there, like fluent, for example. It's another one I'm an advisor to, by the way, that's doing stuff around blended execution. So blending this all together, it's very cool.
00:26:01.446 - 00:27:01.546, Speaker A: I'm very excited about this, like, outside of ethereum layer one development, like the non EVM l two stuff, is probably a close second, I think tied second with restaking in terms of, like, what I'm excited about most in the ecosystem right now. But yeah, anyway, if you are a builder and you're interested in getting involved with either eclipse or movement, I'll link both of those things in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so ZKP two P has an update today of something that they're working on. So they're working on a marketplace for consumer digital goods. Now, you remember that I highlighted ZkP two P as this trust minimized fiat on and off ramp that you can use with small amounts that basically uses ZK proofs in order to protect your privacy and basically have like a near, I guess, like trustless onboarding and offboarding experience and creating a P two p marketplace out of that. Well, they've expanded this from just onboarding and off boarding to crypto into something like, like a ticket marketplace, for example, is the, is the example that they've used here. Now, it's not just a ticket marketplace.
00:27:01.546 - 00:27:49.114, Speaker A: It's basically just generalizing all marketplaces. But in this video, they say our first marketplace will be focused on creating a more consumer friendly secondary ticket marketplace. Now, I don't know how familiar you guys are with the fact that a lot of these ticketing, I guess, like places like Ticketmaster, Ticket tech, they're very predatory, they're not great, and they're definitely aren't great for the consumer. So ZK P two p is tackling this where essentially you can use their technology in order to buy tickets, in order to sell tickets to other people, in order to do this in a peer to peer fashion, which is really really cool. So you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But yeah, they basically give their thesis here about this saying that secondary ticket sales for, sorry, secondary markets for tickets are broken, expensive, unreliable and slow.
00:27:49.114 - 00:28:20.682, Speaker A: They have the worst NP's scores which is a net promoter score which is basically like how likely are you to recommend this to another person score. And ZK p two p thinks they can tackle this with cheaper fees, zero fraud and faster settlements. You can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do. So our last up here, growthepie XYZ has a new feature live on their website. They have contract address labels which are now open source. So you can check out their new labels page as part of their open labels initiative.
00:28:20.682 - 00:28:49.028, Speaker A: It makes it easier than ever to explore L2 contract addresses. So if we go to this page, I believe it's linked down the bottom here at labels grow the pie XYZ. You can actually see what's going on here. So as you guys know, each contract on, on a layer one or a L2, whatever chain uses a certain amount of gas and I guess does a certain amount of transactions. And we want to track this, we want to track this data. We want to compare it across chains, compare it across different contracts here. And that's exactly what grow the pie is doing.
00:28:49.028 - 00:29:16.068, Speaker A: But the problem is, is that you want to be able to label this because a lot of these contracts don't have labels attached to them. You don't know what they are unless someone has labeled them. So they've open sourced this whole thing where essentially anyone can come in and suggest a label and basically make it so that you can see what's actually going on in these contracts. You can see that a bunch of these contracts are currently not labeled, but there are some that are. So for example, this contract here is on base. It is Uniswap that and it's Uniswap's universal router. So you can see that.
00:29:16.068 - 00:29:49.908, Speaker A: That's why that's so popular, because it's part of Uniswap. Right? But then there are other contracts here, as I said, that haven't been labeled yet. But as part of this new initiative here, this open labels initiative, anyone can come in and label these and we can get better visibility across all of these different contracts on all of these different chains. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. Now, I wanted to quickly remind you guys that from August, August 10, I will be traveling around in Europe for two and a half months on a holiday. It was not related to work at all, is literally a holiday. And as I've mentioned before, I'm going to drop the refuel down to once a week.
00:29:49.908 - 00:30:04.796, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that that's not a promise. That's a. If I'm doing it once a week, I'm doing it once a week. If not, then I'm sorry, because it just depends if I have time. It depends if I have enough Internet bandwidth in order to upload a video. It will be on my laptop. So it'll be a bit different.
00:30:04.796 - 00:30:33.062, Speaker A: The camera will be different, obviously, the background will be different, everything like that. But I'm gonna try and stick to once a week. But I am gonna try and not pay too much attention to crypto generally as well, because I want to enjoy my holiday and I'm gonna be doing a lot of different things, you know, going and seeing a lot of different sites and stuff. But, yeah, I just wanted to get to give you guys a heads up that's coming up August 10, not too far away now. I mean, it's like, what, nine days away, eight days away now? So, yeah, I'll drop the refill down to once a week. And it's going to be quite random when it comes out. It won't be the same time you're used to.
00:30:33.062 - 00:30:49.620, Speaker A: I don't know what day it's going to come out. It really is just going to depend on when I can record one and upload one for you guys there. But yeah, anyway, I think that's it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
00:30:49.620 - 00:30:50.280, Speaker A: Bye.
