00:00:02.520 - 00:00:59.224, Speaker A: Hi everyone, my name is Yin Kai Li. Today I'm going to talk about making auctions robust to aftermarkets. This is a joint work with Moshe Baba, Nikolai Malika and Brandon Lucien. So our problem is about auction design, and most specifically, we consider a situation where our principal tries to allocate scarce resources to bias with primary values for those resources. And the goal of the principle is try to find the mechanism that maximize the allocation efficiency. There has been many types of solutions to this problem, which includes second price auction, whether it's just a single item or using uniform price auction when there are multiple units of the identical items. One of the crucial features that are missing in those classical option design is the presence of aftermarkets.
00:00:59.224 - 00:02:31.866, Speaker A: In many practical situations, after the auction concludes, the buyers can actually try to resell the items they have acquired in the aftermarket. And what's the impact of aftermarkets on the allocation efficiency? First, note that giving any fixed allocation after the auction concludes, the resia always improves the efficiency. This is because in the resia it can only happen that the item is transfers from low value buyers to high value buyers in order to satisfy their incentives, and this transaction always improves the frequency. However, another effect of aftermarket is that the possibility of berserk can actually change buyers behavior. In the primary auction. This change in behavior can actually have a detrimental effect on the overall equilibrium efficiency. So aftermarkets have ambiguous effects on the overall equilibrium efficiency and the mingle of our papers try to study this efficiency design with aftermarkets and note that which challenges in doing that is that in many applications in practice, actually the auction designer may not have control over the aftermarket, or even worse, in some situations, the principal does not have even knowledge about the aftermarket.
00:02:31.866 - 00:03:49.548, Speaker A: This is because for any pair of buyers, they can privately trade their items, acquiring the auction with the terms that the privately negotiated and the principle usually don't have exact knowledge about the detailed negotiated terms. And hence our goal here. For this talk, let's try to show you how to make the oculus design with the efficiency guarantee that I robust to the exact detailed formats of the aftermarket. The main application we have in mind is that actually motivates us to study this third question is the carbon emission allowance options. Nowadays, the carbon dioxide actually contributes a large fraction to the greenhouse gas, and this is also a leading factor that causes the global warming. And nowadays in Europe, the organization of EUETs actually designs mechanisms for solid carbon emission analysis, and firms need to first purchase the licenses in order to legally emit the carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. The current mechanism that has been adopted by UETs is the uniform price auction.
00:03:49.548 - 00:04:57.660, Speaker A: It has many benefits. For example, transparency means that at the end of auction, all the buyers know the prices asset for other buyers in order to win the item. And also has the benefits of price discovery, meaning the prices that for selling these items actually changed automatically as the realize demand of bias changes. And in this carbon emission auctions, usually there are aftermarket that allows the people to retrace the items acquired from central auction. And the addition benefits for allowing such aftermarkets is that it can provide insurance for uncertainty in demand. For example, if there is a firm that realizes he has more demands than he actually acquired in primary auction, he is able to actually purchase more license in the aftermarket. But the additional existence of aftermarkets also with the concern because it opens room for speculation.
00:04:57.660 - 00:06:15.314, Speaker A: Speculators can try to gaming the system to make profits, but this gaming of behavior can actually distort the rotation and leads to a worthy equilibrium outcome. And in our paper we show that actually this is a realistic concern for the current system, because the current adoption, uniform price auction is not going to be robust to aftermarket. And speculation plays a crucial role here for the market breakdown. And in order to restore the efficient allocation outcome, we are going to propose three alternative solutions that provide robustness on efficiency outcomes. The three solutions are respected are small solutions, posted prices and finally using uniform price auction, but with additional anonymous reserves. There are benefits and drawbacks for each of those solutions, and I'm going to elaborate on some later in this talk. But eventually I'm going to show that our final recommendation is the last solution, which is using uniform price auction with anonymous results.
00:06:15.314 - 00:07:13.774, Speaker A: Before moving on to the results, let me give you a little bit more detail on the exact model we are going to study here. The principle tries to sell m units of an identical good to undifferent buyers. Each buyer is going to have a decreasing marginal variations for the munus, and these variations are drawn independently from distribution effort. The whole market has two components, the primary auction and the aftermarket. The principal can decide what happens in the primary auction, but does not have any control over the aftermarket. More specifically, the principal can decide what are the allocation rule and the payment rule that can be implemented in the primal auction. And at the end of the private auction, each individual buyer is going to privately observe his own allocation and his payments to the principal.
00:07:13.774 - 00:08:27.844, Speaker A: And in the aftermath markets. We are not going to make any structural assumption on the format of the aftermarket. We are going to only impose two weak assumptions to ensure that the aftermarket is actually reasonable to exist in practice. The first assumption we made is budget balance, meaning that the premise in the aftermarket just transfers from one buyer to another buyer. It means that there cannot exist any outside source who doesn't care about the licenses, wants to put money into the system and buy all the license from the existing buyers. And the second assumption we made is voluntary participation that essentially ensures that all the agents has the option to just opt out the aftermarket and keep the whatever allocation he has acquired from the primary auction. And since this market structure has two stages, the solution concept will adopt the perfect bayesian equilibrium that ensures sequential rationality in the multi stage games.
00:08:27.844 - 00:10:00.176, Speaker A: But note that in our positive results, I'm going to show you in a bit all of those robustness results holds even for the weaker solution concept of bayesian action. Here in our problem, the goal of the principle is try to maximize the creation efficiency. With this in mind, the measure of efficiency we adopt is the price of energy for any maximum mix. The pressure of anarchy is defined as maximum ratio between the optimal welfare and the worst case equilibrium welfare given the maximum n, while the maximum is taking over all possible distribution over variations of all the agents. So using this measure of efficiency, let's first look at how the current adoption mechanism, which is uniform price auction, performs on this mesh. In this uniform price auction, buyers are going to submit their bids for each additional unit they want to win from the auction and then the items are sold to the m highest bids using the market trading price, which is set to be equal to the m one's highest bid. From the previous work we know that if we just try to run this uniform price auction without aftermarket, the allocation efficiency is actually quite good.
00:10:00.176 - 00:11:14.802, Speaker A: The price of anarchy is just at most e over e minus one. And this is under the assumption that all buyers are choosing undominated strategies, which is very reasonable because usually in practice we don't observe that players are choosing dominated strategy. And this shows that actually useful price auction works well when applied in isolation and this is probably one of the justification why the country adopted in the United States. However, we show that the market can break down when there are aftermarkets. In the worst case, the price of Nike when there are aftermarkets can actually be as large as the order of log m, while m is number of items that the principal tries to sell. Here is an example that illustrates once the market fails and the price of NFT is quite large. In this example there are three buyers, buyer a and buy b are actually buyers that value the item.
00:11:14.802 - 00:12:31.378, Speaker A: Buyer a has high value for the first two items but zero for the rest of the item. Biop have high value for the first unit but an identical, relatively lower value z of b for the rest of three units. While for the biopsy. He is a speculator, he doesn't value the licenses he just tried to buy from auction and we sell in the aftermarket to make some profit due to the linear amount of time. I'm not going to tell you about the details construction of the equilibrium, but very briefly speaking, what can happen in equilibrium is that the speculator can make profits from making very high bets in the prime auction and resell it to other buyers for profit in the aftermarket. And in order for the speculator to make to maximize his profits, he is trying to set a relatively high pricing in the aftermarket which can distort the allocation efficiency and lead to low equilibrium welfare. This illustrates that the aftermarket can be quite detrimental to the allocation efficiency while running the uniform price action.
00:12:31.378 - 00:13:34.858, Speaker A: Well, natural question to ask is whether this construction of equilibrium is reasonable. The concern might be that, for example, in single item option, by running single price it is expected that the allocation outcome is efficient. But there could exist some equilibrium where low valuation make hybrid such that item is allocated to the low value beta with low equilibrium welfare. But in that example, people as agents are using dominated strategies and it is important to check whether this is the case in our equilibrium construction and we are going to show you that that's not the case. One thing we can observe in uniform price auction is that the buyers may strictly benefit from shading their bits. This is the case for bias a and b. Here both buyers actually are going to win widely the primary option.
00:13:34.858 - 00:14:50.260, Speaker A: They deliberately choose to make low bets for the rest of unit in order to win the item with low prices so that their utility is maximum. And the justification for the speculator to make him high bids, even though he does not have any value for the item, is that there are actually complementary tariffs in the revenue for this speculator in the aftermarket. For amount we need the items. This suggests that. So what happens here is that for this speculator he can have a large revenue only if he actually wins a lot of items in his primary auction. If he lose even just one item in his auction, then the revenue of this speculator in the aftermarket can be significantly reduces. And the justification for him to making such hybrids as just to ensure that he can actually win a lot of items for resale in the aftermarket and this strategy is not a dominant strategy.
00:14:50.260 - 00:15:46.964, Speaker A: And combining these two points, we can see that actually our construction equilibrium is actually very reasonable. This further confirms the crucial issue of non robustness of uniform price auction when they are aftermarkets. In order to resolve this welfare issue, we are going to propose three solutions. First solution we are going to talk about is the smooth auction. An example of smooth auction is using the discriminatory auction indiscriminate auction. Buyers still submit their bids for each additional unit they want to win in the primary auction and the item are still sold to them highest bid. The main difference is that the prices are not set to be equal to each individual buyers marginal bid for the it.
00:15:46.964 - 00:17:45.264, Speaker A: This discriminant object is a special case of what we call more generally the smooth object and we see us maximum as lambda mutemus if there exists a deviating strategy for each bi with large enough utility expressed as in this following expression. I'm not going to give you details on this expression, but intuitively what it suggests is that in equilibrium the loss in welfare by deviating from the efficient allocation can always be partially offset by the auction revenue. This ensures the overall equilibrium allocation efficiency and as we have seen from previous work, anymore trends that are wrong without aftermarket have low price of energy, which is at most real overlap. And in our paper we show that this result is actually robust when there are aftermarkets, meaning that if the principal runs the primary auction, that is lambda moves most, then the price of anarchy of the combined market is also at most new overlapped. The idea for proving this actually quite straightforward, we can just simply view the combined market as a very large mechanism where agents need to make sequential decisions and we only need to find a very good deviation strategy for each individual to show that this large mechanism is actually something smooth. This division structure is constructed as follows. The agent can choose to follow the same division strategy as if the primal option is wrong in standalone with us aftermarkets, and after they get the allocation in the aftermarket, they can just choose not to trade.
00:17:45.264 - 00:19:07.684, Speaker A: And we can directly show that this ensures a large enough utility for the buyers and has the whole large mechanism is that blue smooth and applying the existing result, the smoothness of large mechanism implies the low price of energy. There are some additional benefits of actually adopting the smooth auction. So in addition to the concern of bond markets in many applications, the buyer can also invest to actually learn about other bias value and make betting strategies accordingly. And we show that if the principle use small stock trades, then the combined market also have constant price of Bennett kit, even with the presence of this espionage behavior. But certainly there are some drawbacks of using this mankind. One of drawbacks is that it has very complex strategic optimization requirements for each individual buyer. And if we want to run this in practice, it would be make it very difficult for small firms to participate because those small firms does not have research powers to estimate market demand and make the optimal bidding decisions.
00:19:07.684 - 00:19:57.874, Speaker A: So this is the drawback of smooth auctions. And next, I'm going to tell you about our second proposed solution. This solution is have very simple option formats. Here the principal just try to set marginal prices for each unit that he wants to sell. And the barriers are interactive sequentially as bars can make the purchase decisions until the items result on. There has been many works in solution that provide robust welfare guarantees without aftermarket. But in our paper we show that not all those prices works with the existence of aftermarket.
00:19:57.874 - 00:21:06.394, Speaker A: This is the limit of time. I'm not going to tell you about why those other approach fails. Instead, I'm going to tell you a successful approach which is using balanced price. The definition of balance price makes the requirements that first the prices should be high enough, meaning that price paid for any allocation should be at least lost near optimal welfare due to losing those items. And this is law bounded up to a constant effect, multiplicative constant effect. This ensures that given these balanced prices, whenever the agents purchased items, it always generates a large enough welfare to the overall satellite and also the prices should be low enough. Means that the total price of any allocation that remains feasible after allocating x should be at most achievable with items that are not allocated.
00:21:06.394 - 00:22:28.168, Speaker A: This ensures that given these prices, the remaining item can still be sold to the agent with reasonable welfare guarantee and the price vector is balanced if both conditions are satisfied. And we show that using those balance prices for any aftermarket, the price of anarchy of this combined market is always a constant. The main reason why we can generalize the results from auctions without offer market two situation with upshift aftermarket is because the prices are set to be large enough. This means that whenever a unit is sold to a speculating option, in order to rationalize the speculators behavior, this item must be resorted to another buyer in the aftermarket with high enough value. So eventually this item is going to end up with someone who values a lot per item. This ensures that the overall efficiency is quite high regardless of the aftermarket. And we also show that balance prices actually exist.
00:22:28.168 - 00:23:30.164, Speaker A: So when buyers have decreasing marginal values and there are additional benefits of using this, one of them is that it has low strategic requirements. The buyers just need to compare their marginal value for the item with the marginal price. But also, there are some drawbacks of using the exposed pricing mechanisms. First, it's a huge change compared to the currency solutions, so there might be legislation challenges for actually adopting this. And also it lacks the benefits of price to discovery, because the bias prices are and it cannot change according to the realized market demand. And therefore we are going to move on to our final solution, which is what we recommend for implementing purpose. So the solution is still using the uniform price option, but the buyer can only win the item if his marginal bid is above the reserve prices.
00:23:30.164 - 00:24:29.594, Speaker A: And we show that if we use the balance prices as the reserve price to the agents, actually, given any aftermarket, the price of energy of this combined market can always be insured to be account. And we, in addition, we show that actually an enormous reserve is sufficient. But also bias has decreasing marginal revenue, decreasing marginal values. This normalcy reserves the insurance fairness amongst all the buyers that participate in the game. We also see that this proposed solutions have many additional benefits. It's a minor change compared to the current system, because we only need to introduce an enormous reserve as inherits many benefits from the uniform price action. For example, the price discovery causes price can be adjusted according to the relativity.
00:24:29.594 - 00:24:59.994, Speaker A: And finally, we know that in order to find a good enough reserve process, the presearch needs to estimate the open reference for allocating the item optimally. But we show that even if the estimation is slightly incorrect, and we use the incorrect solution for calculus reserve. So welfare loss due to the error is actually quite small. So that's also my talk. Thanks everyone for attending.
