00:00:01.770 - 00:01:13.586, Speaker A: The hybrid smart contract is basically a term to encapsulate all of the on chain code, as well as all of the off chain systems that control and are controlled by that code. And so that's the more holistic vision of a hybrid smart contract. I think hybrid smart contracts are already redefining our industry. I think you can see this in the form of DeFi eye. I think you can see this in the form of decentralized insurance in terms of certain gaming contracts that guarantee outcomes to users, right? And really what you see is you see the same pattern again and again, right? You see decentralized financial products, decentralized insurance, decentralized gaming products. But really, when you look under the hood and you look at the architecture of these financial products, and these gaming products and global trade products, you'll see that they are equally made up of two parts. They're made up of a hybrid of the on chain code that defines the conditions of the contract, and then a collection of off chain systems that trigger the contract, prove things to the contract, or sometimes take actions on behalf of the contract and return proof that an action was taken back to know.
00:01:13.586 - 00:02:00.780, Speaker A: In the case of DeFi, that's often market data going to a contract to settle or to do lending payments to the gaming industry. It's often lotteries, right? So you have a lottery where you define the conditions of the game, but then the random number generator is off chain, and the random number generator has to prove, well, has to provide approvably random input into the lottery contract for the lottery to decide who wins. For global trade, it's the location of goods, it's the status of goods on certain supply chain systems. For insurance, it's things like weather data, and calculating that weather data in complicated ways to validate it, to make sure that the weather data is triggering the contract correctly. And so I think that you really do see a lot of hybrid smart contracts already redefining what blockchains are being used for.
