00:00:00.320 - 00:00:43.970, Speaker A: Welcome back to the defiant everyone. Today we're talking all about Dexguru and their AI orchestration network. Known as Guru network. Guru is designed to be the AI orchestration network responsible for coordinating and creating markets around compatible parties on chain. Through existing tools such as their flow orchestrator app, as well as plenty of upcoming releases, Guru looks to blend two of the hottest sectors in modern technology. Guru network is a layer three solution that allows for both Dapps and retail operators to natively embed AI agents and run compute nodes, all while earning network participation rewards. Guru was designed with the idea of frictionless interoperability between smart contracts and AI technologies.
00:00:43.970 - 00:01:35.070, Speaker A: As sectors such as blockchain and AI continue to scale, their cohesiveness is crucial in both retail and b two b settings. Guru provides a framework for a diverse array of products. Some products, such as the Dexguru trading terminal, are more retail friendly, while others are focused on data analytics and developer tools such as block explorers, a data warehouse and a data science tool set. Guru can be broken down into three primary categories, the Guru network, the flow orchestrator and the Guru framework. Now, the Guru network is responsible for providing a home for both real world actions as well as blockchain business process automation, otherwise known as BBPA. The flow orchestrator offers a user friendly, low code environment that simplifies the creation and management of projects. This feature enables users to fully customize and even automate their workflows.
00:01:35.070 - 00:02:21.004, Speaker A: Within the flow orchestrator, you can initiate projects and begin integrating components such as AI agents with state monitoring functions. Lastly, the Guru framework offers a comprehensive suite of functions for Dapp deployment and other AI driven processes within the network. Within this suite, you can fully customize your agents that are tailored for the specific tasks in the ecosystem. Okay, so now that we understand Guru network and its components, let's have a look at what's next. In addition to Dexguru's existing products, the Guru network has plenty to look forward to in its current roadmap. The main driver of this ecosystem will be the native Guru token, and the token liquidity bootstrapping pool will mark the beginning of phase one. After the token generation, the network will move into its v two phase.
00:02:21.004 - 00:03:30.706, Speaker A: Dexguru V two will mark the launch of its testnet as well as further deployment of the Guru framework for existing projects from the Dexguru ecosystem. Once v two has launched on the Guru network, holders of the DexGuru season pass NFT will then be given priority access to new product releases. Following a successful phase two, the network will move into its phase three which is marked by the official launch of Mainnet as well as the onboarding of ecosystem projects into the Guru network. Finally, Guru will transition into its phase four, where products such as the flow orchestrator, AI models, and more will all be released. While we're still very much in the early days of both AI and blockchain, their intersection remains one of the hottest narratives in crypto today. The sharing of AI agents and references throughout an ecosystem takes the open and permissionless nature of blockchain and blends it with the self improvement models in AI and machine learning. By integrating with pre existing products in the Dex Guru ecosystem, the team at Guru network are able to monitor points of communication to both improve their current ecosystem and the network development process.
00:03:30.706 - 00:03:44.830, Speaker A: Powered by their native token, Guru, Dexguru's AI orchestration network looks to provide an incentivized home for the future developments of AI models, agents, nodes, and more. As always, thank you for tuning in and stay defiant.
