00:00:00.120 - 00:00:18.074, Speaker A: Okay, so, it's a pleasure to have Jesus Alberto Palma marques from Weizmann Institute. Now, it's very recent, and he will talk about stratified resolution of singularities of generalized analytic functions. So you have about 50 minutes, and then we'll take some time for questions.
00:00:18.454 - 00:01:00.934, Speaker B: Okay, thanks. So, good morning. Good afternoon, everyone. And thank, thank you, Tamara. Thank you to the organizers for giving me this opportunity to present our work. So, I will talk about the certified resolution of singularities of generalized analytic functions. And this work is joint work with Beatrice Molina Samper from the universidad autonomous Madrid and Fernando Sanchez from the Universidad de Vallad, both in Spain.
00:01:00.934 - 00:03:10.414, Speaker B: And the first part of this talk is based on the seminal paper due to van den about the royal field with convergent generalized power series. And the second part of the introduction, where we will talk about generalized analytic manifolds. The spaces we are interested in, is based on a work due to Martin Luverde, Roland and Sanchez, where they proved the local normalization for generalized analytic manifolds in general, and also they introduced there in the category of generalized analytic manifolds. This category and all introduction is based on these two papers mostly. And then when we have all the ingredients and definitions and basic facts we have, we need to know, then we will pass to the second part, that is the statement of the satisfactory solution of similarities for generalized manifolds, and we will see the sketch of the proof. So, let me start by introducing first the class of generalized power series, which simply are former power series. Former, I'm sorry, former generalized power series, which are formal power series with real exponents instead of just non negative integers numbers.
00:03:10.414 - 00:05:03.310, Speaker B: We consider now the set of exponents as non negative real numbers with one condition in the support of the series. That is, the support will be the product of well ordered subsets of non negative real numbers. With this condition on, on this series we obtain, we can prove that the collection, the set of all the formal generalized power series are indeed a local ring, because it makes sense to take sums and products between between formal generous power series if you want a local r algebra. Okay, so a few instances of this class of power series are given by these examples. For instance, in Ode, we have that solutions to the Euler system. Give us the simplest example of generic power series, which is theta d lambda, where lambda could be any positive real number. Okay, so another instance is given by precise series, which appears in local geometry as local parameterizations of branches, or, I'm sorry, of irreducible local plane analytic curves.
00:05:03.310 - 00:08:25.548, Speaker B: Okay, these series here have fractional exponents instead of natural ones. So this another example. Of course we have also the class of certain cases of Dulagmax like the, like those we are seeing in the course of Patrick space, but I mean just a certain class of these ones which are given by the first return maps at polycycles with special vertices, that is, if we want to obtain a dulag map, that is, whose asymptotic development is given by a formal genetic power series, we have to consider polycycles with hyperbolic and no resonant vertices. And what else? Some special rings of the ring of all. The former generalized power series are of course the usual ones, the power series with natural support, with natural exponents, and of course the rank of convergence power series also in power series, and also an interesting rank for us, will be given by the mixed power series where we make a distinction between the variables where we take into account non negative real numbers as exponents, and those where we just consider natural numbers as exponents. And we call the latter analytic to remember that in fact, in the case of, I'm sorry, in the case of convergent generalized power series, these give rise to analytic functions in those variables in the analytic ones, I'm sorry, and okay, of course, the, the ring of convergence generalized power series, taking the usher notion of convergence in this setting. Okay, and before I talk about functions, let me introduce this, this notion of monomial type, and it's the following.
00:08:25.548 - 00:09:42.058, Speaker B: We say that formal generalized power series, or a mixed one with coefficients in analytic functions, is of monomial type if it is given by a monomial times a unit, a unit, let's use this, okay. And why this is important for us because we will talk about later in the second part of this talk about a resolution of singularities statement. Okay. And what we have, what we want, I'm sorry, is to obtain a process that, given any power source, any generalized power source, a conversion one, sorry. We look for a process that transforms these series into a series of monomial type locally. Okay. So I'm going to give the details below.
00:09:42.058 - 00:10:26.048, Speaker B: Both. Here's the definition of monomial type. And how can we know if, if a given services of monomial type? Well, we have two domain tools. The first one is the minimal support, okay. The minimum support of the power series s, and it is defined in terms of the division order between monomials. And here I just recall the definition of the division order on the non negative order in rm, and this is the partial order relation. Find the following.
00:10:26.048 - 00:11:47.912, Speaker B: We say that alpha is less or equal than beta if and only if it is in each entry. Okay? And in fact, this is called division order because we are thinking in monomius. Okay? So we have this remark that alpha is less or equal than beta if and only if the monomial x to the alpha divides the monomial x to the beta. Okay? And what we obtain is that the set of all the minimal elements with respect to this order is called the minimum support of the power series s. And it is always, always finite sets, okay? And it is finite. It is finite because of the condition that we imposed in the definition of generalized power series. That is that the support of the series is the product of well ordered subsets of non negative real numbers.
00:11:47.912 - 00:13:01.644, Speaker B: Okay, excuse me. So, yes, excuse, no, no, just a point, just remind, it is not that the support is a product, is that it is contained in a product of well order sets. It's not just a product, just Japan. It's okay, okay, okay, so, okay, well, this set, the minimal support of any given general life over series, is always a finite set, and it brings us final representation of the series s. And it is given by the sum. We take the elements in the minimal support times some units. Okay? So always we can rewrite any given general power series like this in these terms, and it is called the monomial representation of s.
00:13:01.644 - 00:14:36.634, Speaker B: And just a remark, we can see that generalized power series is of a nominal type if and only if the minimal support is a singleton. Okay? And the other tool we will use to read off if a given power series is of monomial type is the standard notion of Newton polyhedron. That makes sense for this case, again, because of the definition of generalized power series. And we can define it the Newton polyhedron of any given series as the boundary of the complex whole of the Minkowski sum of these sets. Okay, and here I put a picture to illustrate the way we construct construct the Newton polyhedron. For instance, imagine that this set of points is the support of is containing the support of some generalized power series. As you can see when we take into account the minimal support, the set of minimal elements with respect to the division order, where the obtain is the minimal support.
00:14:36.634 - 00:15:39.284, Speaker B: And finally, when we consider the complex coil of the Ngovsky zone, we obtain the Newton per the s. And as you can see, always happens that the minimal support of any given series is contained in the vertices sets or set of Newton polyshedron. It could be proper, but it always, it is always a subset of the vertices of the new temporary hydron. Okay, and of course, again, generalize, a formalized power series is of monomial type if and only if the vertices set of the new polyhedron consists of one point.
00:15:39.724 - 00:15:40.544, Speaker A: Sorry.
00:15:40.884 - 00:15:44.104, Speaker B: The inclusion goes in the other direction. Right.
00:15:48.204 - 00:15:50.624, Speaker A: So the vertex of the polyhedron are.
00:15:52.404 - 00:16:44.114, Speaker B: Yes, sorry, thank you. Yes, yes, we can see it here in the example here. And we lose, we lose this. Okay, so, yes, the vertices set is a subset of the new. Thank you, I'm sorry. So this will be our main tools to read off if given series of nomilton. And in fact, what we are interested in looking at is the size of, for instance, the size of this set.
00:16:44.114 - 00:18:02.644, Speaker B: Okay, the neural support, okay, so now I introduce the class of generalized dynamic functions. And it is simple to talk about this because we define a generalized function as the sum of a convergent generalized power series, okay, in its definition domain, it defines a continuous function which is analytic, analytic in the usual terms in the interior of this domain, okay, in general, the domains are subsets of the non negative deposited proton in Rm. Sorry. And what else? Okay, of course. And given a generalized function, we will say that it is, it is a phonomia type at some point. Imagine at the origin, if the power series are defined, it is of monomial type. Of course.
00:18:02.644 - 00:19:40.054, Speaker B: So now we will pass to the second part of this introduction, that is to introduce the category of generalized analytic manifolds, that is the class of manifolds, topolic manifolds. We can construct, construct with this class of functions. Okay, so here we have the definitions. First, we start by giving the definition of a standard analytic manifold that is simply a topolitan manifold with boundary and corners endowed with a real analytic structure, okay? And we will use this notation that refers to local range of spaces. That is, we present, we can present, of course, manifolds with some structure as a local range, space in range rings of continuous functions. In fact, we, here we are considering real analytic functions on a, and just copying this definition, we obtain the definition of a generalized analytic function that is a topological manifold with boundary and corners. Again, both design endowed with a generalized analytic structure.
00:19:40.054 - 00:21:31.432, Speaker B: Another way of defining this is saying that the transition maps are given by generalized analytic maps, okay? Or that we have an atlas, a maximum atlas and a structure given by generalized analytic transformations. And because of, we are working with, I'm sorry, topolic manifolds with boundary and corners and out with some structure, we can look at what is called the natural certification of this manifold, which is defined in terms of the boundary components, the boundary strata, okay, and here I put a picture that I think it's quite clear what, what we are thinking about when we say the natural certification of some manifold. Okay, we just look, for instance, we have a manifold, M. We just look at its boundary, and we certified the manifold in terms of the strata, the different strata that compose the boundary of demand for m. Okay, to the zero strata, the zero strata will be called corner points, okay? And that's, that's one. Yes. I will not, no, that's.
00:21:31.432 - 00:23:49.854, Speaker B: Okay. So, color points are just this strata of these natural specification. And now, now that we have given the class of functions we're working with, the category of where these functions make sense, that is, category of generalized analytic manifolds, what we want to do is to perform some morphism that we already know in the standard case, for instance, the growing offs. Okay? So how can we do that? How can we define, or we, we leave some known constructions in the standard setting to the generalized one. So, here we will follow the strategy set out by, again, Martini, Javert, Roland and Sanchez in the paper, where they prove the local monolithization sovereignty for generalized public series. And what they did is, was to introduce two technical notions of analytic manifest, okay, and what is the idea behind talking about the enrichment and the standard disabled manifolds? Imagine that we consider a generalized manifold and we want to take a blow up of this center, I don't know, at some center, promiscuous center, whatever that it is. And we wanted to construct the, this, this morphism.
00:23:49.854 - 00:25:12.510, Speaker B: So we have no idea how can we do that. So what, what we do is to look for an analytic manifold, let's say a, with, of course, an analytical structure. And inside a, we take an admissible center and admissible center, a standard admissible center, for instance, in our context, it will be subset with normal crossings in a. And we know that this morpheus morphism is well defined. So, we obtain here, and what we want to do is to lift this morphism into a morphism between generalized analytic manifolds. So, first, we will introduce what is the enrichment of a standard manifold. It will be a manifold, generalized analytic manifold.
00:25:12.510 - 00:27:17.780, Speaker B: And then, given a generalized analytical manifold, we will introduce the notion of a standard disabled one. I think that you can imagine what, what is next? What, let us see. So the enrichment, as the name says, of a standard manifold, Robbie speaking, is just to enlarge the structure of given manifold. So, if we consider standard manifold, let's say a, and we look the analytic structure, and maximal atlas describes this manifold, we can enlarge, we can endow the same topical space with a general analytic structure, just by considering the class of generalized analytic functions that are compatible with these atlas. And in this way we obtain a generalized analytic magniful denoted by a e. And this is called the enrichment of the standard manifold a. So, let's say that we conserve the central public space, but what we have changed is the structure of the manifold, okay? And of course we have that the identity map between space a defines a morphism between these locally orange spaces can be shown that and what is the standard disabled manifolds.
00:27:17.780 - 00:29:18.524, Speaker B: We will consider this option of standard disable manifolds. We will say that generally standard manifold n is first a standard deviation of generalized and Eric manifold is just a subshif of the structural shift that defines the structure of the manifold m, the gas manifold m, we consider a subshift which gives or which endows m with a standard analytic structure, okay? And such that this is important. So we consider a subshit given by real functions, but which enrichment recovers the larger structure, okay, this is important. And we will say that m is the standardizable if there exists at least a standardization of it, okay? And one can ask if all the generalized analytic manifolds are standardizable ones. The answer is not. There are examples of generalized analytic manifolds which cannot be standardizable, which cannot meet any standardization, okay? For instance, here I refer you to look at this nice example. We used to call it the exotic cylinder.
00:29:18.524 - 00:31:12.944, Speaker B: It's a nice example given by, again, Martin Villaverde, Roland and Sanchez in their paper, okay? So we will continue now to, by introducing the notion of blowing ups maps, we have all the ingredients, all the necessary ingredients to talk about growing ups in the category of generalized analytical efforts. And what else? I think I am. Okay, yes. Ah, yes. From now on, we will restrict ourselves to consider just a standard disable manifolds, okay? In order to be able to carry out morphism between manifolds, okay? So here I put another remark also from the work of Martin Villaverde et al. And this is how it looks, the morphisms between generalized analytical manifolds. Way they proved that any given morphism between two generalized analytic manifolds locally looks like monomial transformations at the points on the boundary, okay? That is locally of monomial type that points on the boundary.
00:31:12.944 - 00:33:24.644, Speaker B: So for instance, if we have here locally, here we have manifold n and amorphous to manifold n from a corner point, let's say p locally, this morphism f is given by monomial monolith transformations, okay? And also, they also prove that the class of analytic morphisms between a standard analytic manifold that can be lifted to amorphism. Between generalized analytic manifolds are those described locally by monolith transformations. Monolithide transformations, for instance, the blowing apps, we know an important instance, the blowing ups. Well, the class of blowing ups we are interested in the combinatorial ones I will introduce later. But to talk about blowing up morphisms, we need to know what a center is like happens in the analytic setting. We first say what it is, a center, an admissible center, and then we give the definition of a blowing up. So for us, a center will be not just the topological support, but we will consider a subset of manifold m and a standardization of the manifold.
00:33:24.644 - 00:34:53.010, Speaker B: And to disperse, we will call it a center of blowing off for m. If y, this is an unmissable center in the standard case, that is, y has normal crossings in M. Okay, and what else? Okay, so the definition, our definition of blowing ups in this category, it's the following. Given a generalized analytic manifold and a center, the blowing off morphism of M centered at y is just the enrichment of the usual blowing up of it, of the standardization of M, that is, here we are in the category of generalized analytic manifolds. And at the bottom, we are in the category of standard analytic manifolds. Okay, this is the standardization of M. Here we know by definition of y that y is an admissible center.
00:34:53.010 - 00:35:53.574, Speaker B: So it is well defined, the blowing up of M at y. And we just defined the blowing up of the generalized manifold at y as the enrichment of the known well defined blowing up morphism in the usual standard analytic manifest. Okay. Of course, we have this remark, demorphism. This is just because it is simply the enrichment of the unknown. Blowing up is proper subjective, and the restriction between the complement of the exceptional divisor we created by this means is isomorphic to the complement of the center in M. Okay.
00:35:53.574 - 00:37:00.124, Speaker B: And here is y is just the preimage by PI. Okay. And it's called the exceptional divisor. And as I said before, here we use, we just consider a special subclass of blowing up that is given by the combinatorial ones. And we say that blowing up is combinatorial if the center, the topologized port of our center, is the closure of a stratum of the natural specification of M. Okay? And here there is an important remark about this new class of growing ups in this new category of manifolds, generalized manifolds. And that is that, broadly speaking, we can say that blowing ups in the category of generalized analytic manifolds depends on the coordinates we take.
00:37:00.124 - 00:37:57.144, Speaker B: Okay, here I put the example, but I will pass to the problem. Now the resolution of this problem. Finally, there is two versions of this problem, two approach approaches to this problem. The first one is given by the local setting, the local framework, and where we just look for local normalization algorithms, local resolution of singularities of functions, as happens in the standard case, as in the courses. Okay, lectures, I'm sorry. And the global setting. Okay, till now it was just results about the local setting.
00:37:57.144 - 00:40:54.924, Speaker B: The general monolization setting was obtained by Martin Gulaberte, Roland and Sans in this paper, and they modify some ideas that appeared in the standard setting developed by Bilson and Minban, and also by Roland, Spicer and Wilk. Okay, and if we just want to look for an algorithm that given a power series, we can obtain a sequence of formal transformations that, that give rise a local monomial type function, we can obtain that by an algorithm, a nice algorithm developed by, in his paper about the rear field with conversion generalized power series. And also there are another known algorithm by Brolin and Tamara Servi, and also by Tamara in another work of her, and in the global counterpart. Till now, we just know the same answer, the certified resolution of similarities that we will introduce now. But for the case of dimension, at most three, the dimension one, it doesn't make sense, but in what we have proved previously, was the case of dimension three. Also the dimension, the two dimensional case, is obtained by the arguments given by Vandenrise and the space saver. Okay, so what is the certified resolution of similarities? First, what we want obtain, what we want to obtain is that given, for instance, generalized analytic manifold n consume generalized analytic function defined on it, we look for a sequence of blowing ups such that, I don't know, we obtain another manifold, another generalized manifold, M Tilde.
00:40:54.924 - 00:43:05.394, Speaker B: And what we want to happen is that when we look at the total transform, that is the composition of f with PI want to, we want that at each corner point on n tilde. Let's say n looks like anomaly times I unit. Okay, there, there is, there are local coordinates, or there is a local coordinate system centered at a given corner point, such that the germ of the total console at it looks like monomial type function. Okay, so we just want to look at the corner points, because if we obtain this at every corner point on n corner point, we obtain that generically, at each stratum of the boundary of m, you obtain the same situation with respect to the generalized components. Okay, so here is the definition of the stratified monomial function of given a generalized analytic manifold and a function on it. General, of course, we say that f is a certified monomial on m if it is locally of anomaly type m, corner point. Okay, this, this scheme, we, we already know that is true in the case of dimension at most three.
00:43:05.394 - 00:44:19.856, Speaker B: But what we obtained recently with Fernando Sanchez is the following statement that even a generalized analytic manifold function globally defined on it, then, for any given point, let's think corner point, for instance, there exists an open neighborhood of it and a finite sequence of combinatorial growing ups like this, such that the total transform of the initial function is the certified monomial and m sub n. Okay? And moreover, there is this remark. At each step of the resolution process, we can consider just resting ourselves to consider just centers of coordination, too. Yes, Jean Philippe, this result is in any dimension. Yes, of course. Yes. I'm sorry.
00:44:19.856 - 00:44:42.494, Speaker B: Yes, this is. Okay. Yes, it's. I'm sorry, I forgot to mention that. Yes, it's an linear dimension that is this generalized. The previous work, we just know. Okay, okay.
00:44:42.494 - 00:45:26.730, Speaker B: In dimension three. Now, with Beatrice and Fernando, we obtained this in general, for any dimension. Yes, the stratified resolution of singularities as we have got it. And the remark we put here is this first step. This stratified resolution of similarities is like a first step of a general resolution of similarities for any generalized analytics. And the. The idea is, it's.
00:45:26.730 - 00:46:01.414, Speaker B: It's nice. I can say I like, because it's. There is more. There is geometry behind geometric ideas behind the proof. And look, we, we start with an open neighborhood around a point, and then we look for a finite sequence of combinatorial blowing ups, such that. Blah, blah, blah. Such that we obtain that the total transform is a stratified monolith.
00:46:01.414 - 00:47:24.024, Speaker B: Okay, but let us see that this result is a consequence of the following situation. If we start again with the same problem here. Here, m zero is an open neighborhood or a corner point p, and we consider any finite sequence of combinatorial growing ups. Then, if we prove the result for any sequence like this, that is that given any finite sequence of combinatorial blowing ups, then there exists a finite sequence of combinatorial grown ups over it, such that the total transform of the starting function, that is the total transform of the initial function for us, is a certified monomial on the last generalized manifold. Okay, so if we are able to prove this, then we obtain this statement as. Okay, so this is what we do. And to do that, the strategy is to analyze in detail.
00:47:24.024 - 00:48:21.184, Speaker B: I'm sorry, these the these guys. What we do, what we did is to analyze all the finite sequences over an open neighborhood of a corner point. Initially. Open neighborhood of a corner point. We analyzed all the, all the possible combinatorial, finite sequence of combinatorial blowing ups. And our main tool here is to translate this into a linear algebra problem. Into a linear algebra, I don't know elements.
00:48:21.184 - 00:49:23.324, Speaker B: Okay, why, how we do that? Well, we do it using what is called, known as matrices of exponents, which can be found in the works of Bruno and also the sobskaya. I'm sorry, I always pronounce wrong this surname. And we rediscovered this translation. And it's the following. When we look at this finite sequence, what we are really seeing is the following quiver. This is the starting open neighborhood of corner point. This is the structure and the atlas that defines the manifold m one.
00:49:23.324 - 00:50:24.852, Speaker B: That is, this is the open cover, and these are the transition maps that defines m one. So on. This is the atlas that defines nm. These are the horizontal arrows are the local pictures of the combinatorial. And what we have is that both the local pictures of combinatorial loginops and the transitions maps between the atlases of the given manifolds are all of monomial type, are given by monomials. Okay. And we have a tool that, given a monomial transformation, translate it in linear transformation.
00:50:24.852 - 00:52:05.194, Speaker B: Okay, we can think about it as a lognet point of view makes sense. And so we have a dictionary between monomial transformations and linear transformations. For instance, just to clarify this point, if we consider the blowing up of the origin in two reals, in the positive quadrant in r two, we can see this geometric picture. But what we have is the two local picture of PI and the transition map between the charts defining this manifold. Okay? So if we want to analyze these maps that are given by nanomiers, we can do it in terms of linear transformations. And we think that dealing with linear maps is easier than dealing with monomials and exponents. So it simplifies a lot of calculations, make clear the most of the points needed to get the proof.
00:52:05.194 - 00:53:05.268, Speaker B: So with this tool, we analyze the space of all these gas, which we have called the monomial vote et al. I'm sorry, of M. So, summing up, I'm sorry. The main step of our proof is the following. With these tools, the minimal support, the mineral spore and the Newton polyhedron, that allows to read off if a given generalized analytic function is or not of another type. And with this dictionary of linear transformations, we study the family of all the possible finite sequences of combinatorial long enough. And here I say all.
00:53:05.268 - 00:54:56.364, Speaker B: But in fact, we also consider just those obtained by monomial decentralizations, okay? Given locally by monomials, pure monomials without unities. And we call the class of all the possible final sequence of combinatorial the monomial vote epale of MCO the initial neighborhood. And based upon the seminar work about the bootleg by Hironaka and when I said we study in the ten days, we study how the, how the transition maps are. And given that is a very crucial step in the proof, given a local monomial standardization, for instance, around a corner point, we ask if we can extend, extend it to the whole manifold. Okay. For instance here, if we have a monomial standardization in some local chart, we would like to give rise a global one along all the manifold Mn, for instance. So we answer in the positive way this question that we show that it is always possible to globalize local standardizations.
00:54:56.364 - 00:56:09.042, Speaker B: And finally, we just focus on the algorithm of the combinatorics that monomerize any given function. Sorry. And what we did is to modify somehow the known strategy due to bandedries and Spicer modifying that we were able to obtain a good algorithm, good global procedure to modernize any given generalized function. And this is just remark, we can think about these kind of algorithms for the certified resolution of similarities as answers to modified version of Hironaka Polyhera games or Hironaka game in terms of. For. I'm sorry. Hiroka games game.
00:56:09.042 - 00:56:13.362, Speaker B: Sorry. For the case of generalized power series.
00:56:13.458 - 00:56:17.374, Speaker A: Okay, sorry, I lost you here.
00:56:17.834 - 00:56:33.854, Speaker B: Yes, this is the last slide, supposedly. Don't forget to attend the. She will bring more details and. Thank you, thank you.
00:56:36.314 - 00:56:39.594, Speaker A: We have like 30 seconds for a question.
