00:00:00.250 - 00:00:21.920, Speaker A: I think the flagship number for US Equities is crypto or options trade 35 x spot. I mean, we have to remember that traditional equities launched in, like, the late 70s. So we've we've had about 50 years to get to that growth level or to that multiple. I think that's something that Crypto or DFI specifically can do in less than ten years.
00:00:23.730 - 00:00:24.882, Speaker B: Belker, baby.
00:00:24.986 - 00:00:25.798, Speaker A: What's up?
00:00:25.964 - 00:00:27.560, Speaker B: We back at five.
00:00:28.010 - 00:00:30.200, Speaker C: All right, what are we talking to today?
00:00:31.210 - 00:00:35.510, Speaker B: I feel like you're setting me up for, like a two Charlie intro where I like, royally.
00:00:36.810 - 00:00:44.330, Speaker C: Anyways, we're talking I was talking to Julie in the office today about the episode. She's like, I listen when Jason goes too shar, baby.
00:00:45.310 - 00:00:57.086, Speaker B: Julie messaged me. She's like, Are you having a baby? A child? I was like, no. What? She's like, I was listening to Bell Curve. She's like, Mike was making jokes about your impending baby. And I was like, oh, my God, my day. That.
00:00:57.108 - 00:00:58.410, Speaker C: Julie listens to bell curve.
00:00:58.490 - 00:00:58.846, Speaker B: I know.
00:00:58.868 - 00:00:59.440, Speaker A: Me.
00:01:01.810 - 00:01:37.014, Speaker B: Add it. So okay, no. We've got two really interesting guests for this episode talking about options, like fixed rates. I think the reason we wanted to do this episode is we've been talking a lot about fixed rates. Like the 30 year fixed rate mortgage. Like, when you go out and get that on the you go out to your bank or something and you get that the 30 year mortgage is not a beast that exists in nature that is created with their variable rates, and then folks use options to lock those rates in. And so we wanted to do an entire episode just on decentralized options and decentralized derivatives.
00:01:37.014 - 00:01:52.046, Speaker B: We brought on Tristan, who's running Zeta Markets, which is on chain derivatives and options, and then Udav, who's one of the co founders of Friction. So building these different yield strategies and options vaults basically built on exactly.
00:01:52.148 - 00:02:11.974, Speaker C: Yeah. So we kind of got into know it took us, I think about we really started the interview talking about just the current state of the market for decentralized derivatives, and then we kind of connected it with our overall don. He got there without us even prompting or anything. So really great episode. We cover a lot of super interesting ground. Hope you enjoy, guys.
00:02:12.092 - 00:02:31.446, Speaker B: Enjoy. See you on the other side. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. This is episode what is this, Mike? I think five. Episode five. This is all about, I don't even know, freaking season one and I'm already losing the episode. So this episode is all about decentralized options, decentralized derivatives.
00:02:31.446 - 00:03:01.494, Speaker B: Again, one of the ideas of this season is that fixed rate, like, one of the big unlocks that comes from the ability to borrow and lend. Fixed rates could kick off this next bull market. Fixed rates are not actually something that exists in traditional markets. You really have these variable rates in TradFi, and then you use options and derivatives to lock those in. So today we have Udov, the co founder of Friction Labs. We have Tristan, who's building data markets on chain derivatives and options. So.
00:03:01.494 - 00:03:03.778, Speaker B: Tristan. Udov. Welcome to show guests.
00:03:03.874 - 00:03:05.142, Speaker D: Thanks for having us on.
00:03:05.276 - 00:03:27.822, Speaker C: Maybe we could just kind of start from a high level in general. I think when you're talking about something like decentralized options or derivatives, you almost can't get too high level. So you kind of just walk us through architecturally, how is an on chain derivative kind of built? How is it different from maybe its CFI equivalent? And then kind of talk about the state of DeFi derivatives today, like how large is the market? What do you kind of expect it to be?
00:03:27.956 - 00:04:09.114, Speaker D: Yeah, I can kind of jump in and give some thoughts. I mean, we've tried to model a bunch of our stuff off how it's done traditionally in, I guess, the traditional finance industry. So we've gone initially with our first product around the kind of orderbook style model. And we also offer under collateralized trading, which we think is like a big unlock for a bunch of these DeFi platforms. I think historically you've seen fully collateralized over collateralized platforms and that's kind of stifled, I think, DeFi historically with a lot of these platforms. And so I think that was a pretty big innovation there, enabling a lot more capital efficiency. And then what was the second part of the question?
00:04:09.152 - 00:04:16.320, Speaker C: Sorry, just walk us through the state of the market today. Like what sort of different derivatives kind of exist? What's the market size?
00:04:17.650 - 00:04:52.006, Speaker D: Yeah, good question. So I think DFI as a whole, still 50 billion TVL roughly, last I checked, maybe that was a while ago, things have probably gone down since. But from, I think the split of market share, I think 10% was roughly dYdX, which is like the majority of perp stuff. That was before I think GMX became pretty big, which was more recently. So I'm not sure what the exact split is now, but it usually sits around that like no more than 20% of market share is down to derivatives. And that's in pretty stark contrast to, I think, what you see in CFI and traditional finance. In CFI.
00:04:52.006 - 00:05:39.590, Speaker D: I think the numbers last I checked in this jump report were 57% of all traded volume on CFI. Crypto is derivatives. And that's obviously very much driven by the demand for Perps on a lot of these really liquid Perps exchanges, FTX finance and like and then traditional finance, I think it's more like 95% is really down to derivatives trading futures and options just being the bread and butter of the industry there. So that's pretty interesting. In terms of the DeFi stuff, I would say most of the market, as I mentioned, is still kind of spot trading, lending, stuff like that, like pretty simple, primitives. We're seeing more in terms of the derivative side coming up. There are some good players in the kind of decentralized, what do you call it, perps trading space.
00:05:39.590 - 00:05:58.800, Speaker D: So a few on Solana, a few kind of on Ethereum as well. dYdX GMX. Like I mentioned mango on solana. And then we're seeing, I guess, the early signs of some of the option stuff coming to, you know, obviously what we're building, what the Friction guys are building as well on the kind of vault side as well. But it still feels like pretty early days on that side.
00:06:00.530 - 00:06:07.298, Speaker B: Who are you guys seeing as the primary users of these products, right? Like, who actually wants exposure to the options and derivatives markets today?
00:06:07.464 - 00:07:20.066, Speaker A: Yeah, this is an interesting question because there's probably five or six buckets of users if we go all the way from kind of degen crypto DeFi native to institutional wealth manager, family office, everywhere in between. The appetite obviously comes largely from the left side of the spectrum, but I think a big part of people seeking real yield is kind of the meme for this cycle, which actually is quite true in some sense, since most of the returns coming from the futures and options and perp spaces is actually just from the inherent risk property of an asset, whether that's the implied ball of the asset or whether it's the funding rate or whether it's an arbitrage between the funding rate and a spot market. I think those are the people who are looking for more sophisticated forms of yield but also understand a bit of the risk. I think as we see kind of normie DFI education increase, it's quite important to make sure people understand that there are different risks you're taking with us versus farming in a univ three LP or univ two. I think traditionally the market has been really DFI native. Something that we're working on a lot with friction institutional is kind of bringing in this wave of family offices, high net worth customers and institutions who are more like custodian heavy. So let's say you're a normal family office in Triadfi.
00:07:20.066 - 00:07:43.600, Speaker A: You want to onboard into DeFi. You need a custodian to help you on ramp. Partnering with custodians like Fireblocks, Copper, Anchorage make life a lot easier for these guys to get in to the ecosystem and then they end up knowing the fundamental principles of kind of finance or the products that they trade in their markets and they can carry them over into DeFi. They just obviously need to understand how the rails are a little bit different than when they're used to in the traditional world.
00:07:44.850 - 00:08:27.200, Speaker C: How would you outline I mean, I don't know if you guys follow Z Prime at all, but they wrote a great blog post a little while ago on just the state of decentralized derivatives and there was something that really stood out interest. And I know you did a podcast recently with Delphi where you kind of talked about this, but just like right now, the market for CFI options. While small like notionally compared to TradFi and everything, it largely dwarfs, right? I think it's like several orders of magnitude larger than the market size for DeFi derivatives. Why is there such a difference in market size there? And then how do we get like what do you ultimately see as the tam kind of being for decentralized options? Let's just say decentralized derivatives, but we can mostly refer to options.
00:08:30.370 - 00:09:16.190, Speaker D: It's just the majority is down to I think it being a really hard problem to solve. And then probably the second bit is also where the majority of users are in terms of their experience with on chain trading. So on the first kind of point, this is really what I think spurred us to start Zeta. We saw a lot of the platforms that were out there maybe a year and a half ago and I don't think they were super satisfactory in the product that they were offering. So I won't name any names, but a bunch of these ethereum protocols they were trying to do on chain options trading, it would be to put on a call spread, you'd have to pay like $200 in gas fees, say. And it was just really expensive. There were just like massive spreads on their order books, no liquidity, it was just like completely unusable.
00:09:16.190 - 00:10:05.934, Speaker D: And so we saw that as a big opportunity to kind of step in there and start providing those products. The thing that kind of enabled that for us was building on Solana given that it had higher TPS guarantees, it had order book primitives and all these other kind of core building blocks that we needed. And so that's allowed us to actually be, I think, the first people to build out an actual viable on chain options exchange. And currently we are on our kind of altcoin stuff like Solana options markets, we're actually doing more liquidity, more size than derabit, which is pretty cool, as well as like tighter markets, which I think is pretty impressive. Still don't quite compete on the BTC and its side. We only just launched that like a couple of weeks ago, but obviously going to be working towards that. But simply the fact that we can process a bunch of this stuff subseconds so we can do Oracle updates really quickly.
00:10:05.934 - 00:10:38.874, Speaker D: I remember with, I think, Hedgek back in the day, they would basically manually plug in the IV values once a week, which I don't think is super satisfactory given that options move very quickly intraday. So it was pretty funny. And so Al's obviously used Pith under the hood, very quick price updates. We can update all our mark prices and kind of liquidate I think very efficiently. And given the nonlinearity of options, I think that's super important. And then the second bit on I think where the DeFi user base is at. So Udav kind of alluded to this already, but I think the majority of it is.
00:10:38.874 - 00:11:18.120, Speaker D: Retail kind of focused at the moment, and most people are in that bucket of yield farming, yield generation. So people haven't quite got their heads around, I guess, options trading, stuff like that. Even Perps, I think people, they can kind of grasp that. But then options, you have theta decay and time aspect of all that, it just becomes a lot more complicated. So hopefully over time, we get there. But I think it's going to require some simplifications in the UX and what we're kind of hoping for, as well as this gets integrated as the back end for a bunch of services. And hopefully, eventually, at the end of the end of the day, people are doing impermanent, loss hedging, and they don't even know they're using options.
00:11:20.730 - 00:12:08.874, Speaker C: I've got two maybe different lines of question I'd love to get your guys opinion on, which is one, just like, what's the proper ecosystem both of you guys are building on solana. I know, but recently there was the announcement, like Say, which is a central limit order book, which is its own DAP chain that's leveraging the Cosmos SDK. So I'd love to get your thoughts on just, like, general purpose blockchain supporting DeFi protocols, maybe, versus appchain specific. And then, Tristan, you just kind of mentioned Perps, which has been the dominant structure for derivatives in crypto thus far. So I'd love to just get your thoughts ultimately on instruments, but maybe we can start with different ecosystems, right? Like Solana, I think in terms of was kind of leaps and bounds, quicker than ethereum, certainly like a year ago. Much faster, much cheaper, all that kind of stuff. Recently, Cosmos has attracted dYdX.
00:12:08.942 - 00:12:09.126, Speaker A: Right?
00:12:09.148 - 00:12:35.870, Speaker C: And then Say, it's almost like a mix of an app chain versus a general purpose blockchain. It's like a general purpose blockchain with some stuff built in, right, that's supposed to be it's a central net order book, almost purpose blockchain. So I'd love to get your thoughts on just where you guys see D five building out. Is it going to be mostly on salana? Cosmos ETH l two, like, some mix of all three. What makes for a fertile environment, I suppose, for DFI?
00:12:37.330 - 00:13:09.654, Speaker D: Yeah, I can jump in on the chain stuff because we are built on salana primarily now, but we've actually been working with the Say guys for quite a while. I've been talking to them for quite a bit when they were kind of building out the early designs for their protocol. And so we're actually launching very imminently on Say as well. They were helping us kind of build out our protocol over there as well. And I'm pretty big fan of their team. I think they're great. I actually just met up with them in a Stanford blockchain week over in SF, so it was good to kind of touch base and see how things are going there and definitely pretty excited for what they're building out.
00:13:09.654 - 00:13:56.230, Speaker D: I think the fact that they can get the finality and block times down pretty low makes for a pretty compelling case for kind of order book based blockchains. And what I really like about app chains, I guess is that you can tune the parameters of it and so if we're trying to build something that's very specific to high frequency derivatives, that seems like a great way to go. The only thing you kind of forfeit I guess is somewhat of a level of composability, which I think is probably what is somewhat holding back Cosmos in the long term is you have to kind of breach assets to everything. That's what solana being. This kind of monolithic chain I think probably does a little bit better on in terms of composability. You have all the primitives on the one layer. It's very easy for us to compose with any other kind of financial primitive without having to worry about any kind of inter blockchain communication.
00:13:56.230 - 00:14:21.950, Speaker D: But I guess there's trade offs everywhere. There the kind of trade off that's been happening for Solana that I'm sure everyone as a DeFi founder can share my pain with is NFTs kind of clogging up the chain, bringing the chain down and having all kinds of problems. And I know there's been some talks of like, hey, can we build a salana l two or a fork of salana and just ban NFTs and just keep it DFI only? So that's pretty funny.
00:14:24.930 - 00:15:24.674, Speaker A: Yeah, I think the question is interesting because the answer is honestly just how do you price a market fairly and why would anyone ever want to price a tighter spread on chain than off chain? Doesn't matter where it is. I think the idea that we get continuous liquidity for these complicated products on chain at tighter spreads than off chain is just fundamentally broken right now in DeFi. I don't think it makes sense for a maker who comes into a DeFi world to price anything tighter on chain because A, they need to hedge this. If they're hedging it with a different product, then they're probably doing that off chain as well. If they're hedging it with the same product, let's say you're hedging a sole option with a sole option some else, both venues and any venue really for Solan options right now is pretty tough, continuous liquidity wise. I think when you think about it like blockchain versus blockchain, the maker is going to ask themselves the same question like how did serum get bootstrapped? Well, there was five people who got in a room and said, okay, we're going to quote really tight on serum spot markets and then serum is going to open up to allow anyone to build perps like Mango, which provides some unique benefits that don't exist on other places like dYdX. Right.
00:15:24.674 - 00:16:34.860, Speaker A: You can cross margin against any asset on Mango, which is a leading perps tax on Solana, while on dYdX you can only USDC margin. And I'm sure this will change with dYdX chain, but I think a lot of these things have been thought about when initially kind of serum was rolled out in terms of kind of being competitive versus other just app chains. But yeah, generally I think being aware of how a maker is going to price something is probably the thing that most DeFi protocols don't do is like is there a reason for a maker to want to price this product really tight? And if so, is this type of liquidity providing actually the best source? I mean, generally we think that RFQs or request for quote models are a pretty superior form of pricing for large size nonlinear products like options because you get everyone in the same place for a short period of time. This is the same way the Treasury's auction and large commodity windows like the Platts auction work in TradFi and we've seen you need to aggregate players in the same time, same window in order to get large size done, which is a cool take. I think some auctions or some app chains will be built with this idea too, but I think saves building some exciting stuff, exciting to see that whole world develop.
00:16:35.710 - 00:16:51.280, Speaker B: What is the incentive? I think maybe I'm not understanding something fully. What is the incentive then for market makers to quote, to get these incredibly tight spreads in DeFi? What will drive that? If you're saying that there is no incentive today, what will change?
00:16:51.810 - 00:17:33.930, Speaker A: Guess. Guess what the incentive has been? Historically it's been token emissions. Right? Look at the IDX, look at Deribit, right? Derabit gives equity, paradigm gives equity. These are all the largest traders of derivatives in the CFI world and even on chain protocols have to give token or some form of compensation because otherwise the maker has no real reason to take on unnecessary risk. Right? And this is I think, one of the things that turned a lot of market makers into VCs early on in crypto is like oh shoot, well now we suddenly have these giant bags of early stage protocol tokens. What are we going to do with them? Well, let's try to get an agreement with them to trade their token against the perp. So it opens up this weird flywheel that I personally think is a little bit confusing and really tough to price these incentives.
00:17:33.930 - 00:17:41.040, Speaker A: Look at all the work done on dYdX incentives and a lot of stuff going on there that I think the industry has learned from.
00:17:42.770 - 00:18:05.270, Speaker C: Do you guys have a thought on because say is really leaning into the central limit order book model. What's the correct model to provide? We've got AMMS, which is super novel invention of crypto. I think overall there are obviously some problems with that. How do you guys kind of weigh the benefits of a central limit order book versus an AMM model and then how do you see that kind of breaking out into the future volumes wise.
00:18:06.410 - 00:18:41.982, Speaker D: Yeah, I think we kind of tossed up both in the early days. We actually wanted to build a hybrid model and maybe we will build that initially. I think they kind of solve almost two different problems. So I think AMMS are fantastic for this innovation of liquidity bootstrapping. So getting yourselves zero to one, but I think then they kind of getting one to N and getting really deep liquidity. That is where they struggle a bit. They always tend to be a price lagger and you tend to always get kind of adverse selection and picked off as the liquidity provider there maybe that's like a bunch better in univ three, but I need to kind of obviously look into that a bit more deeply.
00:18:41.982 - 00:19:22.414, Speaker D: But with order books, I guess then that's basically the gold standard for what people use in traditional finance. That's where you get the best price discovery. But the problem is someone needs to be an active liquidity provider. That's obviously been probably the single biggest challenge that we've had to work with is paying up for market makers and getting them integrated and getting them to pretty much like 99% uptime on our exchange on DFI, which is really hard, especially because I think DFI is not super favorable to makers as kind of Udov alluded to. It's very easy for them to get picked off if the chain performance kind of starts to drop. They get all these orders that are left open on the order book. People kind of snipe those and they lose a bunch of money.
00:19:22.414 - 00:19:53.900, Speaker D: So it's really not favorable for them. It's really suited for the taker. So I think those are the kind of two models there. We wanted to build something eventually, hopefully, that kind of hybridizes the two where you can use an AMM, I guess, to kind of bring that initial liquidity and then kind of have that run through the order book. I think protocols like Radium tried to do that with serum. I'm not sure how effective that was. And then I guess the last primitive that was also mentioned were RFQs, which I think also give pretty good pricing and we've seen some good examples of that out there as well.
00:19:57.150 - 00:20:50.534, Speaker A: I think AMMS have evolved a ton since the OG balancer uniswap launch. I mean, all they are really is a way for passive liquidity providers to try and generate market maker P L. And I think quickly it was figured out that passive liquidity providing in the long term is not plus EV. I think it was pretty challenging for people to figure that out because the incentives were what were driving participation in some of these pools. I do think that Tweaking, the constant product market making model, for example, the stable swap invariant that curve used is unquestionably very powerful, right? Like look at the volumes going down curve still today. It's quite useful for stable, stable, stable pairs and I think that's probably what's most exciting to me in kind of the historical AMM world. I mean, if you look at Univ Three, it's an AMM, but really it's an order book, right? Range orders just look like showing orders on multiple levels.
00:20:50.534 - 00:21:34.314, Speaker A: And I think we've seen for AMMS to scale, they have to adopt some properties of order books such as allowing Active LPs, more flexibility and concentration. I mean, these are terms that you just talk to a normal market maker and they're like, oh yeah, I put in a limit bid or a limit offer. At some level it's irreplicable with the Univ Three position. And I think people naturally realize that would definitely contend that the newest participant in this world is RFQs or just auctions as a system. Actually, there's a really interesting article that was published by the Paradigm Research Guys about gradual Dutch auctions, which is the auction style that we use at Friction. We think that's a really effective way of pricing things that are very illiquid in the first place. Options are one example.
00:21:34.314 - 00:22:01.858, Speaker A: I mean, you can see things like pseudoswap. There's a lot of people that are going to start using this because I think assets that are tough for an individual to price continuously become a lot easier when you only have to price it three times a week. Five times a week, or on demand when a bunch of takers show up. This also helps make flow a lot less toxic and help some of the adverse selection problems that Tristan was talking about earlier with Am. So, yeah, excited to see that developed more. I mean, cool things like cashflow out there, working on it. One inch has an RFQ API, I believe.
00:22:01.858 - 00:22:03.922, Speaker A: So, yeah.
00:22:03.976 - 00:22:38.346, Speaker D: We're also seeing other pretty cool models where people are building automated trading strategies which are basically like an AMM. So this is a team that integrated with us called Selfie, and they basically run grid trading strategies. This is really nice because I think retail is obviously probably not at a sophistication level where they can become an options market maker. That's obviously pretty hard or even like a futures or Perps market maker. It's pretty difficult, but they have a nice model. You basically chuck money into a vault. Essentially they take that capital and then they run this simple automated trading strategy that provides liquidity to order books.
00:22:38.346 - 00:22:54.580, Speaker D: And I think last time I checked with them, they were doing 80% of the kind of order flow on Mango markets and I think they were doing 70% of our futures, which is pretty impressive, I would say. So looking forward to that kind of becoming more of a thing that we see in D Five these days.
00:22:57.510 - 00:23:26.430, Speaker C: Can you talk a little bit? One of the challenges about creating on chain markets for options is just the fragmentation of liquidity across different expiries. So that's one of the reasons why the Perp has just been so dominant in its model. It's just the liquidity concentration. You can kind of walk through how you think about perp versus options. And again, just because some of the multi coin I've read some of the stuff multicoin puts out are very bullish on the future of the perp, maybe some, others not so much. So I'd love to just get your thoughts on that whole dynamic.
00:23:27.810 - 00:24:29.442, Speaker A: Yeah, I can share a bit mean, the biggest difference, as you mentioned, is just like the exploratory nature of the option and the idea of to select a discrete strike. And then I'll get to this concept, or this product called a power perpetual, which I think is one of the most innovative things DBI has seen in the last year, year and a half, which really combines the convexity of an option with a lack of strike and expiry of a perpetual which yeah, it's a product that we spent a bunch of time thinking about and built out on solana. And we think it is very young, and it's very tough to say how exciting it can get. But yeah, just a high overview. I mean, perps have the power because they allow someone to basically speculate on the price, the difference between a price of an asset through an index and then that comes from, let's say, an aggregate of spot prices on a centralized exchange and a mark price, which comes from an order book. And I think it makes it very easy for a ton of liquidity to flow in. Like if you look at dYdX still chugging along, trading like half a billion to a billion of volume a day in perps and I think for many reasons didn't want to launch options.
00:24:29.442 - 00:25:27.822, Speaker A: I think it was a very early design decision on their part to say we're not going to the option space because they realized that this fragmentation, it's kind of ridiculous. Even if you compare it to Derebit, who has like two and a half options listed, really two and a half products listed for options, just for makers who come in, they want to see a minimum amount of size. So you have this cold bootstrap problem like you do with any exchange, right? And if these places aren't going to incentivize liquidity providing and prove that there's not going to be adverse selection for the maker, then it's going to be tough to bootstrap much in the options world. Which is why the funding rate is such a powerful innovation, right? It allows the price of the perp to converge the price of the underlying asset. And now into the part about power perpetuals. The idea of a power perp essentially says that instead of tracking an index of the spot price, you're tracking the index of the spot price squared, let's say. And that gives you a really cool property that you normally don't see in any option or in any perp, right? It combines the two essentially.
00:25:27.822 - 00:25:59.422, Speaker A: So. Think of a normal perp as giving you returns that can be modeled by like one plus R. The power perp gives you returns that are modeled by one plus R squared. So that has this really cool R squared term to it, which gets you what options provide, which is complexity. And then you can hedge your two R, which is your delta with just a normal perp. So you essentially create a straddle position with a power perp. And now your challenge is how do you bootstrap liquidity for that power perp? Because everyone looking at this instrument is like, how do I price this thing? And then once they understand how to price it, they're like, okay, it makes sense.
00:25:59.422 - 00:26:39.978, Speaker A: Now why should I price this? Where is the edge I can get if you're only trading a couple of million bucks a week on the product? I think that's something that really gets me stoked about options and DeFi generally is like we can create things like this that don't exist anywhere else. I mean, we don't have perps, much less power perps. And these power perps are a very great strategy for harvesting volatility yield. Because if you're short this power perp and you're delta edge, you're basically collecting what we view as the volatility premium for that time in which you're selling this. Because the funding rate for a PowerP is always positive as kind of alluded to earlier with that R square term. But yeah, really cool innovation that combines perps and options that we see in crypto today.
00:26:40.144 - 00:27:11.442, Speaker D: Yeah, I think that was an awesome breakdown. The main three ways that I see options used these days. Yeah, it's obviously leverage speculation. I think that's why it's so popular on Robinhood and kind of in traditional finance. That's why people love to buy the Tesla calls because that's like the easiest way to get leverage I think, in the traditional space. Less so in the crypto space, I think because perps have really nailed that niche of high leverage trading. The second one that I think is like the primary use case in institutional is obviously Hedging.
00:27:11.442 - 00:28:04.402, Speaker D: I think that's really important and that's what options are great for. Obviously if you want to buy puts on your portfolio that you might have it's basically buying fixed price insurance, which is very powerful. But I think as of yet with kind of where most of DFI is at with these kind of ape traders going 100 x leverage on a bunch of their positions, people really want to go full risk on don't actually care about hedging too much yet. And then the last bit is this yield generation stuff, which I think the vaults market has catered to pretty well. You see yield typically coming from a lot of these quote unquote kind of ponzi products. So a lot of these like, ohm, forks and stuff like that, advertising a million percent APY people go in there 99% chance they get rugged. There's obviously some better alternatives to that that are a bit safer.
00:28:04.402 - 00:28:27.120, Speaker D: But at the end of the day, I think for the most part people are kind of just printing tokens and giving away free money to people. And when it comes down to options, I think that is where you've seen in traditional a bunch of these structured products and private wealth kind of products that's where people actually generate their yield is by selling options and kind of scooping up the premiums there. So that's kind of what we've seen.
00:28:28.290 - 00:28:55.720, Speaker B: Tristan, you mentioned at the beginning of this episode that your volumes on some of the long tail of assets exceeded the volume on derabit. What's it going to take for which is just remarkable, by the way, congrats on that. Yeah, that's really impressive. What's it going to take or will your volume on Bitcoin and ETH ever exceed dare a bit? Obviously I'm assuming you say yes. So maybe the better question is what's it going to take and when do you see that happening?
00:28:56.330 - 00:29:28.010, Speaker D: Yeah, good question. So I think it's definitely going to be tough. That's obviously what we're striving for. I think really where we will find our niche is that altcoin stuff. I think that's where uniswap obviously differentiated versus like why would I buy my tokens on FTX and binance versus uniswap it's because you can kind of list those markets very quickly and I think it caters to the kind of long tail of assets. And I think given that derebit took a year to push out their Solana markets, I think we can definitely spin out new markets a lot quicker. So for example, this ETH merge was coming up.
00:29:28.010 - 00:30:03.040, Speaker D: We pretty much only had Solana options. We were able to spin up ETH within basically a week. And now that we've done all that infrastructure, I think new markets can come up in a day in order to get us to more liquidity. I think it's basically doing what dYdX has done. So I think given that we are a DeFi platform, the interesting bit that probably centralized players and traditional players can't do is do stuff with the token. I think that's pretty powerful and that's obviously kind of the kicker for a lot of these D Five protocols. So running sort of a market maker program as well as incentivizing a bunch of kind of taker liquidity I think will be really important.
00:30:03.040 - 00:30:43.660, Speaker D: We've seen that work really well for dYdX. I think they went from 40 million volume before they launched their token to about 4 billion overtaking coinbase and a bunch of the other major exchanges, which was pretty mind blowing to be honest. And obviously a lot of that was very incentivized volume. I remember chatting to the Winter Mute guys and they showed me essentially the difference in volume after the epoch had ended and it was pretty significant. And so yeah, I think that's a good tool for us we also received a grant from Serum recently so we're looking to use that as well for rewards on the taker side. So I'm doing a bunch of the kind of rewards engineering side on that. So yeah, I think those are some of the ways.
00:30:45.630 - 00:31:05.780, Speaker B: Can I throw, like, a similar question to you, which is maybe just like, are there any kind of breakthroughs or big demand sources that you're keeping your eyes on right now that you think will catalyze the options and derivatives market on DeFi to go mainstream in the same way that AMMS and decentralized exchanges kind of had their moment in the sun two years ago.
00:31:07.350 - 00:32:06.850, Speaker A: Yeah, I think there's a kind of shadow answer here which fits with the theme of this podcast actually, which is collateralization. So Friction's next product line is the world of under collateralized lending on fixed rate and fixed herm. We think this is super useful because you can now use this as collateral or you can use other positions on Friction as collateral which means you unlock the capital efficiency of a bunch of products the same way you would if you were accessing a prime off chain. Traditionally, the function of prime has been very tough because it's very relationship heavy. And if we can kind of remove the relationship part or quantify the relationship part and still build on kind of the existence of a bunch of individual products so the option selling the power per selling basis and capital protection strategies, we can kind of offer everything in one place. Once we do have this kind of fixed term fixed rate market. We're super excited for this because I think right now through the deleveraging we've seen in the first six months of the year, the market for sophisticated lenders has changed a lot.
00:32:06.850 - 00:33:01.394, Speaker A: I mean, look at borrow rates today. They're basically double where they were before in pre three AC. You were basically only paying three and a half to five and a half percent to borrow fixed rate, fixed term uncollateralized. Which is pretty crazy because if you go off chain, like you may even see similar rates, which was confusing to a lot of traditional players who are getting to the market. We've seen that almost double triple today as the premium for default risk has gone up a lot and the way people are pricing these loans has gone up a lot. But once you can bring in underclarization as like a Lego into a portfolio, I think it makes things a lot more interesting and it makes DeFi really competitive when it comes to yield. I think in products you can combine five different types of products and then the end user that sits there is like anyone who touches a prime brokerage in the first place because it could be anyone from a corporate treasury, a foundation, a Dow family office, asset manager.
00:33:01.394 - 00:33:18.330, Speaker A: And we're starting to see these guys come in and say, like, hey, we want to access DeFi yield. We need deep markets for these things, or we need real sources of risk that's being taken in order to get something. So I think that's how I view a big innovation coming into DeFi next is when we start getting under cloudized lending as a Lego into portfolios.
00:33:21.150 - 00:34:01.050, Speaker C: Can you walk us through just so folks are absolutely clear about because that connection that you just highlighted is super important. So again kind of just walk us through the relationship there. Let's just make stuff up here and say in the next, let's say three or four years there's a bunch of demand for fixed rate fixed term debt right? So maybe it's dows start issuing debt maybe it's whatever the source of let's say the market grows from very small today there is no term limit debt for over a year anyway. It's all like six month even if it is fixed rate. So let's say it becomes like a $10 billion market or something like that. Walk us through how that leads to growth on friction.
00:34:02.110 - 00:34:51.394, Speaker A: Yeah so as you said very aptly. Most of the fixed term fixed rate stuff right now is being done on a 30 to 90 day window and that's not very long out. You can't really create a yield curve in DFI using that. So one thing is those maturities have to start to extend but we're also seeing this blur between open term and fixed term. I think we see in certain market regimes, certain liquidity regimes that borrowers prefer open term loans, but then when all the lenders suddenly want to pull back, which is what we saw even Wintermere was posting about. This is a lot of lenders pull back and they as a market maker are very good and they can stay solvent but a lot of people can't, which flushes out the market and kind of creates these cycles. But to go from where we are today to then we've basically originated like two to two and a half billion in loans on chain today under collateralized which is tiny.
00:34:51.394 - 00:35:54.282, Speaker A: I think we need a lot of people to come into this space and make lending very clear like the risks of lending very clear. I think UX for under collateralized lending and DeFi particularly is really challenging today because you deal with all these windows of lockup and these cooldown periods and these unlocks so first thing is we got to fix that and make that more obvious for retail users. And also traditionally decentralized lending is permissioned on both the lender and borrower side which means that the borrowers are vetted to make sure that they can pass financial due diligence. So this puts them essentially creates them a risk score and that risk score can be used to determine what their kind of net borrow rate should be and how that credit note is priced itself. But traditionally lenders have also been permissioned which means that you have to be an institutional lender. So some of the groups we were talking about before, say, Dows, Corporate, Treasuries, even centralized lenders. To access this product, I think we have to become permissionless on the lend side and we have to approach a world in which you can price these things and you can price duration mismatch, which we shouldn't have at all.
00:35:54.282 - 00:36:20.950, Speaker A: I think, and this is one point of DeFi, is like, you can see duration is very clear. When you enter this loan, you can see that there's someone managing that duration risk. I think the concept of having what we call conductors or underwriters of these pools who come in and use our infrastructure to basically match lenders and borrowers and match the duration and concentration risk of the borrowers is going to be super important. And that role is something we'll see a couple of new entrants step into on the way to 10 billion.
00:36:23.610 - 00:36:42.454, Speaker C: I'd be curious to get your perspective here. I think we've done a really good job of outlining some of the roadblocks for why this market isn't bigger today and what needs to happen. I'd love to get your thoughts on what is possible in the space of DeFi derivatives that might not even be possible in its CFI sort of analog.
00:36:42.502 - 00:36:42.858, Speaker B: Right?
00:36:42.944 - 00:37:17.030, Speaker C: Udav, you were kind of getting into this a little bit when you were kind of describing power perps, right, maybe as a structure that doesn't exist in the CFI world. But I'd love to get your kind of thoughts because I think structured products are a know that's something that kind of gets built on everything that we're talking about. The ability to borrow, lend at a fixed rate, uncollateralized lending, you kind of get very popular structured products on top of that. So I'd love to kind of get your guys perspective of what some of those might look like and specifically if we could lean into what is possible in this new design space that maybe isn't possible within the world of CFI.
00:37:18.250 - 00:38:01.750, Speaker D: Yeah, I can kind of touch on that super quickly. So I think where DeFi currently works really well, given, I guess, the performance of chains and what they cater to is it's a really fantastic settlement layer and I think much better than CFI at the moment. It's really good for that. You've got the kind of transparency there, it's pretty fast and it works really well. Where it kind of struggles a bit more to keep up is on, say, high frequency trading. Obviously, if you've come from an HFT background, you're used to like 400 nanosecond response times and people using FPGAs and all this kind of crazy stuff. This would obviously never be possible in a kind of blockchain landscape given network latency and consensus and all the other things that have got to go into that.
00:38:01.750 - 00:38:38.610, Speaker D: And I think that's kind of unrealistic to expect that DeFi will get to that stage where we're getting to sub millisecond confirmation and being able to trade in that kind of fashion. So I think that's why Vault specifically have done super well. I think even though some of the auction stuff is a lot lower frequency and a lot of it kind of happens off chain even like telegram auctions and that kind of stuff. I think the fact that you have this kind of unified settlement layer for everything works really well and I think it's just like a much better infrastructure than what we currently have on centralized.
00:38:39.910 - 00:39:32.530, Speaker C: Do you think basically the business model pioneered by High frequency traders is that a one way linear direction forward? Do you think it has to necessarily be like that? Because there are kind of two schools of thoughts on High frequency traders and maybe the truth is somewhere in between, which is one, maybe the most positive way you could look at it is they provide much more liquidity than has previously existed in markets and all else being equal, more liquidity is definitely a good thing. Then there's also kind of another way of looking at it, which is these guys are basically just doing some sort of legal version of front running or maybe they're extracting more than they're actually adding in terms of value. Right? So sometimes you hear these arguments about why it needs to be a central limit order book because basically prioritization of high frequency you need to subsidize or give cheaper pricing to High Frequency traders for providing liquidity. I'd just be curious to see if you guys does it have to be like that necessarily?
00:39:33.830 - 00:40:06.462, Speaker D: It's a good question. I probably don't have the best opinion, but my co founders would because they all worked at HFT market making firms. But it seems like that's where everything is made. Yeah, pretty much. Pretty much. I remember there are a lot of stories about how they would run underwater cables and run all these different kind of radio frequency towers essentially to slice off nanoseconds from their timings. And it seems like that was where a lot of these guys were winning was on the kind of tech side by just optimizing that kind of stuff and less on directional trading and strategic stuff.
00:40:06.462 - 00:40:41.820, Speaker D: I mean we are seeing similar stuff starting to pan out in DeFi as well, right? Mev is becoming this massive business, it's obviously massive in Ethereum, given the kind of Mempool there. We're seeing it also on Solana. It's starting to become a big thing. People sign to do more sandwich stuff, we're getting more funky stuff happening with order books and a bunch of other things there. So I think similar things will play out in both chains. And mev seems to also drive a huge amount of the volume on, I think, derivatives DEXes at the moment, especially from what I've noticed on Solana, especially. Probably more on the arbitrage side, I would say, though.
00:40:44.990 - 00:41:43.726, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess I'll take the view that HFT only exists because there is some inefficiency in the market and that inefficiency can exist on a microstructure level in the order book. It can exist on an infrastructure level between exchanges and then it can exist in other worlds, like regulatory worlds too. So I think HFT has existed and continues to do well because it just finds these natural inefficiencies and as you said, it provides liquidity when other people don't. Most of our team comes from this world commodities equities treasuries and I think we've seen that without these type of actors in the system it becomes really tough. I mean, the whole point of AMMS was to replace this, right? So at some point we understand that there was a need to have liquidity continuously and the previously owner of that function was an HFT firm. I think it's quite interesting that DeFi has taken a view that HFT was not as important or isn't as important. I think it's going to change as we see traditional players coming to the market.
00:41:43.726 - 00:42:31.834, Speaker A: But to your initial question of like, where do you think the innovation in DFI comes from? I mean, Power Purpose is an interesting one academically, very cool product. Fundamentally implementing it has been pretty challenging. But I think we don't need continuous liquidity for DFI to scale necessarily, right? Like Friction as a platform has traded 2.8 billion in volume across options and perps without a single continuous or without really any continuous liquidity provisioning. Right? We use an RFQ model, which people are used to, they can come in, they can participate in an on chain auction and then they can kind of go about their day. And even HFD firms are some of the largest participants in the Treasury's auctions, let's say, because they know that they're pricing these things and they can deal with that flow once the auction finishes. I think we'll continue to see that happen in DeFi, these guys come in and participate more.
00:42:32.032 - 00:42:41.662, Speaker C: Yeah, I would love to. Maybe we can almost start to gently wind down here, I guess, with your thoughts of the future of just how big this market can get.
00:42:41.716 - 00:42:41.934, Speaker A: Right?
00:42:41.972 - 00:43:29.870, Speaker C: Like to use a very middle of the bell curve type, if you look at the TradFi analog of, let's say, the market size for derivatives versus Spot, it's orders of magnitude larger. So just in us. Equities. This year options volume surpassed Spot volume. But then if you add in like futures and swaps and all sorts of other types of derivatives, I mean, it's like not just one order of magnitude, but I'm pretty sure several orders of magnitude larger. So I'd love to get your thoughts just on how big you see this market getting for crypto because I think thus far I think we do have derivatives volumes like futures that are traded on centralized exchanges like Binance. We've seen futures flip spot, but so far, again, it's just been and I know we've talked specifically about what some of the roadblocks are.
00:43:29.870 - 00:43:42.210, Speaker C: But I'd love to get your thoughts, let's say in the next three to five years, right? Like, let's say we do start to solve some of those challenges. Just how big can this market get and how big can it get relative to maybe to Spot specifically?
00:43:43.350 - 00:44:35.538, Speaker D: Yeah, it's a good mean. I guess our thesis is that it's going to go a similar direction. I think there are just so many advantages to derivatives, especially on the capital efficiency side of things. I think you're already seeing that on CFI, perps have become the dominant product. A bunch of my, I guess normie friends who get into crypto, the first thing they trade is actually like the kind of Perp for Bitcoin rather than Bitcoin itself, which is a pretty interesting observation, I think in pretty stark contrast to more like the 2017 days when it was a lot more spot trading. And then I think since BitMax obviously pioneered the kind of Perp stuff and FTX has really focused on a lot of the derivatives trading as their kind of primary focus, I think that has been pretty massive. And we've seen this massive over leveraging events that's all coming through kind of perps and a bunch of these other kind of highly levered products.
00:44:35.538 - 00:45:17.954, Speaker D: I think that's going to keep growing given the kind of demand there and how much people love to try them. I think that will eventually flow into DeFi, especially when we start to kind of unlock other stuff like under collateralized lending like Udav kind of mentioned. I think that will be pretty important and I think once obviously chains start to improve and we can start building more complex systems that will kind of flow in there as well. So we think the market's definitely pretty massive. I forget what the real number is in traditional finance. I don't think people even have a number for the market size, but it's probably in the tens of, if not hundreds of trillions of dollars is the kind of global derivatives market. Whether kind of crypto grows to that, that remains to be seen.
00:45:17.954 - 00:45:34.600, Speaker D: But I think there's like massive opportunity there and I think there is definitely kind of orders of magnitude growth. I think crypto still has as a whole orders of magnitude growth to go. And then I think the derivatives vertical within that kind of slice of the pie that we're in, I think has a lot more room to grow as well.
00:45:35.210 - 00:45:37.110, Speaker C: Rudolph, any closing thoughts?
00:45:38.090 - 00:46:30.530, Speaker A: I think the flagship number for US equities is Crypto or options trade 35 x spot. I mean, we have to remember that traditional equities launched in the late 70s, so we've had about 50 years to get to that growth level or to that multiple. I think that's something that crypto or DFI specifically can do in less than ten years. And I'm pretty optimistic as we kind of see the big layer of equity distribution. Equity options distribution comes from structured products the same way. I think we'll see that in the DeFi world, but we're going to see these products built a lot differently on different rails and on rails in which people can understand all the risks they're taking behind them. So I think the biggest thing is we didn't chat too much about this is as people find new ways of getting yield in DFI that really come from just like risk properties of an asset, whether it's the option or whether it's the Perp, we'll see these things scale up a lot more.
00:46:30.530 - 00:46:52.030, Speaker A: We're the largest provider of basis strategies on Salana and this is the Oi in this market is like 15 million, which is pretty crazy, right? I think it's something that we need to see grow as new liquidity providers come in and we kind of work as data friction Mango, all these protocols to kind of scale how people can access DeFi strategies.
00:46:54.370 - 00:47:49.602, Speaker C: Actually, I got one more question for you here because the tough thing in crypto, and this is a difficult question to answer, right, but is just trying to assess product market fit. Tristan, you were kind of outlining some of the uses for options markets in general. And I think we can all kind of say maybe like, yeah, I mean, options are used to manage risk, right? But a lot of the times also used to speculate. And I think especially in crypto, if you don't allow for the speculation use case, you're really going to miss quite a bit of why things initially get adopted. So I guess if you had to guess at, let's say, these things, we get our market size by $10 billion or something in uncollateralized lending and we get to do it at fixed rates of more than just 30 to 90 days in advance. The growth of a decentralized derivatives market I think is integral to that future happening. So I'd love to get your kind of sense of what is initial kind of product market fit on that side.
00:47:49.602 - 00:47:54.078, Speaker C: Looks like if you had to kind of speculate, like, who is the user ultimately?
00:47:54.254 - 00:48:30.574, Speaker D: Yeah, that's a good question. I think Perps definitely have already found product market fit, which is why given that we're trying to build out a fully fledged derivatives exchange, we're going to be launching that within the next couple of weeks. We think it's just like a great product as kind of like the gateway drug. I guess for retail to get in, that's the easy thing. It's like Perp goes up or down and you kind of know very easily if you're making money or not. Whereas with options, sometimes people go like long the call and then they kind of lose on the kind of time value of the option. Then they're like, hey, I got the direction right, why did I lose money? And so stuff like that is still kind of confusing and I think it will take people time to get their heads around it.
00:48:30.574 - 00:49:27.726, Speaker D: I think stuff like the vaults have been great because it kind of takes a bit of the mental effort off in terms of picking the strategy, picking the strikes, doing all the kind of complex stuff there. And then I think what I'm really excited for as well is we're really trying to be, I guess the infrastructure layer for a lot of this derivative stuff. We think like the infrastructure at the moment is still pretty poor and still pretty fragmented and I think where DeFi really thrives, right, is the composability aspect and it's basically software as a service. Anyone can kind of plug in and call out kind of on chain APIs and use it in the background and so we're really excited for use cases like impermanent loss hedging for example, is something that's definitely eventually going to be possible either through options or through power perps. I think these things have been explored. Other things that we're working on that I find really exciting are new ways to do liquidity mining. So we're actually pioneering this with a bunch of protocols at the moment on Solana.
00:49:27.726 - 00:50:06.880, Speaker D: So instead of doing the typical pull two thing and giving away, I guess, native token when you're trying to distribute it, it gets insta dumped essentially, as you're probably familiar with most airdrops and token launches. So instead they're actually putting their tokens through our platform Zetaflex, which basically mints a call option for their native token and then they distribute say, two week locked up call options on their tokens. So it gives their users full upside but kind of reduces a bunch of the selling pressure. And so we think that's a great way to kind of get this secondary use cases of derivatives that aren't flat out buying the options themselves on market.
00:50:07.810 - 00:51:14.130, Speaker A: I guess I'll take the stab of vein of what I was going earlier, which the next set of distribution for DeFi has to come from the institutional category. There's this amazing meme in crypto where institutions are coming, institutions are coming and then we see cycles. Oi goes up, leverage goes up, they come and then Oi goes down, leverage goes down, they get rinsed, right? So for us a big focus. We just launched an entire institutional team that's focused on this and we're breaking it down into different segments of the market who we see are very crypto curious, but aren't really able to take that risk. So a lot of the work that has to be done really is explain to people how DeFi rails work and the type of people we're talking to here are anyone who would normally be a client of a prime brokerage, right? So everyone from a miner to a hedge fund to a family office or anyone who wants to access lending, right? Crypto lending is a world that's so siloed really the easiest way to. Access crypto lending right now is go to FTX and make an account and use their margining system and lend into their margining system, essentially. But obviously that doesn't have fixed rate or fixed term, and there's an entire missing level of composability that's possible.
00:51:14.130 - 00:51:33.146, Speaker A: On top of that, with interest rate swaps and equivalent fixed versus variable rate products that we see will scale a bunch. So I think as we find these categories and we just redefine them more, we'll see how prime businesses can kind of grow. And I think under collateralized products will be a fundamental underpinning of this.
00:51:33.328 - 00:51:44.110, Speaker C: All right, guys, thanks. You've been super generous with your time. Guys are both building super interesting things. So I'm sure this will be the first in many interviews that we do, but thanks for joining us.
00:51:44.180 - 00:51:46.126, Speaker B: Yeah, I appreciate it, guys. This is great.
00:51:46.308 - 00:51:46.846, Speaker A: Awesome.
00:51:46.948 - 00:51:47.774, Speaker D: Thanks for having us.
00:51:47.812 - 00:51:48.622, Speaker A: Thanks for having us.
00:51:48.676 - 00:51:49.294, Speaker B: Take care, guys.
00:51:49.332 - 00:51:50.160, Speaker A: Thanks, guys.
00:51:50.850 - 00:51:57.520, Speaker B: All right, buddy. That was a good episode. I will say I let you pick up the bulk of that one. I kind of backed out.
00:51:58.130 - 00:51:59.090, Speaker C: New brother.
00:51:59.670 - 00:52:07.430, Speaker B: Obviously, I understood every single thing that they just said, so I wanted to make sure that you understood things. So I let you ask the questions there. That was obviously my strategy.
00:52:08.090 - 00:52:32.380, Speaker C: You know what? I love that episode. It's very clear that you're talking to two guys who have identified an extremely large market opportunity that basically everyone agrees is a big market opportunity, but there are enormous technical challenges right, as to why that hasn't happened yet. So two gigabrain guys, but I just have an enormous respect for what they're doing, and frankly, both of them have found some initial success.
00:52:33.230 - 00:53:03.954, Speaker B: Yeah. You know, it's funny. Before we started recording, we're talking about Mike Green, right? Udov spoke at desk and talking to Mike Green, and they were kind of going back and forth, and Udov was like, yeah, well, Mike Green is the guy who, in February of 2018, was going long the VIX. When everyone was saying you should short the VIX and short volatility, it's like you don't build what they're building unless you love market structure and you love markets. Right. The ability to just be like, oh, in this month, this date, this time, this was happening. I know that actually was a big thing that everyone was shorting vol in early 2018.
00:53:03.954 - 00:53:14.170, Speaker B: That was actually a big moment. But yeah, these guys just love markets. They live and breathe it, and I think they had some pretty interesting takes that relate to the season. So what do you think? What do you think of Udo's take kind of tying everything back?
00:53:14.320 - 00:54:18.014, Speaker C: I actually have to give a shout out to Mike Green, who I also was one of the people that we just validated this season's thesis with. I really like him as a person. He is by far my favorite skeptic of crypto overall, because I find his skepticism highly useful, actually, as opposed to some of the other skepticism. Before we get into I think Udov made a very about 30 minutes into that interview, he made a very enlightening he made the connection right without us even leading him to it, which was this connection in between fixed rate borrow, lend under collateralized lending and the market for options, which I thought was really interesting. I actually wish that if I could go back and do that interview again, I would have spent a little bit more time on the central limit order book versus AMM and building on an app chain versus building on a generalized blockchain. I thought it was really interesting to hear that Tristan is already speaking with the folks from Say and potentially launching on Say as well. I don't know if he just broke that as news or if that was public, but I thought that was very interesting, very cool.
00:54:18.212 - 00:55:00.378, Speaker B: You know why that was interesting, Mike, is because I just got off an interview. So we just dropped an interview with Starkware or we just recorded it. By the time this is out, that episode is probably out on Empire with Santiago, and we recorded it with them and the two starware founders, Eli and Yuri. They're basically making the argument that Uniswap has only taken off because there's computational limitations, essentially. But once you unlock the computational scale limitations, things like Uniswap don't make any the AMM model doesn't make any sense anymore. And all of Crypto moves just into a centralized into central limit order books. And he's like, either Uniswap Pivots or someone else will just come and run Uniswap show.
00:55:00.378 - 00:55:09.966, Speaker B: And then these guys brought up I forgot who said it that Uniswap V Three. It really looks kind of more like a central limit order book. So I'm putting these pieces together in my mind.
00:55:10.148 - 00:56:01.950, Speaker C: There's a guy named Doug Colkit who is building something called Crocswap that I think that I think has really good takes on this, which is I forget he tweeted something out, which I really resonated with me. The other day, which was something to the effect of maybe it's not a total dichotomy in between AMMS and central limit order books, and maybe we get something new in crypto, but it might feel a little bit more AMM like than central limit order bookie. And I think there is the need to provide continuous liquidity. I also think, I mean, Uniswap V Three cross any different price, that's not optimal from a market maker standpoint. So they already have concentrated liquidity, which I mean, I forget if it was Udava or Tristan that said this, but that has order book like characteristics to it. I don't think it's like one model totally ends up winning or the other. It's probably maybe a little bit more of a gray area.
00:56:01.950 - 00:57:10.242, Speaker C: But the question that I wish that I had asked when we were talking about just cosmos in general is when you almost like vertical integration of the app chain model and being able to extract value from mev, because that actually if we're talking about uniswap, that's a big opportunity that they have. They're still being on Ethereum, all of the mev transactions that flow through that chain that accrues to ETH validators not any of the as opposed to when dYdX has its own chain that's going to flow to validators of the Duidx chain. It's a whole other way to monetize. So I wish that we had gotten into I mean, he really kind of summed everything up in the end when he connected this idea of everything that we're talking about this whole season, which is the unlock that I think we're waiting for. Right. The way that I would rephrase almost what he said is they in a way, also are waiting around for a more traditional model, right, where you have uncollateralized lending and fixed rate lending. Because if you have a robust market for both of those things, then their market, which is structured products and options, really takes off.
00:57:10.242 - 00:57:33.600, Speaker C: Right. So these are both interconnected markets and I think once we get it's kind of like a chicken and the egg thing, you kind of need them to both happen at the same time. But he really did validate our thesis about these things being tied together and he also sees that as a big driver for friction again. And we knew that this was going to be a challenge heading to the season. It's just calling when this stuff happens.
00:57:34.130 - 00:57:54.722, Speaker B: Yeah. This one feels like one that I will say this one feels like one that it could take a while. Tristan did say that they've passed derebit on the options volume for the long tail of assets. Super impressive. I didn't know that reminds me. A lot of uniswap passing coinbase for the volume of long tail assets. Right.
00:57:54.722 - 00:58:23.610, Speaker B: But that you still go to something like Coinbase to just buy spot on Bitcoin or ETH. You still go to Derebit for Bitcoin and ETH, but you go to something like Zeta for the long tail of assets. But I still do think it's a very long time before something like this really takes. Like compared to something like the episode with Teddy and Sid, like uncollateralized or under collateralized lending, that feels like something that's coming sooner than a huge, booming, decentralized derivatives market.
00:58:23.680 - 00:58:56.760, Speaker C: I think the very last comment from Udav actually kind of cemented this in my head, which is something that you and I have talked about various times, but we even noticed this. DFI has always been complicated. But even from the beginning of DFI summer to right around where we ended, remember, where there's kind of like DFI 2.0 and there were all these new sorts of DFI protocols, I mean, they all got very esoteric and very complicated to the point where, at least for me, trying to use some of these things, I was like, retail is not the end user. It just can't be.
00:58:57.930 - 00:59:02.074, Speaker B: You remember in Arizona and you were aping into those things, I was like.
00:59:02.272 - 00:59:41.590, Speaker C: I was like, I know I'm getting fleeced here, I know I'm going to lose money. I'm not sure how I was right because I did, but I just think they're wildly complicated. And I think Udov said right at the end of the interview, he's like, this has to be an institutional market eventually and the big roadblock for institutions getting involved is just regulation. I think one thing that this season has actually said, this was not the point of the season at all, but I've gotten pretty red pilled on permission DeFi. Frankly, as a market size, I think it's coming KYC five.
00:59:41.740 - 01:00:08.334, Speaker B: I mean that's a good segue into our episode next week with Ben Foreman, right, who's a huge permissioned DeFi bull. And by the way, the episode next week, if you guys aren't subscribed to the show already, you guys should subscribe. The episode next week with Ben is so good. It really ties everything that we're talking about. Fixed rate lend and borrow under, collateralized loans, DeFi, options, permission DeFi, it ties all that stuff together. So founder of Fairfi, next week is.
01:00:08.372 - 01:00:57.806, Speaker C: Very good and we actually hinted at something as well that was going to be a source of demand, right? Because maybe if you just listened to this episode, you could have fallen into this idea that okay, there are retail and institutional traders, but especially when we start to talk about debt, uncollateralized lending, we also need to think about who is the borrower ultimately going to be. So when we were talking about who's the customer here, we were kind of talking about it from the perspective of who the trader is. But keep in mind one of the ultimate sources for why options market exists is hedging risks, especially when it comes to debt. Sudden you also need borrowers on the other side of that and a cool maybe in the future like Dows being issuers of debt. That's something that we get into with the episode as well. But yeah, I thought overall great episode I think validated the vast majority of what we were talking about. But again, just the thing to watch is when all this stuff happens.
01:00:57.806 - 01:01:27.810, Speaker C: Although again I will say just having been through the last bear market, I mean very few people were predicting the imminent rise of DEXes in general. So all it takes is one catalyst. That's an unknown unknown, right? And it's always very difficult to just get on a podcast and say, well it's unknown unknown and you have to account for that. So maybe there'll be something. But who knows, this could all surprise us and it could come much, much quicker than we all think because they said it right. I think watching the rise of uniswap's volumes compared to remember when it flipped coinbase?
01:01:27.890 - 01:01:31.426, Speaker B: Yeah, I remember the cool. Anyways.
01:01:31.458 - 01:01:32.038, Speaker A: Good app.
01:01:32.124 - 01:01:50.766, Speaker B: Excited for Ben next week. I will call out. We've started to get some messages. We're starting to think about what next season looks like. I've started to get some messages about sponsoring next season. We're going to keep that open for the next couple of weeks. So if you guys want to Sponsor if you are working at a company that wants to sponsor next season, you can Just DM me on Twitter and We Can chat about it.
01:01:50.766 - 01:01:53.980, Speaker B: So anyways, thanks for listening, guys. Hit the subscribe button. We'll see you next week.
