00:00:00.090 - 00:00:45.994, Speaker A: You. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap reddit onboards 3 million users to NFTs Since the launch of Reddit's NFT Marketplace in July, users of the platform have created 3 million wallets. According to Reddit chief product officer Polly Bot, the methods by which the social media platform achieved this adoption in such a short time caught the attention of many. The company's strategy was to avoid blockchain terms like crypto or NFTs. Reddit refers to NFTs as digital collectibles and only briefly mentions that they will be available on the blockchain. With the more user friendly approach, trading volumes have soared over the past few days, reaching a sales volume of $2.5
00:00:45.994 - 00:01:55.022, Speaker A: million. On Monday, Kane and Linder, cofounder and CEO of gaming company Stardust, told the block I think that decontextualization, that these are just games, these are just collectibles, these are just items you can take from one game to another. It's going to make this technology so much more accessible. Updated policy terms give Apple a hefty cut of NFT app purchases Tech giant Apple updated its App Store policy terms to give more clarity on how to sell NFTs and crypto within the iOS ecosystem. As per the new terms, applications offering trading of NFTs will be restricted from including buttons, external links, or other calls to action that direct consumers to purchasing mechanisms other than inapp purchases. Although Apple is showing interest in working with crypto assets, it seems determined to get its share, which is 30% of all inapp purchases, a fee that has long been criticized. Daniel Mason, partner at Framework Ventures, tweeted that this decision harms NFT marketplaces like Openc and Magic Eden or, quote anyone trying to get in the payment flow.
00:01:55.022 - 00:02:38.346, Speaker A: Mr. Mason also mentioned that the winners are likely to be crypto exchanges, web3 games, and infrastructure providers. NFT royalty drama continues. Looks rare. An NFT marketplace on ethereum decided to remove mandatory royalties from its platform, joining others like Pseudoswap X Two, Y Two and Magic Eden instead. Each quarter, the protocol will distribute to creators 25% of the platform fees charged by Looksrare. The pseudonymous Looksrare Cofounder, known as Guts, said with this change, Looks Rare wants to buck the trend with our solution that actually enforces income for creators while still remaining attractive to traders, with an effectively zero fee offering.
00:02:38.346 - 00:03:19.574, Speaker A: It's a way to turn all that zero royalty volume into something that still benefits the creators. In related news, a new research report from Galaxy Digital showed that Nike and Yuga Labs are the entities that earned the most in NFT royalties, raising the question of whether small creators or big corporations benefit from royalties. MakerDAO partners with Coinbase. But not everyone is on board. OG Decentralized Lending protocol MakerDAO, had some interesting developments this week. First, the community ratified a Coinbase partnership, which consists of depositing $1.6 billion worth of maker's USDC into Coinbase Prime, the exchange's institutional arm.
00:03:19.574 - 00:04:05.610, Speaker A: In this way, Maker will earn a 1.5% annual yield, which will account for $24 million of revenue per year. The decision was not supported by everyone in the MakerDAO community. Chris Black, a recognized delegate and community member, tweeted the proposal, quote, will permanently end MakerDAO's claims of decentralization and censorship resistance. Second, a governance proposal was passed to support the endgame plan of Rune Christensen, the founder of MakerDAO. As a consequence, the Dao will break into smaller units called Metados with the intention of building a more decentralized project. Lastly, the community also voted in favor of a plan to accumulate staked ether, or Steeth lido's liquid staking derivative of ETH.
00:04:05.610 - 00:04:51.194, Speaker A: A jump in prices triggers talk of a bull market the crypto markets experienced some relief for a couple of days after weeks of falling prices. Ethereum jumped by 20% in the past seven days, reaching premerge price levels. Meanwhile, the price of bitcoin rose 8% in the same period, and the total crypto market cap surpassed the $1 trillion mark. Once again, this rally wiped out almost $1 billion worth of short positions and already triggered talks of an incoming bull market. A potential reason why ETH has outperformed the market is that the token has gone deflationary over the past few weeks. With its supply getting close to pre merge levels. The market share of bitcoin against altcoins hit a two year high this week.
00:04:51.194 - 00:05:39.554, Speaker A: Some believe that this is a good sign for altcoins, since BTC usually leads the way prior to an altcoin pump. Crypto trader and analyst Arthur Hayes thinks this pump in the markets has to do with the possibility of the US. Treasury, quote, supplying the market with more short term T bills to alleviate a shortage. Other people mentioned, perhaps jokingly, that the reason the prices spiked was the publication of Matt Levine's 40,000 word article on crypto. However, that seems quite unlikely since other assets in traditional financial markets also experienced massive gains. Despite prices rising in the past few days, there's still a long way to go to recover all these losses. Recently, newsbrook that VC firm A 16 z's first crypto fund is down 40% in the first half of the year.
00:05:39.554 - 00:06:38.182, Speaker A: Additionally, Pantera Capital, one of the big players in the industry, has also suffered significant losses. Pantera's early stage token fund has lost 71% of its value since the beginning of the year, according to the Block. The debate about how to regulate crypto spices up. Last week, FTX CEO Sam Bankman Fried published an industry norms manual in which he proposed enforcing regulation on DeFi protocols via their front ends, thus setting off a heated debate on crypto regulation. In a long rebuttal, Eric Voorhees, founder and CEO of Shapeshift, said that Binkman Fried's proposal would put crypto on a path to tyranny. However, SBF claimed that his plan is, quote, better than the status quo and better than we're likely to get. Gabriel Shapiro, general counsel at Delphi Labs, disagreed with SBF's take on the difficulty of determining whether a website is a broker saying mere websites must not be regulated.
00:06:38.182 - 00:07:31.114, Speaker A: Broker dealers Shapiro and Bankman Fried have agreed to come on unchained to debate everything about crypto regulation. If you have any questions for them, slide into my DMs. Speaking of regulation, this week securities and Exchange Commission Chair Gary Gensler claimed there is centralization in the crypto market. Speaking at the annual meeting of the securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, he said, We've seen even centralization in the crypto market, which was founded on the idea of decentralization. This field actually has significant concentration among intermediaries in the middle of the market. Moreover, lawmakers Elizabeth Warren and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez sent a letter to several agencies with concerns about former regulators working in the crypto industry. In particular, 28 SEC officials and 15 CFTC officials have left to work in crypto.
00:07:31.114 - 00:08:23.290, Speaker A: Celsius's bidding procedure plans get approved. US. Judge Martin Glenn, who is overseeing the bankruptcy case of crypto lender Celsius, has approved the company's bidding procedure plans. The order sets December twelveTH as the deadline for final bids, with a potential auction happening three days later. In addition, following the release of customer information earlier this month, Glenn appointed a consumer privacy ombudsman to protect consumers private data throughout the sale process. Gavin wood, polka dot founder, steps down as CEO of parity gavin wood, founder of the polka dot blockchain, stepped down as CEO of parity technologies, the legal entity behind polka dot. In a statement, Wood said, I'll be pointing my regained focus towards exploring how we can contribute to making polka dot and web3 more relevant to large swaths of the population.
00:08:23.290 - 00:09:02.010, Speaker A: Wood was one of Ethereum's co founders and later decided to build Polkadot, a blockchain designed specifically for interoperability. The new prime minister of the UK. Is pro crypto. The united kingdom has a new crypto friendly prime minister as rishi sunak replaced liz truss, whose exit was quite dramatic. Sunak served as the finance minister for former Prime Minister Boris Johnson. During that time, he advocated for the UK to become a crypto hub. His first days coincided with lawmakers from the House of Commons in the UK voting in favor of recognizing crypto assets as regulated financial instruments.
00:09:02.010 - 00:09:41.430, Speaker A: Time for fun Bits the Metaverse doesn't look very promising. A group of professional soccer players tried to play the first soccer game while wearing virtual reality glasses. As you could probably guess, it did not go very well. The video shows the players failing to kick the ball even when it was a few inches away from them. They stumble about the goalie, flattens himself on the ground several feet away from the ball, sometimes in front of it. They look not even amateur, but more like absurdist. Is this the future of the Metaverse? We looking good.
00:09:41.430 - 00:10:02.890, Speaker A: Crypto influencer punk 6529 tweeted. Riley thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Avi and the Manko Markets attack, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin without from Anthony Yoon, Matt Pilchard, Juan Irvanovich, Sam Sriram Pam Majimdar Toshank and CLK transcription thanks for listening.
