00:00:03.360 - 00:00:56.568, Speaker A: Hello everyone, my name is Shuxin and I work at the data team at Op Labs. At Op Labs, we are on a mission to scale Ethereum's technology and its value. And today the topic is about data. In the superchain future, I'm going to cover the following four topics. One is what is super chain? We are going to explore the super chain through data, the new opportunities and challenges we're facing, as well as how we're going to build together. So what is the super chain? Normally, before we talk about a solution to something, I want to talk about the problem that we've been facing for a long time, maybe since the birth of the blockchain. So here is a slide that I took a screenshot from our CEO Carl's presentation and he's saying that the blockchain today is still insufficient for the decentralized web.
00:00:56.568 - 00:01:51.440, Speaker A: And why is that? Meet the congestion. Here is a real life example that I took another screenshot of on October 16 when I was making the presentation. And as you can see here, that all the three chains, I mean Ethereum, op mainnet as well as base, has been exceeding its guest target per block over the last 6 hours when I was doing that. And we are really struggling. People are having trouble when the gas fee spikes and it's really painful and expensive to do swaps to mint nfts to deploy contracts. So what do we do? More chains? In order to support the Internet that we have today, we need more than one chain. How about multi chains then? It is.
00:01:51.440 - 00:02:28.806, Speaker A: Well, the more chains you add, the more bridges you're going to bridge between different chains. And the security risk is just going to compound because it is always at the risk of the weakest security. Um, so the. I think it's important to know that deploying the chain is also expensive. So the solution is going to be having something. Having deploying chains that is truly commoditized, scalable, is easy to set it up and also it's easy to shut it down. So it's not mono chain, it's not multi chain, it's the super chain.
00:02:28.806 - 00:03:17.896, Speaker A: For those that don't know what the super chain is, I'm going to give a TLDR. In a nutshell, the super chain is a network of l two chains known as the op chains, which will have shared security, a communication layer and an open source stack called the op Stack. And building on the super chain means that the apps will be super powered. And if you are interested in finding out more about the super chain, you can go to the developer doc and also look up on YouTube. And Carl has a lot of good presentation about the super chain. Now let's go into exploring the super chain through data. Gone are the days when there was just only one op mainnet and we only look at transactions and transacting adjusters.
00:03:17.896 - 00:04:14.030, Speaker A: All the things that people are really familiar about with a snapdragon finger, it's gone. Um, there's been an increasing focus, at least from us, about l two gas usage, because it actually measures the demand for the block space as well as the execution gas usage across the op chains. So here is the example of the current for op chains Sora public goods network base as well as op Mainnet. And as you can tell from the chart on the right, especially in recent period because of all this like airdrop farming activities, base and op mainnet has been hitting their gas targets per second. And also, yeah, basically hitting the gas limit. The other chart on the right is just the combined view of the current op chains. And also we can make cross chain comparisons across all those chains.
00:04:14.030 - 00:05:10.010, Speaker A: And since base launch base has gradually been catching up in terms of the share of total gas usage as well as transaction fees, another topic I would like to mention is the op collective economics to fund the public goods. And a lot of people are curious about, oh, what is the roll up economics like? And here is a primer of op chain economics. And as you can see, the plain kind of explanation would just be that the profit equals the revenue minus the cost. But I'm going to dive each of the compo deep dive into each of the component in detail. Um, yes, next one. Um, so, yeah, uh, the revenue part comes from both the l two execution fee as well as the l two fee paid, uh, data fee paid. The l two execution fee is a component of the base fee as well as the priority fee.
00:05:10.010 - 00:05:49.582, Speaker A: And these are the charts. And you probably see like four slides of similar charts. But I'll let you know the importance of breaking things down into different segments. The second chart is combined revenue, which is the l two execution fee plus the l one data fee paid at the time of the transaction. And those two combined together is the revenue on chain. In terms of costs, the cost is coming from first, the l one data cost, which happens every few minutes when transactions are batched and then sent to l one. And then there's also state proposals standing the state route.
00:05:49.582 - 00:07:06.062, Speaker A: Um, two l one, which happens every, every few hours. And all of those that I mentioned combined will become the net on chain margin for, um, any of those op chain routing, nomis x one. And you might also wonder, so what is, what are all these op chains contribution to the op collect in general? Um, as you can see, if we are assuming that all the other chains are following the base model, which is still to be updated, is going to be the greater of 3.5% of the l two revenue generated by the op chain, or the 15% of the margin coming from the l two revenue minus the cost. So this is kind of a new business model that is completely on chain and also trackable on chain. So I'm going to quote it again, but is revolution not reported on a quarterly basis? On the left is just like the op chain contributions, and then on the right is another chart that is showing the, I think what we call this the op chain governor profit. So that's just whatever the l two revenue minus ll two costs, and then also minus the contribution to op collective, then that will be the chain operator on chain margin.
00:07:06.062 - 00:07:59.002, Speaker A: So that doesn't include any of the infrastructure costs, which is not on chain. We are also shifting at op labs, we're also shifting our focus to developer growth. And here is a flywheel that we sort of set up. So the more developers are building on op chains, the more apps they will have, more users will come and which will drive more on chain activities. This is the ideal kind of super chain ecosystem that we want to build. Um, so you might wonder now, how are we going to measure development activities on chain? There are two metrics that we've been thinking of, which we call the quantity metrics, as well as the quality metrics, which I'll get into two of them, each of them in detail. So the quantity metrics is a bit mouthful, but we call this the filtered active main net deployers.
00:07:59.002 - 00:09:05.840, Speaker A: So what it's trying to answer is who are the deployers that are currently building a on op chains? And right now, I think we have been measuring that across all the evms and op mainnet. This one has some spam filters, and I'll explain in the next slide what the spam filters are, why we need them. The other one is the quality metrics that we look at, which answer the question of who are the developers that are responsible for on chain activities? And that's the quality quality measurement. Um, the reason that we've been doing a lot of filtering is that the on chain data can be like quite noisy. So here is just an example where you can see there's a spike around July and August for op Mainnet. And those spikes, um, you probably won't be able to see the labels here, but the spikes are coming from contracts and deployers with duplicate code and also code that is not meeting the byte lengthen. And removing them will have a much cleaner version of the filtered active mainnet deployers across the okey chains.
00:09:05.840 - 00:09:48.068, Speaker A: While the filtering doesn't really necessarily remove all the hypes that will happen when certain chain get launched, et cetera. For example, here you will see that base. Since launch of base there was a lot of growth in developer activities and gradually it stabilizes around like 1000 active deployers. Another important one that I want to mention is the developer metadata. So this metric is the quality metrics that I was talking about. Developers with contracts that have been used by users and we have certain parameters to figure out what is considered used. This is still iterating.
00:09:48.068 - 00:10:37.298, Speaker A: So right now I think this is just based on contracts with more than 50 unique addresses using them. And here we have a breakdown in terms of the total number of quality deployers as well as whether this entity is known or not, and unknown entities. How do we know those entities? This is through some contract mapping to deployers. I think this is a recurring theme that has been discussed quite a lot about that. Better on chain labeling can actually help us to understand development segments. And here is just another iteration that we've been doing, the same quality deployer metric, but we try to break it down into whether it's a DeFi deployer or an NFT deployer. This is also under iteration because the DeFi deployer I know is just hard coded by me.
00:10:37.298 - 00:11:37.710, Speaker A: And then the NFT deployer is just like any kind of contract that interacted with NFT contracts. And as we know, even some of the defi contracts can have LP positions, that is by NFT. So this is still not the perfect way of trying to label them or breaking developers into segments. Now I'm going to talk about the new opportunities and challenges that we face. Currently with only four op chains, this is the data infrastructure and setup that we have. So we have four chains and we pour the data from doom from other data providers and we aggregate them either locally or maybe we set up a GitHub action that we do aggregation and then we send the data to dune, dune visualization and presenting it to everyone. So still, cross chain analysis is still as hard as cross chain messaging.
00:11:37.710 - 00:12:49.720, Speaker A: We need to think about what if there are ten chains, 100 chains, 1000 chains and more chains. So here is the slide that I would like people to kind of think about and walk away with from the presentation today, there are new challenges in the super chain future as well as the growing pains that we'll continue to have. New challenges coming from like pretty much silo data sources. These are not the solutions, but some of the suggestions that you may want to look into. What if we have a super chain indexer? So instead of setting RPC for all these different op chains, can we have a super chain indexer? How do we derive transactions? Maybe from l one data. What about having a super chain registry for all this l two metadata? The other thing is maybe more from the UX perspective, but think about how we're going to make everything feel like one chain because right now it doesn't feel like one chain. Um, what is, what if there's going to be a super chain balance, a super chain wallet and maybe a super chain block explorer? That's everything.
00:12:49.720 - 00:13:57.830, Speaker A: You don't have to go to different ether scans to look at the super chain transactions and then also having one schema for all the op chains. The other growing pains that we've been facing coming from the metadata perspective. So one is related to the developer metadata. I think providing context to all these top line metrics will be super important because then you'll be able to know what the developers are actually building, where they are coming from. How do we drive more developer growth? The other one is the super chain metadata as we right now just set up like a GitHub repo that is maintaining all the individual rpcs. But if we are going to have 1000 chains, who is going to maintain that manually? Also think about if there is a way that we can automatically detect the contract that are op chain Fox or maybe those are contracts that are deploying chains. So yes, so these are the problems that we are facing today and we'll have more of those challenges as we have a thousand more chains now come to how we're going to build together.
00:13:57.830 - 00:14:44.950, Speaker A: If you are new in the space or if you have been in the space for a while, I would recommend you to start with the number nurse program. So this number nurse program is a bounty board that provide anyone who are interested in doing analysis. Contributing to the op collective to start building can help us to enhance the contract and deploy a mapping. You can also do deep dives into op governance as well as building spells for doom. So the goal of the number nurse bounty is to help improve the data transparency and accessibility across the community. If you have some other bigger projects in mind, here are the three different paths that you can do. First is submit a mission proposal under op governance for your project that is contributing to the op collective.
00:14:44.950 - 00:15:09.650, Speaker A: You can also apply for the RF under the OP foundation board. Or maybe you also just sign up for retro PGF. I'm going to end the presentation with a final meme. And also I want to give a shout out to Michael for contributing all the memes in this presentation, that we are all in this together to build a super chain data future. Thank you.
00:15:10.190 - 00:15:58.146, Speaker B: Yeah, my name is Andrey and I just want to ask you mention that if I will have imagine the future, if I will have 1000 chains. And I have a question about a theorem limitation of it. I mean, if we assume that all of this chain will store the data into Ethereum, I mean, like what it will be on the current, on the current block space on Ethereum, how many options we can get in current scenario, current calculation, because we know that maybe in the future we will help chardin or proton sharding, but right now we don't have it. So that means the block size is limited.
00:15:58.218 - 00:16:52.020, Speaker A: And yeah, yeah, I would probably say I'm not super expert in this, but I'll tell you from my perspective, I think the goal is to commoditize, blockchain and commoditize the blocks. Just think about the decentralized infrastructure similar to decentralized Amazon s three, where you can do compute cheaply, but decentralized. So I don't think having additional chains or blocks will be the limit, but you just like add more chains. And I think the importance is actually to have communication across those chains so that the balance that you have can be transferred easily from one chain to the other. And I think towards the end of the day, the goal is not for people to recognize, oh, I'm using op chain, or I'm using base goal is more about I'm using an app that is kind of like benefiting the users.
00:16:52.840 - 00:17:27.049, Speaker C: Yeah, you had some awesome insights for us around how you guys think about identifying a quantity developer. So developer who, like you were saying, all their contracts have been used this much and this is the types of apps that they would deploy. How do you guys think about identifying quality users? Because you were talking about how the days are just measuring. This was the number of active wallets is ho ho, move past that. On the user side of things, how do you think about identifying quality users?
00:17:27.829 - 00:18:18.104, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a good question. So we definitely have put a lot of thoughts into quality developers and it's still a little bit subjective because, for example, right now, if you go to the dune dashboard that we have on the developers, we set a target of like, oh, if you have been interacted with more than 50 addresses in the past 28 days, then you'd be considered like a quality developer. And that doesn't necessarily apply across other blockchains. And also, if people know about this is the filter, I mean, it's public. And then there will be lots of activities that is coming to like, hey, let's kind of inflate this number up. And so basically we are also thinking towards maybe we should use like gas fees or whatever that is going to do the filtering. Um, in terms of quality users, that's a good question.
00:18:18.104 - 00:19:06.100, Speaker A: And I think, um, yeah, I think having users kind of like constantly doing transactions and meaningful things on chain will be kind of considered quality. But also we know that all these addresses can be really fake and noisy. So I think the focus, that's why we've been shifting our focus to developers instead of just looking at the users. I think we want to shifting the growth more towards the developer side and maybe for nfts into the creator side, rather than looking at where the demand is coming from. And I think that would be more real for any of the people working in the industry to focus on rather than, yes, growing, whatever that is easier to manipulate.
00:19:08.600 - 00:19:38.190, Speaker D: What's your opinion on what user literally do on chain, except sending like USDT on Tron, which is few millions unique users trading some defi stuff on ethereum, binance, optimism as well, which is few thousand of users, maybe up to 10,000. Optimism. Have a good play with Worldcoin, but what's your link next? Focus. What do you expect users to do?
00:19:40.450 - 00:19:41.778, Speaker A: It's a question about what do I.
00:19:41.794 - 00:20:08.930, Speaker D: Expect users to do on the blockchain, especially on optimism. So you have huge trustworthy, you have flow fees, you have all this stuff. Do you have idea what exactly you will mirrors are if the instance already exists in real world and you want to mirror it in blockchain, or it should be something that we never thought about, like artificial intelligence, talking to other artificial intelligence for Internet opsync or whatever trace is.
00:20:09.350 - 00:20:41.748, Speaker A: Yeah, so that's a good question. I don't really have a very concrete view of what users are doing, but I think the blockchain is a space for anyone and any developers to experiment. So, you know, like all the things happening around, like, could be world coin, could be governance related, could be like friend tech, which is just a social, social app thing. So I think it more comes into what is the thing that you want to build and experiment on the blockchain that is going to benefit from the centralized web.
00:20:41.884 - 00:20:42.600, Speaker D: Yeah.
00:20:42.940 - 00:20:44.564, Speaker E: I think just to add to this.
00:20:44.612 - 00:20:44.884, Speaker D: Sorry.
00:20:44.932 - 00:21:06.886, Speaker E: Like, I think there's already good examples that since the infrastructure is there now, you can have different plays like Zora as their chain completely focused on nfts and new ways to reward creators. Firecaster is there doing their decentralized social play. So guess we'll see a lot of fun stuff coming.
00:21:06.998 - 00:21:07.622, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:21:07.766 - 00:21:09.630, Speaker E: Thank you so much again, Shuxin.
