00:00:00.330 - 00:00:00.880, Speaker A: You.
00:00:05.010 - 00:01:05.026, Speaker B: What up? Coordination on the pod. Today we have Bobby Dresser who is the general manager at the Optimism Foundation. And we are talking about optimism retroactive public goods funding Round two. Optimism retroactive public goods funding round two is they're dropping 10 million Op tokens on people who create public goods in the optimism and ethereum ecosystem. So the idea behind retroactive public goods funding is that it's easier to know in retrospect, in retroactively which public goods were actually good. And so what if we created an infrastructure for dropping tokens on people who had created public goods for the world? And then over time as people start to expect that they'll be rewarded for contributing to public goods, that shifts the game. Theoretic incentives of the world's agents in order to contribute to the public goods, it takes privatized capital and it gives them a business case for investing in public goods projects on the assumption that they will get an exit one day.
00:01:05.026 - 00:01:50.446, Speaker B: So, man, I'm just so bullish on retroactive public goods funding and I guess you could say I'm optimistic about it. So I view optimism and gitcoin and clr fund and giveth as creating this pluralistic stack that is going to help public good eyes the world using crypto rails. And I'm just so bullish on the fact that optimism retroactive public goods funding Round two is happening right now. So Bobby and I are going to cover the why, the what and the how of retroactive public goods funding round two in this episode. And I think it was a really important one because optimism is doing really important work in creating a more regenerative crypto economic world. So, really fun episode. I think you're going to enjoy it.
00:01:50.446 - 00:01:54.362, Speaker B: Without further ado, I'll give you Bobby Dresser from the Optimism Foundation. Enjoy. Coordination.
00:01:54.426 - 00:02:35.274, Speaker C: The Glow Dollar is a new stablecoin with a very special property. As the market cap of Glow goes up, extreme poverty goes down. Glow is a dollar backed nonprofit stablecoin that creates basic income for people living in extreme poverty. Glow is basically the same business model as USDC with yield generating treasuries on one side and a stablecoin on ethereum on the other. But instead of being a for profit company, Glow is a nonprofit that donates 100% of all yields from the Glow Reserve to Give Directly's basic income Program. Give Directly is a charity that gives people money, no strings attached to people living in poverty and is a charity that Vitalik has previously donated to and supported in the past. With Glow, you can reduce poverty just by holding a stablecoin.
00:02:35.274 - 00:02:58.434, Speaker C: Glow is launching in early 2023 and you can join the waitlist@glowdollar.org greenpill. That's glowdollar.org greenpill. Working in web3 is awesome, but working outside of the typical W two employee structure is a deal breaker for so many. Opolis is helping the self sovereign worker focus on what they do best their work. Tax time is coming up.
00:02:58.434 - 00:03:46.854, Speaker C: Opolis helps professionalize your business by helping you form an entity, generate proof of employment through Pay subs and receive a W Two at the end of the tax year. Are you self employed and forced to spend money on expensive healthcare insurance with limited coverage? Opolis leverages group buying power through a community employment coop, helping you save 20% to 50% on high quality, affordable healthcare options through Cigna. And finally, Opelis's member owners share in Opelis's success and profits based on their work token holdings. You must be authorized to work inside the United States in select Canadian provinces to receive Opelis's benefits. Book a 30 minutes free consultation with Opelis's experts and join Opelus by March 31, 2023, to get 1000 work and 1000 bank tokens. Go to Connect Opolis Co Bankless to get started. And if you're going to East Denver, make sure to stop by the Opolis booth or attend their Future of Work.
00:03:46.892 - 00:03:48.850, Speaker A: Summit hosted by Opolis.
00:03:49.010 - 00:03:50.360, Speaker B: Bobby, what's good?
00:03:50.730 - 00:03:52.310, Speaker A: What is up, Kevin?
00:03:52.730 - 00:04:00.970, Speaker B: Too much? Really excited about retroactive public goods funding. Round two. So give us the what, why and the how what's going on?
00:04:01.120 - 00:04:39.654, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm excited about it too, and happy to be here. So retro PGF number two retroactive public goods funding. Round two. So Retroactive Public goods Funding is this concept that optimism is putting a lot of time and effort and love into. It's not optimism specific. I think folks in the Gitcoin universe are familiar with that idea as well, but it's something that we're really leaning into to both grow our ecosystem and bring about the future that we're really excited about. So Retro PGF is basically this idea that it's easier to look back at what was useful than it is to make predictions about what will be useful in the future.
00:04:39.654 - 00:05:50.266, Speaker A: So there are a lot of reasons this basic idea is applicable, but very often we spend a lot of effort trying to predict whether a group of people or whether a project or whether some amount of effort will have positive returns to a community or to a business going forward. But what Retropgf does is flip that around and say, if we look back at the past quarter, or look back at the past week, or look back at the past decade, what work made a difference over that time period? You can actually see, oh, 10,000 people use this open source project, or this teacher educated, I don't know, 50 people who won Nobel Prizes. And you can actually just measure the outcomes of that work as opposed to trying to guess how something will go in the future. So how this applies to the optimism universe is that optimism cares very deeply about funding public goods. We are on this mission, along with the rest of our crypto family, to, as I like to think of it, kind of expand the diversity of human coordination systems. And scaling ethereum is a really big part of that. So at its core, optimism is trying to make more block space available so we can bring about this new censorship resistant economy and sort of coordination system.
00:05:50.266 - 00:06:26.710, Speaker A: But taking that one step further, we think in order to get there we need to build a profit motive for the production of public goods. And to bring about that profit motive we use retropgf. So long winded abstract spiel. But basically this is the second version of that experiment that we're running. It's a rather complicated thing to implement. Right? The idea might be simple but there are 1000 variables in each round and so Rpgf Two is our second experiment where we're tweaking some of those variables and trying to see how that affects the outcomes that it creates.
00:06:27.290 - 00:07:16.822, Speaker B: Amazing. So I think I've heard Carl talk about this. Carl Flourish, one of the founders of Optimism, talks about building a world in which it's as profitable to build public goods as it is to launch a VC backed startup. And then once you have that world, then the whole capital allocation infrastructure that's funding the next pets.com or photo sharing app stuff that Silicon Valley funds can actually be pointed at public goods because that capital now has a belief that they can have returns. So the retroactive public goods kind of creates a credible promise of an exit for the public goods that people care about. And then once people realize that they can start making investments in the present in public goods assuming that they have a credible path to exit in the future.
00:07:16.822 - 00:07:22.394, Speaker B: So it kind of shifts the game theory of public goods. Did I get that directionally right at all?
00:07:22.512 - 00:08:08.818, Speaker A: 100%. Yeah. There's some really exciting stuff in that exact concept that I think is super powerful and can change the game for people who are building public goods, whether that's open source software or in the long term hopefully public goods beyond crypto, beyond technology in general. That's the dream. Yeah, those things should be investable right? Those people should have the chance at an exit because oftentimes those types of contributions are providing more impact to society and we just historically don't fund them. Whether that's again, the maintenance of open source software or whether that is the type of effort that makes a local community better or the type of global effort that makes our climate better. There are a lot of ways where this kind of lack of symmetry and funding opportunity manifests.
00:08:08.994 - 00:08:41.410, Speaker B: Yeah. So I want to camp a little bit more on the theory in the vision and then we'll get into the actual retroactive on the ground too. People who are watching on video will see. Behind me I have this crypto art made by art by Nellie who's this amazing crypto artist and it's called Ether's Phoenix. And this is this idea that Carl Flourish has had about the game theory of retroactive public goods funding on Ethereum. I'm wondering if you could take a swing at explaining, at talking about ethers Phoenix.
00:08:41.830 - 00:10:04.350, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. So ethers Phoenix is this basic idea that in the long term there is I don't want to use the word utopia, that might sound too grand vase, but there is a utopian state where the production of public goods is rewarded and there are a lot of different paths to get there. There is a lot of different effort that has to take place in order to reach that future state. And very simply, the effort to bring about that future state is itself a public good. And so if you take those two pieces of logic like future state where the production of public goods is well funded and any work to get to that future state is itself a public good, you can basically think of the work to bring about ethers Phoenix as something that itself would be rewarded. So it's like in my head, this little recursive motivation to create that end state that we're working towards. And it's the idea that those types of projects, whether that's retro PJF number two, whether that's something you're doing tiny in your own world, whether that's creating the Green Pill podcast, whether that's telling your friend about this type of idea, all of that work will be rewarded in this future state.
00:10:04.350 - 00:10:09.182, Speaker A: And it's kind of a reason to keep going if you think we'll get there.
00:10:09.316 - 00:10:50.250, Speaker B: Yeah, what I like is that it takes this idea of retroactive public goods funding that's like ten syllables, but it takes the idea of the game theory of retroactive public goods funding and it makes me feel like I'm in like a Marvel comic or something like that. Ethers Phoenix is rising from the ashes of the coordination tools of ethereum and giving birth to itself. And it's a benevolent sort of like angel because it rewards public goods that people actually care about. So it's like this recursive algorithm and I just think it's really elegant. And depending on who I'm talking to, if I'm talking to economists, I'll talk about retroactive public goods funding and the mechanisms. But if I'm talking to more a general audience, we can talk about ethers Phoenix and they're totally complementary.
00:10:50.830 - 00:11:17.218, Speaker A: Yeah. It also makes this abstract idea. You know, when you meet someone and you feel like there's something sympatico, you kind of feel like you're on the same wavelength. You're like, oh, all right, we get each other in a certain way. This kind of makes that feeling a little bit more concrete because it's like, oh, we're actually on the same secret or not so secret team. It's not just a vibe that we caught. It's actually us working towards the same long term abstract thing.
00:11:17.218 - 00:11:30.906, Speaker A: And so that type of idea is like a little earworm that I think I mean, even creating the concept of ethersphoenix itself helps bring about ethers Phoenix. So I don't know how far down the recursion can go before my head.
00:11:30.928 - 00:11:33.990, Speaker B: Falls off, but stacked, you deeper.
00:11:34.070 - 00:11:46.410, Speaker A: Yeah, it helps prevent the kind of defeatism that is increasingly prevalent not only in crypto, but, I don't know, globally. And that sort of thing is huge for continuing optimism.
00:11:46.570 - 00:12:12.130, Speaker B: Yeah, it's funny that you just name dropped the name of the project doing this optimism. Yeah. memetically. I like that. Let's actually get into the mechanism. So, retroactive public goods funding round two. When is it, how do people participate, how does it work? How much capital is going to be allocated during this round?
00:12:12.290 - 00:13:07.282, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. So we are recording this conversation on Tuesday, January the 24th. We are smack in the middle of the nomination window. So the way retro PDF runs very simply is there is a declared scope. So at the outset of the round we'll say public goods and contributions that fit these criteria are eligible for funding in this round. So right now that's a set of guidelines that the Optimism Foundation sets in the very early stages of the optimism collective and eventually that'll be a scope that is set by our governance community, by the collaboration between token house and the citizens house. So we can bookmark the kind of rabbit hole of optimism governance for a second and just say there's a scope for the funding round that's set at the outset and some time passes and maybe in that time people put in a lot of effort to build stuff that fits in that round scope.
00:13:07.282 - 00:13:54.870, Speaker A: Or in the case of this round, because it's been so long since round one, there's been tons of positive contributions that have happened over the past year. So we basically said, here's the round scope, we know there's tons of stuff that fits in here, so we're going to move right through the next couple stages of the process. Next stage is this nomination window. So anybody on the planet Earth or beyond the planet Earth, anybody can nominate a project for funding. And so the way you nominate a project is you read the scope and you're like, hey, this open source dependency that I use every day probably fits within that scope. Or hey, I read this educational resource about optimism and I realized there's this education category, so I'm going to nominate that thing. We've got a couple threads open on our governance forum and that's where anyone can show up and write a pretty short description to nominate a project for funding.
00:13:54.870 - 00:14:41.414, Speaker A: The scope of this round two, I should add, is funding public goods that support the development and the usage of the op stack. And so we're starting with this pretty small concentric circle to say all of the things that we rely on to make optimism go should be funded. And that includes the infra and the dependencies that the optimism code base itself relies on. That includes the tooling and utilities that developers on the optimism core development team or building applications in the optimism ecosystem use. And that includes education things that bring awareness of optimism to a broader audience, whether that's technical education or social education, et cetera. So in any of those categories, you can nominate something. And that nomination window, at least for this round, will run two weeks ending on January 31.
00:14:41.414 - 00:15:36.706, Speaker A: We do a little bit of like, program management admin to make sure we've got info from all of those projects, which is pretty important, right? We want to make sure we're funding the right people and everyone feels safe and good about that. We also collect a little bit of information from them and we'll probably come back to this in a second. But there's a big variable here around what info we require from the project and what info we present to voters when they're making their choice. So we've got all these products nominated, we've kind of collected some information, we've got a pretty consistent template for everybody, and then we enter this voting window. So voting on retropgf is done by a set of people who are called citizens. So Optimism has two houses of governance, token House, which is standard token weighted voting. So the Op Token circulates freely and people who have Op tokens delegated to them can choose to vote in the Token House governance.
00:15:36.706 - 00:16:30.822, Speaker A: And they're responsible for a set of decisions around grants, funding and governing certain attributes of how the sequencer works and approving protocol upgrades, things like that. Second house of Optimism governance is called the Citizens House and their primary responsibility is voting on retropgf. It's voting on the allocation of public goods funding. So we are gradually ramping up this concept of the Citizens House. And in retro PGF round two, we've got about 90 people who are from all different backgrounds and experiences who will be voting on how to allocate 10 million Op Tokens over the full set of projects that were nominated. So we covered a lot of ground and there's a lot of detail in there, but that's the very basic run of show of how we go start to finish. After the voting takes place, funding is distributed to those projects and we'll run retropgf round three with a new scope.
00:16:30.822 - 00:16:43.034, Speaker A: Maybe it's broader, maybe it's more specific, slightly broader set of citizens and keep going until we've funded all of the impact on the world and brought everybody into the new fold of how this economy should work.
00:16:43.152 - 00:17:26.970, Speaker B: Right? Well, I just think it's so elegant how with optimism's, bicameral governance structure. You've got the Token house, which is like motivated by capital and then you've got the citizens house, which is kind of motivated by these values and you're kind of creating this economic system that the sum is greater than each of those very there's a healthy tension there, but I think that together it makes the community stronger. And so the bicameral governance is something that Vitalik has talked about as a big innovation to make sure that capital is values aligned and that values the values alignment has the power of capital. And, wow, 10 million Op tokens. That's like $20 million, right? $21 million as of recording.
00:17:27.550 - 00:18:20.940, Speaker A: It's a big chunk of tokens. And if you look at the initial allocation of the initial token supply, there's a huge portion of it that's allocated for retroactive public goods funding in addition to a portion of protocol revenue that will go to public goods funding. And so we really care about this not only as a new type of economy that we want to prove out, but also because it's a growth strategy. We earnestly believe that funding public goods will make optimism an incredibly vibrant and successful crypto ecosystem because it'll be easier to build on, it will be easier to learn about, it will be easier to participate in as a technical or nontechnical person. It's not just altruism. Yes, we think it's good for it's the way the world should work, but we also think it's a really crucial ingredient to growing this vibrant community.
00:18:21.870 - 00:18:45.650, Speaker B: Yeah, I love that alignment of I mean, this is what makes optimism such a special place to me in the ecosystem and such a leader is that it's got the values alignment of being focused on public goods and it's also got the capital to deploy on this stuff and one without the other doesn't have the same sort of effect. But the synthesis of the two is what makes it pretty exciting to me, for sure.
00:18:45.720 - 00:19:47.122, Speaker A: Yeah. And I'm glad you brought up some of Vitalik's writing, because I think, just like, personally, one of the most interesting things about working on this project is that space between some of the abstract ideas around how these systems could work, like Ethers Phoenix or a bicameral governance system where certain governance rights are shared between these two parties. And you've had Carl on this podcast. I think you might have had Ben also on this podcast, and they are incredible thinkers and some of the most brilliant minds that I've come in contact with and thinking about how to design these big picture systems. And one of my personal favorite things is that really messy space where you're going from this pretty pure and elegant idea and you're taking it into the messy stage of implementation. So it's like, all right, retro fijf, that's a pretty clean concept, but when you break it down and try to make it actionable and execute on it, it's really messy. And there are a thousand little variables.
00:19:47.266 - 00:19:48.070, Speaker B: Tell me about it.
00:19:48.140 - 00:20:15.934, Speaker A: From the product design of the UI to the way we distribute voting badges, to the specific algorithm we're using to count votes, to the way that we word the scope. There's so many variables that actually affect the outcomes, and it's just like a joy to kind of work through that and iterate towards the actual outcomes that we're working on. I think there's so much fascinating stuff in there that it's been really fun to play with at optimism. Yeah.
00:20:15.972 - 00:21:31.014, Speaker B: Oh man, we could dive in on those variables but we could also look well, maybe I'll establish, I want to establish like a macro view and then maybe we can dive in on some of those variables. So I've kind of got this view of a holonic view of how we're going to fund public goods using crypto in the future and a whole on is just a whole that's comprised of parts. I am a whole on of my cells and my organs and me and you together are a whole on of this episode of the podcast. And the ethereum community is a holon that's composed of the ethereum community and inside of each hold on, in order to fund the public goods of that hold on, in this case the ethereum community or the optimism community, you need funding. But then once you have the funding, the question is how do I distribute it to the most legitimate public goods? And so you've got the mechanism is the other composite part of the holon. And so in Gitcoin's case, the funding source is really generous donors, optimism included, that give to Gitcoin and then you have quadratic funding as the mechanism that distributes it to the most legitimate public goods. And then within Optimism, you've got sequencer fees and the initial token allocation as the funding mechanism and then you've got or sorry, the funding source.
00:21:31.014 - 00:21:40.986, Speaker B: And then the mechanism is retroactive public goods funding and I think some sort of quadratic voting, correct me if I'm wrong, will take place there.
00:21:41.168 - 00:21:56.394, Speaker A: We're actually not using quadratic voting this round in round two as sort of a test to see how it affects the voting outcomes. But yes, I like that distinction. Right. The funding comes from somewhere and then there's a decision, there's like this decision module where funding has to get distributed.
00:21:56.522 - 00:22:48.414, Speaker B: Well, yeah, and then the last thing to build on top of that is you start with funding the public goods of the optimism community and then you can fund the ethereum. I almost look at this as like an expanding the whole on of which public goods we're funding. So you start with optimism, community, and then since optimism kind of is ethereum, then you expand out to ethereum public goods. And then we could go to all open source software, and we're creating this ethers Phoenix retroactive public goods funding loop at expanding amounts of humanity. And then you eventually do from all open source, then all digital, and then you can kind of retroactive public goods, fund the world out from there. And that's like the incremental iterative approach the loop that I would like to see happen in the world. And one of the things I think is cool is this modularity of like, oh, there's going to be a pluralism of mechanisms and funding sources that's going to allow that to expand outwards.
00:22:48.414 - 00:23:14.390, Speaker B: And that's what makes kind of like gitcoins work and optimism's work, complementary in a way. And there'll be certain mechanisms that are really good for some communities but won't be good for other communities. And so that forkability of that allocation stack I think is really important. So I don't know that's my macro take on how retroactive public goods funding and other mechanisms expand out to really create outcomes for humanity. But I'm curious how that resonates with the optimism vision.
00:23:14.550 - 00:24:56.742, Speaker A: 100% yeah, that's exactly the dream is like running this process enough until we can build the escape velocity to expand beyond our own optimism community, beyond our own ethereum community, beyond even the crypto community. And I think it's this balance between these incredibly large dreams and then the humility to know that we can't take one giant step and say optimism is able to fund public goods across the entire globe. We're doing it all right now. It's like we know that it's possible but we know we have to take a lot of small steps to get there and that's sort of what I mean about all these infinite variables. There's a lot of ways I think we could design a bad round, and I think we're very clear eyed that even in round two, there's probably going to be a lot of constructive feedback from projects who are getting funded, from voters, from community members making nominations where they say, hey, these things worked for me and these things didn't work for me. And by giving ourselves these little bite sized chunks we, I think, dramatically increase the chances that we arrive at a process in the longer term that actually works for the impact that it's trying to fund because who knows what we'll learn? Even when we grow from a scope that says we're funding public goods that support development of ethereum and optimism or we're funding public goods for the Thai crypto community we've got a giant Thai community out there. The scope of the funding round will change the mechanics of the round, the makeup of badge holders will change it and trying to remain very pragmatic that we don't know all of the right answers for all of those different steps.
00:24:56.886 - 00:26:07.954, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think the Iterative approach is a great one. They say startups are kind of like contained explosions and maybe I know like gitcoin round is just like an experiment with a new mechanism or a new parameter and then you iterate towards the global maxima of coordination through just trying stuff and you got to get it wrong in the iterations in order to learn. And so yeah, that iterative. Loop is really, I think, very cool for proving this out. But what makes me really excited about this vision is that if it works in Optimism, then you can imagine other L two S or DFI or Dow projects doing retroactive public goods funding. Or maybe we reach a place in which crypto has saturated the world, and a local community could just take the playbook that Optimism uses to fund its public goods and it could fund its public goods using that exact same stack and playbook it's forkable and open source. Right? So all you need is a concerned citizen that can fork the mechanism and implement it in their own community for this to it's like a dandelion that's sort of like the seed spread from there.
00:26:08.152 - 00:26:42.522, Speaker A: That's an excellent image. I think that's super true and I'm interested to see how it takes off. I mean, I think Gitcoin has played a huge role in that dandelion effect and in spreading this way of thinking and helping people digest the meme that crypto. And really all technology is built on open source and that there's this obligation not only, like, a kind of just obligation, but also as, like, an effective way to make sure things are safe and usable, to continue to fund public goods. And so, I don't know, two is stronger than one and five is stronger than two, and so we'll see how far the dandy line goes.
00:26:42.656 - 00:27:08.962, Speaker B: Yeah, well, thank you for saying that about Gitcoin. I just want to share a little story and that's that in the heart of the last bear market. When ETH was at $80, gitcoin was figuring out what it wanted to be, wandering around in the abyss, trying to figure out what we wanted to be when we grow up. And we got on a call with Carl and Jing from the Optimism team. Then it was called Plasma Group, I think. For sure. And they donated 100K.
00:27:08.962 - 00:28:00.246, Speaker B: They were our first donors to Gitcoin that wasn't the Ethereum Foundation. And they told us, we really love what you're doing with public goods. And we have, I think it was like 95K left in this entity and we want to donate it to the public good and keep up the great work. And for me it was like a warm fuzzy because I'm like an application level developer, but Carl and Jagger like deep game theory protocol developers anyway, so it feels like Optimism or Carl and Jing sort of like slingshot Gitcoin through the last bear market. And I hope that Gitcoin can pay it forward to you because Optimism in many ways is carrying the torch on public goods funding. And now we've got a pluralism of public goods funding mechanisms and funding sources and that's what's cool that's client diversity, but for public goods funding sources. And I think that's really exciting to.
00:28:00.268 - 00:29:06.726, Speaker A: Me that's well said. Yeah, I have had some back and forth with folks on the Gitcoin grants, hub Team, folks like Chase and others, Michelle, et cetera. And I have kind of gotten bit by this hype that y'all are building and building out sort of this central repository for, if you'll permit me a moment, of shilling, gitcoin like building out a central repository for projects that are accepting or looking for public goods. Funding, right? Because as we expand the number of communities that are interested in sending resources towards these folks, it's like you could either multiply the operational cost by the number of projects that are trying to send funding to public goods. Or you can create this little shelling point, this hub that builds network effects so that every time a new community pulls some folks online, they accumulate into this central public goods funding hub and makes it easier for projects, it makes it easier for funders. I think it's a really compelling and just like a smart move to help this thing take off a lot more quickly. So I'm very on board with that direction.
00:29:06.726 - 00:29:08.282, Speaker A: I'm excited to see where it goes.
00:29:08.416 - 00:29:50.198, Speaker B: Yeah, likewise. I think that what's cool is just this practical pluralism of we talked about gitcoin and optimism, but giveth is doing it, clr fund is doing it, doing good is doing it and it feels like building a movement together. And I would really like for right now, the 2017 market cycle was ICOs. The last market cycle felt like it was DFI and NFTs and Dows are on the low kind of happening. But I would really like for there to be a cycle where people are really excited about public goods and coordination mechanisms in the future. And I don't know if we can meme that into existence, but the fact that there's a pluralism of us doing it here in 2023 means that there's at least some heat there.
00:29:50.364 - 00:30:43.926, Speaker A: I think we can meme it into existence. And I'm glad you brought up that kind of that concept of upfront investment in public goods because I do think that is the next step to take the next big lever to pull. And part of that includes running retropgf reliably enough that investors can feel confident in that possibility of an exit. It also, I think, benefits from les. You mentioned this pluralism of other folks funding public goods to think to increase the kind of confidence in projects like this getting funded. But that to me is the next step function increase in the success of this system where if we can build a community of investors who understand that funding projects like this will actually be a long term, very smart economic move, then it kind of curves up the growth trajectory and I think there's a lot of exciting possibilities in it's.
00:30:43.958 - 00:31:06.954, Speaker B: Like, I think I was talking to David Hoffman from Bankless and I was explaining to him all the reasons why retroactive public goods funding was going to change the way investors think about retroactive public goods funding. He's like, dude, you can explain it to me, but when the first exit happens, then that's when all the capital is going to go after it and chase us and we need that visceral totally, that visceral first exit and then that'll change the game totally.
00:31:07.002 - 00:31:42.540, Speaker A: And that's what I mean by the Gnarly implementation details, right? The concept is super clean. But to get there, it's like, all right, well, we need to increase confidence by funding this many public goods over this many rounds. We need to figure out the right investment structure. Like, is there a hyper cert involved here? Are we pulling together the right community so that people can meme each other into participation in the system? There's a lot of both social and technical questions that have to be answered even with a hypothesis, even if it's not the final answer to kind of test our way towards making any of this happen.
00:31:43.230 - 00:33:04.146, Speaker B: One of the things that you said that I really want to camp on because I believe in this outer loop, but clearly I'm green pilled. I'm on episode 100 of these. But for the people who aren't green pilled yet and they tune out the public good stuff as just like this hippie dippy granola coming out of Boulder, Colorado. Kevin's talking about public goods thing again, I just want to camp on the fact that you said that it's about public goods but it's also a growth hack for the optimism ecosystem. So the same mechanism pointed at optimism as a growth hack is a mechanism for public goods funding in the wider world just when you apply it at a different optimism. Wanting to grow its developer community is not that dissimilar from a local town like Boulder wanting to grow its community of active and engaged citizens who are like, I don't know, making a downtown livable and making sure that you could point that same mechanism at open source software and build public goods for the NPM Python ecosystem. And so to me, that's what makes me insanely bullish that we're going to get to this point where we're going to have this public goods exit thing is because in the meantime, you can just sell this stuff to marketing departments that are trying to build their crypto ecosystems or to local governments.
00:33:04.146 - 00:33:29.646, Speaker B: I'm painting over a few details here, but I guess the point I'm trying to make is that this isn't just like a moral argument that public goods are good and we should fund them because people who contribute to public goods are good. It's actually like the business objectives of a lot of crypto can use these mechanisms to build their ecosystems public goods. And I think that's what's going to bridge us to this point where public goods are just like ubiquitous. I don't know if you have any comments on that.
00:33:29.828 - 00:34:10.726, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a really important point and even if we put crypto aside for a moment. So way back in the day I worked at MetaMask, which is this open source project and it got me interested in just the mechanics of building in public. Right. You've got people screaming in your issues. You've also got people who pick up half built thing and get it over the finish line and there's just like all these dynamics in making that possible. And from there I went to work at GitHub, where almost a lot of the world's open source software lives. And I worked on the team that is thinking about how to make the production and maintenance of open source software accessible and for lack of a better word, healthy.
00:34:10.726 - 00:35:37.662, Speaker A: And so that includes things like GitHub sponsors, GitHub discussions like onboarding, even onto GitHub, things like that. And there's an incredible team there. But we spent a lot of time thinking about the psychology behind people who contribute to open source software projects and I am consistently shocked that the modern world exists as it does today, given the current state of open source development and funding. Because every single piece of software that you touch in your daily life has thousands of Legos that are built for free, that are maintained for free and that the software that you're using critically depends on to work. And there is this massive economic mismatch and sometimes that thing bites us in the ass right there's. I don't know heart bleed or like the event stream hack that I guess is somewhat crypto related but the fact that that thing that type of thing where a free piece of software where the maintainer has no economic incentive to maintain it and keep it safe other than well no economic incentive and probably a lot of personal incentives like pride or the sense of giving back. The fact that that type of thing doesn't crumble much more often and bring down huge parts of our modern economy with it is continuously surprising to me and frankly, a little terrifying.
00:35:37.662 - 00:37:11.554, Speaker A: And so yes, we're talking about funding public goods as a growth strategy for optimism, but I also think funding public goods like open source software is pretty critical for our modern world to continue to survive in the way that it does now. And that's why I'm personally really keen on this idea extending beyond just optimism and just crypto because I don't know if the current status quo will be able to continue for so long. And we also thought about this with sponsors, right? We started from a place of sponsors gaining traction with companies because they wanted the marketing boost, right? I, as Gripe, a giant payments company, want to give 10 million to open source every year because it looks good and that only goes so far, right? What we really tried to do is connect that big budget company like thinking about funding open source software to the actual benefits they would get from funding it. So for example, if we're spending $10 million on open source software, we know that our stack is safer. We know that the security of those things that we're depending on is slightly higher than it would be if those projects were underfunded. So in general, with this whole concept, and I promise my ramble is almost through, but it's like helping people understand this stuff isn't just like you said, a hippie dippy abstract, like, oh, this community impact should be funded. It's actually we've built a house of cards and it's really not safe.
00:37:11.554 - 00:37:25.258, Speaker A: And if we want to make software that lasts and that's accessible to use and that can actually take us into the next chapter of wherever the world goes, then funding public goods and funding open source software has to be a.
00:37:25.264 - 00:37:55.650, Speaker B: Part of, you know, this is where we started at Gitcoin. Our original mission was to grow open source. Actually it was push open source forward. But then we were like, open source doesn't need to push, it's more like a garden you need to garden. And I'm reminded of this Xkcd comic where you've got a bunch of little blocks that are all sort of leaning on top of each other and the title is all Modern Digital Infrastructure. And at the bottom there's like this little Django block that's entitled a project. Some random person in Nebraska has been thanklessly maintaining since 2003.
00:37:55.650 - 00:38:52.230, Speaker B: It's really pretty crazy. I'm totally bought into the vision. But the interesting part for me is how do we go from the game theoretic shelling point being everyone free rides to the game theoretic shelling point being everyone coordinates. And we found this local maxima in which gripe, I think you called them, the Web two payments company is willing to spend some of their marketing budget to look good by supporting GitHub sponsors. But how do we go where people aren't just anting for the optics of it, but it's more of just like a way of building in public or how do we make the shelling point to be more deeper? And I think that we're still trying to figure that out as an ecosystem right now, but it makes me really bullish to see so much experimentation in this space and hopefully we figure it out in the next market cycle.
00:38:52.650 - 00:39:40.054, Speaker A: Yes, I think that's the exact right question to ask. And it's interesting for me at least just to compare optimism's approach and GitHub's approach or GitHub's approach is somewhat social with sponsors and optimism's approach bakes in. I mean, I guess it's still social because some of it exists at the governance layer. But we're baking in this assumption, this little channel for a portion of protocol profits to continually forever and ever go towards attractive public goods funding. And that's up to governance at a certain point. And they will make the continuous choice again that balances the financial interests of Token House and the more sort of like long term interests of the citizens to decide how that funding is like how much and how that funding is distributed. But it's a slightly more opinionated take.
00:39:40.054 - 00:39:49.926, Speaker A: It's like that thing exists as part of the system. It's not just like an agreement that we're trying to strike with a bunch of business people. So we'll see if it works.
00:39:50.108 - 00:40:10.400, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. Well, you know, I also appreciate that you've left the crypto bubble, you worked at MetaMask and then you went to GitHub sponsors and it almost feels like your role at Optimism Foundation is combining what you learned in both of those places in order to create this coordination megazord. So I appreciate that reality check as well.
00:40:10.850 - 00:40:57.440, Speaker A: For sure, yeah, I missed the crypto and I had to come back. But honestly, I think it was the specific vision of the folks at Optimism and the magnitude of what they're trying to accomplish that feels like that little beating heart at the core of crypto. That's what I care about this movement for. And we've accumulated this much larger troupe and there's some chaos and some things that I kind of look away from and some people doing really brilliant, novel stuff. And I think at the core there's this group of folks with very strong values about how crypto can actually make the world better and give us different tools to coordinate with that can solve all sorts of problems. And that's, like, I think, the subset of the broader community that I love to play in. And that's what pulled me back.
00:40:57.440 - 00:40:58.878, Speaker A: And one of the things that I.
00:40:58.884 - 00:42:07.138, Speaker B: Got to say going back to my point about how do we make the game theoretic shelling point to coordinate, not to defect and to support your infrastructure to this idea that VCs will actually fund the public goods when they see there's an exit from public goods. I just want to say that I think that the optimism is really special in turning the tide towards a more regenerative crypto economic internet because it's proof point. I mean, the L two is a leading L two, the technology is sound and the Ethos, the fact that it's bundled with this Ethos hopefully will be a part of that creation of this game theoretic shelling point towards more public goods. And what I really want in the next market cycle is for the Vanguard projects to not be this dog shit like the Safe moons. I don't even know the names of these meme coins that just pump and dump because the subtitle of the Green Pill podcast or the book is like how Crypto Can Regenerate the World. And I want it to be crypto actually is regenerating the world in the next edition that we do. And we don't get that without projects that are actually truly eating their decentralization and their regen vegetables doing it.
00:42:07.138 - 00:42:38.750, Speaker B: And I think that optimism is sort of like leading in that way and hopefully we move from a market that's all just speculation to one that's more fundamentals. And I think that projects like optimism really have strong fundamentals. So just a recognition for you all that you're sort of leading in improving that a more regen Green Pilled Web Three is possible. And I don't know what your secret is, but I hope that you sprinkle some optimism and some retro PGF and public goods on the rest of the ecosystem before the next market cycle starts.
00:42:39.570 - 00:42:45.350, Speaker A: I appreciate that. I think we have a long ways to go and a lot of work to do, but I appreciate that nonetheless.
00:42:45.530 - 00:43:12.200, Speaker B: I'm like the tired curmudgeon after 15 rounds of Gitcoin grant. We're like passing the baton on to like, good luck with your next 13 rounds, Bobby. So I want to spend maybe a few more minutes talking high level about this world that you're trying to create and then we should probably stick the landing by Tangibly revisiting retro PGF round two. So is there anything that I didn't ask you that you want to say about retro PGF or optimism or the movement that you all are building?
00:43:13.530 - 00:44:59.898, Speaker A: I mean, there's a lot that I could say. I think the piece that we touched on a tiny bit that I just want to reiterate is like the commitment to this being this gradual iterative process because I think oftentimes there's a little bit of distance between what people expect and how kind of progressive we're being with this. So a lot of projects have gone right from core dev team building something to full dow, and there's just that leap in a moment and there's a lot of benefits to that, right? You just hit that end state and you figure stuff out live. But what optimism is trying to do is this much more gradual process because we know how hard the design of these systems can be and how much there is to get right if we're going to build something that actually works for a huge variety of stakeholders and participants. And so I've had this experience talking with a bunch of different community members where they expect things to be a certain way, or they expect these certain types of decisions to be immediately voted on by everybody, or they expect, I don't know, oh, you're funding public goods. Why aren't we funding teachers in my hometown? Why aren't we funding clean water immediately? Like this type of get there tomorrow sort of mentality? It would be ideal if those things were possible, but we're just really committed to taking it step by step and committed to being here for the long haul. And I certainly hope that folks hold us accountable to that commitment that each step we are taking feedback and making the system work better and we're learning from past experiences, but I think it's a slightly different way of doing things than a lot of existing products out there have taken.
00:44:59.898 - 00:45:10.110, Speaker A: And so I just wanted to, I guess, touch on that again because it'll take a while, but I think it's the most likely path to lead us to a good system at the end of the rainbow.
00:45:11.330 - 00:45:49.510, Speaker B: The end of the rainbow. Yeah. My version of this is like, you can't let perfect be the enemy of good. We wish Quadratic funding was funding local public goods and things outside of the crypto bubble, but we just rewrote the entire not we, but Gitcoin Dowed, it just rewrote the entire stack to be decentralized and modular from a centralized monolith. And that took like twelve months. So it's actually rebuilding the infrastructure that can scale in that way. And I got to say that I think Op Stack was an inspiration for Grant stack? You have this modular ecosystem that can be used to compose an L2, and so you went like one level meta above just building an L2 with the Op Stack.
00:45:49.510 - 00:46:34.038, Speaker B: And I think that Gitcoin, from what I've seen of their strategy on the governance forums, is like the same thing. It's like building a suite of tools that can be used to compose a grants program. And you can fork out the sequencer in L two for another type of sequencer, or on grant stack, you can fork out quadratic funding for quadratic voting. Or, I don't know, maybe one day we'll build retroactive public goods funding into grant stack or something like that. And so you all have been an inspiration, I think, for Gitcoin as it's turned the corner from centralized monolith into decentralized modular and then you just have to iterate from there once you've got the right foundation. And so, yeah, it's pretty exciting for me to see it working at Op Stack and it gives me hope that the Grant Stack will work with the same sort of decentralized modular strategy.
00:46:34.214 - 00:47:16.102, Speaker A: Yeah, there's a lot in there I think shout out. I can take no credit for the Op Stacks architecture and our upcoming release, Bedrock, which is scheduled for Feb. But folks like Carl and Ben and folks like Proto and Calvin and Kevin Ho and all these folks who are cranking on making sure the system not only works to the quality that we expect, but is designed in. A way that can let other people build their own chains or experiment with a chain that has different characteristics, I think is like very core to our open source philosophy. Right. We want to build this thing and have it be licensed in a way that other people can take it and remix it and play with it and reassemble it in a way that works for them. But it also, exactly like you mentioned, applies to a lot of other different types of product.
00:47:16.102 - 00:47:45.646, Speaker A: It applies to our governance system, it applies to these funding mechanisms. And eventually we want to get to a place with retropgf where we've got enough modularity that the iteration that we're going for can happen in parallel, it can happen a lot more quickly, it can happen more permissionlessly. So that we're setting folks up to run their own rounds in ways that are sort of more true to the local knowledge of their community and less about our opinions and how we want things done. There's a lot in there, but I'm glad it's working out for you see other folks doing stuff like that as well.
00:47:45.748 - 00:48:18.234, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. Well, let's come down from the beta and actually get to the object level. So the nomination window for Retro PGF Round Two is until January 31 at 1900 hours GMT and then the project opt in deadline is February 14 and then the voting window is February 20 eigth to March 14. So during East Denver it sounds like you all will be dropping bedrock and then also retroactive public goods funding will be happening. So really excited for that. Any comments on that? And also, how can people get involved in retro? PGF round two. You got a call to action for people.
00:48:18.352 - 00:49:05.322, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. The big moment to get involved is actually right now during this nomination window. So if you've heard this and you've been like, damn, I know about this project or this person doing exceptional work or this resource that I've relied on a bunch, these things are all great things to nominate for Retropgf Round Two. We have a pretty big sort of commitment to this specific funding round. There's 10 million Op tokens going out and we've got a great stream of nominations coming in so far. But I think the broader the set of folks who are nominating, I think the better the outcomes will be. So you can head to gov optimism IO and there are a couple of threads going on there where folks have been nominating projects over the past couple of weeks and that nomination window will wrap up at the end of January on January 31.
00:49:05.322 - 00:49:53.180, Speaker A: So get the nominations in while you still can and then we'll continue the rest of February kind of getting our act together for this voting period. And I'm honestly really excited not only for the projects getting funded, but also for the retro experience of this round because that's what kind of propels us for Round Three. So at the conclusion of Round Two, we'll be announcing plans for Round Three and that's another exciting moment to get involved as we announce the scope, you can kind of consider, is there something I can do that fits within this kind of spec, this umbrella of impact? And then there'll be a period of time between Round Three announcement and Round Three voting where you can find some folks to build with, get in contact with the optimism team and our devil folks and get kind of paired with the right way to make impact. There's a lot of good stuff coming ahead for Round Three as well.
00:49:53.950 - 00:50:09.838, Speaker B: Yeah, excited for that. And those links to those resources will be in the show notes. Are you all planning on doing this? I think Round One to Round Two was roughly nine months or twelve months. Are you planning on doing yearly or quarterly or what's the cadence? Are you all just kind of figuring it out?
00:50:10.004 - 00:50:43.020, Speaker A: Very much want to increase the cadence. So ideally there's not nearly as much of a time delay between round one and round two. We've had a very busy year so I think that contributed to it as well. But like we mentioned, with the way to get some of this investment off the ground running retropdf regularly I think is going to be key to its success. So you'll likely see the cadence of rounds shorten. We could even run parallel rounds in some future universe. So we want to make this an ongoing process and really build up the muscle so that this can get super easy from our side and from the community side as well.
00:50:43.470 - 00:51:00.718, Speaker B: And then let's just end on what does this look like if you all are maximally successful. My version of this is like it's a world where VCs fund public goods the same way they do seed stage startups. But what does the world look like where you stick the landing on this, let's say 2027 or something like that?
00:51:00.884 - 00:52:12.134, Speaker A: What you mentioned I think is a goalpost along our vision for success but it's not the end state. I think the end state is that the global economy or the many different versions of the global economy have built in a mechanism that funds public goods that is not just taxes, funding schools or doing the kind of like marginal things that at least I see happen in the United States. Maybe marginal is too strong a word. I know there's tons of government funding that goes towards supporting public goods but the global economy takes note and starts to fund public goods in a way where the profit to the individual is actually matching the impact that that public good has provided. And that is something that I think is very easy to observe us not doing today. We think about the amount of social science research that shows that education is one of the most important things for driving positive life outcomes. And then you look at the average public school teacher salary in the US and I think it's pretty easy to see a clear mismatch between the impact a good school teacher is providing and the amount of profit they're personally receiving as part of it.
00:52:12.134 - 00:52:25.370, Speaker A: So maximally successful to me looks like a global economy that takes note from what optimism is doing and funds public goods in a way that matches the impact they're having and isn't just a footnote on a budget.
00:52:25.790 - 00:53:49.474, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that for me what makes me really bullish is the individual agent level incentives that exist in that world where people can work on the public good and just be financially rewarded for it. And then what you get is this game theoretic shelling point or movement from people working at Morgan so they can pay the mortgage and pay for their kids education and health care and stuff to just working on public goods. And the problem with spending 9 hours a day working at a big bank is that by the end of that, you don't have any time left in your day. You don't have any energy, emotional energy to go fix the potholes or to go pitch in in your community. And so by pointing people's financial lives at public Goods instead of these privatized jobs, then not only do you create a better world, because all the world's agents are working on public goods instead of and they're on the private capture things, but it just really creates a sea change in how people view being a community citizen. And being able to be a community citizen and pay your bills with that, to me, is really the bullish case for this. So I'm so excited about what you're doing, and I hope that gitcoin and super modular and optimism are building this world together because it feels like one that I want to live in.
00:53:49.474 - 00:53:50.130, Speaker B: Absolutely.
00:53:50.200 - 00:54:00.390, Speaker A: I appreciate you saying all that. I have one little tiny story, if you'll permit me. At the end, one of the questions that you sent over was just like the concept of how do you keep that optimism alive?
00:54:01.210 - 00:54:03.026, Speaker B: You work at a company named Optimism.
00:54:03.138 - 00:54:30.606, Speaker A: Well, that's part of it that gets you most of the way, but it doesn't actually get you all the way. So the trick for getting the rest of the way is the Greenville podcast. I have a very bad habit of biting my nails. And so for the past year or so, I've been getting gel manicures where they put this stuff on your nails. It's like so hard you couldn't even possibly bite through it with your teeth. It's actually been very helpful at helping me kick my nail biting habit. But I'm saying all this because my ritual once a month, go to the nail salon.
00:54:30.606 - 00:55:03.310, Speaker A: You can't really do anything because your hands are trapped by someone who's right. So I'd pop in the Green Pill podcast. There's some nice calming music in the background, get my little nail shield on so I can't be biting my nails anymore. Exactly. There we go. And it honestly did give me a moment of zooming out from furiously sending messages to my Internet coworkers and forced me to kind of reconnect with the amount of brain power in this space, the amount of creativity, the amount of I'm going to say it again. I'm so sorry.
00:55:03.310 - 00:55:20.206, Speaker A: The amount of optimism that exists in this space chill. And it really honestly does help me kind of connect back to not only why we're doing this, but also the gentle faith that we will be able to build a better future. So thank you for making this podcast. Thanks for having me.
00:55:20.308 - 00:55:33.734, Speaker B: Yeah, well, hopefully we are one step closer to manifesting Ether's Phoenix by doing this episode, and I appreciate you saying that. All right, Bobby. Thanks again, man. And good luck on Retroactive Public Goods. Round two. We'll be rooting for you.
00:55:33.852 - 00:55:35.170, Speaker A: Thank you, Kevin. Good. To chat.
