00:00:00.170 - 00:00:53.422, Speaker A: So my name is Eric from Dodo. I'm head of strategy. Today I'm just going to talk about the intentbased DeFi protocol design. So I think intent based product has already been in this space for quite a long time. So today I'm just going to explore some of the kind of existing examples and also trying to predict some interesting new protocol designs. And also presenting the new version of Dodo which also around a we've been. So what does kind of generalized intent look like? Suppose you want to buy some like a baseball ticket and you want certain constraints and you want several seats together, whatever.
00:00:53.422 - 00:02:23.082, Speaker A: And you specify your budget limit like $200. And then for this type of things, it's not really far away from the crypto world. Because if you imagine that these events, maybe they're token gated and all the tickets are actually kind of an NFT, and then you're simply just actually express your intent to buy these NFT tickets and then someone would fulfill to you if they actually to see there is an arbitrage to be taken. So this is like NFT phi like a token trading. Now let's think about something more basic I would say about the simple DeFi use cases which involve some a little bit intense. For example, first case would be you can run a transaction when the gas is low enough and I'm sure that in the boot time then when gas shoot up high you often have to wait until it drops and do something. But if you do a kind of intent based kind of thing and you guys specify okay, I'm just willing to pay like a $20 gas fee in any token and then the silvers can actually have it down for you when the gas is low.
00:02:23.082 - 00:03:20.966, Speaker A: Because when the gas price drop below $20 they see an opportunity to take in some profit and there's run for you. And then you can also think about doing like a compounding like claim reward sale and restake and this normally downs using another contract to do that. But you can also use Intent base to incentivize the solvers to do it for you. And then third use case will be like AirDrop farming. And in that case, when you go to a specific new chain and you would like to do some meets their criteria, you probably want to do some volume based trading. You want swap, thousand token index A. You want to bridge token to specific chain and swap token, do LPs and do some landing scenes and which can be probably having to one single bracket.
00:03:20.966 - 00:04:26.718, Speaker A: Someone did it for you. And it's very simple, you don't have to spend a lot of time to do so. If you specify your intent, another one would be you can kind of mimic centralized exchange function in centralized exchange because there's no gas. Therefore a lot of things that can be done easily. For example, you can do kind of basic market making in a centralized exchange where you can buy low and sell high but you also need to go to these change to listing these orders. But what if you can actually set up some conditional intents which kind of linked through each other? It's also the last point of a sequential intent would be one intents followed by the previous one which has been met. So for example, you can sell your CRM and 2000 and then have next intent I want to buy at like 1800, et cetera, et cetera.
00:04:26.718 - 00:05:38.630, Speaker A: So these are some of the simple use cases. And then we have already been seeing a lot of intense based use cases existing right now. And the most predominant one, I guess, 90% of chance when you talk about intents, a probably are like just limit orders, which means that you want to buy x amount of token with x amount of a token with Y amount of B tokens. And then you already see a lot of leading, I guess, protocols. Already doing this one, like uniswap x cowswap one inch, and then they're kind of doing an RFQ model with the silver to settle these buy and sell orders. But this is just actually a tip of the iceberg for the use cases of this intent thing. So there are other protocols in the DFI can actually use the intent based mechanism.
00:05:38.630 - 00:07:03.006, Speaker A: So for example, P to P lending which probably won't see that much in D five, but in NFT phi that you are doing a lot of things is expressing your intent to borrow some ethereum with your NFT as collateral or you're willing to land some ethereum on this specific NFT basically. So these are an intent? Yes. And then the silver can actually in this case they can compete each other and really they can actually find some interest rate difference here. And then and then we're talking about liquidation of a lending protocol. It's already actually in the intent base because really the intent here is like a conditional intent. Say when collateralization ratio drops to 120%, I would like to sell this collateral so that I can get the capital back to cover the lender's money. And then by doing so, I mean, okay, you can get like 10% of this profit.
00:07:03.006 - 00:08:05.414, Speaker A: So this incentivize the liquidation, bots all the solvers to do so. And then when you come into the Yow protocols, I'm talking about a bunch of strategies like ABCD. And then the intent would be like, okay, the user don't know that which one would generally have a better yield, or they don't want to bother to do the portfolio management, what they simply, like, said, okay, I just want to optimize for my return. But just using the following strategies. And then the difference between these type of intents and with the actual swap intents is because for the swap, all the other things, they have a very fixed outcome which you definitely can determine who can be the winner. Because as long as someone actually offer higher price, you definitely would go for that. But for the Yao, you probably want to think about other ways.
00:08:05.414 - 00:09:06.742, Speaker A: So maybe it's more kind of like an interest rate swap. Where the silvers would give you some stable income, say like 3% to 4%, which is fixed and you are actually going to get a stable income. But when they talk the money they have to invest in the certain strategies. But whatever the loss or the gain they take, they have to take it. But they could end up with maybe, say, 10%, which they actually can get a profit from that, or you can probably lose from that. Because simply these strategy doesn't actually yell that much but in this case it's more like an interest rate swap a user want to have a more stable they want to sacrifice the potential of getting a higher yield but they want to have some stable income for that. And then also this one is very interesting for the Alpine.
00:09:06.742 - 00:10:25.650, Speaker A: So there are a lot of projects that were doing liquidity management on say for example, unispot v three and what they do is that they have a smart contract and then they have some rebalancing rules. And once these conditions are met, they will actually auto rebalance your ILPs and this helping the management. But the problem is that there's so many kind of strategy on market making these days and implementing these new strategy taking a lot of times. And also these strategy actually kind of evolved over time. Therefore, why don't we just outsourcing these strategy to a server? They don't have to actually have all the rebalancing rules on a smart contract base. They just off chain, but they just provide the rebalancing strategy at the time of the rebalancing. Okay, so now we look at a few cases of these DeFi intents and we actually do a summarize of their characteristics.
00:10:25.650 - 00:12:03.330, Speaker A: What I found is that there are three kind of characteristics for this. First one is that there's a trends to outsourcing, more complex trend to a professional solvers where they can tend to specialize in this one sometimes actually have a better price, which allows a better outcome and also would reduce the operational risks. For example, in the case of a cowswap user can actually also avoid mev attack using cowswap as well. Secondly, user are willing to compensate Silver for their service and get a much stable yow so for example if in the AMM model they encounter like a slippage or something they're not uncertain but for the intent limit order they can actually get a specific price so that's much predictable out. And also the third one is the competition between the solvers will drive even better outcome for a user. So if in a healthy competition environment that there are a lot of silver for the user, definitely their profits will be much thinner. Which means that the outcome for the user will be much better.
00:12:03.330 - 00:13:53.030, Speaker A: It's kind of similar as if they do it themselves then why don't they just pay just a little bit of money to have a professional do it for them? Yes. So all these things like I was trying to talk about here is Dodo is actually also developing an intense centric like protocols which actually do share the similar characteristics of these three here and then it's called Dodo V Three and we haven't have an actual name for that yet. We have been working on this new version for the past seven months and then it's currently in a beta testing. Hopefully it will be released to public by the end of next month. So for Dodo V Three it's a leverage market making pool for market makers where we actually don't call, actually refer this market maker as SP or strategy providers or solvers in this case if you want. And the LPs, they don't actually supply the tokens into the pool, they don't supply the pairs into the pool, they only supply single token and then get a stable yard for the normal user. So what it does is actually this strategy providers borrow assets from the large LP pool to do the market making and share the profits with LPs so that LPs have stable income and they don't have to suffer the impermanent loss.
00:13:53.030 - 00:15:57.120, Speaker A: For the past two years we've been dealing with the market makers that we close work with. We finding that they're constantly making a decent amount of API while the retail user they don't know how to do the rebalancing. They constantly suffer the impermanent loss and then at the end of the day we think that why don't we just design a protocol that let user to land the market maker money and let the professional do their own things to do the market making? This is about V Three so I can use Graph to explain it more. So they're market makers here, they're like the pool owners and then when they can create a specific pool to market them, these pools are mixed token pools to increase the capital efficiencies. And then this pool they have to deploy a margin into the pool first and then they have to use their LP position as the collateral because at the end of day it's a kind of a lending product. We have to make sure that our retail user can we'll make them whole if the market maker have some loss incurred in the market making and then there also a liquidation process will trigger if their margin is kind of dropped to like 120% or 130% of the entire portfolio. And so we will guarantee that the retail user get their money back.
00:15:57.120 - 00:17:30.262, Speaker A: So when they have a lot of market maker and each market maker they can spin up different number of pools but they actually lending the money from the same pool for the LPs. So the reason why you want to use actually the beauty of Dodo V three is that other than other landing protocols, because when you put a collateral, the collateral is sitting there idle, they don't do anything. But if you use the LP position as the collateral, they can actually do market making at the same time. Therefore it's increasing capital efficiency. Now we kind of have the things and we kind of introduce these strategy providers to have a competition within themselves. So firstly there's a base interest rate for all the funds taken out from the pool and then once the capital utilization ratio raises, the base interest would also increase. Because if you think about if there are two strategy or two strategy, two market makers, one of them is super profitable.
00:17:30.262 - 00:19:42.210, Speaker A: What they were going to do is they're actually going to lend more money from the pool and then decrease the utilization ratio and after that the base interest rate would also increase which for the other one didn't perform well, would actually have more cost of market making and will be literally drive out of the market. Therefore, it's kind of more a dynamic to optimization for the best market maker and for the best market making strategy. This will push for the optimal return for the entire liquidity pool. And additionally we're also adding a little bit another feature is that when these market maker actually make money, say they make 50 or 60% APY, the LPs also can enjoy a bonus based on their performance as well, which means that only the best strategy would exist and then this would also benefit the LPs. Yes, as you can see if I go back say that it kind of meets these kind of three criteria which I really define for the DeFi intents was first is to outsourcing these complex rebalancing or market making strategy to professional market makers so that you can get a better outcome. Because instead of you just passive LP or losing money, you can actually share the market makers profit and also they're willing to compensate for them because eventually the market maker has to be making profit in order to actually lend your fund in order to market make. And also there are competition between these market maker, strategy provider or solvers which would drive better outcome for the users.
00:19:42.210 - 00:21:17.206, Speaker A: So I'll kind of define it's a little bit intense centric like model for Dodo v three the intents, it kind of be a little bit vague here for a user I wanted to do some market making but I don't know how to do can I just ask someone to market make it for me? It's something like that intent but it doesn't have that specific intense thing. But you kind of get the kind of the ideology about that. Yes, this is the last slide actually. So what I'm seeing this kind of the trend for the future of the defiant tense is that there'll be more and more actually professionals that expertise in specific field and then these people would actually particularly do more related to some off chain masses mechanism. So these people are willing to monetize their expertise in the way that I can find a better solo, a better outcome for the other people. Therefore they can make the money out from it. And then the retail user, they don't have to do the specific things themselves.
00:21:17.206 - 00:22:18.842, Speaker A: They just have to focus on express their intent. Say, I just wanted to borrow some money, I just wanted to swap some money. I just want to have a stable yield and then that's it. And this extremely, I guess increased user experience for this retail users. And also what I think is very interesting as we evolve, I think there will be more much complicated, intense things that could require multistep solutions for that. And then what I think some of the solver would actually construct these multistep intents. So we have specialized server in the specific intents, but you also have the server on the macro side.
00:22:18.842 - 00:23:19.578, Speaker A: They actually construct these specific intents at each steps. And because of these sort of specialization and I would foresee there will be an increasing adoption of the intent based mechanism across various products. But once that happens, there will be the need of kind of aggregation. Even these days when you have cowswap one inch and uniswap x, there wasn't I guess they have different interpretation. There wasn't actually a unified way to say, for example, can aggregate their server at the same time, or for a server they have to onboard, say both. These three platform, each platform, they have different criteria. Some of them requires you to stake a large chunk of money.
00:23:19.578 - 00:24:04.540, Speaker A: And then also it's definitely an increased cost for the maintenance as well. So I think this space actually need to establish more like a standardized, like a framework in order to actually deal with the intent so that they can actually being aggregated well, I think yeah, thank you and then that's about it. Some thoughts of the intent based mechanism and then the new Dodo version three. Yeah, excellent, thank you. Any questions here?
00:24:07.790 - 00:25:07.998, Speaker B: Yes, maybe I can leave a comment here so it's not a question because I'm really astonished to see what you are speaking about. I want to say first thing first is that I like your idea or I should say I like you naming it as Intense centric Council I should say we share the same vision with you. We also think that what did you mention that uniswap or like one inch or like cold swap yeah, they also in your example use linear. I remember that they are actually AMM sometimes but they enable linear which is actually more traditional exchange but now it happened in a crypto website it's actually on chain I think for Carl Protocol for Uniswap actually they use like hook design to achieve this, but I don't know.
00:25:08.084 - 00:25:12.240, Speaker A: No, I think uniswap, they just released before.
00:25:16.470 - 00:26:00.922, Speaker B: I don't want to say I totally agree with your idea about this. They are all kind of like intern neighbor protocol, internet protocol to make it happen. And I totally agree with your idea, is that we may need aggregator or may need an intern framework because all different protocols they use all different kind of framework I write the units for before it's called and I say their licenses, commercial license. Other DAX cannot use it. Actually, that's why we are building we are why we are building a framework. I will also be a speaker after another after China, and then I will speak about our framework to support this kind of Internet network protocol.
00:26:00.986 - 00:26:05.120, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. Looking forward and keen to see what you can present here. Yeah, thanks.
00:26:06.130 - 00:26:10.766, Speaker B: No question. Actually, I understand you. I totally agree with you, actually. So share the situation.
00:26:10.948 - 00:26:21.250, Speaker A: Thank you. Any other questions there? Okay, thanks for sharing. Okay, thank you. Bye.
