00:00:00.160 - 00:00:26.326, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan. This is the 28 October 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So the all core devs call, the first one in a few weeks, actually happened yesterday, or today, I should say. And we have an update thread here from Tim Biko, which of course I'll link in the YouTube description below, but someone has already done my job for me on Twitter here. Oi uru kimono.
00:00:26.326 - 00:01:31.898, Speaker A: I think that's how you say that, that name there. But they basically summarize the call, or at least like the, the main points of focus on the call. So one of the obviously big points of focus was withdrawals. And as noted here, everyone, everyone being the core devs, is fully on board for withdrawals to be included and for the release to be ASAP. And then obviously the next biggest upgrade on the list was 4844. You know, proto Dank shouting and for the first time we heard a core dev make a prediction on the Shanghai hard fork without 4844, marius speculated end of February, which is exactly, I guess, like what I've been saying as well, you know, that first half of 2023, but maybe towards late Q one, which March is basically getting into, into late Q one there, end of Feb maybe considered still kind of like mid to late there. But yeah, I mean, it just depends, right? Like I've said it before, a lot of times that 48 44 is being worked on, but if it's not ready in time for like the testnets, for example, as noted here as well, you know, multiple execution layer teams, including Geth, said that the amount of remaining work they have to do for 48 44 is not that great.
00:01:31.898 - 00:02:11.108, Speaker A: But the consensus layer teams tended to be more non committal because there's more work to do on that side for them. In any event, it was not intended to decide in or out on this call. Rather it just confirmed the informal consensus that has emerged in recent weeks for everybody to keep working on it full speed. And maybe around end of November it will all be clear whether it will be ready in time to catch the train to Shanghai when it starts to leave the station in January. So I guess in January we're expecting Shanghai test nets and if 48 44 isn't ready by then, it's probably not going to end up in Shanghai. We'll probably just end up having withdrawals and maybe a few other eips, but probably not 48 44. So I'm still hopeful.
00:02:11.108 - 00:02:44.698, Speaker A: I'm still hopeful that we can get there in time for January. But it is a bit difficult to tell because obviously December and January are holiday periods. We don't know who's going to be on deck and who's not during that time. And we shouldn't expect them, you know, the core devs to be on deck during the holiday period anyway. They've got families they want to spend time with and all that stuff. But generally, yeah, if 48 44 isn't ready by January, it's not going into a test net. And as was noted here, we'll probably know by end of November anyway, because the core devs will have a good idea of whether they can get it ready in time for those testnets that are going live.
00:02:44.698 - 00:03:21.886, Speaker A: But withdrawals definitely 100% going to be in Shanghai. Obviously every core dev wants that to happen, and everyone in the community wants that to happen. It is the next big milestone besides 48 44 on the Ethereum roadmap. And it's funny that I say that because some other communities will make fun of Ethereum saying, you know, withdrawals should have been with staking from day one. But in the context of how Ethereum's proof of stake rollout has gone, uh, there's a very good reason withdrawals weren't there from day one, right? I mean, we started off with just a standalone beacon chain network that was a one way bridge. You weren't able to withdraw from that because it was a separate network. And then we merged and we wanted to keep that as simple as possible.
00:03:21.886 - 00:04:02.860, Speaker A: We didn't want to introduce anything that could break the merge. And obviously that was a good decision because we had a pretty perfect merge, right? And now shortly after the merge, we are getting withdrawals in. And you know, at the end of the day, no one's forced to stake. And everyone knows, like when you go through the staking process as a solo staker and, you know, actually sending e to the deposit contract, you are warned that you aren't able to withdraw. And even with the LSD's, I think a lot of them warn you and say that you won't be able to actually withdraw from the beacon chain itself. You have to actually sell it on secondary market and you may not get the exact value. As we've seen previously, these LSD tokens can quote unquote deep from there, you know, true value where.
00:04:02.860 - 00:04:34.124, Speaker A: And I think people understand that. So. And the people who are staking with exchanges, as I said, they have ways to exit, they can go through CBE, th or, I mean, Steve, obviously Lido is not an exchange, but they've got ways to exit there. But in terms of solo stakers withdrawing, that just can't happen right, right now. And obviously that'll happen in a few months. And on top of that as well, the block awards are not withdrawable either. The only rewards that are withdrawable are the MEV rewards and the fee revenue, because those are execution layer rewards.
00:04:34.124 - 00:05:46.314, Speaker A: But anything happening on the consensus layer, such as rewards for a testing, proposing blocks, and being part of a sync committee that is going to be available when beacon chain withdrawals are enabled, as well as being able to withdraw that 32 ETH per validator principle that you have, if you have a validator spun up. And that brings us to another concern that people will often bring up is that, or, you know, when withdrawals are enabled, how many people are actually going to withdraw ETH, you know, unstake ETH and sell it? Well, I think I've said this before on the refill, but just to refresh. Yeah, I think we can be relatively certain that at least the rewards, like, not the principle, not the 32 ETH principle, but all the rewards that have been accrued to this point, or at least most of them that have been accrued till this point, I think maybe 50% of them, you know, around 50%, will probably be sold off for tax purposes because, uh, staking is taxable as income in a lot of places. And obviously you haven't been able to, uh, get your ETH out to sell it to cover that tax. So maybe people have covered it on their own or haven't reported it yet, but they're going to have to pay that tax. So I can. I can have felt fair certainty that around 50% of, uh, the, of most of the rewards that have been accrued to date will probably be sold maybe anywhere from 30% to 50%.
00:05:46.314 - 00:06:19.632, Speaker A: Um, you know, it's kind of hard to tell, but there is going to be some portion now that's on the reward side of things. What about the principal? Well, I think it really depends what the price of ETH is, because if ETH is the price, it is now. And when, and the deposit contract went live when ETH was around five, $600. You know, how many people are actually going to be wanting to take profits at that point? You just up over two x on your ETH. You know, if you've been in it for this long, are you guys, are you just going to sell when the price is, you know, at the price that it is now, I don't know. I don't think many people are going to do that. And we've seen tons of people entering staking over the last year or so.
00:06:19.632 - 00:06:37.288, Speaker A: And how many are then they're going to sell? I mean, a lot of them are probably underwater at this point. Are they going to sell? I don't know. It's. It's. It's very hard to tell. There's a lot of speculation that goes into this, but I think that. I think that's going to be a quite a fun event to see because people are going to assume that any ETH withdrawn from staking is going to be sold.
00:06:37.288 - 00:07:10.360, Speaker A: And I don't think that's the case. As I've discussed before, I expect us to have this great reshuffling event where basically there's going to be ETH actually withdrawn from centralized exchanges and LSD's and put into maybe, you know, decentralized providers like rocker pool and stakewise V three and also, you know, sell staking. Right. So we're gonna have to say it's gonna take months to play out because of the exit queue as well. I mean, you can't just like, not all the 8th can just exit at once as a cert, there's a queue. And obviously that queue varies depending on how many validators are staking. So how many validators are online, I should say.
00:07:10.360 - 00:07:34.504, Speaker A: But nonetheless, it's going to be very interesting. I'm looking forward to withdrawals. Even though it seems like such a minor upgrade. I think if you really dig into it, it's a huge upgrade, has huge implications for the network. And not just on the, I guess, speculative side of things, but also on the censorship side of things too. As I've been discussing a lot lately, where I think that withdrawals are going to help with that. And, you know, to play devil's advocate, it could also make it worse.
00:07:34.504 - 00:07:58.190, Speaker A: It could, you know, people could say, oh, well, screw solo staking. I'm going to just put my ETH in Coinbase or binance or another centralized provider and stake with them. I don't really think that's going to be the case. I haven't seen any solo stakers, I haven't talked to any solo stakers that have ever even like alluded or hinted at that. So I don't think that's going to be the case. But at the same time, we don't. We can't know for sure until withdrawals actually happens.
00:07:58.190 - 00:08:34.430, Speaker A: But thankfully withdrawals are coming, you know, mid to late Q one maybe pushing into Q two, but they're definitely coming as part of the Shanghai upgrade. 4844 jury still out, but we'll know more I guess, towards the end of November. And I'll keep you guys updated on that one. All right, so big piece of news out of Google over the last 24 hours. So Google Cloud has announced blockchain node services starting with Ethereum. So basically you can spin up an Ethereum node with relative ease using Google Cloud, which I think is pretty cool. I think, you know, some people say that this is just further centralizing Ethereum, but I don't actually agree with that.
00:08:34.430 - 00:09:04.444, Speaker A: I think it makes it more decentralized because right now a lot of people are running Ethereum nodes on AWS, for example. Now Google cloud is just another player in the game, which means by definition it's making it more decentralized because people have more options and more places to, to stake. Google cloud does not run on AWs. As far as I know, it's there. It's Google's own servers. And Google and Amazon are separate companies. So by the very definition that's more decentralized than just people running their, their nodes on AWS or Amazon.
00:09:04.444 - 00:09:35.836, Speaker A: So I thought that was pretty cool. And the block has good coverage of this that you can check out in the YouTube description below. But speaking of nodes and node distribution, there is a couple of websites you can go to. So there's node watch that I've highlighted before, IO, which tracks consensus layer nodes. But like, because consensus layer and execution layer nodes both need to be run to have a full Ethereum node, you can have relative confidence that they're, that they're around the same here. And I'll bring up ether nodes dot.org as well because this tracks execution layer nodes.
00:09:35.836 - 00:10:06.630, Speaker A: So there's about 8000 on ether nodes of full Ethereum nodes. That's including obviously the consensus and execution layer clients. And you can see here there's 13,600 on node watch, but that is not synced. So you can see there's only a percentage that he's synced, which is 66%. Now if I do my quick math here, it should get us to around the same number, 8976. Yeah, so it's off by around 900 as opposed to ethernodes.org. But these numbers are only, I guess, like best guesses or guesstimates.
00:10:06.630 - 00:10:25.340, Speaker A: They're not totally accurate. They're not going to show 100% view of the network. They're definitely only estimates. But let's just take ethanodes.org at 8000 here. So we can see that geth is obviously a large part of that, 80% of it. And then you've got the other ones, Aragon, Nethermind, Besu, which are minority clients, which are less there.
00:10:25.340 - 00:10:46.756, Speaker A: Then you know we're not interested in client diversity for the sake of what I'm talking about here. We're interested in where these nodes are actually hosted. Now, I don't believe ethanodes.org has that. They have the country kind of metric here which shows you where, which countries they're hosted in. So 45% are in the United States, 12% in Germany, 5% in Singapore, and so on and so forth. Whereas node watch does.
00:10:46.756 - 00:11:04.876, Speaker A: So node watch will show you where these are hosted or unhosted nodes. And I believe where is, where is hosted. Here we go. So percentage of hosted nodes and percentage of non hosted nodes. So there's 26% hosted and 74% non hosted. Again, take these numbers with a grain of salt. I've seen them higher.
00:11:04.876 - 00:11:46.710, Speaker A: From other estimates, I think the highest I may have seen them is like 40% or maybe even 50%. And hosted just means on one of these services such as Google Cloud or AWS. Right, but still, like, there's a few, there's, there's actually two major things to consider here. One, I don't think people using these hosting services for nodes actually is a big deal. I don't think it like has a huge influence on the decentralization of the network. Because for example, if 50%, let's just say 50% of full nodes was hosted on AWS and Amazon said one day, well screw you guys, we're kicking you off, right? And then 50% of full nodes on the Ethereum network would be kicked off. Well that prevent anyone from spinning up their full node on their own hardware.
00:11:46.710 - 00:12:16.678, Speaker A: No. And you can do that because Ethereum has prioritized the ease of spinning up a full node on consumer hardware. That's the whole point of why Ethereum is so limited at the base layer. So I don't think it's a huge deal. And I think people making it out to be a huge deal aren't looking at the nuance here. But also on top of that, I think that when looking at the different services that are available, they're also based in different countries. There isn't just like AWS and Google Cloud, but there are a bunch of other hosting services that you can use as well.
00:12:16.678 - 00:13:12.266, Speaker A: Obviously, you know, given that a lot of nodes are hosted in the United States, a lot of them are going to be hosted on AWS and potentially Google Cloud as well, or any other us based cloud providers. But again, it goes back to my argument where I said that even if 50% were shut down, it doesn't really matter because you could just resync your full node using the other 50% of the network on your consumer hardware, and you could even go with even more crazy numbers. You could say that even if 90% of full nodes were offline, it wouldn't even be that big of a deal. Obviously, you know, the higher you go, the more impact it has. But generally I think that it's overblown because it's not like a validator, right? It's not like where, for example, if Amazon wanted to, they could take control of all the validators list that are hosted on AWS and actually have influence on the network. A full node, you know, is really just there for you to verify the state of the network yourself and to obviously relay your transactions and use your node as an RPC, for example. But it doesn't actually have validator.
00:13:12.266 - 00:13:59.840, Speaker A: It's not a validator, right? It's not the same thing. It doesn't have influence to attest and propose blocks. Whereas for example, if AWS hosted, you know, whatever it is, 67%, if you want to go in the extreme case of validators, which it doesn't, but let's go to the extreme case, it doesn't even have anywhere close to that. Amazon could take those over and then basically take over the entire Ethereum network. But I don't think that people are going to do that because of the fact of the matter is that running a validator is more intensive. It probably, especially if you're running that many validators on there and there are, there are definitely incentives not to do that because you could, as I said, like if you, if Amazon had that much of the network, they could in theory take over the network, but they're only taking over the network on the technical side of things. The community could still fork them out.
00:13:59.840 - 00:14:33.968, Speaker A: So you could imagine it'd be messy. And I'm getting into like really weird territory right now, but it would get messy. But you could imagine an event where all those validators were hosted on, on AWS, they get slashed, right? Because the community comes together and says, hey, like that's not the real chain, this is the real Ethereum chain. And the ecosystem maybe goes with that, but it would be extremely messy because that those 67% of validators on AWS obviously belong to a lot of different people. There'd be a lot of ETH lost. It'd be really bad. And that's why it's encouraged not to have these validators on any of these, you know, services and centralize around them.
00:14:33.968 - 00:15:18.436, Speaker A: But, but yeah. Anyway, that's a few tangents there, but great to see that Google Cloud is supporting Ethereum as its first blockchain node service here. So speaking of decentralizing Ethereum, staking stakewise V three or stakewise, put out a blog post around the migration to stakewise V three. And as I say, inside you will find the full scope of changes that are coming to the ex, to the existing product as we transition to stakewise V three. Now you can check out this blog post. It's about an eight minute read, but it basically, as I said, describes the transition from stakewise V two to v three. Now, the reason why I highlight this is because stakewise V three, as I explained a few weeks ago, is trying to become more like a rocker pool and less like a lido, for example.
00:15:18.436 - 00:15:43.432, Speaker A: Right? They're trying to be more decentralized, basically, and they're going to be taking advantage of DVT or distributed validated technology from, from what I, from what I know, yeah. Here we go. You got it. Yes. So stakewise V two currently acts as a, as like this, right? There is a stakewise pool. It goes to a bunch of different operators. In stakewise V three there is going to be a Genesis vault and then they're going to be public operators with Obel or SSV for DVt.
00:15:43.432 - 00:16:22.388, Speaker A: No collateral slashing cover. And these are going to be different vaults, right? Then the vaults are going to have different scores, so there'll be risk scores attached to them. So very, very cool. You can read the full blog post, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. I recommend reading it because it's just great to see that another staking provider is making moves towards being more decentralized. Alright, so consensus has announced the launch of the Metamask Grants Dao today, which is an employee led consensus funding program that issues grants to the developers building impactful experience within the metamask ecosystem. Now, for those of you who don't know, consensus actually owns metamask as, I mean, as an app.
00:16:22.388 - 00:16:51.044, Speaker A: Basically, it came out of consensus. It's been with consensus since day one, and they still own it and they still fund it and then everything like that. Obviously now you can build with these grants. Basically you'll be able to get involved if you're a developer, if you want to build something in the metamask ecosystem, and there'll be, I think, $600,000 per quarter up for grabs. That's a huge act. I hadn't read that yet. That's actually a huge allocation for just metamask grants, right? That's $2.4
00:16:51.044 - 00:17:23.436, Speaker A: million, and if I'm doing a math correctly, a year there for, to fund meaningful projects. So yeah, if you are interested in building something in the metamask ecosystem, this is an absolutely amazing opportunity. Honestly, that's a lot of, as I said, like, I didn't expect it to be that high. Usually these grants programs are quite small, but I guess like consensus recently raised as well. So they've got some money to splash around here. And obviously metamask is incredibly important to the Ethereum ecosystem and actually beyond the Ethereum ecosystem as well, because metamask powers all the EVM change. You can use all of them, you can change your network.
00:17:23.436 - 00:18:01.730, Speaker A: You know, we've all done that before, but yeah, very, very cool to see such a large amount of money allocated to this. So yeah, go check out this blog post for a breakdown of what this is and how you can get involved. It's one for the developers out there. All right, a couple of optimism updates to get through quick. So the optimism NFT marketplace has announced that they've teamed up with layer three to launch an NFT bridging quest and reward users for bridging the 8th their ETH nfts to optimism. Now, I remember I spoke about this a little while ago, that quicz now has a bridge. So you can bridge your Ethereum layer one nfts to optimism in order to take advantage of those cheaper fees and faster transactions.
00:18:01.730 - 00:18:39.924, Speaker A: Well, now they've teamed up with layer three to make this much easier for you. So you can see here that users who bridge an NFT can earn up to 400 XP on layer three. And those who bridge an NFT from one of our pre approved collection will receive an additional 25 op tokens per NFT bridged from that collection. And you can see the full list of pre approved collections at this, at this kind of notion site here point. Now I'm loading it up. I it's going to the quicks. Picks are things like crypto covens, chain runners, robotos, pudgy penguins, and a few others there, some trending on Ethereum as well, and, and a bunch of others as well here.
00:18:39.924 - 00:19:11.698, Speaker A: So these are the pre approved collections right now. I assume that's going to keep growing. But yeah, if you're really into nfts and you want to try this out? Definitely do. So I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check out. And the second optimism update is that optimism has launched an op craft creator contest so you can create content around, build structures in, and hack on opcraft for up to 31,000 in op bounties. Now, I talked about op craft last week or the week before. That's that game running on a op stack chain, fully on chain.
00:19:11.698 - 00:19:48.182, Speaker A: It's basically a Minecraft clone, and I played around with it on the refill. I'm sure you guys remember it, but yeah, this is really cool. So for more info on this, including submission instructions, it can be found at the opcraft contest channel on the optimism discord, which you can join here with the link that I'll link in the YouTube description below. But yeah, just more op tokens up for grabs. If you've been involved with op craft lately, you've been playing it a lot more than I have, probably. Then definitely go check these out to potentially earn some rewards here. All right, so Uniswap Labs has posted a blog post all about Uniswap v three TWap oracles in a proof of stake world.
00:19:48.182 - 00:20:49.400, Speaker A: Now, I've talked about TWAP oracles before on the refuel tup basically stands for time weighted average price. And the reason why Unisov three is such a great twap oracle is because it is fully on chain. There's no need to rely on any external data. You basically just take the price of, say, ETH from Uniswap using the pools there, you average it out over time as TWAP suggests, and then that's the oracle price that gets fed into whatever you want to feed it into. Now, with the advent of proof of stake on Ethereum, with the merge, this has become not very secure because of the fact that all the risk of the implications of multi block mev and other such attacks. Now a refresher here for those who don't remember. With ethereum proof of stake, the next proposal for basically the entire epic is known for, sorry, each proposal for the entire epic is known, which basically means, you know, which validator is going to propose a block ahead of time.
00:20:49.400 - 00:21:39.238, Speaker A: Now, because of this, it leads itself to what's called multi block mev, where basically if you know that you're going to propose these blocks, you can do some funky stuff around mev and maximize your, your, your, I guess, like profits from that. And that could have risks for t wop oracles because you could potentially manipulate them if you were able to control various transactions within blocks, if you knew that you're going to be proposer. Now, there are obviously solutions for this coming down the pipeline like Ssle, which I've talked about before, a lot on the refill actually, and I think I went through it last week, a week before Vitalik had a blog post about it. But yeah, Uniswap Labs has put out their own blog post on this explaining all of this and more, and it's quite lengthy, actually. I managed to skim through it today. I haven't read it just yet, but I highly recommend giving it a read. If you're interested in learning about this stuff.
00:21:39.238 - 00:22:08.954, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right. A tweet from Vitalik here that I wanted to talk a little bit about, where he says, my concern with VR is similar to some anti crypto people's concerns about crypto, a feeling that people are, quote, in love with the idea of it, end quote, in a way that far outpaces actual applications. Just like with crypto. I do think important apps exist, but VR for the sake of VR won't work. Now, I want to say I kind of like, agree with Vitalik here and disagree with him. So I agree with him on the part of.
00:22:08.954 - 00:23:17.146, Speaker A: There is definitely a feeling within, I think, the crypto community in general that they're in love with the idea of crypto. They're in love with what crypto can enable and what, and the benefits and positivity that crypto can bring to the world. But the fact of the matter is, up until this point, a lot of the activity within crypto, if not most of it, has been speculative. Casino games, Ponzi's, you know, there hasn't. Like, if you look at the amount of value generated, it's basically come from, from that those things and those things aren't necessarily bad. But if you're in love with the idea of crypto, like I am, to be like a decentralization, maximalist and to, you know, better people's lives and to enable more freedom for people, and you look at those sorts of things, especially during bull markets, you kind of look at it and like, what are we even doing sometimes? Right? I'm sure you've all had this feeling during a bull market. You look at it and you look at all these stupidity and you're like, what are we even doing here? Right? And I think Vitalik's drawing a parallel here with, with VR is that it's very similar to Kryptos, where people have this utopian vision of VR, where we're all going to be living in this VR world that that is perfect and everything's sorted out for us and we're having lots of fun in it and everything's, you know, great.
00:23:17.146 - 00:23:46.120, Speaker A: Whereas I don't think that's actually going to be the case. Personally, I don't think that VR is going to be like this utopia. I actually think VR is just going to be like the Internet is today, except in a virtual world. Right? The Internet is a quote unquote virtual world, but it's not one that we really interact with like we do with VR. Now, I'm not saying that VR games are bad or anything like that. I've played plenty of them before and I love them. But I'm talking about very specifically the idea of a VR world, like an MMO, for example, where it's basically free for all.
00:23:46.120 - 00:25:17.886, Speaker A: Basically the idea of ready player one if you've seen that movie or read the book, right? So that, like, if I look at the Internet and just like, transpile that to VR, I feel like we're just gonna, like, recreate the Internet in VR. And it's actually not gonna be that fun for people because it's just gonna be the same bullshit we have on the Internet in VR, and it's not going to be that utopia that people want it to be. And then things like questions of, like, you know, who moderates the VR world? Like, is it just a free for all? Can anyone just do anything they want in the VR world? Can they say whatever they want? Can they harass whoever they want? You can imagine this, like, if you want to create the recreate the real world in VR, but just like, add things like, like, you know, space travel and flying cars and all the stuff that we don't have in real life? Okay, that's fine, but what about the social side of it? Can I, as a person in VR, go up to someone and just constantly stalk them, right, and constantly harass them and annoy them with no moderation, with no one stopping me from doing that? Is there going to be like a police department in, you know, in the VR world? Is there going to be a laws and are there going to be representatives that run the world, so to speak? Or is it all just going to be run in code? Like, I don't know what that's actually going to look like. Obviously there are companies like meta, which is Facebook taking big bets on, on this vision, but, you know, that's still going to be there, still going to be a lot of control there. So I think it's just going to end up looking like the current Internet in, in the way it kind of works. Um, but where I kind of disagree with Vitalik a little bit here is that the parallels, they make sense, but not in the same. Not, not totally right.
00:25:17.886 - 00:26:00.286, Speaker A: I think that crypto, it tends to attract a very specific set of people, at least the people who stick around, not just the people who come for bull markets, but the people who are in it for that idea of crypto. I think those people are definitely on the, on the most end, anti government, or at least anti big government. They're definitely, obviously freedom maximalist. They're definitely people who are, you know, really care about decentralization and care about things like credible neutrality. Whereas with VR, I don't think there's a lot of people like that. I think, I don't think there's really any people like that. I think with VR, it's people just wanting to escape reality, whereas people in crypto want to make reality better by providing better tools to people.
00:26:00.286 - 00:26:53.212, Speaker A: But if you want this VR utopia where you're living in a virtual world and you believe it's going to be awesome because you can escape reality, well, I don't think it's going to end up like that. And I think that video games in general have actually trended towards going away from that vision, especially with things like pay to win and in app purchases. It's just making people feel like they're not escaping reality as they used to be. And I get that. Like, I'm take, I'm painting the, maybe the cynical view of things here, but I think that if we're not careful, that's how it's gonna end up. And I don't think a decentralized, like a fully decentralized, free for all VR world would actually work very well, because for all the problems I just mentioned, plus all the ones I haven't mentioned, there has to be some kind of moderation and some kind of rules baked in. Now, can those rules be fully baked in within code? I don't believe so, because there are certain things you can't just bake into code.
00:26:53.212 - 00:27:46.002, Speaker A: And then, and then, okay, if it's decentralized, there's code running it, and people are running the code. Like, okay, what if you want to change something? Is it go, does it go through a governance process, like what we go through with Ethereum? And then what if people object to that? You know, how much power. Do people have to change things within the game? Does the game start blur? Sorry? The VR world. Does the VR world start blurring with the real world in that you do stuff in VR, you earn money and then you can use, you know, you earn money in the real world and vice versa. There's always questions, all these things, and, you know, I would love to live in kind of like a virtual world where everything was, was dandy and everything was fine, but I don't think that's the way it's going to play out. But yeah. Anyway, I'm curious to hear your thoughts on it, actually, if you want to say it in the YouTube comments on the Daily Gray discord channel, because this is something that I've thought about quite a bit because as you guys know, I've been a massive gamer up until pretty much I got into a theorem.
00:27:46.002 - 00:28:21.590, Speaker A: I was a pretty big gamer and I loved the escapism of it. But these days, a lot of gaming feels like a chore, to be honest. And from everything that I've seen of VR worlds as exists today, and, and just like the logical conclusion of them, I don't think they're going to be the utopia people want them to be. Just like how crypto is not the utopia that we all like, we all think it's going to be, or we're in love with the idea of it. A lot of crypto is shit, right? A lot of crypto is just scams and Ponzi's and stuff that we don't want to see. But that's what comes with, I guess, like the free for all territory of decentralization and credible neutrality. You can't have the good without the bad.
00:28:21.590 - 00:28:46.376, Speaker A: And, you know, unfortunately the bad right now, where at least in bull markets, is more pronounced than the good, but over a long enough time frame, I think the good will outweigh the bad. But again, that's me being in love with the idea of crypto, and that's not reality just yet. But I do think that it's going to be reality eventually, but it's just not it to date. But anyway, I'm going to end it on that note. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:28:46.376 - 00:28:51.344, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone. Bye.
