00:00:00.320 - 00:00:36.415, Speaker A: The way to think about kerosene is it can get you extremely. It can basically get you to a one to one loan to value or collateralization ratio. So 100% collateralization ratio, but you can keep putting in more and more kerosene so that the collateralization that the protocol sees for that 150% liquidation threshold could be much, much higher. So you could have a position where you've minted 100,000. Dyad, you have 100,000 exactly of exogenous collateral, but you have a ton of kerosene. And so you could have an effectively 300% collateralization ratio. So you're basically one to one.
00:00:36.415 - 00:00:41.775, Speaker A: Very efficient position is pretty far from that liquidation threshold.
00:00:47.875 - 00:01:09.879, Speaker B: All right, welcome back to another episode of Still Early Today. We've got Joey from Dyad. I jumped in DMs last week. I've been going through the documentation. I'm in the middle of writing an article. I can't remember the last time I actually got time to sit down and write. Usually you've got a big team that kind of takes it off my hands now, but I think the last time was pandora and the RC404 things.
00:01:09.879 - 00:01:15.315, Speaker B: And I just felt the urge when I seen what you guys were building. So. Joey, welcome. How are you doing?
00:01:15.775 - 00:01:57.813, Speaker A: Good, good. Thank you for having me. Grant. Yeah, kudos for going through the Dyad documentation. We're constantly in a battle to simplify it and to sort of draw out what, what it is that really makes the protocol unique. It's. It is a fairly simple mechanism that initially can seem somewhat complex, but over the last, like week or so, we've sort of hit this inflection point and, you know, you can look on Defi Llama or even the kerosene price or just the diode liquidity, that's sort of like a secondary effect, but really the main effect is that critical mass of users are sort of.
00:01:57.813 - 00:02:23.457, Speaker A: It's clicked for them. And I think part of that is our ui. Part of it is the yield. You know, yield has a way of sort of making things easier to understand for people or at least incentivizing them to work harder to understand something. That's definitely been something that I found over the last, like two weeks. But yeah, it's, it's. The system is finally, after like two and a half years, finally sort of spring into life and taking on a life of its own.
00:02:23.457 - 00:02:41.695, Speaker A: So, yeah, I'm really excited to get into it, wherever you are in sort of digging into how it works, the documentation. Really happy to discuss it and explain both what's built right now, what's deployed and what we're working on over the next year or so.
00:02:42.635 - 00:03:11.155, Speaker B: Awesome. Well, I've got kind of my pre understanding notes already kept, so I'm going to kind of lean into those as well as some more selfish questions because I think if people are coming in cold, I'll play the idiot in the room as I usually am. But before we, before we get into it, is there any kind of, is there any interesting kind of origin story with regards to you in the space? Like how have you kind of stumbled across and came into where we're at now currently?
00:03:11.855 - 00:04:26.655, Speaker A: Yeah, so my background and actually like my career for the last decade plus was all in hardware design. So my background is mechanical engineering. Always had a strong interest in consumer hardware design, from the actual, actual engineering side to industrial design and actually UI design in some cases mainly focused on audio. And recently right before I went full time into Dyad coffee brewing technology. So the last product I did right before Dyad, it's a coffee device called osma which used acoustic cavitation rather than heat to extract coffee, which gave this really nice combination between like the sort of speed and crema and mouthfeel and flavor and aroma properties of an espresso with the retention of all the heat sensitive compounds that you appreciate in like a cold brew. But normally cold brew takes 18 hours and so it tastes a little bit stale as well as being that nice complexity. So OSMA used essentially sound waves to extract coffee, not heating it up.
00:04:26.655 - 00:05:35.787, Speaker A: That was, that's kind of like a good, I think example of the kind of work that I did in hardware. But yeah, about a little more than two years ago, sold that company and the patents and went full time into stablecoin design. And in terms of how I got into stablecoin design, so it was actually through coffee. One of the companies who reached out to us and this is in like 2020, 2021 maybe was starting to use NFTs to track coffee origins from like the actual producers and you know, all over the world, Honduras, different places in like Ethiopia, different coffee producing regions and try to expose their products to the price discovery and the auction system that exists for basically the world market in coffee. Normally those producers really just have one buyer, the local coffee processing plant. And so they have very little price discovery. It's really like any other commodity that you're selling, but they're producing really excellent coffee.
00:05:35.787 - 00:06:32.851, Speaker A: So the idea of this NFT company was to somehow use NFTs to do it very, very like 2020, 2021 type idea. I'm certain this company doesn't exist anymore. No one's using NFTs to track coffee. But it was like one of those things from that part of the last cycle, right? But that. That was for me, the introduction to Turing complete blockchains, to NFTs, to this whole world. And then the other thing that kind of got me started in Stablecoin specifically was I was at this party in San Francisco, still totally in hardware, and I met another Joey, Joey Santoro, who's the founder of FAY and is now the sort of one of the main inventors of the ERC 4626 tokenized vault standard, which is fundamental to diet and a lot of other defi products now that are coming out. But anyway, I met Joey when he was like, in the thick of the face stuff and we started talking.
00:06:32.851 - 00:07:25.873, Speaker A: He's like, oh, yeah, I'm building a stablecoin. And I was like, oh, what's a. What is that? So that's when I started to kind of get into what is a stablecoin? And, yeah, something about it, something about, like, you have this very specific product that's the output of this system, right? And a smart contract protocol, especially if it's immutable or has limited governance at the base layer. There's a level of mechanical design thinking that really does very well with that kind of software design that's a little different from how I typically thought of software design up to that time where you have something that you deploy and then you can update it constantly and you can use. Use your feedback to change things. And it always felt very ephemeral to me. But something about when I started to look into it, immutable, smart contracts that, you know, the logic of blockchains are kind of acted upon, but they're not actually.
00:07:25.873 - 00:07:46.885, Speaker A: They're just kind of there. They're like these objects almost that the more precisely and thoughtfully you design them, the better they work. Something about that just spoke to me on a level of pure obsession. And that's kind of what I've been thinking about for the last two years or so, ever since. And that's really the origin of Dyad.
00:07:47.535 - 00:08:15.159, Speaker B: Awesome. Yeah, that's a really, really interesting story. It's always interesting to kind of pick people's brains on origin stories because some people, like everyone, just comes from a completely different kind of original state, which is really, really cool. And it's really interesting to see unexpected transferable skills or knowledge transfer that kind of can Come from all different angles. It's always my best, like favorite questions asking on a podcast.
00:08:15.247 - 00:08:42.751, Speaker A: Yeah, there's a couple other mechanical or prior mechanical engineers I've met in Defi. Like, I think the most famous one is probably Hayden, the Uniswap founder. Yeah, he was an Emmy before doing Uniswap and there are a few others. So not, not the strangest origin story, but definitely like I've always been interested in finance from like a design perspective, but a lot of people I meet here from like a finance background or just from a pure software background. And yeah, there's, there's definitely a different.
00:08:42.783 - 00:09:12.155, Speaker B: Perspective that comes from this 100%. So you have, you'll have a very unique perspective of where we're at as an industry with regards to the stablecoin market. We obviously know the big titans of usdc, USDT and obviously the perils that come with centralization. But where are we at with regards to what's the lay of the land with regards to kind of decentralized stable coins and more in particular kind of CDPs?
00:09:13.015 - 00:09:49.535, Speaker A: Yeah, interesting question. So I think that the CDP. So first of all, where we are with stablecoins right now, I think broadly it's like two categories. There's the stablecoins that are yield oriented and the stablecoins that are money oriented. And those are two very different goals. And you see that pursuing one of those two goals leads to really different design choices. So I'd say that on the yield oriented you have something like Athena, which it's debatable whether that is actually a stablecoin or is it a carry trade that's conveniently tokenized into one USD units.
00:09:49.535 - 00:10:32.735, Speaker A: I think it's a super interesting product. We just added SUSDE as the latest collateral type for Dyad. But in talking with the team and in just sort of understanding what that product is, I think it's representative of things that are lumped into that stablecoin category that are not actually pursuing, becoming money in that way. And this kind of contrasts to something like tether or USDC or I would put diet in that category. I'd put liquidy in that category. It's strange to lump tether and liquidity together, those usually seen as polar opposites. But I think that this categorization of yield focused versus money focused is useful.
00:10:32.735 - 00:11:36.011, Speaker A: You have this theory, I think it's called Gresham's Law, where bad money chases out the good and what that means, basically it's like a really old financial theory that back in the days when you had coinage that was partially precious metals and then partially not precious metals, but the local ruler or maybe the sovereign said okay, all of these coins, whether they contain 90% silver or 1% silver merchants and everybody has to treat them as the same value. And so what you get in that scenario is people will hoard the coins that are 90% silver and they'll actually transact with the coins that are way lower silver content. Because you want to keep the money that is valuable and whose value can go up. You're not going to use that. There's going to be zero velocity to those coins. You're going to want to use the shitty coins to buy your bread or buy your suit of armor or whatever it is. So by making a stablecoin yield oriented, you're almost ensuring that it's not used as money, right? Because nobody's going to want to buy a pizza.
00:11:36.011 - 00:12:14.821, Speaker A: It's that whole like bitcoin pizza thing. I mean bitcoin's not yield oriented, it's just its volatility means its value can go up a lot or down a lot. So that's why bitcoin hasn't really become money in that sense. You're not going to transact with it. It's also why a yield bearing stablecoin is going to be difficult this money because if you buy a pizza with susde, for example, you're going to be foregoing yield on that pizza in the future and you'd much rather do it with a stablecoin that's still worth a dollar but is not going to be generating yield for you. So that's a simplification. But I think that's the, that's the main breakdown in stablecoins right now to lean specifically into CDPs.
00:12:14.821 - 00:13:17.961, Speaker A: So that's like the most battle tested and I'd say like yeah, just, just the most proven out format like basic structure. For decentralized stablecoin you essentially have volatile collateral that's exogenous to the system. You deposit that in your position and then you are able to mint a stable coin against it at some minimum collateralization ratio. So for every $50 of eth that you put in or whatever ETH derivative you're using, you can mint one stable coin or for every $2 or for every $25, whatever. The collateralization issue is the limitation and the reason I think CDPs haven't scaled to the degree that circle tether the really big guys have scaled is exactly that mechanism. It's over collateralization requirement. So the reason you over collateralize is that extra 25 cents or 50 cents or however much it is is there as a cushion to absorb the volatility of that backing collateral.
00:13:17.961 - 00:14:23.215, Speaker A: So if eth goes down 25% which is not unusual, there's still at least a dollar of value backing every stablecoin and it's never under collateralized. The issue there is the more insulation from volatility you get, the more over collateralization you get, the less capital efficient the stablecoin is. Literally the more it costs in opportunity cost and locked up collateral to make one of these stablecoins and you get something like I think that extreme cases Liquidy v1 where they had this permissionless redemption system where anybody who holds and LUSD can redeem it for the underlying ETH from whatever the least collateralized positions are. And that created this kind of bad incentive where I think on average it's like for three to four dollars of ETH for every LUSD that's been minted and that's really inefficient. Right. And way more over collateralization that you actually need to absorb ETH's volatility and keep the stablecoin solvent or keep the stablecoin back. Solving is a little different.
00:14:23.215 - 00:15:40.605, Speaker A: So even with something like MakerDAO, which some would say like is the original CDP stablecoin, they've veered so far from that that initial design. And I think not in a negative way necessarily, they've done some really interesting experimentation for how to scale a cdp, but it's still fundamentally based on this and limited by this over collateralization versus capital efficiency trade off. So dyad to sort of position it here is directly designed to break that trade off to keep the volatility absorbing function of that over collateralization because that is necessary to build a decentralized stablecoin without having it be this drag on capital efficiency so that it can start to scale a bit more. Like circle or tether where off chain their stablecoins are backed by fixed income assets. For circle it's largely US treasuries. For tether it's treasuries plus a lot of other stuff. But basically they can scale and they are massively profitable, especially tether because they have these dollar denominated liabilities.
00:15:40.605 - 00:16:03.905, Speaker A: They collateralize it just enough and they actually keep the yield from that. And a lot of the other sort of yield oriented stablecoins now are versions of that circle tether model where some portion of the yield is actually given to holders as opposed to kept by the company. So, yeah, Mountain Protocol, usual dollar things like that, which are interesting but fundamentally different from what Diet's doing.
00:16:04.965 - 00:16:49.675, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I think there's people will be familiar with Dyad if they've used similar protocols, but then there's a few aspects of it which make it really, really interesting. So I think the best way to kind of go through this for anyone who's listening and watching, would be kind of if we go through like the user journey of, I don't know, starting with some ETH and then minting some Dyad and then maybe picking up some kerosene along the way as well. If we go through that user journey and then we can kind of just double click onto some of the aspects where I think people might be asking questions along the way. So first of all, let's say you're me, I've got eth, what am I doing? Where am I going? I want to mint some Dyad and I may have also picked up some kerosene as well.
00:16:50.055 - 00:17:33.603, Speaker A: Okay, perfect. So step one is you claim one of the Dyad NFTs, which you call Notes, and you can do that either we have a pretty liquid market on OpenSea right now, or you can mint one directly from the protocol. And that's the single point at which the protocol, the base layer, collects a fee. It would just be minting a new nft. If you buy one off of secondary, there is, there's no fee other than the price that you pay to the seller. But that, that NFT is basically your account, let's say your position within Dyad. So once you have one of these, you can deposit ETH, RapState, TBTC, SUSD, and we're adding some other interesting collaterals over the next few weeks.
00:17:33.603 - 00:18:30.245, Speaker A: But you can then mint the diet stablecoin at we use the 150% minimum collateralization ratio. So up to that point, it is basically your standard cdp, really exactly the same. We have some improvements in liquidation and things like that, but you basically put in volatile collateral, you can mint the diet stablecoin up to 150% minimum collateralization. So and then that position is just wrapped in this NFT that if you transfer the nft, sell it, whatever, it can keep as much of that collateral and that stablecoin debt as you want it to. So it's kind of a convenient way to package it. But yeah, up to that point, until we introduce kerosene, it's really just a CDP kerosene, as you mentioned, that is where it starts to get really different and that's where our scalability and our capital efficiency comes in. So if it's clear up to that point, I'm happy to jump into how kerosene works now.
00:18:31.145 - 00:19:07.277, Speaker B: Yeah. So just a couple of questions on the notes. Why that design choice of like a, I suppose, gated access to Dyad? Because I think it's, I don't think I've seen it before and I think it's really interesting. And does the NFT allow something a little bit more than just being a unique token specific to a specific account? Because I think I know the answer to this, but I'm just testing my understanding of knowledge based on the documentation, what I've been reading.
00:19:07.461 - 00:20:00.835, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So number one, the reason for this. So there's different sort of ways of looking at who the users are and what their goals are at different levels of a CDP design. So we're talking about the basic layer of Dyad right now where stablecoins are actually minted and burned. That is always going to be, at least for Dyad, sort of those who are more invested in the system, who really want to understand the mechanics and gain some advantage through their understanding of the mechanics. The next layer that we're building right now is a lending layer that will be way more accessible to those who just want to basically earn yield on swapping their USDC for Dyad and single sided staking their Dyad in a, in a lending pool. That's sort of our version of Anchor, let's say.
00:20:00.835 - 00:21:11.329, Speaker A: And Anchor, despite the issues, the tremendous issues mechanically with ust, I think Anchor was an excellent top of funnel that was kind of widely usable and widely understood. In some ways that's what made it so, you know, so bad, the collapse. But just looking at Anchor, I think that there's a lot to learn from that. So that would be sort of the more completely accessible, wide addressable market layer that we're, we're building now. The reason to gate minting and burning of the Stable coin to these NFTs is really how we incentivize liquidity and how the kerosene token is distributed. So it's, it's intimately tied to how kerosene works and how we use kerosene right now to build liquidity for Dyad and that's the stage we're in but ultimately to make Dyad a more capital, efficient, more scalable stablecoin overall. And this gets to why we don't want to emit kerosene to really like anybody who jumps into LP for like a couple Hours and then just sell the kerosene back to the, to the market.
00:21:11.329 - 00:22:07.475, Speaker A: It's really important that kerosene goes to users or entities that will use it basically to mint Dyad strategically. And thus everybody competing for kerosene, everybody competing for capital efficiency makes Dyad overall as a stable coin. More capital efficient, more tether circle like versus liquidy like in terms of its. You can even say unit economics. Right? Like how much has to actually be deposited in order to get a single diet stablecoin out into the world safely. But yeah, I think that getting into, I'm happy to get into the kerosene mechanics right now because I think that that's like what the, what the discussion kind of wants to complete this circle. But yeah, ultimately the notes, the NFTs are there to really like drive push incentives towards making diet and more capital efficiency table Coin is the best way to say it.
00:22:08.175 - 00:22:12.435, Speaker B: Awesome. Right, let's jump into kerosene and anyone listening, pay attention.
00:22:12.735 - 00:23:07.005, Speaker A: Yeah, this is, this is where diet really diverges from the typical CDP and where we solve this capital efficiency issue I mentioned that's fundamental to CDPs. So kerosene is basically the over collateralization of the entire stable coin. So TVL minus total dyad supply, that's like the, the excess collateral, right? Every dollar of eth, RAP staked eth, all the exogenous collaterals minus the circulating supply of diet. So all of the buffer that's there to basically absorb the volatility of that underlying collateral. Normally in like a normal CDP that I mentioned, that buffer would pretty much the bigger it is, the less efficient diet would be as a stable coin. So what we do is we tokenize that buffer through kerosene. Kerosene is another collateral that you can deposit into your note.
00:23:07.005 - 00:23:47.569, Speaker A: Just like you deposit ETH, Wrapstake, ETH, etc. That allows you to increase the value against which you're minting your diet. It is an endogenous collateral, right? Technically it is an endogenous collateral. That's usually when you talk about endogenous collateral and stablecoin mines go directly back to again ust. Because that's what Luna was. Right? The key difference, and this is the really important part, is that Luna was counted as an actual collateral that added to UST's TVL. Like UST would look at what is Luna trading at on the market and then count any Luna deposited as collateral, count that actual market value.
00:23:47.569 - 00:24:20.991, Speaker A: And that's when you get this death spiral effect, right? Because if confidence in UST goes down, Luna will get sold. And then the backing is tied directly to the stablecoin. That's why endogenous collaterals are said to lead to these death spirals. Because just at the moment where you need that backing, confidence is collapsing in the protocol, people are selling the collateral and then you're, you're, you know, you're dead. Dyad. In that TVL minus dyad supply equation, that TVL does not include kerosene. The protocol doesn't even look at kerosene's market value at any point.
00:24:20.991 - 00:24:52.653, Speaker A: It has a market value. It's trading at like, I don't know, 0.07 or something right now. But what's counted as collateral is the deterministic value. And by deterministic value, it just means TVO minus diode supply divided by kerosene supply. That's what each kerosene token that you deposit into your note counts as is collateral. So just to really drive home this point, the more over collateralization there is in the system at a given time, the more each kerosene token will be worth.
00:24:52.653 - 00:25:32.595, Speaker A: But as that, you know, let's say that ETH and all of its correlated assets that are back in diet, let's say there's a real like retrace and it goes down. Now that buffer is compressed, right? Unless a lot of diet is burned at the same time. There's less buffer now. So kerosene will, each token will be worth less immediately. So the minimum, if every note basically is max minting against all the kerosene, the least collateralized protocol could ever be at Any point is 125%. Because we have that 150% minimum collateralization ratio. Kerosene can tokenize.
00:25:32.595 - 00:26:40.225, Speaker A: Let's say there's just 150%. Kerosene tokenizes that 50% but itself has 150% minimum. So it can compress down. But what we've seen, and in sort of normal operations, what's really happening is by emitting kerosene as an incentive to provide liquidity to dyad, you have this really good competition among farmers and among minters where the more kerosene they accrue, the less exogenous collateral they need to use in order to mint a certain amount of dyad, which ultimately makes their farming for kerosene more efficient. So you're sort of, we're using this, you can call it a farm token, but it has this fundamental utility to the protocol that immediately makes your farming more efficient. So it's working well at this level with the flywheel but ultimately its role and what we're seeing it do now is to optimize the usage of the over collateralization buffer. So it's always there to absorb volatility, but it's never just sitting idle waiting for ETH to retrace.
00:26:40.225 - 00:26:58.695, Speaker A: And that's really what solves that capital efficiency, trade off. So I'll get into how notes play into this and what that really does for the flywheel and for kerosene cell pressure, all of that. But I want to see if you have any questions about this kind of fundamental utility that kerosene has.
00:27:00.075 - 00:27:52.135, Speaker B: Yeah, so the, let's say, I don't know, there's a hundred, like hopefully One day there's 100, $100 million worth of TVLN protocol. Let's say people have minted $50 million worth of diet against it. So you've got a $50 million kind of buffer in between that. And let's say there are around number 6, 50 million diet talk, 50 million kerosene tokens. There aren't. These are just hypothetical numbers. So effectively, is, is your kerosene allocation compared to the circulating supply proportional to how much of that buffer you can tap into? Is that, is that the equation? So like let's say if I own 10% of the circulating supply, if there was 50 million buffer, I can tap into 5 million or not.
00:27:53.595 - 00:29:08.351, Speaker A: That's exactly right. So in your scenario where there's 100 million TVL, 50 million dyad minted circulating, and there's, that would leave a 50 million buffer and there is also 50 million kerosene. Each kerosene token deposited into a node would add a dollar of additional backing. Basically, you still have that 150% minimum collateralization ratio and that's applied across all of your collateral types. So if you add, let's say you have 100,000 kerosene and $100,000 worth of wrapped eth, you'd have $200,000 against which you could mint your dyad and you could then, yeah, mint up to 150. So the one thing to keep in mind there, that's very important is you have to have at least $1 of non kerosene backing collateral for every diode that you mint or for every bit of dollar of collateral that you withdraw. So this is important because if we did not have that, the incentive becomes just put as much kerosene as you can into your note and max mint against it as the deterministic value of kerosene and basically go down.
00:29:08.351 - 00:29:49.335, Speaker A: It's like this race to suck up as much of the TVL as possible that would obviously not lead to anything good. So the way to think about kerosene is it can get you extremely. It can basically get you to a one to one loan to value or collateralization ratio. So 100% collateralization ratio. But you can keep putting in more and more kerosene so that the collateralization that the protocol sees for that 150% liquidation threshold could be much, much higher. So you could have a position where you've minted 100,000 dyad, you have 100,000 exactly of exogenous collateral, but you have a ton of kerosene. And so you could have an effectively 300% collateralization ratio.
00:29:49.335 - 00:30:14.505, Speaker A: So you're basically one to one very efficient position is pretty far from that liquidation threshold. And that's really the top notes right now we're getting kind of close to that and already with only, I don't know, about 5 million TVL, we're seeing some really interesting strategies being built with positions that allow that.
00:30:15.885 - 00:30:32.265, Speaker B: Awesome. So you're going to tap into how nodes play into this and there is a bit of game theory, some flywheel in effect here. And as I say, I'm probably at this point in the article, so this is going to do me a world of good hearing as straight from the source.
00:30:32.585 - 00:31:01.551, Speaker A: Yeah. So the, this is really where the notes come in and having these NFTs. So the NFTs have a. They basically do three things. They track how much collateral you have, they track how much dyad debt you have minted against it. And then they track this thing called xp, literally a metadata trait that is bound to the nft. You can't, you can't take XP and sell it on the market.
00:31:01.551 - 00:31:43.819, Speaker A: You can't transfer it to a different nft. It is part of the NFT itself and transfers with it. So XP is simply a multiplier on your kerosene farming accrual. So the more XP you have, the more kerosene you will earn for a given size of lp, providing liquidity for Dyad. It basically boosts your effective size in the liquidity pool in terms of how much kerosene you're earning. So really the greater portion of all XP you have, the more efficiently you'll accrue kerosene. Now, the way you earn XP is for every kerosene you have deposited in your note, that Note earns like 0.00001
00:31:43.819 - 00:32:22.123, Speaker A: kerosene XP per second. So XP is a measure of how much Kerosene you've kept in your note and for how long. It's a time based accrual. Now the interesting thing here is if you withdraw kerosene from your note, you can withdraw it at any time, but it will slash a proportional amount of your XP and then you have to kind of rebuild that XP over time. So this played out in a really interesting way recently. Last weekend, kerosene. I still don't know exactly why, but it pumped pretty substantially like a 6X.
00:32:22.123 - 00:33:11.917, Speaker A: Basically from where it was, the cell pressure into that pump was surprisingly low. And that was because the existing holders of kerosene knew that if they withdrew kerosene or to sell into that pump, their XP that they had sort of been building up and understood the utility of now would get slashed. And you can't re buy xp. I mean, you kind of can if you buy a ton of kerosene and try to earn it faster, but you still need to have that kerosene in there for a period of time. Some, some people did withdraw their kerosene and sell into the pump, which is normal and natural. But then other notes who really did nothing, they actually climbed in the XP leaderboard and were able to. XP was basically more valuable because so much XP was slashed from those who withdrew.
00:33:11.917 - 00:33:36.905, Speaker A: So it was this deflationary event for xp and we. It was also like a very strong mitigation for the sell pressure you would normally see with a token like kerosene into a pump that was that substantial. So that was kind of an early example of the flywheel working the way we want it to, which is that we want kerosene to flow to those who will use it to make Dyad more capital efficient, basically.
00:33:38.885 - 00:34:00.799, Speaker B: Awesome. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And can you, can you go into liquidations a little bit? Um, and also would. If I opened a note and I had like let's say 50% rep, stick to even 50% TBTC, and I am, I mean, against the whole net value, I'm not minting against each individual asset, am I?
00:34:00.967 - 00:34:34.825, Speaker A: Absolutely. Yeah. So in Dyad, different collateral types are not siloed. You're basically minting against the combined value. And this also gets into liquidations. So when we have a partial liquidation system, which is a little bit unusual for a typical cdp, but you know, they exist. So basically when your notes Dyad balance died, Minted balance is more than kind of pushes it over the 150% minimum collateralization ratio.
00:34:34.825 - 00:35:10.591, Speaker A: Any liquidator can pay any portion of that Dyad debt just by Burning Dyad basically and calling the liquid liquidation function and then they get a 10% discount on that collateral. So you're basically there's a 10% liquidation fee. They capture that amount of Dyad that they burned in your collateral plus 10%. And if you have this mix of different collateral types, they just capture that collateral in proportion to the mix that you have. They can't choose I want to get all of my collateral in TBTC or I want to get all of my collateral in Rap State, whatever. It's just proportional. And this is.
00:35:10.591 - 00:35:25.475, Speaker A: We use the ERC 4626 shout out to Joey Santoro again to make this logic work. It's just basically share tokens that are associated with the note. The liquidator gets the share tokens, they're burned and so they get the collateral in those proportions.
00:35:27.335 - 00:35:53.663, Speaker B: Awesome. That makes sense. And what is, what is kind of next for you guys? Because I seen you mentioned partial liquidations and with regards to the docs it was saying that was kind of more of a push towards V2. We, we going to see you've mentioned like lending and S Dyad. Like is there anything else you can kind of reveal there or you want to keep some cards close to your chest?
00:35:53.839 - 00:36:36.743, Speaker A: Yeah, I'll, I'll say this much. So again, our vision for SD from the lender perspective is very similar to what Anchor was in its heyday and sort of what they were doing, which I think is again very flawed mechanisms underneath that, but a very good top of funnel for just making it extremely simple for really anybody to earn yield on a stablecoin. It's basically you acquire Dyad, whether that's through swapping a usdc, swapping a different stablecoin. Whatever it is, you deposit it in this vault. The vault tells you what your yield is. That yield's variable depending on borrow demand on the borrower side. And that's really it.
00:36:36.743 - 00:37:58.173, Speaker A: And that becomes the major demand driver for Dyad. To be very, very clear though, kerosene is never used as a yield source for sdyad. Kerosene is strictly like you really do need to be participating at that lower level and being one of the providers of the dyad for the demand of lenders who want to swap that from the USDC pool to which you're providing liquidity, put that in the vault and earn their yield that way in terms of the lending itself. So this starts from I, I think that fixed rate lending has really never, never taken off in defi just for reasons of like suboptimal designs basically and not really having a product that. I mean fixed rate is the dominant form of debt in traditional finance. And I think that the missing piece has been, you know, the way that perpetual options and perps have really become the dominant form of derivatives in DeFi, whereas perps are like pretty exotic and unusual in traditional finance. I think that perpetual debt at fixed rate is really one of the most unexplored and most compelling forms of lending in DeFi.
00:37:58.173 - 00:39:00.825, Speaker A: And I'm not going to say much more than that, but that's really the fundamental design space in which we're building the SD lending system. So yeah, perpetual fixed rate loans that just have very limited Oracle checks, very limited liquidations in terms of that are price based in contrast to the base layer which is the sort of margin loan type CDP system. So yeah, very different. Definitely not an AVE fork, definitely not just kind of forking like the traditional, like I mean that's, you know, we have the cdp, we have the margin loans at the base layer. This is going to be much more about more efficient, more I would say ultimately useful forms of bonds, forms of fixed income debt that you know, haven't, haven't really hit PMF in crypto yet. But I think that that's really just a design issue that like with scalability of a CDP on the base layer where we're solving and we'll provide this yield source for sdyad. Yeah.
00:39:01.285 - 00:39:41.225, Speaker B: Awesome. And how beyond incentives and because I know the landscape is very competitive, stablecoins some things, some protocols in DEFI can be very collaborative, some can be quite have a garden wall up around their protocol, but how difficult is it or is there a clear route with regards to composability across different DEFI protocols Drumming up those additional kind of utility use cases like is there kind of a roadmap in your head that you'd like to see it kind of across the whole DEFI ecosystem or how do you kind of think about going far and beyond with Dyad?
00:39:42.125 - 00:40:57.685, Speaker A: Yeah so right now our main collaborations with other protocols are in the form of onboarding collateral types that we think are really high quality. So like I said, tbtc, big fan of that project. Susde we are adding one of the, what I think is the best LRT very soon as a collateral type collaborating pretty deeply with that team. So that's really where at this stage composition occurs. It's in this onboarding of new collateral types. Once we deploy the lending layer and sdyad, the game is going to become much more about Dyad's velocity throughout DeFi versus just generating yield for providing liquidity to a single pool, which is where we are right now. And at that point composition and collaboration will look a lot more like getting Dyad to be go to default stablecoin type for different applications like Sablier, which is an excellent streaming protocol where you can set up a token stream using different types of linear or nonlinear curves for emissions.
00:40:57.685 - 00:41:51.303, Speaker A: Super useful for payroll token vesting, all those kinds of things. We're collaborating heavily with that team. They've already listed Dyad as a stablecoin. But when they get their payroll product specifically up, we obviously want Dyad to be one of the go to stablecoins or the go to stablecoin that payroll across Defi can use to do these kind of things. And we think that because of the base layer in this kerosene mechanism, Dyad can and will be extremely capital efficient without sacrificing the CDP's decentralization, censorship, resistance. All those things that, you know, when the yields are really good kind of go out the window, but when you get back to utility actually start to matter quite a bit. That's, that's more the kind of growth and collaboration we're going to be pursuing where there's some kind of actual utility platform even getting into things like, you know, lending to real things in the real world businesses.
00:41:51.303 - 00:42:50.985, Speaker A: I think there's some deep in financialization that is super interesting ways to finance capex for big compute build outs or small distributed compute build outs where that like actually getting Dyad to be the stablecoin that's used in those cases built because it's uniquely scalable, very efficient to acquire and to sort of extremely low slippage things like this because we can so sustainably incentivize deep liquidity. That's where our composability collaboration will be with other protocols really on the Dyad as a product side more so than just getting it to generate more and more yield. Because ironically or maybe not so ironically, the greater its velocity and the more its use for things like that, by far the more value will flow to those who have notes and who are participating on the base layer.
00:42:51.105 - 00:43:24.135, Speaker B: So awesome. Yeah, I love that. And beyond Ethereum is the room for expansion maybe. I know there's a million and one L2s, so it's quite a difficult issue to have. I know chain abstraction account abstractions coming, so that might make everything a little bit easier. But do you think. Obviously we're in very early days, but you think we could see expansion of the protocol not just the Stablecoin or where's your head at with that?
00:43:24.295 - 00:43:54.721, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a good question. It's one that we definitely do not have a final answer on. I think that we've been talking with the Monad team, the Barrichain team, for quite a while. I'd say those two are the most likely that we're looking at. It's difficult to say. Like the. I'm close with one of the teams that has built a really interesting product on Blast called Yes, I'm sure you're familiar with it as well.
00:43:54.721 - 00:44:35.959, Speaker A: It's essentially the Olympus Dao team with maybe some slight personnel changes, but really smart group of individuals and their experience building on Blast has been interesting. Right. Like it's a very, very different kind of BD and just mindset space than building on Ethereum, which is. There's no Ethereum team I'm really talking to at this point. There's the foundation, but they're not directly. It's not like trying to get Pac man to give you a specific kind of like points or something for your protocol and it like being one dude who you need to talk to. Right.
00:44:35.959 - 00:45:16.385, Speaker A: So I'm. I'm not super oriented towards that type of building necessarily. And I think that when we do go on to alt L1s or L2s, it'll be more that we're being pulled there versus we're trying to push ourselves there. I think there's going to be. What we're doing on Eth. Mainnet right now, we're finally seeing so much traction that either there will be a friendly fork of the fundamental diet mechanics that will produce a stablecoin that is maybe native to that chain, or we are. We are talking with both Layer zero and Wormhole having some really productive discussions about.
00:45:16.385 - 00:46:53.415, Speaker A: I mean right now it's really just making the stablecoin multi chain, right? Which is. Which is an easier task than making the notes multi chain and making the ability to have collateral on another EVM chain that you don't bridge over to mainnet and actually attest to that collateral as being part of a basket of collateral that your note has and being able to mint diet on Mainnet against collateral that's both on mainnet, on Monad, on Barrichain and on whatever other EVM chains there are. So that's like the vision that we get to that point where you can have collateral on chains other than Mainnet and Mint against it by attesting to it being part of your note that would be on mainnet. But that's going to be a little further off than just kind of having dia the stablecoin be fundamentally multi chain. But again, like I said, it's a question that comes up a lot. We're such a small team and when we've had the best progress and sort of the biggest inflection points with our growth has been when we've just obsessively focused on like one or two things that we need to do. And right now, in terms of where we are, multi chain is something that we think about and that we're asked a lot about, but it's not something that we're prioritizing the same way we are like the lending layer sdyad or making the front end much more usable and sort of more useful to people who are farming kerosene and competing with each other.
00:46:54.435 - 00:47:05.171, Speaker B: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. It's always this industry. There's so many opportunities, it's difficult to kind of keep focus. Totally, totally. And I think it's like one of the hardest decisions every day.
00:47:05.363 - 00:47:36.665, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. And I, you know, I think that there's the cliche of the protocol that like goes multi chain too early and you have a version of it on like 10 different chains with like 50k TVO across all of them and it just kind of feds us at that point. You really don't want to fragment like that until. That's why I said, like, we want to be pulled onto these other chains versus sort of pushing our way onto them before we have the momentum and the size on mainnet to really do that in a strong way.
00:47:37.525 - 00:47:43.557, Speaker B: Yeah, great answer. Is there anything I might have missed that you kind of want to make people aware of?
00:47:43.701 - 00:48:08.143, Speaker A: No. You went through this really well. I think that this is a pretty comprehensive overview of how the base layer works. Yeah. I would just stress that if any listeners want to jump into this one mechanical change that we're introducing with xp. So right now XP accrual. It's the same amount of XP per second per kerosene deposited for every note.
00:48:08.143 - 00:48:48.429, Speaker A: Right. No matter how much XP they already have. What we're starting to see is a few early whale notes are starting to sort of pull away from the others. And one of them has, I think like 16% of all XP at this point, and that's starting to be suboptimal. We sort of identified this as a, as a potential issue early, but we were only starting to see the beginnings of it. 16% is not terrible, but what we're introducing this Week is a. Basically we call it decay, but pretty much the more, the greater percentage of XP a note has already, the slower it will accumulate additional xp.
00:48:48.429 - 00:49:13.015, Speaker A: So it's really just like classic RPG mechanic. It's like logarithmic XP accrual where to get to the next level. It takes more xp. Basically we're just doing it. It is slower to accrue XP the more XP you already have. And that just makes it a more balanced system. It makes it always plus EV for somebody new to come in, get a note and just start from zero.
00:49:13.015 - 00:50:04.815, Speaker A: Start farming. Start farming kerosene, adding it to their node and building up their xp. Yeah, but even now, like yield on the USDC Dyad stable pair on mainnet is like 10 to 12% just starting out with no XP, which is pretty good for a stable pair on mainnet. So I think it's still, even before we introduce this decay feature, definitely worth jumping in. Not financial advice, obviously, I'm just speaking as a protocol designer. But with this decay mechanism, it's just going to be a much more sustainable system as more people come in and the competition increases, people are using bigger sizes. It'll keep it, it'll keep it very rewarding to invest in, you know, accruing xp, but still always worthwhile for new people to come in.
00:50:06.195 - 00:50:12.883, Speaker B: Awesome. Well, where can people find you? I'll leave all the links below, but if there's any like immediate.
00:50:12.939 - 00:50:53.089, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. So at 0x Dyad is our x account and in that account we have links to our Discord to our website, which is DyadStable XYZ. And you can find me directly at Joey Roth. So if you want to reach out about any questions you have about the mechanism, diet, anything like that, I always, as you know, Grant, because you, you DM me always check my DMs on X. I'm on Discord on the diet Discord very actively, definitely do not DM me there. My Discord DMS are a complete just disaster area. Right.
00:50:53.089 - 00:51:10.569, Speaker A: Like all spam, I don't even go through it. So don't, don't reach out to me there. There are a lot of fake versions of me on Discord. Also, if a Joey reaches out to you, it's definitely a scam. I don't, I don't DM people there, so be aware of that. But yeah, if you want to reach out to me directly at Joey Roth on X. I love discussing this kind of stuff.
00:51:10.569 - 00:51:51.715, Speaker A: I've met a lot of really smart people who like, heard about diet on a podcast and DM me and had some ideas about the mechanism and one of them now is one of our lead devs. So yeah, always good to connect with folks that way. But yeah, that's where you can find us. And yeah, our documentation, which I know is sort of the starting point for you. It's always, like I said at the beginning, we're always in this battle to simplify it and to just make it more clear and bring forth like what's actually unique about Dyad so that somebody reading it for 10 minutes can get a pretty clear understanding. So if you've read that and you have any comments there, I'm especially interested in feedback on our docs.
00:51:52.375 - 00:52:14.385, Speaker B: Amazing. Well, hopefully that's been, you know, interesting for everyone. As a defi nerd and not like myself, I was just happy to see some innovation come onto the scene after a crazy kind of what feels like a bit of a brain rotting 18 months with regards to memes. So kudos. Love to see it.
00:52:14.765 - 00:53:16.789, Speaker A: It's interesting, the whole meme coin meta. People always ask me what was it like to be a pretty hardcore pure play defi builder when all the meme coins and stuff are going up. And for me it's like I don't even think of that as in the same realm really. You know, it's like when computers were kind of a new thing in the 90s, I'm sure people like thought, oh you like you work with a computer, you must like know other people who work with computers, right? And now like every. Everything is with the computer. So it's like whether you work in like a gas refinery or as a producer making beats, like you're all working on computers, but there's really nothing, no overlap there. So I think that like crypto and blockchain stuff has gotten widespread enough now that there's people who are doing all kinds of different things that really have nothing to do with Dyad yet we just happen to be using the same platform at the base layer, which I think is ultimately like what permissionless blockchains are supposed to be.
00:53:16.789 - 00:53:40.635, Speaker A: Right? So yeah, I think that's kind of like I'm happy that people are saying there's this move to fundamentals and defi and innovation again right now, but it never really changed in that way. For me. We're always here, we're always building. Even in the Bear, and even when the meta was all about these funny meme coins.
00:53:42.575 - 00:53:59.625, Speaker B: There you go. Perfect place to wrap it up. So thank you very much Joey and everyone listening any links that we've discussed will be below. And if not, just jump in Discord, because the community is really active and Joey's really active in there as well. And yeah, we'll see you next time. Over and out. All right, thanks for listening.
00:53:59.625 - 00:54:04.265, Speaker B: If you enjoyed the show, please give us a like subscribe and turn the notification bell on for next time. See ya.
