00:00:15.760 - 00:00:45.520, Speaker A: Welcome to Unlayered. Before we dive into today's episode, I'm going to read off a quick disclosure. Although our guest this week is a managing partner of a registered investment advisor, nothing in this podcast should be considered an offer of multicoins investment advisory services, or should otherwise be confused for investment tax, legal, or other financial advice. And with that, we are super stoked to be joined by Tushar Jain of Multicoint Capital. Tushar, how's it going, man? It's great to see you.
00:00:45.712 - 00:00:50.728, Speaker B: Hey, it's great to be here. Long time listener, first time caller, excited to be here.
00:00:50.896 - 00:01:24.388, Speaker A: Awesome. Yeah, we appreciate your support. So we had Kyle on a few months ago. We were in a very different market position compared to today. It seems like in the past three or four months, years have gone by in crypto years. And the first question I want to dive into, we just all got back from Thanksgiving holiday break. I'm sure we've spoken and hung out with a lot of family members and friends, and for some reason it seems like thanksgiving is always kind of a litmus test for retail interest, or I guess mainstream interest in crypto.
00:01:24.388 - 00:02:38.904, Speaker A: The markets have gone up substantially in the last month, especially on the Solana side. But just broadly, I think interest has picked up a lot. Inflows are piling in, Coinbase shot up from like 50 to, you know, in the twenties in terms of most popular apps. And so with that, I think its always fun to just ask kind of a centering question, and I would love to get your answer to this, which is, why does crypto matter? Why is this space worthy of a complete focus for an entire fund? Why should people pay attention to this? I think when price goes up, people get more interested, and there's that obvious reason, which is it's a great way to allocate into potentially, but why this industry? When we're in a world where AI startups are really hot, the value of something like chat GPT is very tangible and easy to understand, whereas crypto, we've always had this challenge with, and I've had this challenge too, just explain to people the why behind it, because there's so many factors at play that explain it, and it's sometimes hard to distill that down. And we can oftentimes get caught up in our ivory towers and pontificate on different dynamics between l one s and l two s and things like that. But how would you answer that initial question of the why?
00:02:40.204 - 00:03:44.990, Speaker B: It's a great question, and I think it's really important to know your why? Because that allows you to survive through the extreme financial and emotional volatility that this industry delivers. So it gives you something to go back to. For me, that why is two interrelated things. It's freedom and it's trust. So let me talk about freedom first. I think that as we have moved into the Internet age, as we've moved into this modern era, with information and connectivity everywhere, what we are seeing is actually a decrease in the amount of freedom in the world because surveillance is easier, censorship is easier, as network effects drive ever larger institutions, whether it's social media, whether it's financial institutions. We're seeing this consolidation of power broadly.
00:03:44.990 - 00:04:10.454, Speaker B: And I think that's very dangerous. I think at a civilizational level that's very dangerous. Because when you see that concentration of wealth and power, it reminds me of the quote, that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. And that's not to say that the people who are doing this are bad people. I don't think they are. I think that they're doing their best. They care, they're not evil.
00:04:10.454 - 00:04:50.402, Speaker B: They just are driven by the incentives around them and they're a product of the system. And so I think that blockchains are a new technology that enables greater freedom in the world because of their censorship, resistance and permissionless qualities. And that is worth fighting for, because freedom is worth fighting for. And then connected to that. I think in our world we rely on a lot of trust. Our economy is built on trust. If you had to adjudicate every legal agreement through the court system, the economy is broken, it's over.
00:04:50.402 - 00:05:41.038, Speaker B: You cannot functionally do that. And this limits the amount of economic coordination that's possible. It limits the amount of things that people can do to create value, because you can only create value with people you trust. An example would be, I can only trade with someone that I trust or go through a centralized intermediary that intermediates that trust. And then we get back to the freedom point. One thing that I think blockchains enable is new methods of capital formation, which enabled new economic activity that wasn't possible under the old trust paradigm. And I think that that will create more wealth for humanity as a whole.
00:05:41.038 - 00:05:50.554, Speaker B: So, to summarize, I think it's about freedom, and I think it's about opening up trust relationships for more economic prosperity.
00:05:51.254 - 00:06:21.384, Speaker A: So, very well said, and I completely agree. Um, follow up on that, especially on the point about freedom. It's one of those things where I think everyone agrees we like freedom. It reminds me a lot of like the privacy debates that have happened in social media for the past, you know, decade or so, where theoretically, we all want privacy. Theoretically, no one wants to have their blinds open all the time and people peering into their online lives. And yet when. When it comes down to it, people are okay with privacy.
00:06:21.384 - 00:07:15.034, Speaker A: I guess anti privacy applications like Facebook or anything that tracks you. TikTok is kind of like, I guess, the worst offender of this. And even when the US government tried to get involved with that, users were pushing back against it. We're saying, no, no, we want this app to track everything that's going on in our phones and read all the logs and things like that. So my question to you is, I think it's clear we understand the why from a conceptual standpoint, but how do you see this actually playing out? In other words, how are people going to start caring about this issue of freedom? Does it start on a country in the US where there's already a lot of freedom to begin with? Or do you see this kind of taking, like, a preference for different geographies first and then kind of taking over the world slowly? Like, how do you actually see the people starting to focus intensely on this problem that crypto solves when it's kind of a thing that oftentimes people take for granted or ignore?
00:07:17.174 - 00:08:07.836, Speaker B: That's a good question. And the reality is, we're very fortunate to live in this civilization, western civilization, that has been built on a lot of foundational principles of freedom. But it wasn't always like this. And not all western civilization is like this. I think the United States has some really powerful rights that are encoded into the constitution, that protect a lot of our freedoms that people in the rest of the world do not have. So I do think that freedom is more valuable to those who do not have it. That's why I expect things like Defi to take off in emerging markets more than I expect it to take off in developed markets, because to those people, they do not have the freedom to do the economic transactions they want to do.
00:08:07.836 - 00:08:31.618, Speaker B: An example is, look, I'm ethnically indian. I have a bunch of family still in India. I was talking to a cousin of mine. He's an engineer. He loves everything to do with Google, and he cannot buy Google stock because it's not traded there. He does not have the freedom to do it because of the capital controls placed on him by the indian government. And I see that as a problem.
00:08:31.618 - 00:09:27.734, Speaker B: I see that as actually reducing net market efficiency, because you have people who want to do something, who cannot do that thing so I think it starts from there. I think that you're not going to see people adopt this technology based on ideals alone. The people who were going to adopt based on ideals alone, I think all came in before the 2017 cycle. Those were the people who were on the weird Internet forums and thinking about this stuff and going to the weird conferences and stuff. And when I was super fringe, I think what it's going to take is it has to be genuinely more useful or better than the alternative. And in that example I gave about the Google stock, there is no alternative. The alternative is to buy some other company shares that aren't Google.
00:09:27.734 - 00:09:45.324, Speaker B: And that's what it really means for most people. I don't think most people are going to think about the abstract ideas of freedom and how should government be organized and things like that. I think they're going to think about, this lets me do something I want to that I couldn't otherwise do.
00:09:47.304 - 00:10:12.594, Speaker C: When you talk about Defi, I just wonder, do you have an image in your head for what the endgame is really for Defi? Like, for example, do you think it's going to be largely settling on a single chain like Solana, or do you think it's going to be across multiple chains? Do you think it's going to be on Ethel, one with sort of slow block times and maybe high Mev capture? Is it going to go to a single l two? Across various l two s?
00:10:13.214 - 00:10:13.502, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:10:13.518 - 00:10:31.858, Speaker C: I don't know. How do you see it all playing out? Because I have to say, I'm a bit confused. And then also, sorry, how much real world assets do you see coming in? So you've mentioned stocks. Do you think that that is a reasonable expectation that that is all going to come onto public blockchains in the next, say, I don't know, 1020 years? Do you think it's going to be all real world assets?
00:10:31.966 - 00:10:32.162, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:10:32.178 - 00:10:35.094, Speaker C: Just wondering, how do you see the end game of Defi?
00:10:36.994 - 00:11:22.694, Speaker B: There are a few questions in that, so let me try to unpack it. First. Let's just address what assets do I think will be on chain and traded through DeFi? To me, that's kind of like asking in the eighties, like, which assets are going to be managed by a database? And the answer is, like, basically all of them. I guess my local county office keeps paper titles or something ridiculous still, but basically all assets are managed in a database. And I think the same thing is true here. This is a better version of a database for these types of assets. Then what is the end vision of how I think it'll work well.
00:11:22.694 - 00:12:09.434, Speaker B: There's two separate pieces to this one. I see a future where DeFi is the global backend for liquidity for these financial services, but the services are actually provided by a localized front end, and that front end will do. The KYC will comply with the local requirements. That front end will do the password reset because people cannot be trusted with just like here's a private key, hope you don't lose it. That doesn't scale and you need customer support. And you can't just call up customer support for a DeFi protocol. So I think DeFi provides us global backend, but the distribution locally will be done through localized front ends.
00:12:09.434 - 00:12:59.724, Speaker B: Now let's talk about what does that backend really look like? I think it looks like a single large global state machine. Because the problem with having many different layers and different components is it's just complicated. You just run into all of these developer issues of I need to point to the right chain for the right thing and things might change. And that developer experience is worse for the users who do interact with these protocols directly. It's worse because your address may not be the same across different chains. The wallet doesn't necessarily know exactly what you're trying to do on which chain. I just hate the complexity of all of that.
00:12:59.724 - 00:13:57.844, Speaker B: One thing that people would push back on is saying, well, what if Defi just consolidates to one l two? My answer to that is, well, that l two is going to just get incredibly congested, because what scalability advantages have you actually derived there? The limiting factor there is a single threaded nature of the EDM. It's not necessarily going to be solved by having a single l two that has everything. And also, now you've reintroduced all the centralization and all the censorship risk that exists in tradfi with having a single sequencer. I think the answer is something like a solana, which is a global state machine that synchronizes, is permissionless, has the censorship resistance guarantees to give people the freedom to transact that an l two simply doesnt.
00:13:58.704 - 00:14:42.494, Speaker A: So you just brought up in this answer, which I really liked, this idea that blockchains are just better versions of the old databases we used for financialized assets, whether it's money or equities or things like that. Can we invert this question and say, are there any bad uses for a blockchain? Which is to say, maybe just to give a concrete example, TikTok people upload millions of hours of videos every single day. And so putting that all on chain just feels like a bad idea because block space is scarce and people want to delete them. Sometimes. Maybe they'll modify the video or the metadata. And so it feels to me like that's maybe not the best use of a blockchain. At least definitely not today.
00:14:42.494 - 00:14:55.174, Speaker A: Does that frame make sense to you? Do you think blockchains are best suited for certain types of assets, like financialized assets? Or are you saying it might actually be the case? Everything ends up on chain?
00:14:57.104 - 00:15:39.492, Speaker B: I think blockchains are inherently about managing scarce assets. So that's the line that I would draw. If your system has some scarcity in it, some element of ownership of something scarce, I think that that makes sense to be on what we would traditionally call a blockchain. I think something like social media. I could imagine living on some sort of decentralized system, but I wouldnt call it a blockchain. I think that blockchains to me have this certain trust property. Ive heard this referred to before as triple entry bookkeeping.
00:15:39.492 - 00:16:19.212, Speaker B: I dont know that I fully agree with all of the connotations that that comes with, but I think its a useful, if somewhat flawed, analogy to use. And when we look at what do we use double entry bookkeeping for? It's for financial assets. It's for things that people own. It's not for emails or TikTok posts or anything that's abundant. So I really see blockchains as the next generation of managing property rights that inherently is for scarce things. You dont own things that are plentiful and infinite. Theres no point.
00:16:19.348 - 00:16:55.284, Speaker A: Preston, do you take issue then with. Because I hear this a lot from other investors, where they will posit blockchains as a way for regular consumers to own their own data or have digital property rights over their data or their accounts. But I think oftentimes the devil is in the details here. Like does anyone really own their data? If it's just all on chain and anyone can just read it? I'm not sure what they actually mean by that. How do you frame that kind of thesis? That I think is thrown around a lot, especially when it comes to decentralized social protocols in crypto. But just broadly.
00:16:56.984 - 00:17:51.590, Speaker B: I think the idea of owning your own data is attractive, but I think people haven't necessarily thought deeply enough about how practically that happens. Obviously you're right. Everyone just puts their data on chain and it's all open. If you don't own anything, then it's a public good now. So that's the most simple way of thinking about it. I think the way that blockchains can play a role in allowing people to own their own data is by allowing people to get compensated for contributing their data to something, right? Right. Now go browse a bunch of websites and you'll see there's a lot of websites that let you pay them, but there are very few websites that ever can send you money.
00:17:51.590 - 00:18:43.484, Speaker B: And it's not because they don't want to, it's because it's hard, right? It's unidirectional value flow for most products on the Internet. And what blockchains enable is really easy bi directional value flow. And that means that I can go to OpenAI and some version of the future and maybe I contribute some data or I interact with the AI in a way that helps it train better and then I get rewarded with some tokens for doing that. Doing that over all the old financial rails is not possible. Imagine if Microsoft said, I'm going to give you a partial share in Microsoft for everyone who helps train our AI. Actually, it's not possible. The pipes to do that do not exist.
00:18:43.484 - 00:19:14.250, Speaker B: It is not feasible even for a company. The scale of Microsoft to be able to accomplish that. So that's where I think blockchains can play a role, is in allowing you to be compensated for your data. I'm sure Facebook would be happy to compensate you for some of the data that you bring if they had to. It's a moat for them, actually, if they pay you the most, but it's just impossible to do it at scale, is it?
00:19:14.282 - 00:19:26.034, Speaker C: This property which best lends itself really to deepen and allows it to flourish using blockchain technology, what do you see as the superpower, really, of deepen?
00:19:27.174 - 00:20:46.664, Speaker B: Yeah, that's exactly it, Dave. The power of Deepin is allowing people to coordinate capital formation when they otherwise would not have been able to. So in the example of the AI trainer that I just gave, it would not be possible using the old rails to properly coordinate that type of training and reward people who do that data contribution and that training with ownership. In the upside of the product that you've built, it would not be possible to build a helium style wireless network without some tokens on some blockchain in order to reward people for actually helping build out the network and serve the customers of that network. You can't do that using the web two rails. So that's probably what I am most interested in personally in the entire crypto ecosystem is these new methods of capital formation. Whether it's data daos like we've been talking about around uses of data to train AI models for all sorts of purposes, whether it's things like decentralized wireless networks, whether it's things like decentralized mapping networks, which is something that we invested in a project called Hivemapper.
00:20:46.664 - 00:21:11.874, Speaker B: Decentralized power grids are also interesting, allowing people to transact on chain to pay for consuming power and get paid for producing power. As we localize our power grids, as we get to more clean energy in our power grids that require this kind of balancing, I think that there's a lot there and that's what I'm specifically most excited to focus on.
00:21:12.414 - 00:21:39.330, Speaker A: So I'm glad you actually brought that up. I want to just do a deeper dive into this because I'm seeing again, it's one of those things that theoretically sounds great. And maybe let's use the example of Uber, Airbnb. If you were the first host on Airbnb or the first thousand drivers on Uber, you got some token and got some access to that upside. As Uber grew into a unicorn, you benefited disproportionately compared to the 100,000th driver that joined it. I love that. That sounds great.
00:21:39.330 - 00:21:41.334, Speaker A: And it sounds like crypto can enable that.
00:21:41.834 - 00:21:44.410, Speaker B: What were seeing though is with these.
00:21:44.442 - 00:22:15.150, Speaker A: Tokens that come out oftentimes they dont really do anything. Lets just pick Uniswap for example, everyone got an airdrop for being an early user. Thats great. Now we have this token, the unitoken. There's no uniswap. Even came under fire recently for turning on a fee that interfaces with their front end only and that accrues to Uniswap labs, which has basically nothing to do with the entity that manages the token, the DAO. And I'm seeing this dual entity structure pop up and it's obviously for regulatory reasons.
00:22:15.150 - 00:22:47.404, Speaker A: But I guess the question is how will this actually work in practice to not only align incentives, but make sure that the upside is growing with the holders of the token, instead of just issuing out these borderline useless governance tokens. And it turns out the supply that's issued to the community is only a small percentage that would never have a quorum to actually pass a vote. What's your response to how governance is played out versus theoretically this vision we're talking about?
00:22:49.424 - 00:23:25.224, Speaker B: Thats a good question. I think that it all comes down to revenue going to the token holders and thats the crux of the question. If you have some token that actually has a revenue mechanism, I think it can accrue value and if it doesnt. It wont. Its really that simple. I know it sounds like, you know, 101 economics, but it really is that simple. I think Uniswap has the option to turn on the fee switch for the Uniswap token holders.
00:23:25.224 - 00:24:16.648, Speaker B: I think that they have not because they understand that the capital thats in the Uniswap pools will likely flee if they turn on that fee switch, because youre directly taking away from those liquidity providers earnings by doing that. And so they haven't turned it on yet. Will they ever turn it on in the future? I don't know, but I don't see how that changes, like that reality of people will flee as soon as you start trying to extract rents. That is going to be difficult to change. And I think this is actually one of the things that people most underestimate about blockchains and about crypto as an industry. I think that crypto as an industry is really good at destroying people's margins. This is the classic bezos quote of your margin is my opportunity.
00:24:16.648 - 00:25:09.800, Speaker B: And I don't see people talking about this enough where really, because we live in this ecosystem that everything is permissionless, everything is open source, everything is censorship, resistance, and credibly neutral. It means that if you try to extract any rent from something that you built, someone will fork it away. That is not a sustainable economic equilibrium, because rent extraction is by definition taking something that others in the system created or want. Right. And when everything is open, you don't get to do that anymore. So that's why I don't believe in these types of fees. Now, does this mean that all tokens can't capture value? No, absolutely not.
00:25:09.800 - 00:25:43.356, Speaker B: It means that you have to be very careful in your design to understand, one, is this a market where we can capture value? And two, how will we do it? And that's something that we like to focus on a lot. People think we're really picky as investors because we'll see a great team in a market thats interesting and not invest, because I think that in some of those cases, the only way to extract value is rent extraction. And I dont see that as a sustainable long term equilibrium.
00:25:43.540 - 00:26:17.084, Speaker C: This comes back to the point that youve made, I think, in your blog and in various speeches, which is that daos, they shouldnt be trying to generate income. Is that the idea? But instead they should be trying to manage risk. And therefore, if you're potentially investing in governance tokens for various protocols, you should be trying to figure out what is the risk that's being taken by the token holders, and therefore, do they have a right to receive a portion of income? Because if it's just for I hold the token and therefore I'm due money, then as you say, that's just always going to get forked away.
00:26:18.264 - 00:26:42.344, Speaker B: Yeah, that's exactly right. Rent extraction is going to decrease over time. And I, for 01:00 a.m. Very happy about that because it creates more economic surplus for producers and suppliers and for consumers, and that's what it's all about, right? Like that's kind of the North Star is create more economic surplus.
00:26:43.684 - 00:27:23.994, Speaker C: Another great blog post that you posted recently was about this idea of long term staking for layer one token holders. And just to paraphrase the idea being that the longer you would stake, potentially the layer one token, then the higher the yield that you would receive. And if you're only prepared to stake it for a much shorter period of time, then you would receive a lower yield, and then this would sort of provide some sort of a yield curve, basically. So it'd just be really interesting to understand perhaps the importance of what that yield curve demonstrates and why we havent seen these sorts of solutions implemented yet. And what are the risks that theyre helping to mitigate.
00:27:24.454 - 00:28:15.916, Speaker B: William, generally, I think crypto as an industry is speedrunning the lessons of traditional finance over the last few thousand years. And if you think about what loans used to be like, they used to be very simple things, and it would be a defined interest rate. I mean, if you look back at old religious texts, they even define what the interest rate is in the religious text itself. And so used to be very simple. And then as we developed these concepts, we were able to make more complex instruments that created more economic activity and therefore more prosperity for everybody. And I think we're going through that same thing right now. All stakers on proof of stake blockchains are treated the same.
00:28:15.916 - 00:29:51.394, Speaker B: Theres this defined rate. You get what you get, everyone gets the same, even if you have different risk tolerances, even if you have different goals or youre a different type of stakeholder than someone else. And so I came up with the idea of long term staking earlier this year after really, I was influenced by what we saw happening with FTX last year. And I thought to myself, well, wouldn't the network be more secure if people were guaranteed to stake through this type of extreme event? Same thing with Luna and pre AC and all of that that happened earlier last year. If the point of staking is to provide security, then allowing people to unstake with three days notice is providing up to three days of security, and that's simply not sufficient. If you want to run the world financial system, I think that you need to offer different staking durations so people can secure the network for longer durations and say no matter what happens in the next year, I will be here, I will be staked and I will be securing the network. I think that thats really meaningful and important for the core mission of these chains and thats why im excited to hopefully see someone implement long term staking on an important layer, one protocol.
00:29:52.094 - 00:31:05.812, Speaker A: William, how would you price I know you get into the details of the mathematics behind this in your essay, but for the listener, because crypto is just so unlike other financial markets that we've had access to for the past few decades. I think everyone understands bonds and this idea of buying a ten year treasury, it's unlikely that the US is going to collapse in the next ten years. I mean, granted, things are changing pretty quickly these days, but historically it's always been considered the risk free rate, so to speak. And I think there's been a lot of analogies people make to liquid staking protocols. Even where your risk free rate on Ethereum is five or 6% or something like that, you still have the liquidity benefits of using staked ETH and you get that rate. But now when youre talking about time locking for maybe a year or two years plus, just given that you even said it just earlier, were speedrunning the lessons through financial markets in record time, and two years in crypto is an eternity. So how would one price the yield? How do you incentivize, I guess, people to want to lock up their tokens for that long when you could just have another collapse, for instance, happened in that timeframe, which could materially affect your position.
00:31:05.812 - 00:31:07.264, Speaker A: How do you think about that?
00:31:08.364 - 00:32:21.472, Speaker B: It's a good question. Overall, I come at it with some core principles of I don't like things that happen by diktat, of just like this is the rate because I said so. I think that the market should be used to price these things, and so I think that the market should set these rates. And the system that we proposed in the blog post, which I would encourage the listeners to go check out, just Google long term staking multicoin and it should be the first thing that comes up. And the system that we proposed is one where if people all want to stake short term and very few people want to stake long term, then the yield curve is really steep. And what that means is long term stakers earn much more than short term stakers. And if everyone wants to stake long term and everyone's willing to take that risk, then the yield curve is really shallow, which means you don't get that much of a benefit from staking long term compared to short term.
00:32:21.472 - 00:33:01.008, Speaker B: And so both ends of the curve can move, right. The long term rates can move up and down, and short term rates can move up and down. And the difference between long term and short term rates tells you the steepness, which tells you the market's risk tolerance at that time. When the market has high risk tolerance, you will see a shallow curve. When the market has high risk tolerance or, sorry, low risk tolerance, you'll see a steep curve. And you need to let users and investors decide what the risk tolerance is at any point in time. And the yield curve is an output to that, not an input.
00:33:01.008 - 00:33:20.364, Speaker B: I've seen some other networks where they propose, if you lock up for x period of time, you get this much incremental tokens. And I hate that idea so much because it's just like, here's a fixed curve and it doesn't matter what you do, there's no market mechanism at all.
00:33:25.584 - 00:34:05.144, Speaker C: I'd love just to turn to meV. One issue I have with MEV is the idea that if crypto is going to become this global substrate for finance, that the regulators, et cetera, have to accept the fact that there is explicit extraction of value from, from the average retail users by the consortium of validators, which is pretty much how it happens in regular finance. But maybe it's implicit and easier to hide in the shadows, if you like. So firstly, do you think that it will be stomached and are we doing enough as an industry to reduce MeV?
00:34:06.044 - 00:35:12.716, Speaker B: You're right that this is how it works in Tradfi as well. High frequency trading is just MeV for Tradfi. And the way that you make money in high frequency trading is that you are first. It's a latency war and you have less latency, you win the race with blockchains. Things are slightly different, where it's not necessarily just latency, it's also what transaction does the current leader in consensus choose to put in. I think that this is a better system actually than the latency focused system of tradfi, because this redistributes those earnings that would have gone to a handful of HFT shops that optimize to every last unit of time that they can, and they get to earn those profits and they get to keep them. And they get to be really wealthy and pay people a lot, and they're keeping that for themselves, not giving that back.
00:35:12.716 - 00:36:08.574, Speaker B: Whereas in crypto, what you see is the validator, who is leading consensus at that moment, will choose your transaction if you paid the highest fee, and then that fee will get paid out to the people who staked to that validator. And so in that way, it's actually much more egalitarian. And because it's redistributing the proceeds of that arbitrage profit to stakers, rather than having that go into a handful of large trading firms that then invest crazy amounts of money in eking out the smallest latency gains. So I generally think it's better, and I think that regulators will eventually get there. In understanding this, it takes them a while. It's technical, it's hard. There are entrenched interests that are going to lobby against it and try and make MeV sound like the scary, terrible thing.
00:36:08.574 - 00:36:21.964, Speaker B: But I think eventually the arc of government bends towards the truth. And the truth is that MeV is better than HFT for the financial system.
00:36:23.144 - 00:36:45.604, Speaker C: And I saw Justin Bonds made a claim the other day that multiverse x had solved MeV, and it's got rid of it because they are randomizing the transaction order. I know I've heard you on a podcast before arguing that you can't remove MeV entirely, but could you just give us a high level reason of why that is the case, why you can't just randomize the transaction order and that would therefore remove it?
00:36:47.244 - 00:37:38.972, Speaker B: Yeah, that almost certainly won't work. And the reason is you're just moving the ball, right? So you say, oh, we'll just order everything, first come, first serve. Well, that's HFT, right? You say, we'll order things based on who pays the highest fee. Well, that's this traditional form of MeV that we've been talking about. You say we're going to randomize the order of transactions. Well, what you're incentivizing me to do as a trader is spam a bunch of transactions and I'll spam a crazy number of transactions and hope that my transaction lands in the right slot and the other ones all fail. And that is probably one of the worst possible equilibriums, because you just saturate the bandwidth in the network with a bunch of crap that you don't want.
00:37:38.972 - 00:38:23.828, Speaker B: You don't want people spamming transactions, hoping that things land. In fact, it's just a total waste of network resources. I admire people for experimenting and trying new things I think that there will be more experiments on eliminating or reducing harmful meV, but I don't think it is possible to eliminate it entirely. One thing you can do that is really helpful is have faster block times. You have 15 2nd block times on Ethereum. Well, that means that the validator has 15 seconds to decide who's going to pay me the most to put in a transaction. And that leaves plenty of time for sandwich attacks and all this negative stuff.
00:38:23.828 - 00:38:50.374, Speaker B: You get down to 400 millisecond block times. Well you don't have time, you just have to go. So actually that reduces the amount of harmful meV, right? So I think that there are a lot of things you can do to reduce it, but I think anyone who claims that they can eliminate it doesn't fundamentally understand what Mev is. Someone has to earn the arbitrage profit. The question is who?
00:38:51.954 - 00:39:31.394, Speaker A: So I want to change gears a bit, get your thoughts on a bunch of things just from your perspective sitting in the investor seat. But let's start first with this idea or trend I'm seeing, and I actually brought it up on the last podcast with Kyle and I feel like it's still true today. Maybe it's changing a bit more, but just this overemphasis on infrastructure versus end user applications. On the investor front, maybe it's a two sided problem. Maybe a lot of people are just working on infra as well because they think there's a preference for it from the vc standpoint and a bunch of questions we can go down in that line. But maybe let's start with this. Just the logical extreme of this appears to be in my view right now.
00:39:31.394 - 00:40:29.184, Speaker A: Blast, which incidentally was founded by Pac man and Blur, is one of the most popular retail, or I guess not retail, but applications in crypto. Its one of those popular NFT marketplaces that successfully dethroned Opensea. Very successful story there. When he announced Blessed, I was a bit confused by the motivations, which was this idea that we want to reduce transaction costs for NFts and potentially build the infrastructure for perp Dex volume for nfts. I think that's a longer term vision and that's why they require an l two to do this, regardless of whether that reason makes sense or not. I mean, certainly there's cheaper chains to use than Ethereum to do that. What's your response so far to blast? Having achieved $500 million in TVL and this idea of native yield to the token holders, this lock up, this multi sig like how's what's been your view on this so far?
00:40:32.204 - 00:41:22.940, Speaker B: What's my view on blast? I think some of their marketing I have not liked. You can see that's all over crypto, Twitter. And there are a lot of people who seem very upset by the marketing. Fundamentally, I think they're a team who has shipped products that people like, and I think that they chose a deliberately polarizing marketing strategy in order to get attention. And that's not crazy to me. I'm not defending the specific marketing that they did or talking about any of the specific incentive programs that they put in place, but clearly they knew that this was going to be polarizing. Like, they're smart guys, they're not idiots, right? Like they're smart.
00:41:22.940 - 00:42:10.584, Speaker B: They understand the ecosystem. They knew it was going to be polarizing, and they chose to do this because they wanted to get attention, which is the only way that you break through from the noise and get people to care, right? The opposite of love isn't hate, it's apathy. It's you launch this thing and just no one cares. And so I commend them for the success that the strategy had. I think they accomplished what they wanted with that. I may disagree with some of the tactics, but I'm not the arbiter who gets to decide what's right or wrong. I wouldn't do it, but clearly they wanted to accomplish getting a lot of TVL and then they chose a strategy and it worked.
00:42:10.584 - 00:42:18.224, Speaker B: So I always respect when people come up with strategies that end up working to get the goals that they want.
00:42:18.644 - 00:42:38.264, Speaker A: For sure. I guess then the next question on that point is, I think blast will actually do well. I think developers want to build on it. But at the end of the day, how many l one s, l two s. And even expanding beyond this topic, just wallets. Like magic, Eden announced a wallet today. There's now 40, 50 wallets available.
00:42:38.264 - 00:43:17.784, Speaker A: Actually, I saw a tweet on someone who analyzed 50 wallets and found, oh, this one's great for this and that. It's just a bit, a bit fragmented. It seems for the consumer we have all these choices for infrastructure layers and for tooling to interface with applications, and yet even the guy that shipped a really popular app is wanting to build picks and shovels. It seems to power NFT perps. Do you see this as a problem? Do you think there's too much emphasis on that side of the stack? Or is it kind of just part of the game of how this industry evolves? And maybe a small percentage of these l one s, l two s wallets things like that will survive and end up being the things people use.
00:43:20.484 - 00:44:27.294, Speaker B: I think the reason that people keep building more wallets, more l one s and l two s, and different infrastructure is because there is a roadmap for doing that. Other people have done it and you can follow, and maybe you do one thing differently or two things differently, and you have some differentiated view, but there's a trail to follow. You're not blazing your own trail. And it's just dramatically easier to say, I'm going to build the nth wallet, but it's going to be better because of x, Y and Z reasons than it is to say, I'm going to build this net new thing that no one's ever thought about before and no one else is building. And so there's a lot of very talented engineers in our industry who want to go build stuff. And it's very easy to go build stuff that is on this track that other people have already laid. It is hard to go think of a new idea, of something new to build and then go build that thing.
00:44:27.294 - 00:45:19.404, Speaker B: And so that's what I am personally very excited by, is talking to the entrepreneurs who are building the net new thing rather than the nth version of a thing. I can't tell you how many times I've been pitched like, oh, this is like x, but on this new ecosystem. And that's just not very intellectually exciting. It might be a good investment, we might even do that investment, but it's not intellectually exciting for me personally to work on that or work with that team. I want to work with the trailblazers who are thinking of the net new thing, and there's fewer people who do that. And that's just the nature of things. Do you have a feel of what's.
00:45:19.742 - 00:45:42.870, Speaker C: Going to be the impact of all of these on l two s being built in terms of, I suppose, going value accrual to ETH the asset? Do you think that's going to improve it, or will it impact it negatively? Or is it going to flow to the l two tokens which currently don't really have value, or the DA layers? Maybe the alt DA layers. Do you have a feel of what's going to happen with all of this?
00:45:43.022 - 00:46:40.944, Speaker B: Yeah, I've thought about this a lot because I think it's probably one of the most important questions that an investor in this industry can be asking. And my current view is that Ethereum is looking backwards at bitcoin rather than looking forwards. And so the view in the Ethereum community at least my understanding is very much around. We will build a better bitcoin. Its more programmable, it does more stuff. And thats really where the value capture comes from is by being digital money, non state money, and then all this other stuff is just the cherry on top that makes it money. The fact that its used as data availability layer, the fact that other l two s are building on top of it, the fact that these applications can exist just makes it a better money.
00:46:40.944 - 00:47:20.824, Speaker B: But the goal is to be money. And so they don't see these different layers as being value extractive. Even though clearly MeV is going to go to the execution layer, it's not going to stick around at the ethel one. So that's going away. Fewer people will actually use ethereum because they'll use the l two s. So you don't get that same commodity effect either. You don't get as many holders of the token or users of it, but they're aiming for being state free money or non political money.
00:47:20.824 - 00:48:37.184, Speaker B: It could work. It's a valid strategy. And I see why they're doing it because they're really influenced by bitcoin and theyve been looking at bitcoin for their entire existence and thinking what can we do to build a better, more programmable bitcoin? Me personally, I think that thats very difficult to do. I think that bitcoin has this immaculate Conception, it has this story, this almost religion around it thats going to be very hard to replicate, if not impossible. Trying to compete looking backwards is not the strategy that I would choose. And I think that actually you want to combine all these different sources of value capture. You want a single state machine, something like a Solana or another high throughput chain that has the MEV captured there, that has as many users as possible of that chain, after those things happen, then naturally evolves to become a form of money, rather than trying to force it to be money from the design itself.
00:48:37.184 - 00:49:29.424, Speaker B: I think the thing that becomes money is what most people want, or most people use money at its core is about the coincidence of wants. And so what will most people want is something that they can use, that they use every day. And so if that ends up being a high throughput layer one blockchain, well, I think the native token of that chain has a better chance of being money than a settlement layer, quote unquote, or data availability layer thing that most people don't want to think about this stuff, right? Like we over intellectualize things and think that, you know, everyone in the world wants to think as hard as we do about these topics. And like, they don't, they don't care. They just want easy, simple, fast. Right. Like, and like, that's it.
00:49:29.424 - 00:49:38.144, Speaker B: So, yeah, I'm not very bullish on the strategy, but I do see why they're doing it and I think it could work.
00:49:39.244 - 00:50:20.384, Speaker A: Yeah. And completely agree with, with your point there. I think it's often missed in this industry for some reason. We just want to think about everything and overcomplicate things when it doesn't feel like that's how we get to mass adoption. So you guys are known for first principles approaches to investing. I think you guys were early to a lot of trends, some of them being deepen and even just Solana. Broadly, I guess, the integrated approach to scaling blockchains, how does that manifest in your day to day? Which is to say, what do you guys look for in potential investments, in teams? What do you guys ignore that perhaps a lot of other firms don't do?
00:50:23.244 - 00:51:27.344, Speaker B: I don't know what other firms necessarily do or don't do because I'm not in their internal chats and stuff. But I can say what we do is we start with trying to find the truth of something, and we happen to monetize that truth by investing. So when we hire people on the investment team, I tell them, your job is not necessarily to go find good investments, though obviously that's a nice thing to do. But that's not what I'm going to judge your performance on. What I'm going to judge your performance on is do you think new thoughts? Do you think for yourself? I don't need you to evaluate the nth version of this thing that already exists and write up some report for it. We already know what it is. What I want is for you to think about what is now possible that was previously not possible, or what is a unique insight about how this market will evolve, or how margins in this market will evolve, or how product and users demands will evolve over time.
00:51:27.344 - 00:52:00.864, Speaker B: We write these things down and then we look back at them and we understand, were we right or were we wrong? And if we were wrong, could we have known that at that time? Right? Like, that's a really important question. You don't want to confuse process for outcome. You can have good process, bad outcome, and like, that is totally acceptable. You should not be punished in any way for that. But if you have bad process, good outcome, you will not be rewarded either. It's about process, and then outcome is what it is. So I tell the team, we are truth seekers that happen to monetize the truth by investing.
00:52:01.764 - 00:52:28.504, Speaker A: So then on that point, what are some, I guess, themes or truths that you guys perhaps unearthed that you're now looking to perhaps gain exposure to? I know you guys have a pretty active blog and pretty active presences on Twitter, but is there kind of some internal requests for startups or just things that you think are interesting that you'd like to potentially explore a bit deeper with a potential founding team?
00:52:30.044 - 00:52:58.514, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, there's a number of things that I'm interested in. In the deep end world specifically, we've done a deep dive on decentralized power grids. We've talked to several teams working on that. Definitely interested in talking to more teams in that sector. I think the thing I really love about this is it's a huge market. Everyone in the world needs power. There's no ambiguity about the size of the market.
00:52:58.514 - 00:53:36.960, Speaker B: And clearly the way that we generate power is changing and it needs to change. And so that presents an opportunity because when there is change is when there's opportunity for new entrants. When an industry is staying static, there's very little opportunity for new entrants. So whether that's decentralized power, storage systems or generation systems, et cetera, that's something that I'm quite interested in. I'm also interested in different decentralized wireless networks. I don't think it's just going to be one network to rule everything. I think that there's going to be a variety of networks.
00:53:36.960 - 00:54:42.724, Speaker B: And I'm definitely interested in talking to teams who build with a unique viewpoint on either go to market or technology or product something in the decentralized wireless space. Because once again, huge market with a structural cost advantage for people building using deep end. I'm quite excited about payments because I see visa and Mastercard as huge rent extracting entities that are just, they're collecting attacks on all transactions. It's just not, thats not what I think the long term economic equilibrium should be, that this handful of companies just get to make money off of everyone else transacting and we just all submit to that forever. So im quite excited about different payments systems and mechanisms. We could see those big payment companies actually adopt blockchains in an attempt to defend their business. But what I want to see is their margins go down.
00:54:42.724 - 00:54:52.044, Speaker B: That's what I'm most looking forward to. Anyone who is building things that make payment companies margins go down I think is quite exciting.
00:54:53.624 - 00:55:23.164, Speaker A: But to play devil's advocate here a bit, doesn't that by definition mean that your investment isn't extracting those margins and so wouldn't be making money or not as good of an investment as if you had equity and visa if you were the first investor there, I guess. How do you reconcile those two, where a lot of these protocols are about making things cheaper, whether it's wireless access payments infrastructure and oftentimes using open source code. And so then how does the value accrue and how does that end up being a good investment for you guys?
00:55:24.184 - 00:56:01.584, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a really good question. And it's easy to think, oh, I want to invest in the thing that has higher margins because that, or wants to have higher margins because that'll make it a better investment. But the question is always about defensibility. You have to remember, when you have high margins, you invite competition. Thats the beauty of capitalism. Youre making a bunch of money while other people want to get into your business, they want to do what youre doing. And at the end of the day, the North Star for capitalism is provide a better, cheaper product for the consumer.
00:56:01.584 - 00:56:41.228, Speaker B: The end all be all. Thats what we are optimizing for in this system. And so in the case of payments, I think its unlikely that a payments company built on blockchain ever gets to the same level of revenue or market cap as a visa because I dont think that theyre going to be able to extract that type of rent. People are not going to accept paying 2.5% on transactions on chain. But that doesn't mean it can't be a good investment if you get a good entry price. And this thing, instead of being a $500 billion company, is a $10 billion company.
00:56:41.228 - 00:57:09.064, Speaker B: That's fantastic. And you know what? It's net better for our economy and people broadly all over the world to have less rent extraction. And that's really motivating to me. So I think we can still make money on those things. But more importantly, it is actually better to have this new system with lower rent extraction. And I think that that motivates people.
00:57:10.364 - 00:57:49.724, Speaker C: Yeah, it is interesting, isnt it, that maybe web3 investors will have to accept lower potential market caps because not only is it lower rent extraction, but it feels that crypto is effectively reducing the barriers to entry, increasing competition, and therefore it's lower rental extraction and also more competitors. And so it's unlikely you're just going to have a single company being able to dominate because someone else can just spin up the same code, maybe in a different region, and start dominating that area as well. So I don't know. It's strange isn't it? For if you want to be a web3 investor, you just have to accept that you're now going to be in a new paradigm of lower returns.
00:57:49.844 - 00:58:47.364, Speaker B: Yeah, I think there is a mitigate to that, which is by lowering the costs and lowering the rent extraction and lowering the margins, you enable new economic activity that wasnt possible before, right. For example, if you had to pay the visa interchange fees and other fees every time you send a transaction. Thats why whenever you go to any website on the Internet, they cannot pay you because it doesnt make sense when theres a fixed 20 cent or whatever transaction cost to pay you for providing your data to OpenAI or Facebook or whoever. Right. But if you have lower rent extracting or no rent extracting payments, well now a bunch more payments become possible that weren't previously possible. So I think you might see lower margins. But my hope is that by creating a better, cheaper product for consumers, you create more economic activity and everyone is better off.
00:58:47.364 - 00:59:06.164, Speaker B: We as a civilization are wealthier when theres more economic activity. So thats where the wealth creation really comes in, is by enabling things that werent previously possible or prohibited by the expensiveness of the old system.
00:59:06.824 - 00:59:33.884, Speaker C: And a question ive always been meaning to ask someone is you mentioned at the beginning of this episode that capital formation is one of the great properties of blockchains. I love the ICO days in that it was a truly egalitarian way of investing. Tap into global liquidity. And obviously since then maybe regulations have clamped down on it and it's not really possible anymore. Do you see a future where icos in some form come back?
00:59:35.704 - 01:00:21.334, Speaker B: That's an interesting question. I could imagine under a more clear regulatory framework that these types of public offerings do come back. I think that we will need, I think we'll need clarity from regulators before we do that. And that's likely not actually going to come from regulators. I think it's going to come from politicians. I think at this point, crypto is beyond the level where just the regulator gets to decide. I think it's to the point where the elected representatives of the people get to decide because that is the source of all government power is it's government by the people, of the people and for the people.
01:00:21.334 - 01:00:30.334, Speaker B: And this is a big enough issue that it should be decided by Congress and the US and parliaments and the rest of the world.
01:00:30.874 - 01:00:59.864, Speaker A: So we've obviously covered a lot of topics and super fascinating conversation. Really great to kind of get your view or 10,000 foot view on such a variety of things. A bit of a closing question for you here. What makes a great founder in crypto based on all of your experience with different teams you invested in, and perhaps even things that maybe you haven't seen yet that you think will be important as we kind of enter the early innings of this potential bull market makes a good founder.
01:01:03.004 - 01:01:34.194, Speaker B: Theres a number of things that immediately come to mind. I think the most important is determination and just grittiness. Keep going. Thats really hard to do. This is one of the most psychologically difficult industries to work in, in the world. Just given the volatility, given the public discourse, when you launch your product, you now have a public token with a bunch of stakeholders who are yelling at you all the time. And that is hard to deal with.
01:01:34.194 - 01:02:19.424, Speaker B: Most humans are not used to that. Most people have not ever done that before. So I think determination to keep going through those moments is absolutely critical. I think it is a necessary but not sufficient condition for success. I think it's absolutely necessary, but there's a lot of determined people who fail. And I think the other piece that I would add to this if I could only choose two attributes, is determined and has a unique insight, has some unique view on how a market or a product or something's going to develop. Because the way to be a great founder is to see something before the rest of the world sees it.
01:02:19.424 - 01:02:37.708, Speaker B: I don't think the greatest companies are going to be built in this industry by people who just build something that everyone else saw, but just do a slightly better job of it. I don't think that that's the attribute that matters. I think it's about having some unique.
01:02:37.876 - 01:02:59.124, Speaker A: Insight, the earned secret, so to speak. I think I've heard that one before, too, which makes a ton of sense. Well, Tushar, it's been fantastic talking to you today. Really appreciate you coming on and sharing your wisdom, and we're looking forward to kind of seeing your future writings and speaking engagements and yeah, super fun combo.
01:02:59.704 - 01:03:02.264, Speaker B: Absolutely. Thank you so much for having me. This was a lot of fun.
