00:00:08.200 - 00:00:40.916, Speaker A: Hey, everyone, my name is Aaron Wright. I'm one of the co founders of Openlaw. Just wanted to kind of run through what we're doing and kind of unpack this idea, kind of what we're seeing in terms of setting up really the smart contracting system. So just kind of by way of background. So Openlaw is really the first fully expressive contract system. What we've been able to build is a peer to peer way for people to set up reputable contracts. If you have a contract between two parties, you can represent that as a data object.
00:00:40.916 - 00:01:37.492, Speaker A: We use a technology called secure scuttlebut to basically send information between different nodes on the Okama network. And what we're really trying to build out is this vision for this emerging blockchain stack. We spent a lot of time thinking about this. I played a small role launching ethereum off the bat. And the thought here is that there's going to be different components that are going to be necessary to build these applications on top of it, we've seen on the left quite a bit of development around chain, but really with the work that's going on in the chainlink community and work that's going on in other ecosystems, that's going to fill out the separate layers that we need to build. And really to do complex commercial transactions, you're going to need something like Openlock ricardian contract system, where we are not just transferring value back and forth between one another, but are actually structuring and managing risk in a much, much more complex way. We're going to need identity and attestation system.
00:01:37.492 - 00:02:23.616, Speaker A: So I can prove that I'm the owner of certain assets and I can prove that I'm sending them back to something that I intend to send them to. And then obviously you're going to need these third party data oracles in order to do the more complex transactions that I think lots of folks are really interested in doing. So in many ways, when people talk about smart contracts, they're really talking about three components that oftentimes get kind of conflated. So really I think it's going to look something like this where you have an oracle service that's other third party services into our party, and contract systems that eventually trigger the movement of assets on chain. And that's really what we're talking about when we talk about smart contracts. It's not just the moving of assets on chain. It's not just getting the data in, kind of marrying all these three functions together so you can do complex transactions.
00:02:23.616 - 00:03:43.890, Speaker A: So how do we do this, we built a suite of tools that enable us to take any agreement and turn it into a data object. We call that Openlaw's first draft tools that makes it very easy to structure any transaction, including any complex transaction. So anything that today in the real world that a lawyer would put together, a bank would put together, we can already model this out in Ethereum ecosystem, or really any blockchain based ecosystem. We've handled all the signature and storage. So at the endpoint we don't really care what the identity or activation is, but we can actually just verify that and make sure that including evidence of whatever agreements parties ultimately sign, we've appended on lots of things that we may not ultimately maintain, but we needed in order to kind of get to the first version and kind of incorporate seamlessly different ways to generate tokens, which is basically like a basic transaction. We also kind of simplify down what's nice about this, if you're a developer, this is all going to be open source. Lots of pieces are open source ready.
00:03:43.890 - 00:04:37.852, Speaker A: You are going to be able to run private API, top of it. Right now we're running on Ethereum several ways in general and sort of finding value. So many ecological solutions are all right, can you guys hear me? Yeah. Okay, so over the past couple weeks and months, we've been basically bundling these tools together. We've done a couple of projects which you may have heard. We basically can give anybody that wants an open source investment thing out of a box. So if you want to do something like SEO token issuances or launches, you literally have to click a couple of buttons, fill out a simple form, and you can get the tokens generated.
00:04:37.852 - 00:05:13.836, Speaker A: You can manage them via signing legal agreements, which gives them legal effect in any jurisdiction. Same thing for fixed income products. So if you're thinking about debt or loans or something along those lines, there's lots of risks that you need to account for. We can provide the tooling so that you can do that and handle that plug in outside information, particularly for lending markets like what's going on in the chain, becomes particularly interesting. If you want to do smart derivatives, we have tools already available to do that same thing for really any other asset that's available. The interesting thing here is that adding a new type of agreement or transaction no longer becomes a very complex task. You basically set it up.
00:05:13.836 - 00:06:03.340, Speaker A: Once all these different projects that are focused on these very narrow areas, it's kind of unnecessary. You can just have a pretty broad toolkit where you can pretty much think of any financial transaction that you want kind of going forward. We spent a lot of time thinking about dows in general. We're excited because we've been able to actually figure out how to structure for profit dows legally. So I think you guys will start to see a lot more information about a project that we're calling allow, which will really be kind of next version of the Dow experiment from 2015. That's all legally compliant. All of our board enable folks to accept and fund projects to receive and to allow either tokenized securities or utility tokens to start funding.
00:06:03.340 - 00:06:11.370, Speaker A: That's a little bit about Openlaw hacks you may have. That's it.
