00:00:00.440 - 00:00:34.474, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano, and today's the 31 August 2021. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So 31 August, last day of August for arbitrum to go live as they've promised, you know, over the last, I guess, couple months or maybe not the couple months. I think it was like back, maybe it was back in July when they first announced that they were going live in August. But essentially you can say they put out like a teaser video today, kind of saying, oh, I guess it was like yesterday for a lot of you, but kind of saying detail to follow tomorrow about arbitrum.
00:00:34.474 - 00:01:03.534, Speaker A: And, you know, you can see this little video here. It's, it's really nicely made. I actually really liked it. But yeah, I'm sure you, I'm sure all of you saw that already. But then just about an hour ago, the block announced that arbitram has raised a fresh round of funding. So they have $120 million in new funding as part of a series B round here that was led by Lightspeed Venture Partners with participation from Mark Cuban and others. Now, I don't think the arbitrary mainnet is live at time of recording, even though the headline kind of says it is here.
00:01:03.534 - 00:01:30.934, Speaker A: But yeah, they just announced it's kind of like this, this series B funding at a 1.2 billion valuation. So pretty, pretty high valuation there. Maybe ten. Now is a good time to say, I don't know if I've said it before, that I participated in arbitrary series A round that is public if you dig around. But they never really, I don't think they ever announced their series a, but essentially, you know, they've announced this series B here and that's brought them up to a $1.2 billion valuation with this fresh round of funding.
00:01:30.934 - 00:01:58.870, Speaker A: I did think it was quite funny that Alameda research participated in this round because they're very big on the Solana ecosystem and yet they're participating in like Ethereum scaling solution rounds. But I mean, it makes sense. They're, they're a fund, uh, you know, they're a trading firm. They're not really going to be, I mean, they're going to go with them with a kind of like, where they think they can make money right end of the day. But anyway, that was just like a little side note there. Um, but I'm excited. I mean, I'm sure maybe by the time you're watching this or, uh, kind of like, uh, maybe you watch it slightly before arbitrum goes live or whatever.
00:01:58.870 - 00:02:46.292, Speaker A: Um, but I'm hoping that arbitrum, uh, I mean, the arbitrum one network, I should say, is live and you guys are all using it. But, but this is super exciting. I mean, this is a lot of money, right? $120 million on top of what, what they already kind of raised as part of the series A and their original seed, the seed was a little while ago now, though, so they probably ran out of that. But like the series a and series b, and they're planning to hire more people that they currently only got 14 people working at off chain labs, which is the company that builds arbitrum. But Goldfeder here, the, I think the CEO of off chain labs here, says that they're going to use that newly raised capital to grow their team, obviously, and continue to invest heavily R and D. And they're saying that they're working on more solutions to scale Ethereum than what they already have with arbitrum one, which is really, really cool. So, yeah, I mean, this is, this is awesome.
00:02:46.292 - 00:03:17.100, Speaker A: Obviously, I can't wait to see the mainnet go live today, I hope. You know what, I'm probably going to be asleep when that happens, but I'm sure, I'm sure I'll be able to cover it on tomorrow's refuel. But, yeah, great to see them kind of like announce this new funding round. That's a lot of money to keep them scaling Ethereum here. And, you know, I don't think they're going to be the only one raising this amount of money at a massive valuation. Scaling is front and center for pretty much everyone in the ecosystem right now, not just Ethereum, but like crypto in general. The scaling wars are well and truly here where we have kind of like the, the, um, the early adopters coming on board.
00:03:17.100 - 00:04:02.866, Speaker A: I would call, like, all of us that have been in it for a while, kind of like the innovators, more so than the early adopters, if you look at kind of like the adoption curve. So now that we have those coming in there, you know, the chains are being pushed to their limits and things like that, especially Ethereum. So we need this scaling to get to the next level. And that's why I talk about scaling and L2 a lot on, on the refuel and in my newsletter is it's critically important and is going to be the main narrative playing out over the next few years is who can scale? Who can't scale, you know, who's going to get the adoption, who's going to get the market share? I do expect, you know, it to be kind of like, as I've said before, a multi chain world. But I do expect that to be a lot, a lot of the L2s getting a lot of action, a lot of traction there, and maybe some other layer ones. I mean, technically the polygon Pos chain is, you know, I guess like a side chain, but it's technically also a kind of like layer one. But then people debate against that.
00:04:02.866 - 00:04:29.226, Speaker A: I mean, it's. It gets all really messy when you kind of look at the whole ecosystem and how it may play out, especially with the bridges and everything. But it's going to be very, very interesting to see this kind of battle play out. And there's a few other L2 related stuff I wanted to talk about. One here was from Synth, amen, who kind of licked a little bit of alpha about Quinta's perpetual exchange or perpetual futures. Sorry, product on L2 here on optimism. The alpha is coming soon, apparently, so stay tuned.
00:04:29.226 - 00:05:04.010, Speaker A: But this was on the. Posted this on the 23 August that it was coming soon. There's about a week ago now, which means that we may be seeing it go live any day now. So those of you who are on optimism, this will be just another product for you to kind of like play around with on there. And I'm sure there's, there's more coming like, over the coming weeks. As I said, optimism enabled their kind of like two week, sorry, their public white list. And they said that people, anyone who kind of like wanted to whitelist, any app that wanted to whitelist could and that'd be deployed within two weeks and approved within two weeks, which, you know, I mean, this is scalability spring, as I saw someone talk about in, in my, in the Twitter comments today.
00:05:04.010 - 00:05:25.342, Speaker A: And it's funny because like I said, arbitram autumn. But that's like autumn for the northern hemisphere. Scalability. Scalability spring is for like the southern hemisphere because we're going into spring soon. But yeah, it's just kind of quite funny just to kind of like see the, the different kind of like narratives kind of floating around in the space right now. But cool to see this little alpha leak here. The next thing is that ZK Sync 2.0
00:05:25.342 - 00:06:05.698, Speaker A: has gotten a developer update from the ZK sync here. So I think the most important piece here is that ZK Sync 2.0 has been delayed. They're not going to launch in August like they thought they, like they originally announced they would and I think I remember back, I mean, I love ZK sync, I love what they're doing and everything like that. But I think I remember in back when they first announced that they were going to launch this in August, I was like, that's really ambitious. I think I've learned not to take any kind of like dates from the, I guess like a theorem core and L2s and stuff like that as gospel because you inevitably run into like these really hard thing, really hard R and D problems or kind of like infrastructure problems that you have to get ironed out before you can launch. And that's what pretty much all of these kind of teams have already run into.
00:06:05.698 - 00:06:38.164, Speaker A: I mean, optimism delayed their launch from March to I guess like July with uniswap. And then they're still kind of like having teething issues and things like that because of the fact they didn't have that critical infrastructure in place. They didn't have like the really good block explorer that they have now with Optiscan. They didn't have the inferiors and the alchemies of the world, the graph, and all that sort of supporting infrastructure around it, and also their core code. They announced the other day that they're actually greatly improving the optimism network over the next three months. So there's always that kind of stuff going on. So I think the same thing played out with Zksync 2.0
00:06:38.164 - 00:07:00.874, Speaker A: here. And in the end this kind of like post, they detail that why they delayed, you know, how they got to this point. But they've also talked about their testnet rollout plan as well. Kind of a status status update too. So the testnet plan, they're going to go in three phases. They're going to have phase one, which is called North Star, which in a couple of weeks they will start releasing the first version to a set of protocols. So the first version of Zksync 2.0,
00:07:00.874 - 00:07:33.820, Speaker A: which as I've described before, is a EVM compatible ZK roll up, essentially. So different to what we're seeing with arbitrarium and optimism being optimistic rollups. And then they go on to say here they wanna work closely with the teams to facilitate rapid iterations of feedback and fixes, minimizing bugs and all that good stuff. And any interested people or teams can fill out this form, which is LinkedIn the medium post. Phase two is called spotlight search. So after phase one is complete, the Zksync team would like to open it up to people that are willing to create content. This can range from a tweet thread to blog post to a full developer demo video.
00:07:33.820 - 00:08:13.684, Speaker A: The goal is to have a variety of helpful resources ready, readily available when they fully open up their testnet. So if that's something you're interested in, actually, you definitely fill out this form and then phase three is called kindergarten, which means the testnet is open to everyone. And they go on to say that the main net, they really want to have like a fair launch as far as launch as possible. Kind of like how arbitrum has done it with getting as many apps enabled as possible before they went live on Mainnet, at least for like for end users. So that's what they're kind of targeting here as well, Zksync. So yeah, I suggest giving the blog post a read to kind of see why they delayed. And there's, and there's kind of a link to another technical blog post where they run through this as well that you can see here in separate posts.
00:08:13.684 - 00:08:55.886, Speaker A: But essentially, I mean, I didn't, I wasn't surprised to see this at all. But I, that doesn't make me any less bullish on Zksync or whatever. I think that it's still one of the top scaling solutions in this ecosystem right now, but it's just going to take a little bit longer for that to get to Mainnet. And speaking of L2s, little Cohen here had a really, really great tweet where he says, I think fees won't improve immediately when these solutions go live like these L2 solutions go live like arbitrum and optimism, I mean arbitrary and then optimism in more of a capacity. And obviously the other ones like CK sync, ludicrous. Goes on to say in the short term, roll ups like arbitrary and optimism may even add to the congestion of the network. And I mean, this is because obviously they're users of Ethereum block space as well, and they're currently using it.
00:08:55.886 - 00:09:30.564, Speaker A: You can actually see on, on Optiscan and kind of like RB scan, there's links to the layer one batches and you can go there and you can actually see how much fees they're paying. I went to one of the batches and arbitram ended up paying like $500 for that transaction just to post their batches and their proofs to layer one. So they definitely using a lot of Ethereum block space. And that actually led me down another kind of like rabbit hole where I was like, I want to track this for like all the l two s. I want to see how much block space these l two s are. Using, you know, how many, how much fees they're paying in Ethan in dollars. So I'm actually going to get a do not a leaks dashboard built for this.
00:09:30.564 - 00:10:03.022, Speaker A: I've already reached out to someone and I'm going to be working with them to do it because I think it's a really important metric to track. So. But then, yeah, little Cohen going goes on to say things will start to improve when the majority of projects migrate to L2 and l one will only be used as a sediment layer. This is the end goal, the one that I've been talking about, you know, for a long time on the refuel, for a long time. Just generally, like even before I started the daily way, I've been talking about l one being the sediment layer and l two being where the end users are going to sit. And that's exactly what's going to happen. This is going to be a kind of like transition period for that to happen.
00:10:03.022 - 00:10:24.954, Speaker A: I spoke about yesterday how Coinbase is going to enable these scalability solutions. They're going to be really big for kind of like getting people on boarded onto these things. And in the meantime, you. I mean, there's people, a lot of people still using the Ethereum network. It's. It actually, on that note as well, it's funny because the gas fees is something that people have complained about with Ethereum for a long time. It's not just a recent phenomenon.
00:10:24.954 - 00:10:56.866, Speaker A: If you think back, if you were around back in 2017, maybe you weren't around, but like, let me tell you, I was. The end of 2017 was cryptokitties mania. It was the first major kind of like, thing that launched onto Ethereum that really clogged the network. Obviously, we had little spurts throughout the year because of the ICO mania, but generally that didn't last very long because the sales kind of like ended very quickly. But cryptokitties really kind of like took off and, you know, for at least, I think the month of December and really clogged the network. Like, the fees were quite high back then. You.
00:10:56.866 - 00:11:07.058, Speaker A: Not as high as they are today, but they were quite high. And back then it was the same narrative, the same story. Oh, Ethereum's dead. Gas fees have killed Ethereum. Ethereum can't scale. This is ridiculous. Blah, blah.
00:11:07.058 - 00:11:31.580, Speaker A: You know, here's these alternative networks that can scale better. And back then it was like the EOS is of the world and some other random ones like Nio and stuff like that, and obviously Eos and Neo and all that sort of stuff. By the wayside now, right? They've just completely failed. They didn't get any adoption really. No one's really building on it anymore. And they've just like, they've been forgotten about. Now we have like a new crop of these, you know, Ethereum killers still playing on the same narrative that Ethereum can't scale.
00:11:31.580 - 00:12:24.884, Speaker A: Ethereum's going to die, the gas fees of killing it, blah, blah, blah, right? We've heard all this before now. That isn't to say that some of these other chains aren't going to succeed, right? There are some out there that will gen will definitely get some kind of like legitimacy and also get like a developer ecosystem building out around them and they'll take trade offs that maybe I won't, maybe me and maybe you guys won't agree with around decentralization and security. But the end of the day, that is just like, I guess like orthogonal to my main point in that I think that it's just always funny to see whenever people are talking about Ethereum being dead or Ethereum's gas fees killing it or, you know, all these issues, blah, blah, blah, blah. Whatever you want to say, it always coincides with ETH going up in price. Like right now, ETH has been going up in price for the last few hours. It's just, it's hilarious how it always happens, but not, not only the price thing, but also kind of like the general narrative. Like, you'll see if these kind of like L2s get the adoption that we hope they will.
00:12:24.884 - 00:13:03.620, Speaker A: Such like the generalized ones, like arbitrum and stuff like that, the narrative around, especially if there's bridges to them from exchanges, the narrative around Ethereum. And Ethereum scaling is going to change overnight. You're going to literally see like, especially on Twitter, people just like become more positive on Ethereum again and Ethereum scaling once they actually see this playing out. But by that point, the alpha's gone. Like, if you're trying to play this as like an investment kind of point of view, whether you're buying into some of the l two s and scalability tokens, whether that be like, I mean, a lot of these Altus don't have tokens right now, but something like, I guess matic, right? That is kind of like a scalability play with Polygon's entire ecosystem. And that's what to say to go buy matic or anything like that. I'm an advisor to Polygon.
00:13:03.620 - 00:13:45.940, Speaker A: I don't want to kind of like say that, but I'm saying like, if you're trying to invest in this space. There's very few things you can invest in right now, and obviously a major one being ETH as well. So kind of like betting on like buying ETH and kind of like betting on Ethereum is betting on that L2 ecosystem too. So you'll see the narrative, I think, change, especially as the prices go up. I mean, it's always funny to see that people suddenly fall in love with these alternative layer ones when the price is going up for a little while, and then when once the price goes down, they stop talking about it. The perfect example of this, not to single out any one project, but the perfect example of this is over the last couple of weeks, there was a lot of hype, and I don't even think it lasted two weeks. There was a lot of hype around Avalanche and their Defi rush thing where they had all these incentives being paid out.
00:13:45.940 - 00:14:08.938, Speaker A: And there's a lot of hype around all these avalanche projects. Well, the, the price of the Avax token has come down. The price of the kind of like, I guess, like Defi equivalent tokens on Avalanche or whatever have come down a lot more. They've just like absolutely crashed. And that's because what ends up happening is that you have these people just going there as kind of like locusts. They're going there to farm the rewards. And then everyone's played this game before.
00:14:08.938 - 00:14:35.246, Speaker A: We played it in Defi summer. We've seen it play out constantly over the last kind of year or so in that you go there, you farm, you dump the token, then you bring your profits back to what you actually want to hold. And for a lot of people, that's ETH and BTC to a lesser extent, maybe, but I think for a lot of people it's definitely ETH. And it's just funny to see it's the same thing play out. We had other chains last night announced it's like Phantom. They didn't announce a liquidity mining program, but they announced a incentive program for developers. Right.
00:14:35.246 - 00:14:58.304, Speaker A: Which is fine. I mean, every chain has this like that. That's actually, I think, better than a liquidity mining program. But, you know, still maybe those tokens end up getting dumped on the market anyway. But any, but, but separate to that, there was also Chalo or sallow, however you say it. They also announced a kind of like DeFi rush thing, I guess, where they have like a bunch of apps deployed with rewards. I just think it is a short sighted, really bad strategy.
00:14:58.304 - 00:15:29.422, Speaker A: I just think it's always going to end up the same way. We learned from DeFi somewhere that liquidity mining for DeFi is not a long term sustainable thing. For most projects, it actually ends up destroying them or making it so that their communities get destroyed as well. So it's just, it's been wild to see that. And that begs the question, will these L2s do their own liquidity mining programs once they have tokens? I know Polygon did it right with their PoS chain, with matic incentives, and they're still doing it, and that's fine. I think it's actually the best way to bootstrap growth in the short term. But you have to have like a long term sustainable plan.
00:15:29.422 - 00:16:03.838, Speaker A: You can't just have people go there, farm the rewards, and then just bridge back to Ethereum and just keep it on ETH and buy ETH with it or whatever. I mean, if you want that, if that's the way that it's going to happen, then that's the way it's going to happen. It's positive for us ETH holders, but generally if you're trying to bootstrap an ecosystem around your chain, you need to do it in a much more sustainable way. So I'm very glad that these L2s haven't got tokens yet. They will, like, let's be honest, they all will have a token. Like, I'm just going to straight up say that because the fact that I believe, as I've said many times, that everything's going to have a token, but I don't think it's a bad thing. I think that it can actually work really well to bootstrap growth and all that sort of stuff.
00:16:03.838 - 00:16:44.072, Speaker A: But I'm glad the L2s are taking more of a, I guess, like a long term approach rather than this kind of locust approach to things here. But anyway, I'm going to, I'm going to move on from that for now. Polygon announced that they're going to be doing something called a Bridges week this week. So they're going to be releasing articles, doing Twitter space AMA's with some of the top dapps and, and more about like the bridges, basically, not just Polygon related bridges, but like bridges in general around, I guess, like connects and hop and all that sort of stuff. So if you're interested in learning more about bridges, definitely follow this in the polygon ecosystem. I think it's going to be great. I'll definitely cover it on the refill as well, or link to it in the Ethub newsletter, which is another newsletter that I run.
00:16:44.072 - 00:17:05.190, Speaker A: If you haven't subscribed to yet, you can check that out as well. But yeah, I just thought I'd kind of like highlight that there. So, and then finally, I guess, like this, this falls into everything that I've been talking about. This tweet from Eric Conner here, where he put out this tweet today, where he said, ethereum values decentralization first. It's why many of us are here. Does it cause speed bumps along the way? Of course. But this is a multi decade play.
00:17:05.190 - 00:17:33.714, Speaker A: As the world realizes the value of decentralization, Ethereum's values will always give Ethereum value, which I think is actually an amazing quote. Like that really has been my thesis on Ethereum for a long time. And obviously Eric Connor is my co founder of Ether, where we're very good friends and we talk about this stuff quite regularly. But then he goes on to say in the second tweet, a lot of you can lap all you want and hop from one chain to the next for gains. That's fine with me. Profit maxi is fine. But the core mission of Ethereum will win.
00:17:33.714 - 00:17:58.634, Speaker A: There's zero doubt about it. And I mean, I obviously believe this as well. I believe Ethereum is a multi decade play. I believe decentralization will win in the long term, but in the short term, there's just too much money to be made, right? Like if you can do something like, like as I was just describing, a liquidity mining program where you can pump up the value of your token. If you're the team doing it and you can get some short to medium term adoption, then you're going to do it. And I think everyone's, every kind of like chain is going to do it. I mean, they already pretty much are.
00:17:58.634 - 00:18:41.110, Speaker A: And it doesn't just go for layer ones, it goes for L2s as well. But the long term multi decade play, that's just going to be much different to the short term stuff that you're seeing now. If you even look back to a couple of years ago, what the ecosystem looked like, it was completely different to what it is today. And in a couple of years, it's going to be completely different again. And we're just going to have these wars going on. Lots of money is going to be made, lots of money is going to be lost. I remember reading a tweet back in the day that there's going to be a lot of people who make money betting on the wrong long term technology, but the right short to medium term technology and to kind of like, expand on that a little bit further, you can make a lot of money betting on these things that just pump during the manias, like what we're seeing right now, you can basically invest in these kind of like, early layer ones.
00:18:41.110 - 00:19:33.254, Speaker A: And then, because the narrative is so strong and kind of like, the opportunity is so strong, you can ride that wave up during the bull markets, but over time, the value erodes, right? Over the longer term. You can see this with a lot of the first crop of Ethereum killers from 2017. A lot of them, or pretty much like all of them, I think, have, have performed very poorly against USD and even worse against ETH. So you got to just kind of like, split it out. The short to medium to long term, which is what I always do, but I'm definitely mostly focused on the long term. Sometimes I'll do short to medium term things, of course, but in terms of, like, ethereum's adoption and having decentralization win over the long term, you know, win in general is just like always a long term play to me. So, yeah, I just thought this was a great tweet from, from Eric to highlight here onto a next tweet onto the next tweet from Ryan Sean Adams, who tweeted out this chart that comes from coinmetrics, which shows Ethereum ETH issuance falling off a cliff.
00:19:33.254 - 00:20:19.006, Speaker A: And, you know, he says, here, see if you can spot when EIP 1559 was added. I mean, it's pretty obvious, right? We can see exactly when 1559 was added, and we can see that ETH net annual inflation went from 4.5% and has kind of, like, become varied now, depending on how much ETH that we're burning each day, you can see that it pretty much immediately dropped to, I guess, like, anywhere between 2.5 and 3%, which is a pretty, pretty great drop just from the fee burning alone. And then lately, with the extreme amount of kind of like, fees that are being burned on the network, it has dropped down to even below 1% on some days. And some days I think it's gone negative, which is quite crazy, right, when you really think about it. But as we all know, this isn't the end game of, you know, Ethereum's monetary policy or, like, ETH kind of like annual inflation, things like that.
00:20:19.006 - 00:20:45.718, Speaker A: We obviously expect ETH to be net deflationary once the merge goes through. And that's coming. I mean, I've gone through that a lot on the, on the refill before, so I'm not going to rehash it there. But essentially, this is a really cool chart. So I guess. Thanks, Ryan, for putting a spotlight on this one. So something that came across someone dm this to me that I kind of, like, missed, I think it maybe, maybe missed earlier today was hats finance here, which is a project that hadn't heard of before, but they have raised $3.5
00:20:45.718 - 00:21:40.576, Speaker A: million to build the future of cybersecurity in web3, as they call it here. Are they supported by some of the most well known kind of investors in this space, like, such as Lemniscap or the Spartan group, iOS G and a bunch of others here? You can kind of, like, see the medium post here with the announcement and exactly what they are, but they describe themselves as a decentralized cybersecurity incentive network governed by its community stakeholders of hackers, projects, and token holders. And they go to say, hats upcoming PPM protocol protection mining is a bug bounty vault that incentivizes community participation to secure protocols and farm hats tokens in the process. The governance token of the Hats protocol. Um, so, you know what's funny about this? This is kind of, now that I think about it, there was a similar project to this that was. Came out in 2017 called, oh, man, I've lost the name now, but I remember participating in its ICO, actually. Just kind of, like, playing it as a speculative thing back then, I think it was called, oh, man, I've lost the name.
00:21:40.576 - 00:22:13.168, Speaker A: But it was around back in 2017, maybe some of you know what it was called back then. Polyswarm, maybe something like that. I don't know, maybe that I'm thinking of something else, but essentially that ended up failing. But I don't think it failed because it was a bad idea. And the idea was essentially around incentivizing people to kind of like, do. Kind of like, do these kind of like, bug bounties and. And do more cybersecurity related stuff and basically creating, like, a decentralized network of white hat hackers and kind of, like, security researchers and everything to kind of like, uh, I guess, like, move forward the R and D on.
00:22:13.168 - 00:22:39.296, Speaker A: On cybersecurity. And at the time, in 2017, the reason I invested in the ICO, actually, is because I thought it was a good idea because I was working in cybersecurity. Um, in 2020, I was actually a shift worker, um, and doing, uh, as a cybersecurity analyst back then. So, uh, I I saw the value in it immediately because I had been exposed to a lot of that stuff. But a lot of you that haven't. Maybe you don't see the value in it, but I do think that if done correctly, it can work. I think the project in 2017 failed.
00:22:39.296 - 00:23:11.504, Speaker A: I think it was called polyswarm because of the fact that it was maybe just too early. I think a lot of these stuff wasn't really kind of like, was relevant back then, but I think it may be relevant now, especially with a lot of the Defi hacks that we've been seeing. Right. Like, this stuff is needed more than ever. And I think this is a great way to incentivize people to get more involved with cybersecurity. Kind of like find bugs in code and stuff like that, and do responsible disclosure and I guess like become a white hat and, you know, if they're a black hat or gray hat, kind of like incentivize them to just be a white hat instead. So, yeah, I mean, I'll link this in the YouTube description.
00:23:11.504 - 00:23:45.098, Speaker A: You can go check it out for a full breakdown of what this is. But I'm excited that another kind of, like, team is actually kind of working on this, and I think they're working on it at the right time. I think 2017 was too early, but now is definitely the right time to be working on something like this. So a bit of an alpha leak from Scoopy trooples here, where he says to everyone in the Alchemyx community, thank you for your support. The summer months may have seemed quiet, but we are nearly done with V two, which we'll go into audit very shortly. We also have some exciting partnerships we've been working on that will come to fruition soon. So, I mean, if you haven't heard much about Alchemyx, this is exactly why they've been working on V two.
00:23:45.098 - 00:24:28.280, Speaker A: And I think they're going to be making a lot more noise over the next few weeks. So I just wanted to kind of highlight that there. I'm sure a lot of you are still using Alchemyx, whether that be the Al USD or Al ETH products there. But yeah, I'm excited to see what they've got up their sleeves for V two and what kind of partnerships that they've been working on here. So Seb from Zappa put out a kind of little teaser here today where he says the new collection page on Zappa is coming soon. And he also took the chance to showcase some of his wizards here. So this seems to be just like a new NFT collection page where you can kind of see all of your like, I guess nfts and their net worth, the floor price, 24 hours, volume, number of holders, basically all the information you get from Opensea, but right in your Zappa dashboard, which I think is super exciting because I hate having to go to different things.
00:24:28.280 - 00:25:06.030, Speaker A: Like I always go to like Opensea or some other kind of NFT sites to track these sorts of things, especially the floor price or like the volume and stuff like that. So I'd really love to see that just directly in my Zappa dashboard, which is exactly what, what seems to be happening here. So definitely looking forward to that. So pop had an announcement today where they said for the first time ever, over 200,000 accounts hold popes. And they are so excited that they are doing a crazy crossover of an NFT series, a really sophisticated one, because that's how we roll, as they say. Keep reading to learn what this is about. So essentially what this is about is that they want to do a kind of like raffle here or a giveaway just for poap holders.
00:25:06.030 - 00:25:48.006, Speaker A: So to join this raffle, you have to own one of the eligible po apps. The selection includes a diverse set, including some unrelated to the art NFT space, which you can check here on the link here, which will be linked in the YouTube description. And then they go on to say everyone who has held a bored ape, a punji penguin or a stoner hat, a stoner cat, as of around August 28 can claim a special power from Pope Power delivery that is eligible for the raffle as well. The first prize will be a stoner cat or two. If you have rt the first tweet of this thread before the draw, second prize will be some rare pop swag. And then after the draw has finished with the winner and the winners have been awarded the prizes, the pop team will start an auction with foundation for a one of one unique pieces created by emerging artists. This is really cool.
00:25:48.006 - 00:26:14.358, Speaker A: I mean, I love pop. I've talked about them on the refuel before, a lot, and I think that they're getting more and more involved with the NFT and art space. I mean, pops are nfts, but like in terms of the arts art section of nfTs, and it's great to see them doing stuff like this. I think the future of kind of like giveaways and raffles definitely is pop. Imagine having being able to do like a giveaway just for people who were like genesis depositors into the ETH two deposit contract. That'd be really cool. You know, I've done pipes for Daily Gray before.
00:26:14.358 - 00:26:46.836, Speaker A: I did one for 100 episodes of the refuel 200 episodes is coming up, so maybe I'll do another one there. But, you know, imagine me being able to support, like, you know, the early kind of viewers and listeners of the refuel, um, that have those pops as well. So I think this, there's a lot of kind of, like, use cases here. There's definitely a lot more that can be done. And it's great that pop is leading the charge and kind of, like, showcasing this because I would love to see more apps do this within the ecosystem. All right, so finally, we have Mike three here who put out this tweet where he says, I paid for access to this public toilet with ETH just now. It's all happening now.
00:26:46.836 - 00:27:06.826, Speaker A: The comments on this tweet were hilarious. I mean, I had to add my own where I said, I guess ETH really is a shitcoin after all. But there are a bunch of comments about, like, you know, that's some expensive shit, I think people making, like, a gas fee comments, of course, and stuff like that. So, yeah, obviously, go give that a read if you're in for a laugh. But this is funny. Like, I don't. I mean, I think this is real.
00:27:06.826 - 00:27:30.848, Speaker A: I don't think it's photoshopped or anything like that. Doesn't, doesn't seem to be, but, yeah, I mean, you kind of, like, pay with ETH to use this public toilet now. Actually, I don't know if this is real or not. I'm going to just be 50 50 on this, if it is real. Really cool to see. Um, if it's not, then I've been kind of, like, psyops into covering this on the refill today. But I guess, like, the main reason I wanted to cover is because I want you guys to go read all the, all the replies because it's just absolutely hilarious.
00:27:30.848 - 00:27:49.240, Speaker A: I mean, I love the kind of, like, crypto community's sense of humor. It's always just really funny. I mean, everyone's just, you know, taking the pierce of everyone else and kind of, like, shit posting, but, yeah, definitely go check that out if you, if you haven't yet. But I'm going to leave it at that for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up.
00:27:49.240 - 00:27:54.304, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
