00:00:00.160 - 00:00:20.654, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily Refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, and today's the 9 May 2022. Hi everyone. Let's get into it. So just before we get into it, actually, just wanted to give a quick reminder here that the Daily gway merge drop is still ongoing. With metafactory here, you can get your hands on a t shirt or hoodie. It is a limited time drop.
00:00:20.654 - 00:00:47.370, Speaker A: I'm pretty sure it only runs for two weeks, so definitely get your hands on it sooner rather than later. And once again, thanks to, to crypto wife for designing everything. And thanks to coffee and the Discord channel for also organizing this. You can go to shop Metafactory AI, and you can find them on there. Just wanted to give a quick shout out there. All right, guys, let's address the elephant in the room right now. Since Friday, the crypto markets have just gotten even more bearish.
00:00:47.370 - 00:01:17.900, Speaker A: ETH sitting at $2,400 at time of recording the UST stablecoin seems to be imploding. Uh, things are just blowing up everywhere. Obviously, prices of, of other assets are going down even faster than ETH. And, uh, stock, the stock market's not doing too well. And yeah, everyone's like super bearish right now. Right? I've, I mean, if you don't want to hear me ramble on about the markets for like probably ten minutes here, you can skip ahead. There's timestamps in the YouTube description, but because of the market volatility over the weekend, there actually wasn't many project updates.
00:01:17.900 - 00:01:56.942, Speaker A: So I wanted to focus on the market. So I think it's topical, it's important. But generally, what I want to say is that I think you have to put into context where we are right now in the world, not just within crypto, but in the world more generally. The macro environment, which we've probably been hearing a lot about lately is pretty bad, and it's bad because of inflation. Now, people used to kind of be like, oh, inflation is going to be high, means everyone's going to fly, they're going to go out of dollars and they're going to go to crypto. And it's like, well, I mean, that happened in the short term, right? Like there was all this money printing, and then all the money went to, went to various different kind of like, places. And a lot of people got free money with stimulus checks and stuff like that.
00:01:56.942 - 00:02:40.780, Speaker A: And a lot of that found its way into the market, but that was on borrowed time, right? That wasn't going to last forever. And it didn't. The money printing stopped, the Fed got hawkish, and the Fed has recently done a rate rise. And that was kind of like priced in for a while there, and the party kind of like ended late last year with all that sort of stuff there. Now, I think what I want to get through to people with inflation is that the reason why you don't want high inflation, at least one of the reasons you don't want high inflation is because you think about it like this. If people's salaries haven't gone up, right in the last, say, two years and probably longer than that for a lot of people, but if they haven't gone up and then everything around them is getting more expensive because of inflation. Utility bills go up, groceries go up, all that sort of stuff.
00:02:40.780 - 00:03:05.164, Speaker A: Right. All the stuff that they actually need to buy, then they're squeezed for cash. Right. So what cash are they going to be putting into the markets? Like, where's the money going to come from? Like, if I am, you know, working a regular job on a salary, my salary hasn't gone off, gone up, but my cost of living has gone up like 1015 percent. Well, where's that money coming from? It's coming from my savings. Right. It's coming from the money that I would be putting away each week every time I got paid.
00:03:05.164 - 00:03:48.058, Speaker A: Maybe I was investing that money into the market, but instead of being able to invest it into the market, now, I have to actually take that and pay for the things I need to live. So that's just one major factor that I think a lot of people didn't consider about inflation is that, like if salaries aren't going up with inflation, which they rarely do, then the people getting hit the hardest are the middle class, working class people. Right? And they don't, you know, and they won't be, they're not going to be buying assets, especially not crypto assets, if they need that money to buy kind of like food and pay for utilities and that sort of stuff. So that's, that's a major thing that we're seeing play out now. And the inflation that we have right now is not normal. It's the highest it's been in the US since the, the eighties, I believe. And, you know, no one knows where, where it's going to go from here.
00:03:48.058 - 00:04:20.388, Speaker A: There are kind of like people right now calling for the fact that the inflation is already topped, and by the next time they report it, it's actually going to either be more of the same or come in lower. I can, I can see that personally, because the markets. So, so the way markets work generally is that they're forward looking. And the markets in a lot of different sectors are already pricing this stuff in. Like, a lot of you may be aware of the used car market, for example, that got extremely overheated, not just because of inflation, but also because of supply chain issues. So, okay, not just because of the money printing, I should say, but also because of supply chain issues. There's actually two key parts to inflation.
00:04:20.388 - 00:05:02.112, Speaker A: There's the money printing and there's the supply chain issues. Because obviously, if the supply chain issues, then there's less goods available for people to buy, and then, you know, things become scarcer. Obviously, price goes up in that scenario. But we got hit with a double whammy over the COVID period. We have the supply chain issues, and we had the mass money printing, which led to both monetary inflation and currency inflation and supply chain kind of like related inflation there. But that's kind of like not coming to an end, but slowly kind of like rectifying at least somewhat like I did. Kind of like, I haven't mentioned yet that the stuff going on in China, they're still pursuing a COVID zero policy, which means that there's a lot of supply chain disruptions happening there.
00:05:02.112 - 00:05:40.484, Speaker A: And obviously, China is a big part of the global economy, so we don't know what's going to happen there. We don't know if it's going to. If inflation is going to come in lower the next time they report on it. And people seem to be thinking that the Fed's going to raise rates a few more times before kind of like tapering off on that and being like, okay, well, inflation's under control. So what happens when inflation does get under control? What happens when it starts dropping? Well, that's usually in the longer term, like short term, it's kind of like impossible to tell, but in the longer term, that's usually good for assets, right? Because people get back, back to being risk on things, normalize again, the world adjusts and that sort of stuff. But these are all the unknowns. These are all the headwinds that all the markets are facing right now, especially crypto.
00:05:40.484 - 00:06:22.938, Speaker A: And if you go look at the equity equities like stocks and things like that, they're performing so badly. I mean, I was looking just randomly at Shopify the other day, and it's down like 80% since it's all time high 80%. Guys like this is a real company with real revenues with a really good business model and lots of customers. For those of you who don't know, Shopify is, they're a massive e commerce company that basically makes it easy for anyone to create their own e commerce websites. It's super easy. I mean, I've used it in the past, a while ago, but that's just one example, right? Amazon is down 40% since it's all time high. You know, I don't know off the top of my head, but a lot of them are down, like, a lot, right? More than ETH.
00:06:22.938 - 00:06:51.838, Speaker A: Like, generally, if you kind of, like, look at crypto, a lot of assets are down 70, 80, 90% already. But just, like, looking at comparing it to ethics, ETH is faring extremely well right now. Now, is that going to change in the future or not? I don't know. Maybe it does, maybe it doesn't. It's kind of, like, hard to tell there, but all this stuff is kind of just, like, coming together. And that's why I kind of put out this tweet today where I said, now it's starting to feel like 2018 again, because in 2018, especially within crypto. But what, I guess, like, what I was saying about the macro environment, that's distinctly different to 2018.
00:06:51.838 - 00:07:17.692, Speaker A: The macro environment in 2018 was not like it is today. So it's kind of, like, very hard to compare things. But in 2018, the way it kind of, like, worked when, when ETH was going down in price. And it doesn't just go down, like, you know, in one straight line, right. It goes down, goes up a bit. Goes down, and it just keeps kind of, like cascading down from there. And it's kind of like when you throw a pebble on a lake, right? And you kind of, like, have a big puddle and then a smaller one, a smaller one, smaller one.
00:07:17.692 - 00:07:36.378, Speaker A: That's kind of like how it is with, with bear markets. So in 2018, I remember sitting there and thinking, oh, this is it, right? We've bottom tier. And I thought that a lot of times I didn't start buying until things are low 200s in 2018. But I was still thinking, you know, okay, we've bottomed here. It's fine. You know, that that's it. That's, that's that.
00:07:36.378 - 00:08:01.704, Speaker A: We're 50% down. That's got to be it, right? And then we kept going down more and more and more and more. It didn't stop until we were 94% down. It was pretty scary at the time, like, especially because I wasn't as experienced back then. I hadn't taken any profits at all. Like, I literally had made $0 from crypto until 20. What? 20? In Defi summer, when I started selling some things, I had made $0 from my crypto investments.
00:08:01.704 - 00:08:44.684, Speaker A: So, yeah, in 2018, I was like, holy shit, like, wow, okay, it's been two years, like, almost two years that I've been in crypto, and I've made nothing from it. Like, what am I even doing? But, you know, I didn't. I thought that at times when the market was kind of, like, really bearish, but at the same time, like, I knew what I was doing back then. I was doing what you guys like, you know, you guys know my story. I was trying to, like, make a name for myself, trying to get more involved with Ethereum, all that sort of stuff. But I'm starting to feel like it's 2018 again. Because, I mean, if you look at the chart right now, if you look at what it's just been doing since even May of last year, I mean, I know we hit a new all time high in November of last year, but a lot of people are calling that like, a dead cat bounce, where we did go to a new all time high, but we just failed to keep that, and we came back down pretty quickly.
00:08:44.684 - 00:09:06.672, Speaker A: So if you go look at May of last year as kind of, like that thing, we're almost a year. I think May 12 was the top last year. So, like, in three days. But it's going to be a year since that. That top where we came down really fast, I think we went down 60% in a week back then as well. Um, but it's going to be almost a year since then. And I think that we're just having, like, a longer, drawn out, kind of, like, bearish period.
00:09:06.672 - 00:09:33.876, Speaker A: And with the macro stuff happening, it's even crazier. But, you know, I think when you kind of, like, bring it all into context, you. You get to a conclusion there that, uh, no one knows in the short term, medium term where this stuff's going to go at this point in time. I can't tell you. I obviously remain extremely bullish on ethereum and ETH. I'm still buying ETH when I can. But I think that, uh, not even ETH, as bullish as it is, the amount of bullish catalyst that has coming ahead of it, right.
00:09:33.876 - 00:10:26.250, Speaker A: With the merging everything, not even that can fight, uh, a poor macro environment, because at the end of the day for Easter, open price, it needs demand, right? It needs people buying it and needs more people buying in and needs kind of like, I mean, even with certain things like 1559, it needs the gas prices to be high to burn more ETH, right. And stuff like that. And if, and if there's no disposable income, people don't have savings. If they're just worried about kind of like putting food on the table and paying their bills, well, they're not going to be buying something like ETH right at the end of the day. But I think that what I wanted to say as well, just before I finish up here with the market talk, what's distinctly different between now and 2018 is that no one is questioning Ethereum's existence. In 2018, pretty much everyone was questioning Ethereum's existence. They were like, what is Ethereum good for? Now that icos are over, what is ETH good for? Because there wasn't really any defi back then.
00:10:26.250 - 00:11:01.100, Speaker A: I mean, there were the kind of like beginnings of it, but like no one was really paying attention to it, right. So the, you know, today in 2022, no one is saying this anymore. Ethereum has so many things coming for it. Like, obviously the merge, all the other layer one upgrades, a L2 stuff going on, has all the stuff happening in Defi, steel, nfts, all that. I mean, there's so many things happening on Ethereum, it's kind of like impossible to keep up with, even as someone who does a daily show on Ethereum. But that, and that, that is what is extremely different to 2018. So four years later, and Ethereum, no one's doubting Ethereum's kind of like, use cases anymore.
00:11:01.100 - 00:11:39.308, Speaker A: No one's doubting Ethereum's existence anymore. Everyone knows that Ethereum is going to be around for a long time from, from here. And I think that that is something that we should all focus on. I think that's something that you should keep in mind. I think that the, I mean, my number one rule for markets in general is just don't blow yourself up, because at the end of the day, blowing yourself up is the worst thing that can happen because you won't have a position then. And sadly, a lot of people kind of blow themselves up towards the end of bear markets when it's the worst time to do it, because you don't even have enough time to build up your position again before the market gets ahead of you. So, you know, stay, if you're, if you're long and you don't, don't plan on saying, just stay long, don't get on leverage.
00:11:39.308 - 00:12:12.074, Speaker A: You don't do any of that sort of stuff. Like I'm not trying to get investment advice here, but I think not getting on leverage, especially in times like this, is probably the, the advice that I will give because I don't think anyone should be kind of playing with leverage. Even the most experienced people can blow themselves up pretty easily, especially in, in very, very choppy and down wood markets like, like this. But love to see how it all plays out. I think. I think maybe not next inflation report, but the one after it. I personally am placing a bet that on the, not the next one, the one after inflation will actually start coming down.
00:12:12.074 - 00:12:46.556, Speaker A: I think the next one's going to be more of the same. But I'm not a macro expert. I've just been learning as I've been going and I'm just placing my own bets, but I'm not doing any trades around it. It's kind of just like an intellectual bet for me to see it because from what I've seen across, you know, as I was saying, like a used car market, the prices are coming down, are coming down there and also across like other kind of like things. Obviously, stocks and equities have come down a lot. Crypto's come down a lot. It seems like the markets, being as forward looking as they are, have priced in a lot of the, you know, inflation related stuff, the fed raising rates and all that sort of stuff there.
00:12:46.556 - 00:13:05.514, Speaker A: But we'll have to see, we'll have to see how it all shakes out. But I'm going to leave it there for the market. Talk for today is a bunch of other things to get through. So moving on. So bankless actually had a bit of a rough weekend. Their YouTube account got banned with no warning, no notification, no justification, just completely banned and wiped. All their videos were gone.
00:13:05.514 - 00:13:38.532, Speaker A: Now it has since been restored, so you can go to their channel. It's all there. I think most of all of their videos are back as well. But I mean, really guys, this just speaks to the fact that like, at any time, because YouTube is obviously completely centralized at any time, they can just remove you from their platform and you have zero recourse. You can't do anything about it like, and they can remove you for whatever reason. Their terms of use is pretty extensive from what I've seen. And I, you know, obviously they have a team of law, a team of lawyers on retainer that go over that and make sure that that's kind of like foolproof and there's no holes in it and stuff like that.
00:13:38.532 - 00:14:21.072, Speaker A: But yeah, this is, this is kind of scary. I know it's kind of like ironic because you're watching this on YouTube or most of you are, some of you listening to the podcast, but, you know, I use YouTube, but I think that it's kind of like a necessity because I mean, what's good about YouTube is that it obviously has the user base, it has the reach. But the reason why YouTube is such a monopoly and you don't really see any other major video streaming platforms on the Internet is because hosting video content is really, really expensive. Right. And not only does YouTube host, I mean, enormous amounts of video content in not just like standard definition, but in, you know, in Ultra HD, they let you upload for free. That's the thing. Doesn't matter who you are, doesn't matter if you're monetizing or not.
00:14:21.072 - 00:14:56.858, Speaker A: I haven't given YouTube like anything. I haven't monetized anything for YouTube or anything like that, but they let me upload everything for free. Right. How do you compete with that? The only reason YouTube is able to do it is because they have Google bankrolling the whole thing. They obviously have ads now, but like early on in their life, I mean, have had ads for a while, but like early on in their lifetime, they were able to survive and thrive and run at a loss for a very long time and not even turn a profit for a very long time because Google was bankrolling it. Microsoft tried with, I think Bing video didn't really take off. And then there was Vimeo as well, which is still out there, but kind of like fell into a niche kind of like area.
00:14:56.858 - 00:15:44.316, Speaker A: So yeah, those are the two major things that YouTube has going for it. The obvious massive user base to reach and the fact that they can afford to host all this content for free when it's just super expensive to do that. So that's why when people kind of like talk about web, three alternatives to video streaming and, you know, decentralized kind of like YouTube, I don't think they realize how freaking hard that would be to do. And I'm not saying that it's impossible, I'm not saying that we shouldn't strive towards it, but could you imagine trying to store what YouTube stores on kind of like a distributed set of computers and incentivizing those computers to be online? Because this goes back to the data availability problem. This isn't just data availability isn't just a L2 thing, it's just a general kind of thing. Have you ever been downloading a torrent and there's no kind of like seeders for you to download it from. So the torrent just stops downloading.
00:15:44.316 - 00:16:22.052, Speaker A: Well, that is in part a data availability problem because that means that there's no one seeding that file to you, so you've got nowhere to download it from. So you could imagine in a decentralized YouTube world you would have your content on, on a bunch of different kind of like PCs or a bunch of different computers and on, on that network, right. But what happens if that network was to go offline? Well, your video is gone. Like, unless that network was to come back online, your video is kind of like gone. You can't get that from there. It's kind of the same thing as the, as the torrent example that I used. So I think that for, you know, it's all well and good to call for decentralized social media platforms, I mean, especially decentralized video streaming platforms.
00:16:22.052 - 00:16:59.396, Speaker A: But there's still a lot of things to figure out and a lot of kind of like fundamental things to figure out, not just the small things. And I think it's gonna be a long time before we have like a very popular decentralized, you know, streaming or video kind of like content platform just for those reasons I outline. But good to see bankless back on YouTube. Of course, they were banned for, I guess, like no reason really. I mean, this happens sometimes for crypto accounts. They weren't the only one that was banned. There was a couple of others as well, I believe, you know, and I'm just waiting for the day that the daily way gets banned, which is just stupid because like, as far as I know, you know, some of the biggest basically scam YouTube accounts, the ones that just show you all the shit.
00:16:59.396 - 00:17:25.488, Speaker A: Coins have never been banned. When I like, in my eyes, they're just breaking the YouTube's rules. And obviously YouTube keeps them on the platform because they're making the money. But from what I can tell, they haven't really been banned. And then honest shows like honest kind of like channels like bankless get banned. Maybe the deadly way gets banned one one day, who knows, right? So obviously we do need alternatives to YouTube. I just don't know if it's gonna come in the form of like a web3 platform.
00:17:25.488 - 00:18:05.846, Speaker A: It might come in the form of just another company doing it and finding out a sustainable business model, but it's hard, guys, this isn't easy stuff here for the reasons I outline, but still something to keep in mind, something to think about. But yeah, I guess, like good to see bankless back on the platform so quickly as well. So Instagram has announced that they're going to be supporting NFts from Ethereum, Polygon, Solana, and fallow. So obviously this is, I guess, like Facebook or meta continuing their push into all the metaverse related stuff that they're trying to do. I don't know, guys. Like, I don't know about this sort of stuff. Like, it's funny, whenever I see anyone posting about nfts on Instagram, the comments are full of, like, a lot of hate.
00:18:05.846 - 00:18:37.054, Speaker A: I don't know, I feel like that's, that community just doesn't really like nfts. And I also feel like Instagram, I mean, it's all, well, I mean, depending on how they do it, like, if they were to do a thing where you could mint your picture as an NFT and sell it to your audience, that could work, stuff like that. But, like, I'm. I don't know, I don't know how that's gonna go. Like, I think so far, these kind of like web two companies, so to speak, that have gotten into nfts hasn't really made a splash. I mean, Coinbase's NFT platform is kind of, like, not really doing much right now. A lot of, a lot of people have a lot of issues with it.
00:18:37.054 - 00:19:13.038, Speaker A: I think FTX had a platform, too, for nfts. Didn't really do much. It's kind of like this web, three native platforms or these kind of like, crypto native platforms like OpenSea and looks rare, that have been doing well on the NFT front. So I'll have to see what, how the integration goes with Instagram. But obviously they have a large user base. So this is just onboarding more people into kind of like on chain crypto products, which is always a pretty cool thing to say. All right, so superfizz has basically put out a tweet, I think this was yesterday or today, earlier today, where he said, what are Bellatrix and TTD? So Bellatrix is a fork to the beacon chain that prepares it for the merge.
00:19:13.038 - 00:19:50.442, Speaker A: After that fork, the merge can move forward. The merge will happen at a proof of work block identified by accumulated difficulty called total terminal difficulty or terminal total difficulty. So I guess, like, in plain English, there are going to be two things you hear about when it comes to the merge. So bellatrix, as super fizz outlines, is, uh, the fork that's going to be happening on the beacon chain. So separate to, to kind of like the merge itself that will prepare it for the merge because essentially, obviously what we have right now are two separate chains and the beacon chain needs to know that it's going to be getting merged into. Right. So Baltics prepares that for that.
00:19:50.442 - 00:20:45.594, Speaker A: And then after that fork, the merch can obviously move forward. But that moving forward time is not dictated by a block number on the proof of work chain like every other hard fork that we have, but it's dictated by something called a terminal total difficulty, which takes from my understanding, the difficulty of the mining difficulty and kind of like calculate some way to kind of like or some point in time to where the merge actually happens. Now the reason why it was done like this, not at a block number, was to prevent gaming of this system, especially from miners who obviously we, you know, we don't really want to tell them in advance when they're all getting fired, right. Because then they might do some, some, some stuff around that or, or try some funky stuff around that. I mean, the chance of that would be low, but obviously we don't want to take any chances when it comes to the merge. So just an interesting tweet from super fears that I wanted to highlight for you guys. And just something to keep in mind because you'll be hearing more about these two terms, battle tricks and TTD as we get closer to the merge.
00:20:45.594 - 00:21:12.514, Speaker A: All right, so a couple of blog posts to highlight here. First one is from data always who spoke about, who titled the blog post manipulating the velocity of money in proof of stake. So this is quite interesting. It's quite a short read. I highly recommend giving it a read, but it's very topical with regards to inflation and what I was just talking about before and how this, how this kind of like plays into proof of work and proof of stake blockchains and the velocity of money in general. So highly recommend giving this a read. It was very interesting.
00:21:12.514 - 00:21:54.924, Speaker A: And as I said, only a short read here. And the second blog post is from Alex Beckett, who works at Celestia, talking about the economics of roll up fees. Now I've talked a bit about kind of like this sort of stuff before and how roll ups will be able to, I guess like bring costs down and how roll ups kind of like invert the fee, the fee kind of like paradigm that we used to instead. So instead of like fees getting higher with more usage of these, of these kind of like platforms on L2, at least to a certain extent, the fees get lower with more usage because it's kind of gets amortized across the whole network there. So very, very cool little concept there. And another short read here, only three minutes. So I highly recommend giving this a read to learn more about this.
00:21:54.924 - 00:23:01.732, Speaker A: All right, so we have a tweet from Zksync talking about coordinating trust where they said coordinating trust by amount of wealth equals relying on the majority of validity stake where it happens. All side chains, all bridges, all over 1000 tps l one s where it's not the case decentralized first l one such as bitcoin and Ethereum, ZK proofs and data availability sampling eg dank sharding and then ZK sync says we must honestly admit ZK Porter to relies on the majority trust assumption for a censorship resistance but not security. Thus it's a huge step forward compared to side chains, bridges or ETH killers. But it's a supplementary solution only ETH future is with dank sharding. And then they will quote tweeting Polly now who said coordinating trust by amount of wealth is dystopian. And then they were going to write a post on that, I think, or no plans to write a write up, kind of like post here. So again, in plain English, this is basically saying that plutocratic systems is not a good system to have, especially not within crypto, where if it just relies on the amount of wealth you have for the kind of like network to function and to be healthy, to be decentralized, then we've already lost.
00:23:01.732 - 00:24:12.260, Speaker A: Basically, the game's lost. Let's just pack up and go home. And that's why platforms like bitcoin and ethereum take their decentralization at the base layer so seriously. Because think about it, we can all run nodes for bitcoin and Ethereum on, or full nodes on consumer hardware, right? It's, it's not like we're pushing hardware to the limit and can only, and only a small group, small group of people can run validators, can run nodes, all that sort of stuff. We're trying to keep it as decentralized as possible because we don't want it to be dictated by wealth. We want people that kind of like, maybe it's kind of like impossible to do it at any kind of like any level of wealth, but you would, I want as many people to kind of like do it as possible. So you got to bring those costs down and then ZK proofs or using kind of like fraud proofs within the optimistic roll up case for scaling at L2s is obviously critically important for decentralization and for being only having to rely on one kind of honest operator, the sequencer at L2, because you're inheriting layer one security and then data availability sampling with dank sharding to scale layer one really seems to be the only way to scale layer one in a truly decentralized way, and to scale it to obviously like millions of transactions per second as well.
00:24:12.260 - 00:24:54.124, Speaker A: So just an interesting technical tweet from ZK sync and a bunch of good replies as well that you can go through. And a bit of discussion here too. So definitely check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description. Alright, so final thing to talk about is just some of my most popular, sorry, my most unpopular opinions, and I put out just a small list on, on, on Twitter the other day, and this might not be news to any of you, I've spoken about these before, but there's four points here. The first point is that I believe bitcoin will eventually move to proof of stake. Now, the reason I believe this is because bitcoin security is fundamentally flawed because of that declining block subsidy or the declining block rewards, aka the halvening that happens every four years.
00:24:54.124 - 00:25:28.304, Speaker A: Some people think this is going to take till 21 40 to play out. I think it's going to play out in the next ten years. So we're going to have to see how that happens. And I think the solution to that is moving to proof of stake, doing perpetual issuance, which means getting rid of the 21 million cap and having great security. But, but even then, I think that because of the fact that bitcoin itself doesn't have much utility, the fee revenue is still going to be low. It's not going to be a beautiful system like what we have in Ethereum. Second, unpopular opinion, which may be popular with you guys, but unpopular maybe with the communities, Solana Avalanche, et cetera, will become Ethereum L2s or be destroyed by them.
00:25:28.304 - 00:26:01.770, Speaker A: This is one of the most obvious bets for me ever. Like, I have zero doubt about this. I mean, in terms of kind of being destroyed by L2s, I would say that like, Solana Avalanche probably, probably would never become an ethereum L2, they'll just go down with the ship, but they're going to get destroyed by them. Third, Ripple will win their case against the SEC. I actually want them to because the SEC, in my eyes, is probably done more damage than Ripple has at this point. Ripple's a scam, don't get me wrong, but I think the SEC has done more damage and I think the SEC is more useless. Funny enough, like they just haven't.
00:26:01.770 - 00:26:41.678, Speaker A: I mean, maybe not more useless, like Ripple's pretty freaking useless, but they just haven't really done much right, and they've been very toxic towards the crypto ecosystem. And it's just been like, just been a shit show for a very long time now. And if Ripple was to win their case against the SEC, and what their case is that the SEC is obviously claiming XRP is a security and trying to classify it as that Ripple saying it's not. But if Ripple was to win that case against the SEC, good luck to the SEC classifying anything in crypto as a security. I mean, if they can't classify XRP, the most obvious security in existence, then there's no way in hell they're going to be able to do it for anything else, or at least 99.9% of things in the ecosystem. So that's why I want them to win.
00:26:41.678 - 00:27:09.980, Speaker A: And you know what? It actually looks like they probably will because they have so much money to throw out lawyers. They basically have unlimited money to throw out lawyers. And the SEC doesn't really have many friends left anymore, not even in government. And then the fourth kind of point here, as I said, play to earn gaming is not real gaming, it's a job. Now that's not meant to be a slight against play to earn gaming. I think there's, there's, you know, there's a decent amount of people that are earning a living off playing these games, especially in kind of like axie Infinity and stuff like that. And that's fine.
00:27:09.980 - 00:27:39.872, Speaker A: I have nothing against that. But it's not real gaming, guys. Like, I wouldn't even like. I'm actually like, I used to be a really big gamer. I would say that all of the mobile apps on, or at least most of the mobile apps on, on iOS and Android that have in app purchases in them and the ones that gate you behind content by requiring you to spend more money or time gate you, they're not real games either. They're just kind of like, they're basically, I would say casino games with kind of like a video game flavor to them. Like it's the same thing, right? It's gambling, it's not real games.
00:27:39.872 - 00:28:09.366, Speaker A: And play to earn gaming is just kind of like it's, I mean, it's just kind of like a farm and dump, right? Just farm the tokens, dump, make money, whatever, blah, blah. And it's just a job because you have to, you're not even really having fun doing it. So that's why I kind of like have that opinion there. So I don't know if these are unpopular. I think that they're unpopular depending on the community, obviously. My first point about bitcoin moving to proof of stake is extremely unpopular with bitcoiners, but, you know, and then the rest of them are probably unpopular with. With kind of like other people maybe.
00:28:09.366 - 00:28:34.886, Speaker A: I made a few friends in the ripple community by saying that I think they're going to win their case against the SEC. But. Yeah, just something that I wanted to discuss there a little bit further, but I think that's gonna be it for today. Yeah. Hopefully there's more updates or more kind of like actual project updates during the week this week, but there wasn't much over the weekend. And I think that's because most people have been distracted by the markets right now. Not that no one's been building, but it's kind of like, you know, you don't really want to announce major things when everyone's just talking about the markets.
00:28:34.886 - 00:28:43.046, Speaker A: It's kind of like it just gets drowned out. It's not great for anyone. So. So, yeah. Anyway, think I'm gonna leave it at that for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:28:43.046 - 00:28:49.454, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
