00:00:00.320 - 00:00:19.880, Speaker A: Okay. Hello everyone. Welcome. We have many students presentations. We have two talks. I tried how, how to make connections today, but it's also going to be quite different. So we are standards group.
00:00:19.880 - 00:00:58.670, Speaker A: A third student will tell us about this experimental research and then how ting student of their hierarchy to tell us about that. Okay. Also wanted to encourage students. I want to just have you, your friends if you want to present to this seminar. When we, when we have these presentations in the field, it's easy for us to record. And if you check the YouTube channel, students presentations get all the magnitude news guarantee. I know what's going on but if you check it, it's a.
00:00:58.670 - 00:01:03.570, Speaker A: So you know, very popular and people.
00:01:03.610 - 00:01:05.506, Speaker B: Are interested to see what's going on.
00:01:05.658 - 00:01:07.266, Speaker A: Yeah, it's for you.
00:01:07.418 - 00:01:07.826, Speaker B: Okay.
00:01:07.858 - 00:01:12.110, Speaker A: So please, I don't know how to make this.
00:01:22.970 - 00:01:42.890, Speaker B: Maybe that's what the other computer. Yes, thanks. Okay. Yes. So hello everyone, I'm Priya. I'm a second year grad student in EPAM Steinberg's group. And today I'm going to be talking to you about optimal optical metrology using few photon states.
00:01:42.890 - 00:02:23.216, Speaker B: For those of you that aren't super familiar with our group, we have two labs. One lab works on cold atom experiments and the other works with single photon. Single photon experiments. So I'm going to be telling you guys a bit about one of the directions that we're interested in in the photon slab. So there we go. So I'm going to tell you about two different quantum multi parameter estimation experiments that we either have recently completed in our lab and four are currently doing in the lab. I'll first start by trying to give a bit of motivation about what quantum metrology is and what quantum environment estimation is.
00:02:23.216 - 00:03:38.838, Speaker B: And then I'll move on to telling you first about an experiment where we generated what we call the tetrahedron state, which is a optimal 4 photon state for parameterizing a rotation in polarization space. And then I'll tell you a bit about what we're working towards doing now, which is creating a two photon state which is also optimal for that same task. So quantum metrology is a subfield of metrology which concerns the study of measurements and has many applications in major fields and applications in things such as gravitational wave detectors like ligo, magnetic field sensing and systems such as atomic box and things where you basically need high precision measurements. And the crux is that we can basically use quantum effects to give us higher precisions and measurements than what we would normally be able to achieve by just using classical approaches. And this can also Help us understand the best way to measure multiple transformations that are generated by observables that don't commute with each other. And this is where the multi parameter estimation problem comes in that I'll talk about in the course of the presentation. So I'll go through a small example of parameter estimation just in the case of a single parameter, to kind of give you a basic idea.
00:03:38.838 - 00:04:17.180, Speaker B: So say you want to estimate a particular parameter. And there's basically two main limits that we come across in metrology. The first is known as the standard quantum limit, where the error in our parameter scales as one over root n, where N in most cases is the number of measurements that you can do. And also in many cases, it's equivalent to the number of particles you have in your system. And typically you want to aim for what is known as Heisenberg scaling, which is the best scaling that quantum mechanics allows us to get it. And it's where the error in our estimation scales is 1 over n. So there's a quadratic improvement there.
00:04:17.180 - 00:04:59.426, Speaker B: So we typically want to aim for that. And the example I can show you this. The kind of power of quantum nephrology is in the estimation of a phase five between two arms of an optical interferometer. And it turns out that if you have a system of N protons that you can send in for your input beam photo, there's a particular quantum state that we can send in that is the best state that is tasked with estimates in this phase, because it's most sensitive to that. And it's known as a noon state, which if you're not familiar with it, can be a bit weird. But it's basically called a noon state, because if you write it out like this, it kind of spells the word noon. It's a superposition of sending all of your n photons into path A and non invert B and then vice versa.
00:04:59.426 - 00:05:56.216, Speaker B: B in one in A. And this is just the case for a single parameter estimation. If we want to estimate multiple parameters at the same time, things can sometimes get a bit more complicated if we have transformations that are generated by observables that don't commute with each other. Previously, people thought that if you'd have a particular quantum state that is really sensitive to measuring a given transformation, it naturally comes with a decrease in sensitivity in measuring other transformations. For example, if you were to use the new state that I just showed you to measure a rotation around a particular axis, it will be optimal for just one axis and we'll have zero sensitivity to rotations around the other axes. It turns out that this is not always true. And this kind of misconception was cleared up by a special state known as the compass state, which is basically a superposition of four coherent states.
00:05:56.216 - 00:06:31.170, Speaker B: This is what its linear distribution looks like, which is kind of a causal probability distribution. And it's called the compass state because you have the four coherent state blocks at four points of a compass. And the special thing about the compass state is that it's super sensitive to measuring displacements in both position and momentum. And we all know that those don't commute. So this kind of solves that problem. And recently in our lab, we experimentally generated a kind of analog of this state, but for measuring polarization rotations. And we called it the tetrahedron state.
00:06:31.170 - 00:07:18.234, Speaker B: And I'm going to tell you a lot about that now. So for the task of measuring rotations on the block sphere, which is how we kind of describe polarization rotations, the tetrahedron state is saying four photons. And it's the optimal state that gives us this Eisenberg scaling if we want to parameterize a particular rotation. And it gets its name from the fact that if you are to look at its and you can't really see, but there's like a sphere here. So this is meant to be a block sphere, but you absolutely can't see that at all. I apologize. If you were to plot this state on the block sphere using its, what's known as its majorana representation, where each of these kind of vertices corresponds with a photon.
00:07:18.234 - 00:08:04.600, Speaker B: You have four photons and they kind of distributed in this equilateral regular polyhedral shape. With four photons that's going to look like tetrahedron. And that's where it gets its name from because it has the same rotational symmetries and properties as a, as a tetrahedron. And I don't have a lot of time to explain properly what the my run representation means, but it basically is kind of corresponds to the zeros of the Hosimi distribution, which is where each of these points are and they are equally segmented on the surface of the block sphere. And this is the centrifugent state. It consists of four photons, which is the lowest dimensional of this whole class of states that have these representations in higher orders. So for higher photons.
00:08:04.600 - 00:09:06.086, Speaker B: So we attempted to make the lowest dimension of these states using four photons. Okay, so what does a multi parameter estimation experiment look like in the lab? And we can break it down into three simple steps. We first have to prepare the quantum probe state that we're trying to use to most sensitively estimate the parameters that we're interested in. We then have to make our state interact with these parameters in some way. So in this case this would be making it undergo polarization rotation, some change to polarization that we will then measure and we'll see how well we are able to estimate the rotation. So going to talk to you just about the first of these three stages in terms of the tetris state, how we went about preparing that state and characterizing it. Okay, again the block sphere part of this diagram is not showing up on screen.
00:09:06.086 - 00:09:37.868, Speaker B: So I apologize, it's not super clear. I'll just try and give a quick and clear conceptual description of how we make the tetrahedron state in the lab. So again, this is the kind of myorama representation depiction. We basically create a three photon moon state. So that's the same state that I introduced at the beginning of the talk, but this time n is 3. We have three photons. And then for our fourth photon, we interfere it with a single horizontally columnless photon and that creates our four proton state.
00:09:37.868 - 00:10:20.064, Speaker B: And this is if you were to write it out in terms of annihilation and creation operators for the two modes, horizontal and vertical polarization. That's what means item of the vacuum. This basically it's my. Yeah, I'm sorry if it's not super clear piece of the picture what this looks like in a lab. I want to spend too much time talking about this. It was quite complicated. But we, this is the experimental setup that we use and I don't know why some of the text was gone from the legend.
00:10:20.064 - 00:11:15.244, Speaker B: I'm sorry but so we basically we create the new state here. We then have a single photon that we created separately from the publisher approach. And both of these we generate from a pulsed laser source and we use spontaneous parameter down converging sources to create the simple photons. That's the SPDC crystal label on the diagram. Then we interfere both of these two separate states together in a Sanyak interferometer. And then we can do tomography, ionostate and characterize the state that we created. Okay, so how do we characterize it? We perform state tomography and we do this by the fact that if you consider just the polarization degree of freedom of a single proton, you can effectively think of it as being a spin 1/2 particle.
00:11:15.244 - 00:11:47.670, Speaker B: If you use just any two orthogonal polarization basis vectors, like for vertical for example, you basically can think of it as a Spin one half system. We have four of them in a tetrahedron. So it's effectively a spin two system. And we can decompose its filbert space into this direct tensorflow. This is all to say that we don't really want to worry too much about these spin sectors. We expect that most or all of the population will be in this polysymmetric spin 2 subspace. So that's what we look for when we do our characterization.
00:11:47.670 - 00:12:27.890, Speaker B: Because ideally all the photons are going to be indistinguishable or completely identical to each other. And that means that they're constrained to be living within this Spin 2 Center, which is the fully symmetric center. Sorry. So how did we do. These diagrams are density matrix reconstructions from tomography. The first one up here shows the kind of those three different spin sectors that we can decompose our state into. And we expect, like I said, we expect the tetrahedon to be remaining within this rogue symmetric spin 2 sector.
00:12:27.890 - 00:13:15.654, Speaker B: And where you see rogue experiment, right, that's the full experimentally generated tetrahed state that we created in the lab. And we managed to get most of the population, around 87% was found to be within that spin 2 symmetric sector, as we expected. But unfortunately there were still some non negligible populations in the Spint1 sectors, which contribute to the relatively low fidelity per state that we created in gained. But I'll kind of talk more about that later and how we can improve it. But overall most of it is where we expect it to be. But all is not lost. We can see some qualitative features of the ideal theoretical centrifugion state that we aim to generate.
00:13:15.654 - 00:13:58.340, Speaker B: So in the top left, these are also supposed to be the majorana depiction on the block sphere. So if you. It's a bit difficult to see, but the red points are the ideal theoretical centrifugion state and the blue are the one that we created. So they're relatively close. And I'm going to talk mostly about what we call the main eigenstate of the tetrahedron state that we created. This is just because the entire tetrahedron state that we created experimentally is a mixed state. But we look mostly at its eigenstates, and particularly one that has the largest eigenvalue that is created most of the time.
00:13:58.340 - 00:14:47.990, Speaker B: And that particular eigenstate is created with 92% fidelity. That's the one that's plotted on that top left, which is really good. However, we only create it 49% of the time. But we can basically say that our way of creating this tetrahedron state works half the time at creating almost an optimal tetrahedron state. And you can see the features that you expect from the ideal theoretical tetrahedron state in its fickle distribution on the top right are present in the written distributions of the one that we created. There's four plots because we have kind of viewed it from the four different vertices of the centrifugal state that we created, but they should all be identical to each other and to the top right one. Ideally they're not perfect, but there's definitely the features that we aim to see there.
00:14:47.990 - 00:16:04.390, Speaker B: Okay, I have to give a quick interlude about metric that we commonly use to determine whether our state is optimal and what we mean by that. So we use a quantity called the quantum Fisher information to kind of quantify this. Again, I don't have a lot of time to go through absolutely everything, but basically, if we know the quantum Fisher information, we can calculate that to calculate a bound on the covariance between all the parameters we're trying to estimate. And ideally we want to minimize this quantity so that we have a like very low variance with our estimation, implying that we can estimate it very well. And one particular bound that we use is known as the quantum round bound, and it bounds the covariance matrix between all the parameters from below as the inverse of the Fisher information matrix. Yeah, so in order to conveniently be able to optimize this bound, we have to convert it from a matrix inequality to a scalar inequality. And we do this by using what we call a cost matrix.
00:16:04.390 - 00:17:18.987, Speaker B: And it basically weights each element of the covariance matrix accordingly to a choice that you make typically. Well, yeah, we use just the identity for the cost matrix, but it kind of comes from the part time metric. So it depends on your system. But in this case it's very simple and straightforward. Again, I can't go into that too much right now, but basically you have this scalar bound that we then want to optimize these two matrices. And so then what we did was compare different values of this scalar bound that we're hoping to minimize as much as possible in order to get the most information about the state to different types of states and how they perform at estimating the polarization rotation and compare them to a tetrahedron state. So some other common strategies people use are to try and use the known states that I talked about before to measure a rotation, but as I mentioned, they are only optimal for measuring rotations.
00:17:18.987 - 00:17:51.490, Speaker B: When they are aligned to a particular axis. And if you want to get around this problem, you can prepare kind of three different batches of nude states aligned with each axis that you want to rotate around. And then they work fine. And you get the Heisenberg scaling as you increase the code number, as you can see with this orange line. But it's slightly abundant the how the plasmonic states perform. So it's intra state and other polyhedral states because you have to do it through time. So there's a factor through that you can't escape there.
00:17:51.490 - 00:18:29.810, Speaker B: We also compare them to what are known as spin coherent states, which is just all the protons polarized in a particular mode and they perform quite a bit worse. And other two approaches. And you can see that they don't scale with the same slope, which is. So this will be the kind of one over n scaling that we're looking for. And this is the 1 over root n. So in general we also see that we can use these platonic states to achieve the height of scaling. As you increase the photon number, your scalar quantum crane rather also decreases.
00:18:29.810 - 00:19:40.308, Speaker B: And the two data points that are in black there are the ones that we generated in the lab. The tetrahedral state that we generated, we didn't physically use this to estimate this is just a simulation, but we calculated that it performs its main experimental atom state. It performs very well, very, very close to the theoretical value of the ideal centrifuging state. And the entire density matrix is slightly worse, but it performs better than this incubator state approach, which is, which is good. So just to sum up what I told you so far about the tetrahedron state, so we demonstrated an experimental way to generate this tetrahedron state in a map. As I mentioned, the fidelity of the state that we created could be improved. Most of the noise comes from when we generate the throughput on mean state, we interfere a squeeze state from tau conversion with a weak coherent state.
00:19:40.308 - 00:20:51.132, Speaker B: But that coherent state will have higher order proton terms in there and they can contaminate the state and give us more than the three photons that we're aiming for in the mean state. And also we could increase the indistinguishability of the single quotients that we use throughout the experiment. And we could achieve this with just better sources and detectors. However, at the proof of concept level at least, we've created a state that is, that shows very like a large amount of the features and symmetries of the optimal theoretical tetrahedron state. So now we're asking the question, what about photon numbers that don't correspond to these regular polycubular platonic solids on the block sphere? So this is numbers that you can't represent as the minor representation of these nice regular polyhedra. So numbers like 2, 3, 5. We've started thinking about is there a two photon state that also shares these super sensitive and nanosymmetric properties as a tetrahedron for estimating a polarization rotation? So we've been building a.
00:20:51.132 - 00:21:31.884, Speaker B: Okay, wait, I'm skipping ahead. This two photon state could look like this on the block sphere. We have two photons here and here, and we can tune this kind of angle between them, which means going from both of the photons horizontally polarized in a spin coherent state to the maximum entangled state. And we can physically tune this angle just with a wave plate in our experimental setup, which I'll show you in a minute, and we can find what this optimal angle is to estimate our rotation. And so the setup looks like this. We. So this is the first of the three stages.
00:21:31.884 - 00:22:06.340, Speaker B: We declare our state, we interfere. Two single photons. That beam splitter I have shown the source of the photons, but they come from a double pass, single, sorry, spontaneous primary and non convergent source. We then make the state undergo a polarization rotation. So we pass it through a fiber polarization controller and then we'll do state tomography here, which is the measurement part. So this is what we've been working on recently. And yeah, this brings us to the end of my talk.
00:22:06.340 - 00:22:57.930, Speaker B: So just to sum up, I told you a lot about the tetrahedron state, and that's the optimal full protein state that you can use to simultaneously estimate all the parameters that describe a rotation in polarization space. And I also talk briefly about the progress that we've made towards setting up an experiment to do a single thing, but using two photons and use that to estimate polarization. Yeah. So again, most of the content in this talk was from Hugo Feretti's PhD thesis and he's the student who I graduated a couple of years ago and left the experiment working on the state. And I just want to say thanks to everyone in the photons lab who work with me and these experiments. So thanks.
