00:00:00.120 - 00:00:23.222, Speaker A: It's not all or nothing. You know, we can have completely permissionless protocols only using permissionless assets. And as long as people retain the ability to use those, in my opinion, why not have folks have the option to use permissioned pools or permissioned assets, which, as you mentioned, there is clearly demand for? This episode is brought to you by.
00:00:23.238 - 00:00:36.654, Speaker B: Chainalysis, the leading blockchain data platform that powers investigation, compliance and risk management tools used by both businesses and government agencies around the globe. You'll hear more about chainalysis later in the show.
00:00:38.034 - 00:00:59.306, Speaker C: Welcome back, everyone. I'm really excited. It's been a while since we did our last regulatory pod, and a lot of things have happened since. And so now we're joined by Rebecca. Again, she, if you've been under a rock, she leads policy. She's a, what is it? The chief policy and legal and policy officer. Legal and policy officer.
00:00:59.306 - 00:01:31.366, Speaker C: Polygon. I still can't get it right after so many years we've known each other. And we also have Miller, who is the CEO of the DeFi Education Fund, which is the only specific organization that is advocating for DeFi. And so it's great to have you both on. I know we want to cover a paper that you guys recently published, as well as some of the rulemaking that is making a lot of headlines today, today around, you know, the SEC. So, guys, welcome to show. If you guys want to introduce yourselves, we can do that and then we can jump into the discussion.
00:01:31.510 - 00:02:15.868, Speaker D: Sure. Thanks. Well, as you said, Rebecca Reddick, chief legal and policy officer at Polygon Labs, so as to not bore people who've already heard other regulatory pods. I've been a lawyer for a long time, but I've been a lawyer in the crypto space for a very long time and has Santi and I go way back to before we all called DeFi DeFi, where we were really trying to figure out these new permissionless systems. I don't even call them peer to peer, honestly. I think they're just intermediary less systems that mostly allow you to interact and engage with software. And so worked a lot on how to counsel software developers on regulatory concerns from a very early stage.
00:02:15.868 - 00:02:28.204, Speaker D: DeFi is something I love. I'm on the board of the DeFi education fund, and it's one of the things that I'm most passionate about in seeing all their work, both in the US and abroad. So I'll turn it over to Miller.
00:02:28.984 - 00:03:11.584, Speaker A: Thanks for having me. I appreciate it. There is a lot going on in the policy soon. Our role is to hopefully figure out smart policies such that crypto lawyers have good answers for their clients, which is not an easy task. Obviously, the absence of intermediaries challenges the traditional approach to regulation in financial services pretty fundamentally. And as governments are struggling to figure out what to do, our job is to educate policymakers and advocate for policies that aren't going to be welcoming of permissionless DeFi protocols and people's access to them. So that is our role.
00:03:11.584 - 00:03:16.724, Speaker A: And Rebecca's paper, I think, is an important development in that debate.
00:03:17.744 - 00:03:34.928, Speaker C: So before we jump into that, I'm curious for like, when did the Defi education fund get started? Who's really behind it in terms of, I assume a lot of funds, a lot of people that have invested stake and protocols. I'm curious if you could just give a brief overview on that.
00:03:35.096 - 00:03:58.514, Speaker A: Yeah, we have a very defi native origin story. It was originally conceived and funded by a Uniswap Dao governance proposal in mid 2021. So we are the only crypto advocacy.org and I think only advocacy.org in the world that was initially created via a DAO governance boat. So that is how we got started.
00:03:59.414 - 00:04:07.694, Speaker C: Great. And beyond Uniswap, I'm sure there's a number of other DeFi protocols and funds that have backed you memory. Serves me right.
00:04:10.234 - 00:04:12.134, Speaker A: Yes, and hopefully more.
00:04:12.474 - 00:05:07.770, Speaker D: More still, I think people will start seeing more governance proposals out there. I think the interesting thing, I'll give a little kick to Miller because he's not going to self promote too much. But I think the thing, I think the reason the Defi education fund is so important is that the work that happens behind the scenes is twofold. And then there's sort of work that we see. So the work behind the scenes is twofold, is meeting on the hill, meeting with regulators globally, doing that type of education. The other thing that I think the DeFi education fund does that's super fundamentally important to the way DeFi is perceived is Miller and the DeFi education fund. There's a lot of work to educate the press, too, demos and things like that, which I think is really important, given the bad rap and that defi somehow, you know, can become a bad word, even though I think people may use it in a way they, they don't intend to.
00:05:07.770 - 00:05:59.770, Speaker D: And then I think the other reason, the DeFi education fund is really important, and it's super important to fund them in many ways. So if people are interested, reach out to Miller. But is that a lot of the work that the DeFi education fund has come to take on is advocacy through amicus briefs and the types of impact litigation that's out there. So one of the most gratifying things to see as a board member was that the judge in the SEC action against Coinbase cited the DeFi education fund amicus many times, calling us the DeFi people, which is one of my favorite monikers now. But, you know, that. That amicus brief really took on descriptions of the wallet and of staking and of things that are extremely crypto native. And a lot of the work there is spearheaded by the Defi education funds chief legal officer Amanda Tuinelli.
00:05:59.770 - 00:06:06.774, Speaker D: But I think the work that DF is doing to educate via amicus briefs and the litigation that's out there is really important, too.
00:06:08.034 - 00:06:36.066, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. Should we get into the paper? Because I think that covers a lot of. So this is. I believe you published it late January. So January 29, the paper comes out, and it's called genuine DeFi as critical infrastructure, a conceptual framework for combating illicit finance activity in decentralized finance. You co authored it, along with Michael Mozier and Katya, who I believe also works at Polygon.
00:06:36.130 - 00:07:25.898, Speaker D: She does? Yep. She's a senior public policy leave. And Mike Moser has his own BTC firm called Arcturos. He's also a partner at a VC called Xante. But more interestingly, for purposes of the paper, he had a long history in public service, both at OFAC, the Office of Foreign Asset Control, as well as FinCEN, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, which is the financial intelligence unit at the Treasury Department, and also worked at the DOJ. I think the genesis for this is really something that Miller referenced early on, which is, what are our regulations here? When you have an intermediarialist system, how do we go about this? I think the illicit finance question has been percolating for a while. I think it obviously, especially hit a fever pitch, first with the Tornado cash sanctions, but that was a while ago.
00:07:25.898 - 00:08:25.380, Speaker D: And then I think it sort of maintained this buzz for a while. And then I think once the finance settlement came down and case came down, and then with the October 7 discussion in the Wall Street Journal about Hamas using crypto to fund its recent attack, it really had brought things to a new level, specifically in DC. Although I'll be honest, the EU has been really focused on what to do on the illicit finance side of crypto. And also, as much as everybody's been saying, you know, Mika is so great and lauding it, I think the AML side, the anti money laundering side, and those types of regulations in Europe are going to be very restrictive, too. So this paper was really meant to take a lot of the dialogue we've heard where people have tried to import the old, what we call financial integrity regime. Right. Financial integrity, at least in the US, comes from the Bank Secrecy act, which regulates what we know as financial institutions.
00:08:25.380 - 00:09:35.474, Speaker D: So banks, broker dealers, certain types of CFTC, regulated entities, casinos, whatever, and then also our sanctions laws. And people have tried to sort of do square peg round whole kind of thing and say, well, if we have things that are financial institutions, and that's how we combat illicit finance today, let's just do the exact same thing with this blockchain system. And trying to find who in the blockchain system, which is fundamentally a software communications protocol, would be a financial institution. And Mike has done great work in the past, too, both on the government side. And he was at Fincen when the 2019 FinCEN guidance came out, which was really about. About how to think about software in the crypto space and whether it would be a financial institution or be regulated or not. So really trying to come up with an answer to things like, look, we've seen a number of powerful, prominent senators put out proposals on what AML anti money laundering legislation should be.
00:09:35.474 - 00:10:29.454, Speaker D: And a lot of that brings in the who's a financial institution, who's responsible for sanctions violations? One of them proposes governance token holders may be responsible for putting sanctions controls around DeFi protocols. And I think Mike and I really, when we were conceptualizing the paper, looked at it, if you look at the paper, you'll see there's like this whole long section that describes what DeFi does, right, and how it works at each feature. What does the wallet do? A relayer? It's optional. What do RPC nodes do? You know, what does the protocol do? What is the front end? Those kinds of things. And then looks at the sources of illicit finance there. Because right in. In the tradfi world, illicit finance comes from, one, having honey pots of data, and then two, where people are making subjective judgments, either about onboarding customers or users, or there being some sort of flaws in the system.
00:10:29.454 - 00:11:01.552, Speaker D: And looking at where illicit finance comes from in these permissionless software systems shows that it's very different. And so we wanted to have a framework that one would be super effective, two would be in line with what regulation we've seen, or guidance we've seen to date from regulators like the 2019 FincEn guidance, and three would be true to what the software actually does and combat the sources of risk where you can find them. It's a long winded version of the origin story of this paper. But Miller, to put a bit of.
00:11:01.568 - 00:12:20.844, Speaker A: A finer point on it, the paper, I think is trying to answer, and I think is one of the first attempts at even answering a policy question that's really fundamental. And in this context, in the context of AML, which is where there are systems without financial intermediaries, how does one accomplish the public policy objectives we all support in this context, combating illicit financial activity. One answer which is highly problematic is to force the creation of intermediaries where they don't exist. So that is porting over the traditional old system into this new context and essentially saying, you can't have intermediary lists financial system because we don't know how to accomplish our public policy objectives in that world. So for example, Senator Elizabeth Warren's bill would do just that. It would say there, it essentially says there are not financial intermediaries here. So we're just going to make a bunch of new people financial intermediaries, even though they don't actually function as such, so that we can apply these old obligations to them.
00:12:20.844 - 00:12:34.154, Speaker A: And Rebecca in Mike and Katia's paper proposes a different way to accomplish the same objectives. That doesn't mean totally undermining the fundamental innovation of defi.
00:12:35.454 - 00:13:21.594, Speaker C: Yeah, that's such a good point. And just backtracking for a bit. The big confusion from my standpoint has been when you try to port, as you said, when you people are looking at DeFi as if it were a traditional financial system and gloss over this idea, as you said, there are these protocols that just don't have an intermediary. Like certainly, like you can have key persons that can upgrade. A contract can be centralized in that manner, which would be problematic, I guess. But if you have, for instance, uniswap, they deploy v three or whatever, and it's out in the wild, it's like they can't control it. They can't influence these markets in the traditional sense.
00:13:21.594 - 00:14:05.352, Speaker C: But there may be the ability to maybe manipulate a price on chain, which is very easy to detect. But of course, like for anyone listening to this, it doesn't have like a deep understanding of DeFi. It's really hard to conceptualize this. And I wonder, like from your standpoint, how much of, how much do regulators appreciate the novelty of DeFi? I mean, of course this paper like is part of the education of it, but it's been a few years where we've tried to educate regulators. So I'm curious if there's been any progress in them. Understanding the key distinctions of what DeFi is versus a traditional financial system, I.
00:14:05.368 - 00:15:02.364, Speaker A: Would say that it's all over the board as far as understanding is concerned. I think one thing that folks in crypto sometimes overlook is that I think there are many, for example, the SEC and the IR's. There are many regulators that do have an understanding of the novel novelty of DeFi protocols exactly as you just described. But just disagree that setting up a new system to accomplish longstanding objectives is necessary or desirable. So I think there remains certainly a lot of education to be done, which is the understatement of the century. But I think many of these proposals are based on a full understanding of the novelties of Defi and a different policy conclusion than we would have.
00:15:03.224 - 00:15:08.644, Speaker D: You mean the paper is based on the understanding, the novelty, or you think regulators?
00:15:09.344 - 00:15:21.364, Speaker A: I think some regulators do understand Defi and why, like, a different approach would be necessary for permissionless systems. And their answer is, okay, permissionless systems are unacceptable.
00:15:21.544 - 00:16:00.814, Speaker D: Oh, yes. My response to your question, Sante, was going to be, it depends on where you are in the world, right. I have had regulators abroad say to me, why doesn't the US like permissionless ledgers? Right? Literally, verbatim has asked me that question. And so there is an understanding in other parts of the world what this technology does, why it may be beneficial. I think that, as Miller said here, it's very case specific. Even if you understand it and understand some of the benefits, it's not enough to outweigh whatever issues you may have. Fundamentally with the technology.
00:16:03.154 - 00:16:50.536, Speaker C: Is the issue more so control, where. Because your question is a really basic one and it's hard to answer. It's like you have a transparent system. And if you were to describe this to any historian or my friends at, like JP Morgan, like Wall street, and you describe a system without saying defi, and you save it till the end, they're like, yeah, like, we agree that it would be much nicer to have a system where, like, you know, your counterparty, you know, like when you deposit your funds in aave or compound, like, it's just a lot of the issues that are happening in the traditional financial system, like bank collapses, where you don't have really good transparency into what's going on in real time. Well, you wonder, well, a lot of it could be solved if you all just happen in an open, transparent manner.
00:16:50.720 - 00:17:02.968, Speaker D: Quite frankly, the bank Secrecy act actually grew out of the fact of the need for regulators to at least have more transparency in banks, right. Because there was lots of sort of illicit activity that was going on in.
00:17:02.976 - 00:17:05.912, Speaker C: The 1820s or whatever.
00:17:06.008 - 00:17:45.014, Speaker D: Yeah, I have to remember, because we went down this whole long rabbit hole of the history of the bank Secrecy act as we were writing the paper. And kudos to Katya, one of our co authors, for doing that. Yeah, 1970. So, I mean, same, same. But, you know, banks did not have transparency into who their customers were. And so the Bank Secrecy act really grew out of the need for recordkeeping on who your customers were in the event that law enforcement needed information. So, you know, some of that should be rectified by these permissionless systems where everything is pretty transparent.
00:17:46.554 - 00:18:08.136, Speaker C: Well, I mean, not to, like, this episode is not meant to be a criticism of traditional financial systems. We can spend hours and hours on that. I mean, clearly, the proofs in the pudding failure continues to happen. It's a very. Not very. An imperfect system. Nonetheless, I think that the focus that I want to go to is illicit activity happens to some extent in open proliferating systems, in defi.
00:18:08.136 - 00:18:19.824, Speaker C: And so could we just address, like, where are you seeing that the amount relative to the total volume that we're seeing? Maybe just put it in context.
00:18:20.164 - 00:19:28.264, Speaker D: Yeah. So the paper has a section that goes through, like, where the sources of illicit finance, one of which we talk about is cyber risk, right? If you've coded the protocol incorrectly, if it hasn't been audited correctly, or even if you do code it and audit correctly, there may be this loophole that can exist for many, many years, right? And somebody finds it, 510 years, even some of the best protocols with great Lindy effect and things like that. There's another risk called system management risk, and we try to do these case studies that highlight them. So on the cyber risk, we talk about wormhole, and there was this loophole system management risk, where basically the systems are not as permissionless as they are purported to be, or there is just, like, poor security around the protocols and through the dev codes and things like that. So axie infinity is a great example of that because Sky Mavis held all of the five of nine keys needed, and some of it was just like somebody forgot that they were holding one or two keys and forgot to get them back from them. And so there was this social engineering exploit, which is a web two exploit. Honestly, that happens all the time.
00:19:28.264 - 00:20:18.074, Speaker D: And then the last part, which is what I think plagues regulators and policymakers the most, is this usage risk, right. That you can basically, in permissionless systems, take the proceeds of a hack, maybe from a cyber. Right attack, from the cyber risk point, and then put them into 50 different wallets and the 50 different wallets can send them to tons of different protocols and bridge them into tons of different chains and then they can go to tornado cash or things where you can sort of break the chain of the transparency and not figure it out. So I think the usage risk and the inability to theoretically try to stop some of the illicit activity, even if you're seeing it on chain because it happens so fast and in such a permissionless way also is what really plays them. But I don't know if Miller has other insight from other discussions he may have had about this.
00:20:18.234 - 00:21:13.874, Speaker A: Yeah, I think the latter is one that the, like, Defi folks don't think about as much, but I think is like top of mind for regulators. So just to summarize, on the one hand you have what I think about as being primary risks, hacks of protocols, exploits, etcetera. On the other hand you have like forget about the predicate illicit activity, but people trying to move their ill gotten gains through DeFi protocols itself as being a risk, be it from hacks or be it from off chain illicit activity that folks have gotten some money from and then want to use crypto or DeFi protocols to move their assets in some way. The latter being, I think, a top of mind concern for regulators that folks in the industry don't think about as much.
00:21:16.934 - 00:22:08.904, Speaker C: Yeah. And to that response you'd be like, well, wouldn't you say it's so say tornado cash, which is probably the most problematic, right. If all the checkpoints where you're fiat money is entering DeFi are enforced properly, then you don't really need much. If you truly focus on the on ramps then you don't have a problem because all the, theoretically, all the money within the system is clean to start. Of course you could have like manipulation, profitable trading strategies that are obviously problematic and you can enforce those. And by the way, it's rather easy to enforce because you're seeing everything on chain. Like you can't hide this stuff and so it's very easy to crack down on that.
00:22:08.904 - 00:22:34.020, Speaker C: But I'm curious, you know, of course, like there's reports of like, you know, the Lazarus group, you know, using DeFi as a, you know, the constant hacks, but also just launch, like, you know, using a mixer to, you know, you know, take money out of the system. How do you solve that? Or what is the response to a regulator that might ask you that question?
00:22:34.132 - 00:23:31.564, Speaker D: Yeah, great, great point. So I want to address a lot of the things you said just because for those of us who are down the policy rabbit hole a lot, we think about this, but I think we need to make some of the things sort of level set before we get into the proposal, too. So, first of all, tornado cash was not problematic from day one. It was out there existing and being used for actually a number of years well before the office of foreign Asset Control imposed sanctions. And one of the reasons that it was sanctioned is because, as you sort of raised, Lazarus group was found to have brought through something. You know, the numbers are something like 40% of the volume that's gone through tornado cash. Quite frankly, if an overseas bank or even a US bank was found to have been, you know, laundering like that, 40% of the funds going through the bank were being laundered by Lazarus Group or something like that, they also would face sanctions.
00:23:31.564 - 00:24:47.884, Speaker D: Now, I think what was so novel about tornado cash is that you're sanctioning software and we don't have to go well down the rabbit hole. But, you know, how do you comply even with sanctions, which are really directed, as we say in the paper, towards intermediate and as we said on this podcast, towards intermediaries and persons. Right. So unclear what the blocked property is, unclear what you can do. I think that's really been the biggest problem because, one, it's permissionless, and so who does it really affect? So I think the tornado cash part is very, very complex on the on and off ramps and the transparency point, those arguments are over. We, I think a lot of people tried those for a very long time and much and still are talking about the fact that it's one of the best places to capture illicit actors. And agree, I think Miller and I probably both agree with you in many, in many ways, but that is not enough anymore for a couple reasons, one of which is even if all the US based exchanges, a Coinbase, a kraken, a Gemini, whatever, are really compliant, they are all money services businesses and, you know, are BSA compliant and really doing their best to do KYC, AML, all of those things.
00:24:47.884 - 00:25:27.034, Speaker D: The offshore exchanges are not compliant, and we know that. And the Financial Action Task force was, which is the international anti money laundering regulator has basically said that in this kind of stuff, I think there's like 17% to 20% of compliance worldwide. So, you know, Lazarus is not trying to, like, off board through Coinbase us, right? They're off boarding through some non compliant, probably small exchange somewhere else in the world. And so just trying to say, like, well, regulate that and off ramps. Like, you know, I think that just doesn't win the fly.
00:25:27.114 - 00:26:27.986, Speaker A: So also there is no, obviously, universal agreement on who should be in and out of the system. A russian crypto exchange doesn't have the same idea, or the russian government doesn't have the same idea as to who and what is an illicit actor and illicit activity as the US government does. So I think that it's a more macro struggle that governments are having. Like the US government is now dealing with this global permissionless network in a world where we have different sovereigns with different ideas of what is not acceptable. I also think the quote unquote ring fence only works in a world in which crypto cannot be used to buy goods and services. And today that doesn't happen en masse. But in the future, hopefully there will be mass use of crypto for buying goods and services.
00:26:27.986 - 00:26:32.674, Speaker A: And I think we should be skating to where the puck's going a bit.
00:26:32.834 - 00:27:00.546, Speaker D: Yeah. And honestly, the transparency point, we've all tried to use that and there's even a section of the paper on it. Like after we go through the. Michael, Katie and I go through the illicit finance risks, we do talk about the benefits of the transparency. And we do this case study on something called welcome to video, which happened a long time ago, where the IR's really relied on the transparency of blockchain to bring down sort of large child pornography ring overseas. And they are still catching bad guys in that ring to date. So.
00:27:00.546 - 00:27:43.244, Speaker D: And I think law enforcement would say, and it's unfortunate Michael's not here because he does work with a lot of people in law enforcement still on behalf of his clients, that the transparency really helps. And, but, and one of the things this proposal tries to do is to leverage the transparency to get the information so that it's available to law enforcement faster. Because some of it is tracing just takes a while. Right. Like, no matter how many great tools that are out there, it takes a while. I think the one great benefit of the transparency is with respect to speaking about the proposal in this paper and just illicit finance, since that's what we're talking about, is within an hour of a hack, let's say you can identify where the, like, which wallets were immediately identified. Right.
00:27:43.244 - 00:28:35.986, Speaker D: Or immediately, you know, involved in it. And so I think making sure we highlight some of the benefits of the transparency as part of a larger, a larger framework is beneficial. But like that and the off ramps alone, to Miller's point, like, that's not enough. And we have to sort of, you know, give them something more. And look, the deputies, the deputy treasury secretary in November put out a letter to the Senate banking committee saying, listen, we really have to do something about this fintech illicit finance finance problem. And then went on to talk about crypto potential options in terms of how to fix illicit finance, and then also spoke the next day to the blockchain association membership at their conference and said, you guys gotta give us something. Like, help us, help us help you, kind of, and has been saying that for a long time.
00:28:35.986 - 00:28:58.936, Speaker D: And so I think that also really spurred myself and my co authors to say, like, fine, we gotta sit down and think about something. And I will say, because I bleed for DeFi, I didn't do anything over the holidays because I really wanted to think what's viable and what's going to be helpful. And so I spent my holidays doing this.
00:28:59.080 - 00:29:56.512, Speaker B: Chainalysis is the premier blockchain data platform. Crypto businesses, financial institutions, government agencies, regulators and policymakers all utilize chainalysis data and services to make sense of what's happening on the blockchain. Chainalysis demystifies crypto by providing industry leading compliance, market intelligence and investigation support for all crypto assets for organizations like Square and Barclays and BNY Mellon. As regulators and policymakers work together to pass legislation that provides clarity for crypto businesses and protects consumers, they have the chance to do so with unparalleled data and research into the entire crypto ecosystem. Gain greater visibility and insight with the leading blockchain data platform by visiting chainalysis.com empire. If you are looking into compliance and you need blockchain compliance, there is no better place.
00:29:56.512 - 00:30:00.564, Speaker B: It is chainalysis.com empire.
00:30:04.484 - 00:30:33.420, Speaker C: So what is viable? Because, I mean, I think at the heart of the matter is, Millie, you alluded to this is you can't push policy of a sovereign on chain. Like, it's hard. Like, not everything is as black as white as the Lazarus group. You have enemies of the state that might not be enemies of other states. And so it like that. The heart of the matter is control. Like, if you're operating in the swift network, like, you know, you can shut down stuff easily because it's a, it's a delegation of people that control it.
00:30:33.420 - 00:30:53.784, Speaker C: At the end of the day, the US has a lot of way in that, not so much in Defi. So what is the like, what is the solution to that? Because if sounds like there's a like, like group of regulators that are always going to oppose any system that they can't control, and that is defi. So is there a solution or a compromise?
00:30:55.444 - 00:31:46.404, Speaker A: There is a compromise. I mean, we have to come up with something. These things aren't going away and this problem isn't going away from both government and industries perspective. So I think that it's time to figure something out. The Swift example, I will say, is a very unique one because Swift is really de facto exempted from a lot of the obligations that we've been talking about here for traditional financial intermediaries because it is supposed to be neutral infrastructure that folks all over the world can use. And that's why it was quite controversial, the debate around russian financial institutions access to Swift in February of 22. So there has been.
00:31:46.404 - 00:31:55.696, Speaker A: I suppose Swift is an example of compromise coming together in a way, but it will have to be different, of course, in the context of defarm, because.
00:31:55.720 - 00:31:58.484, Speaker C: In practice, hasn't swift been like the way you enforce sanctions?
00:32:01.584 - 00:32:02.576, Speaker D: What do you mean? Swift?
00:32:02.640 - 00:32:19.640, Speaker C: Or like a primary mechanism to enforce sanctions on whatever the United Nations Security Council or, you know, g seven agrees on is an enemy of. Then you can really, when you shut down a government's access to the finance, like financial capital markets. And so you enforce sanctions. No.
00:32:19.832 - 00:32:21.964, Speaker D: Oh, sanctions, yes. I thought it's sanctions.
00:32:22.824 - 00:32:29.502, Speaker C: Russia is a primary example recently, like, it's through swift. Like, you shut down swift and it's like, oh, yeah, good luck for some of it.
00:32:29.518 - 00:32:48.910, Speaker D: I don't. I personally. This is where Michael would be great. He probably knows how many times swift has been used through the sanctions mechanism. So I don't know that off the top of my head, but, yeah, I mean, look, sanctions are meant to deprive illicit actors of the US economy, essentially, and US trade. Right. And just hurt them from a financial perspective.
00:32:48.910 - 00:32:51.228, Speaker D: So you're right from that. From that perspective, for sure.
00:32:51.316 - 00:33:01.100, Speaker A: Which is exactly why many governments are attempting to come up with their own payments networks such that they do not have to totally rely on us financial.
00:33:01.212 - 00:33:05.412, Speaker C: Institutions, most notably Russia, China and a few other countries.
00:33:05.588 - 00:34:17.631, Speaker D: China is also pushing theirs out to Russia. They've just been settling their China Russia trade through the digital one, which for me is more of a reason to make sure that we do a good job in the US and that we continue to see the proliferation of us dollar backed or us dollar denominated stable coins and make sure they can sort of continue proliferating out in the world. Because I think China and Miller can speak about this too, very clearly. Like there is a long term plan from China to undermine the US dollar. I think that day to day, it doesn't feel like it because it's a slow burn, like I think, and Miller has spent time in China and things like that, but I think that they're willing to just sit it out until they can find a way to long term, you know, overcome the US dollar. And I think that, and most interestingly, the bank of international Settlements has a pilot project with the ability for different countries to settle trade in various cbdcs. And notably they include China and Hong Kong in this and like Thailand and one other.
00:34:17.631 - 00:34:28.323, Speaker D: And I thought that was really interesting from an undermining swift perspective long term, because sanctions won't be as strong if you don't need a swift, as you said.
00:34:30.263 - 00:34:45.014, Speaker C: Yeah, I want to bring back the center. Miller, you conceded like, yeah, we need a solution. Rebecca, you spend the holidays thinking about a solution or solutions. I'd be curious to understand what those are or what, like, what did you come up with?
00:34:45.754 - 00:35:28.008, Speaker D: So the paper that we put out is, as you said, called genuine DeFi is critical infrastructure, and it really seeks to answer a lot of the questions that people, and especially regulators and policymakers have put out about DeFi. I think one, and we've seen a lot of this from regulators, is questioning whether DeFi is really decentralized. And so we really had to address that in the April illicit finance risk assessment on DeFi from the Treasury Department. They basically said there's tons of this that is not decentralized. That's a huge gap. And we need to figure out if they should be regulated as financial institutions. So that's one question we wanted to answer.
00:35:28.008 - 00:36:26.948, Speaker D: The other question is, well, how do you make these permissionless systems that, you know, don't have maybe a more centralized aspect to it? What do you do with them? How would you even be able to make sure they're safe for use? And the last part really looks at where have businesses cropped up within the DeFi ecosystem, where there may be benefits to achieving the types of goals that the BSA looks to, right. Documentation, detection and deterrence or prevention, without making these technological service providers into financial institutions? Right. Completely subject to the BSA. So one of. So that's, it's a three part framework. The first two parts really emanate from this paper by three academics that just came out at the end of 2023, called on DeFI and on chain CFI. We've cited in the paper a lot.
00:36:26.948 - 00:37:06.844, Speaker D: It's by catrin Shuler and Sophie Clootz and Fabian Schar. And Professor Schar is at the University of Basel and actually has been writing a lot of scholarly work on DeFi. He put out this really interesting paper on DeFi a number of years ago through the St. Louis Fed, and he's also put out great work on tornado cash. And just thinking about a lot of these different issues. And because we wanted the paper to be extraordinarily credible and well researched, we read a lot of what is out there. We did a full lit review, both of maybe pro defi articles, them anti defi articles that have come out, and a lot of regulators work, which, you know, maybe in a more neutral or anti defi camp.
00:37:06.844 - 00:38:36.044, Speaker D: So we did a lot of work. But in the Schuller article, they have this distinction of something called on chain CFI, which are smart, contract based systems that look a lot more like centralized systems, so that there is some sort of intermediary in there, versus totally neutral, permissionless infrastructure, which they call genuine DeFi. So in order to think about these distinctions, which I think Michael and I agreed were really a good way to look at it and to think about, like, okay, well, where are things sort of decentralized in name only or not real DeFi, we wanted to pose a definition of control that would put something into the on chain CEfi camp. And the definition is based in the 2019 FincEN guidance, which came up with something called total independent control, and really looked at that there. And total independent control. I mean, we do independent control in the paper that is based really on the ability to affect value. So in the paper, we say independent control means for a blockchain based software system that allows for financial transactions, the unilateral ability to exercise operational authority over any third party's value or otherwise immediately affect the value within the system, and then or admit, permit, restrict, deny or modify those who have access to the system or the ways anyone can use or access the system.
00:38:36.044 - 00:39:21.064, Speaker D: And I will say, and we, you know, we put this paper out as like a start of a conversation, right? This isn't an industry consensus. It's not everyone signed on to it or things like that. I do think there's a lot of positive reception to it, both on the industry side and the policy side, because it's just something out there that really is meant to be honest about, one, the risks, and two, what the technology does and is meant to be novel. And I think all of us have been saying for many years, there's got to be technological solutions to this. And this is sort of the first paper out there that says, here's how to do it. But anyway, the independent control definition is over broad. And we have definitely heard that it may capture people that are running emergency multisigs or something like that.
00:39:21.064 - 00:40:28.724, Speaker D: Right. Because in an emergency, an emergency multisig with very limited powers could shut down an entire smart contract based system that allows for financial transactions. We try to be extremely nuanced and say, this is a two part test. One, is there independent control? If the answer is yes, then you go to the second part of the test and you say, well, what is the controller or the system control person doing? An emergency multisig probably doesn't fall under this needs regulation, you know, is a financial institution question, but it's really a facts and circumstances based analysis, which is totally consistent with the way Fincen has looked at who's a financial institution that must be regulated for a long time. So we took this original concept from the fincen guidance and just built it out and tried to really have a definition that did capture a lot of what happens in defi that makes it have sort of an intermediary, maybe not in a traditional sense, but in a can affect value sense. And so that's that first part of it. And that's really meant to be the gap filling for these decentralized and name only kinds of questions.
00:40:29.224 - 00:41:28.520, Speaker A: And sandy, on this point, I think this definition could be thought of as draw like putting into precise words an amorphous understanding. A lot of folks in industry already have, which you alluded to a couple of minutes ago, talking about a protocol where governance or persons have a lot of powers over a smart contract versus one, like completely immutably launched. You used Uniswap as an example. Folks have a gut sense that there are differences there, and probably regulatory differences as well. And this definition is trying to put to words that kind of amorphous understanding of the differences between those kinds of systems. Like for just clear examples, on one side of the line versus the other, I launch a completely immutable smart contract and that's it. There's nothing I can do.
00:41:28.520 - 00:41:51.504, Speaker A: It's going to be the same forever. Obviously, I don't have independent control. On the other hand, if I launch a smart contract where I have complete ability to change any part of it at any time, then I do have control over that smart contract and any person's value that's in it, which would clearly be on the other side of the line.
00:41:52.404 - 00:42:46.490, Speaker C: I wonder, how do you see the one. I mean, it's an election year, which is difficult. And Jake had a really good tweet about this today. Usually it's slow to get any reception or anything done, but I'm curious if you think of other, like, what does the year look like? Or from your standpoint, what are some of the things that you can continue to do? And you mentioned you do not work, not just in the US. Other countries, other places seem to be more friendly towards Defi. So how much of this is an effort to convince or win a battle in the US? Because all the other countries are on hold, because the US still has a lot of weight and if there are other solutions or things that you guys are focused on.
00:42:46.602 - 00:43:23.066, Speaker D: Yeah, so there are two other parts of the framework, though. Like the control is just meant to answer that question. I think, as Miller was saying, for something like a uniswap, which is genuine defi, we've proposed that it fall under the remit of something called the Office of Cybersecurity and Critical Infrastructure protection in the United States. It's under the Treasury Department. It also is part of what is called CISA, the Cybersecurity and Information Security Agency, which falls under the Department of Homeland Security. There are a number of different types. There are 16 different sectors in the US that are thought of as critical.
00:43:23.066 - 00:44:29.336, Speaker D: Farming and agriculture, transportation, communications, and of course, financial services, and then a few other healthcare things like that. So critical infrastructure for transportation is something like trains and railways that take people around the world, airlines, things like that. And the software underlying sort of the airline schedules and the train schedules. Same thing with the way financial services works today. Even like, cloud service providers who host servers for, like, Goldman Sachs are thought of as, you know, providing critical infrastructure for a critical sector. And so we proposed that genuine defect, to the extent it rises to the level of being so vital for us, national and economic importance and security be thought of as critical infrastructure as well. An OSIP, even though it's falling within the remit of the Treasury Department, is not a regulator, doesn't oversee all financial and only financial institutions, but what it does is it takes and aggregates information and it pushes information out in a way that is meant to be extremely collaborative.
00:44:29.336 - 00:45:11.144, Speaker D: There was actually a hearing at one point about whether CISA and all of its sort of sister agencies or divisions should be regulators. And they literally came out and said in a congressional hearing, like, we don't want to be made or turned into a regulator. We'll stay this agency because we can't be as effective. If people are worried about there being like teeth, that they're going to get pulled in for enforcement, if they don't abide by cybersecurity best practices, or don't do or look at the trends and typologies for different types of threat actors to software under, like, right. Somebody could shut down all sorts of systems. There's this. Not to talk about competing podcasts, but there's a podcast called the Lazarus Heist, which is really, really interesting.
00:45:11.144 - 00:46:10.386, Speaker D: And it's two seasons, and it goes through all the different types of software systems that Lazarus has hit, including things like, yeah, sure, we all talk about it with crypto, but they've been everywhere, right? Like, they shut down all of Warner brothers in a way that I thought was like, way scarier than, like laundering, supposedly laundering crypto through tornado cash. And so the same would be true. So if there was like, an incoming from Lazarus for something like the banks or two banks, OSIP, this office of Cybersecurity and critical Infrastructure protection would like, call some cisos of a bank. And one of the questions we've gotten about this part of, you know, genuine defi being critical infrastructure, people have said, like, well, if these are really permissionless systems, who are going to call, right, like, most regulators, not just in the US, but worldwide, keep saying, like, who are we going to hold responsible? Like, there has to be a responsible person. We can't have this otherwise. And I think the way OSOP does it is it pushes this information out, which says, like, here are the things that. And the ways people can do it.
00:46:10.386 - 00:47:27.598, Speaker D: Now, you may not be able to call every CISo because that just may not, like a CISo of a devco who developed a genuine Z Fi protocol may not be able to do anything. But I think for what OSIP does over and over, they will know how to bring this forward and also learn who you can call. One of the other things that OSIP does is it has an information sharing group, the financial services ISAC, and there is definitely an effort to create a crypto ISAC. And so I think a lot of the work that people have been doing in the space, too, to create these cybersecurity frameworks, to create isacs, things like that will really get turbocharged by OSIP. And then the last part, and then we'll get to your question about, like, what could we do in the US this year versus somewhere else? And Miller is really well poised to talk about that. The third part of the framework proposes a new category of something called critical communications transmitters, what we call CCT's. And those are basically service providers who are running a business and who are both necessary for the transmission of communications about a DeFi transaction and transmitting a material portion of those.
00:47:27.598 - 00:48:28.968, Speaker D: Now, people have asked well, who would be a CCT? And I think the RPC nodes as a service providers are probably CCT's. We say that there needs to be new legislation to basically give FinCEN authority to regulate these ccts, not as financial institutions. Michael is always big on this, as am I, but really, really not as financial institutions, but as being in this gateway. And you'll see there's actually like a DeFi graphic in the paper and as, in a big version of it as an appendix. And you can see that they are this gateway between sort of the liveness of a DeFi transaction, right, as it goes through, like all the different software components of what we think of as DeFi systems. It's the gateway down to the settlement layer, to the blockchain where you can have finality of your DeFi transactions and they won't have KYC information. And that's not what we propose, but they are having this constant flow of information for, for a material portion.
00:48:28.968 - 00:49:22.770, Speaker D: Right, of DeFi transactions. And what I will say in giving some of the blockchain analytics companies credit is they have this wallet risk scoring system that takes all this to go back to your transparency point, takes all the information that you can see on chain and talks about sort of what wallets are higher risk than others. Right? Like my very basic wallet that I spin up today and do nothing with probably a zero, a wallet that just did a transaction through tornado cash. Probably very high. I don't know what they rate it, but well above five, probably close to ten. And so whatever the regulations come out to be, you could have it so that these ccts are blocking transactions off from high risk wallets and then auto generating reports that go to Fincen that have things like wallet id, transaction hash. Not all, not all RPC nodes have ip addresses.
00:49:22.770 - 00:50:02.838, Speaker D: So you wouldn't necessarily have that. You could have time and stuff like that. And even to your point, okay, maybe you could see that and see high risk wallets on blockchain day to day, but this would be real time information going to FincEn that could then be pushed out to law enforcement in a much stronger and quicker way. So it's really meant to be this like very comprehensive and pretty realistic and also very effective framework for thinking about DeFi without, as we all said, defaulting into, well, who's the financial institution here? When really it's all software. Give it to me. Give me the hard stuff.
00:50:02.966 - 00:50:05.358, Speaker C: No, no. Miller, you want to add anything to that?
00:50:05.486 - 00:50:06.274, Speaker A: Nope.
00:50:08.494 - 00:50:27.414, Speaker D: Why don't you talk about. I mean, can we do any. I think the. What can we do with this question is a. Is a good one. I've been on the hill since we put it out. Michael has been speaking, Michael Moser has been speaking to a number of his government contacts still.
00:50:27.414 - 00:51:18.044, Speaker D: We are talking to regulators all over the world about it. Look, it's the beginning of a conversation. I think we need to hear both from industry and from regulators and policymakers about concerns, ways to make it better, where they think there may not be efficiencies. But I do think that there is a lot of appetite for things like this. And I would encourage people to be working on these ideas and putting them out there for public consumption and discussion. Because the more we see, like, we are really trying to work together to get this issue, I'm putting it in air quotes, under control, the better off we'll be from a long term perspective. But I'd love to see more stuff like this and a broader and deeper conversation with other ideas.
00:51:18.944 - 00:52:27.186, Speaker C: So what is circle and Coinbase's role in all of this? I mean, I think when I hear all of this, I think of USDC as initially it was very controversial amongst a very utopian, impractical cohort within the crypto community. I remember trying to onboard it as collateral for maker and it was highly contentious. Now it's the more along the tron, the like, the most widely used stable coin, you know, in tether. But like, USCC can be censored. You know, a lot of when these hacks happen, most recently, like Ripples, one of Ripple's co founders, like, you can freeze these things, right? Of course, there are ways by which these illicit actors can very quickly turn and swap a USDC to, I don't know, a more censorship resistant asset, if you will. But I think the market is telling you they don't necessarily care as much about this censorship resistance. It gets talked about a lot, but DeFi is still very much an experiment.
00:52:27.186 - 00:53:16.682, Speaker C: And I guess, like, the things that have gotten the most amount of traction are not pure censorship resistant things. It's like USDC just works and people want to use it. I've long held a view that we're going to see hybrid environments when I mean hybrid, sort of like a system where you're relying on the execution on a base layer that is as decentralized, as robust as Ethereum or Solana or bitcoin coin. But you have a layer on top where there is more control, there is more, you know, you know, who your counterparty is. Like, realistically, if you're going to have a JP Morgan and Goldman do stuff on chain. They want to know who their counterparty is. Potentially only operating pools of liquidity where they know exactly who else is in that pool.
00:53:16.682 - 00:54:17.236, Speaker C: You know, we've had instances of this compound try to do it and then kind of didn't go anywhere, but like Aave arc, and then you have l two s that are like potentially base, I think, of, or kinto. And if you fast forward 510 years from now, we're probably going to see the most amount of activity in these type of systems. Just because that's where the most amount of liquidity happens. Probably the better products happen, everything else just becomes more and more marginalized and more cumbersome to operate in. And so that may just be the solution where the market solves it, because that's where things are going. If you're going to operate in this corner of the world of defi that is pure, then there's not much to do. And if you're operating there, then it places a huge target on your back that you're clearly there because you may just be doing illicit stuff and you wouldn't want that, right? I remember funds that held zcash.
00:54:17.236 - 00:54:54.040, Speaker C: If you blinded, if you shielded your z cash, it would have gotten a knock on your door pretty quickly because very few people were shielding Zcash before it was by default. So, yeah, Monero got delisted recently. So I don't know, like, it's a bit of a rant, but like, I'm curious if this is something where things just, you know, the things that get the most amount of traction are ones where regulators have much more comfort in to have some sort of degree of control, as you alluded to, implement some of these, like, systems that you're talking about.
00:54:54.232 - 00:55:30.734, Speaker D: Yeah, I think on, like, what role does a coinbase or a circle have? They are the intermediaries and so they are regulated. And today, as money services businesses that do have to comply with the Bank Secrecy act. And they have money transmission laws, money transmission licenses in various states, and we've seen them all getting licensed all over the world. I think on the DeFi as an experiment, and I think I can speak for Miller and he will certainly speak for himself after this. It's some of the most exciting things of what could happen here. Right. This is where there will be a lot of change.
00:55:30.734 - 00:55:55.854, Speaker D: Change and promise not only, but I think if Defi is done right, there's a lot of greatness that can come from it. And so I think figuring out some of the answers to the hard questions first, which, by the way, doesn't typically happen in regulation or in tech. But I think having to figure out an answer to this question will allow things to really move forward from a long term perspective with Defi.
00:55:56.374 - 00:56:26.112, Speaker A: Yeah, I think. I think your, your rant is how you described it was on point. I think the beauty of permissionless tech is that people can use it and use it for applications in different ways and however they want to. If you want to use USDC, a permissioned asset, have at it. If you want to use a permission pool, have at it. If you want to deploy permissionless pool, the better, too. I think it's.
00:56:26.112 - 00:57:22.184, Speaker A: I think the beauty of this technology is that, number one, folks can do that. And number two, those worlds or those conceptions of defi can coexist. And I think we shouldn't be afraid of that. It's not all or nothing. You know, we can have completely permissionless protocols only using permissionless assets. And as long as people retain the ability to use those, in my opinion, why not have folks have the option to use permissioned pools or permissioned assets, which, as you mentioned, there is clearly demand for. I think we shouldn't forget that different conceptions of this technology's application is, can coexist and is a key feature of the tech itself.
00:57:22.184 - 00:57:24.584, Speaker A: And we should welcome that.
00:57:26.644 - 00:57:50.856, Speaker C: Yeah, no, absolutely. And I don't mean to. I mean, I'm a strong believer in d five s, using it way back in the day. And, you know, I totally agree with you. I mean, there should always be the freedom to interact and like with, and write code. You know, that is, you know, permissionless, if you will. And that guarantee is really strong.
00:57:50.856 - 00:58:29.874, Speaker C: If you're interacting in a protocol that, you know, can't be controlled, corrupted, then that's, that's super powerful. That's why, that's why we do this. Otherwise, go back to using the traditional financial system. But yeah, I am just struggling to see how we. I mean, I think, Rebecca, to your point, this scenario where, you know, we could use a bit more funding to iterate and build solutions, that something, the more sophisticated, more real time that satisfies some of the kind of concerns of regulators worldwide, I think that's a big opportunity.
00:58:31.614 - 00:58:55.986, Speaker D: And look, this framework that we put out isn't. It's not the only thing. It's complemented by so much. Look, to your point, just even about stable coins and thinking about how important they are in Defi, there's a lot that can be done there. Just thinking about that too. So as I said before, this paper is the start, it's not the end. Hopefully we'll see traction.
00:58:55.986 - 00:59:24.256, Speaker D: Hopefully what we'll really see is people taking a step back and thinking like, okay, this is a new system. We actually know what to do with software. We've been doing it. Right. Like Michael will say a lot when we're talking about what Osep actually has done. If there's a, if there's an incoming threat from Lazarus, they don't necessarily call the CIso of Goldman Sachs or they may call the Ciso of Goldman Sachs and AWS or whoever provides some of their cloud services or whoever, you know, provides service for Goldman Sachs and they bring them in. Right.
00:59:24.256 - 00:59:59.374, Speaker D: Because we're talking about software and it just, we know what to do. And so hopefully, hopefully the paper will get people to take a step back. And look, regulating new systems is really, really hard. And not just right now, but it has been historically right. Usually markets happen and then the regulation builds up around it. And we're seeing some of that now. And some of, I think, the hangover from not regulating web two in an immediate sense on questions of privacy and stuff like that is, is catching up with web3.
00:59:59.374 - 01:00:14.554, Speaker D: Right. So we already have, we haven't regulated web two properly. And as I said, I think some of that we've already now moved on to like a new iteration of the Internet and we're trying to, I guess, figure out what to do here.
01:00:15.134 - 01:00:36.910, Speaker A: Yeah. We are on a multi decade journey here. I don't know if that's a blessing or a curse. But, Sanjay, I feel you're struggling over there. And I think everyone, you know, is struggling to come up with good answers to a completely novel problem. And that's going to take a while to figure out. So we're definitely at the beginning of the journey.
01:00:36.910 - 01:00:41.942, Speaker A: And even though there's not like clear light at the end of the tunnel yet, that's okay.
01:00:42.118 - 01:01:37.614, Speaker C: Yeah, I want to transition into, look, I don't mean to sound, for the purposes of this discussion, I am taking kind of the opposite view or the more critical view because this is something that our listeners are probably just wondering. Right. But nonetheless, I mean, I think the hope that I have, and time and time again during this regulatory series, we've, I believe that I have hope in the court systems of, and that's what makes democracies great. And there have been really encouraging developments on that front. You know, across a number of different cases, the courts have, you know, really asserted, you know, what is the jurisdiction of these agencies and what is an overreach. And I think that's been largely favorable to crypto. And so most recently, I would love to talk about kind of this proposed rule, the SEC around, like, so maybe Miller or Rebecca, whoever wants to give an overview would be great.
01:01:39.074 - 01:02:34.018, Speaker D: Yeah. The one thing I'll say, just as we're transitioning out of the illicit finance question back into the securities laws in a, in a place where all comfortable, I think, and thinking about it is courts have been great on traditional markets and consumer protection questions with respect to, like, our crypto is crypto security. Those guys are token securities, whatever. When it comes to national security, our agencies have massive power and huge discretion to do things that are for the benefit of us, national security and economic security. And so I think coming up with proactive solutions before we have to. And look, some of it is being tested in court with the existing tornado cash litigation that's out there. I think coming up with proactive solutions is something that should be at the forefront of everybody's mind.
01:02:34.018 - 01:02:38.314, Speaker D: But, Miller, take us home with the dealer rule. Sure.
01:02:38.434 - 01:03:49.464, Speaker A: So it is a final rule as of yesterday, unfortunately no longer a proposal. But what the SEC is doing here is the SEC, one of the business archetypes, I suppose, they regulate our securities dealers. Those are businesses that, as a business, buy and sell securities with counterparties, and they are historically regulated by the SEC under the Exchange act. The SEC is redefining what it means to be a dealer in a way that is far broader than it used to be. It used to be pretty clear cut. Are you in the business of making a market in a security? If so, then you are most likely a dealer that needs to register with the SEC. They have now finalized a rule that would make that concept far more ambiguous, to include those persons who are engaging in trading activity that has the effect of providing liquidity to the market, which, of course, any single trade does.
01:03:49.464 - 01:05:31.284, Speaker A: So it, in my mind, is part and parcel. Or another example of the SEC redefining its remit in a way that is ambiguous, such that they can ad hoc enforce those rules and do so in a way that surprises people. The underlying ridiculousness, in my opinion, of this whole proposal when it comes to crypto is that yet again, the SEC is skipping over the core predicate question, the core predicate issue that for ten years they've known to be a problem, which is in the, in crypto, what is and is not a security. Because to the extent an asset is not a security, then you don't even need to be thinking about whether you're a dealer or not, under the SEC's regulations, they like to paper that over and say, you know, based on the facts and circumstances, you may or may not be a dealer based on the facts and circumstances around what assets you are touching. And if at any point in that chain of subjective analysis we disagree with you, you are going to be getting enforcement action. So it really is, in my mind, I think the SEC almost applying their crypto strategy to the broader capital markets. And while crypto is specifically called out, I think it's problematic for the entire securities markets.
01:05:31.284 - 01:06:14.474, Speaker A: And there has been robust comment on the rule from both Tradfi and folks in crypto. I think for DeFi specifically, the effects would be secondary in that the. Well, I suppose there's one area where it could be primary, which is if the SEC seat and knock on wood, it would be a stretch even for them. Claims an Amm pool itself is a dealer. But I think the more realistic take on how this rule would be weaponized against DeFi is to go after major participants.
01:06:16.334 - 01:06:18.954, Speaker C: Is the 50 million collective or individual?
01:06:19.494 - 01:06:47.800, Speaker D: It's individual, but the problem is it only applies to this rule. So basically it'll say you could still be, even if you fall under 50 million, you still fall under the old SEC jurisprudence and the court cases, which basically say you are a dealer. So I think the final rule doesn't fully exempt you if you're under 50 million. You know that themselves.
01:06:47.872 - 01:06:54.472, Speaker A: They say we are defining a dealer in this way, and even if you don't meet our definition, you still may be a dealer.
01:06:54.568 - 01:07:24.004, Speaker D: Yeah, yeah. And I know they do go, they did go on during the meeting yesterday to basically say, look, we're not, if you only develop software, you're not necessarily a dealer by itself. I don't know if I think that the effects are secondary. Fine, maybe software provide, maybe software developers themselves are not dealers, but I actually think the effects are very primary because it, it does what I think the SEC has been trying to do, which is to scare people out of participation.
01:07:24.124 - 01:07:27.060, Speaker C: Like who's going to lp into any pool, correct?
01:07:27.172 - 01:08:00.364, Speaker D: That's exactly right. So I think it is meant to look, it's the same as what they did in a lot of the exchange cases. Fine, they went after the exchanges, but a lot of the tokens they named as purported securities were l one and l two tokens. Right. Even just gas tokens because they wanted to restrict the usage. And I think this is intended to restrict the usage. And they are looking at backdoor ways to try to cut off the lifeblood of the industry and say a lot of what we were talking about right now, the promise of Defi is that I can be an LP.
01:08:00.364 - 01:08:01.064, Speaker D: Right.
01:08:01.684 - 01:08:03.948, Speaker C: You can be a market maker, like. And earn fees and like.
01:08:03.996 - 01:08:14.778, Speaker D: Yeah, yeah. And that's one of the ways they actually define somebody as a dealer, is if you read deep down and you know Defi, they're saying, if you get lP fees, then you are also a dealer.
01:08:14.946 - 01:08:21.666, Speaker C: Sure. You're facilitating liquidity. So, like, no matter how. What size, and this 50 million is just meant to be just right.
01:08:21.730 - 01:08:23.042, Speaker D: Your size doesn't have to be size.
01:08:23.098 - 01:08:40.278, Speaker C: Your size doesn't have to be size because maybe it's a percentage of the pool, or maybe it's like, as you. As you pointed out, if you're a dealer, you're a dealer. Doesn't matter what size. Like, that just falls under the old definition, which there's a whole precedent around that, and they can point to that. It's just been so erratic. So, yeah. Like, Jake had a good take.
01:08:40.278 - 01:08:57.374, Speaker C: You know, I retweeted him and he said, the heart of the matter here, I think, is the SEC versus Coinbase. Coinbase, obviously, in that battle, they are arguing that digital assets are not securities. So to your point, Miller, if these are not securities and there's no, like, this rule doesn't apply, they're not securities. Exactly.
01:08:57.414 - 01:08:57.854, Speaker A: Right.
01:08:57.974 - 01:09:05.764, Speaker C: So if you win that, then there would be, all of this would be largely irrelevant.
01:09:06.464 - 01:09:45.633, Speaker D: Well, the strange thing when you read the dealer rule is that you feel very gaslit, consistent with, I guess, how the industry has felt for a long time, because they're like, we've had many letters from people in the crypto asset space saying they don't want to have to comply to this rule. And it's like, well, no, what they actually said is we don't know which crypto assets are securities, so we don't know how we could comply with this rule. It's what everyone's been saying the whole time. And so I think that, you know, when Miller saying this has secondary effects, I think it's probably right. It does, because the primary effect is the same as everything else, which is we don't know. We don't know who this applies to. Like, does it apply to the.
01:09:45.633 - 01:09:46.533, Speaker D: I don't know.
01:09:46.573 - 01:09:50.405, Speaker C: Yeah. Uncertainty is problematic.
01:09:50.549 - 01:09:52.709, Speaker A: Yeah, it's the point for that.
01:09:52.741 - 01:09:55.905, Speaker C: Yeah, that's the whole point. That's a. That's a feature, not a bug.
01:09:56.069 - 01:09:58.454, Speaker D: Yes, that's right.
01:10:00.514 - 01:10:20.386, Speaker C: What's been the response or the. From your clients? Funds, I'm thinking, like, the jumps of the world. Or even in my former house, like, of course we did a lot of stuff on chain. I have heard a lot of funds stop voting. This has been for years now.
01:10:20.450 - 01:10:22.838, Speaker D: Yeah. Based on Uki or something like that.
01:10:22.946 - 01:10:55.530, Speaker C: Yeah, exactly. BSX or the. That dao. So, of course you pierced the veil of, you know, basically said the Dow is, you know, there's no protection there. And now, of course, this would be like, then who wants to provide liquidity on chain? Or even staking? Like, if you're staking your tokens, how is that potentially a dealer, too? Like, I don't know, like, re, like, restaking? Isn't that, like. Like, I know that's for security reasons, but that's also liquidity. Could they take even.
01:10:55.642 - 01:10:55.954, Speaker D: Yeah.
01:10:55.994 - 01:11:10.066, Speaker C: Stretch it as far into some, like, eigen layer? Even though our Eigen layer would attest, we're not. We're not here to. This is not a DeFi protocol. This is a security protocol infrastructure. But I don't know, like, look, not.
01:11:10.090 - 01:11:48.844, Speaker D: To bring it back to the paper, but, like, that's why calling these things what they actually are will allow you to put together both a practical and an effective regulatory framework. Right. If you keep calling something, you know, if you keep calling something something that it's not. Right. Keep saying validators are financial institutions, it doesn't make it true, just makes it. It just maybe helps you long term accomplish a goal of restricting usage of the technology. And that's why the paper is really, really tied to what the tech does and what we do with tech in the US today.
01:11:51.664 - 01:12:08.814, Speaker C: Well, I know we've been at it for a while. Any parting thoughts? And then also would love to give you guys an opportunity to shout out to encourage our listeners in ways that they can help. There's a lot going on under the hood. You guys are playing a huge role in that. Yeah.
01:12:10.234 - 01:12:11.574, Speaker D: Miller, take it.
01:12:11.954 - 01:12:41.478, Speaker A: Closing thoughts. I will reiterate that this is going to be a long journey, and I think it. I'm glad crypto is so focused on the regulatory situation. I think more investment in it is going to pay off over the long term. We need more folks working on all of these problems that are not going to resolve themselves. Second, to Rebecca's point, definitely we need more ideas out there. You know, I think crypto broadly is very good at saying that doesn't work.
01:12:41.478 - 01:12:51.474, Speaker A: That's stupid. You know, we're good at saying what not to do. And there's a dearth of good ideas about what to do.
01:12:52.854 - 01:13:10.446, Speaker D: I actually think there are lots of good ideas. I think people are really afraid to put them out there. I think crypto Twitter. I really steeled myself for crypto Twitter when we put this paper out, and I said, it's so important to put a new framework out there. I'll take whatever heat I get. Right. Like, and I think we all.
01:13:10.446 - 01:13:24.834, Speaker D: So I think there actually may be lots of good ideas. I think people may be afraid to put them out there. So I think reach out to Miller or me, but whomever, and think about the best, you know, to just talk about how to put certain ideas out there. So I. Sorry, I just wanted to put a fine point on that.
01:13:25.534 - 01:13:34.778, Speaker C: Look, I back today, they're one of my largest deals in the compliance sector. I think it's a huge opportunity.
01:13:34.866 - 01:13:36.734, Speaker D: Yeah. Yep, there is.
01:13:37.794 - 01:14:11.724, Speaker A: And the last thing I'll plug is we are co hosting with the Nier foundation and Solana foundation boot camps over the next year to give industry folks who know policy is important, but don't think about it all day, the rundown of what's important, what's not, and most importantly, how to be helpful and engage in the policy debate around crypto. So encourage folks to sign up for those boot camps, which we will probably be having for the foreseeable future.
01:14:11.884 - 01:14:13.308, Speaker D: Yeah, our next one.
01:14:13.356 - 01:14:13.932, Speaker C: Rebecca.
01:14:14.028 - 01:14:36.954, Speaker D: Yeah, go ahead. I just want to say our next ones are coming up. There are two in March, 1 in Paris, one in London, and then we're going to do series in consensus. And it's really cool because every time we do a bootcamp, we have somebody else new from the industry reaching out, asking to sort of co sponsor and co host. So it's really bringing together the industry. Like, the policy question does bring together the industry in a very serious way, which I find encouraging.
01:14:38.214 - 01:14:41.034, Speaker C: Do you think you have enough resources?
01:14:41.774 - 01:14:43.554, Speaker A: No, we don't.
01:14:44.894 - 01:14:49.018, Speaker C: You just said you're good. This is a long battle. So, like, you need to be funded for like 30 years.
01:14:49.146 - 01:14:49.858, Speaker A: Yes.
01:14:50.026 - 01:14:53.714, Speaker C: Like order, magnitude. Like, how bad is it?
01:14:53.834 - 01:15:26.184, Speaker A: The way to think about it is the crypto lobby spends about $15 to $20 million a year in total. And the traditional financial system, which we are trying to upend, spends over a billion a year on just lobbying and government relations. So there is a delta there that is in need of filling. We have four full. And there's a lot of problems to address.
01:15:26.924 - 01:16:06.774, Speaker C: This is a proposal, an idea I just had. So, like, we got end episode with a proposal, right? I've been sitting here like an idiot for every airdrop, every project should allocate a certain percentage of their total token supply to lobbying efforts. Slice it however you want. It can be, of course, the Defi education fund. It could be the blockchain association, all of them. But, like, if every project air drops 1% or some percentage basis points, whatever, it doesn't have to be a certain amount. But if we codify that, or as investors, we put, you know, we encourage our teams to do that, then.
01:16:06.774 - 01:16:36.790, Speaker C: Yeah, like. Like Vitalik at one point, you know, you remember when he donated a lot of the shib he got, and it was like a billion dollars or something, and then, you know, to India relief efforts. I mean, of course, I don't know if they liquidated the full billion. Like, maybe it was a fraction of that, but it's still a lot. So, yeah, I think it could be a good idea. The airdrop. Like, if you got help, if you were part of a boot camp or have received some help, then I think it's, you know, I'm going to tell.
01:16:36.822 - 01:17:04.776, Speaker D: You, anybody who loves Defi has received help from Miller, whether they and the Defi education fund and Amanda and all the whole staff there, whether they know it or not, because they've. You guys haven't seen all of it. But their amicus is. They have amicus and coinbase. They had an amicus and tornado cash. They had an amicus and a big case on privacy. Like, the things we fundamentally care about from a crypto native ethos is what underpins the Defi education fund.
01:17:04.776 - 01:17:10.528, Speaker D: So everybody should show, I know I'm a board member, and so I'm biased.
01:17:10.576 - 01:17:13.520, Speaker C: But, like, it's okay, you're allowed to shell. It's okay.
01:17:13.712 - 01:17:46.300, Speaker D: I shill very rarely, but I just think it's an important organization to donate to. And there are lots of ways to give. And I'll say this on the ideas thing. Like, fine, I took time out of my life, as did Mike and Katya, to write this paper, and it really was a blood, sweat and tears endeavor, but I don't know when I can do it again. Right? Like, I have a real day job and other things that I do. And we, as Miller and I both said, we need these things out there. Like a dedicated fellow, somebody who can really be working on these questions.
01:17:46.300 - 01:18:09.524, Speaker D: I mean, there is a lot to do. And as Miller sort of made clear, there's a huge delta between who's doing it in the traditional financial services world and who's doing it and how much of it is happening in crypto. So a lot of great work being done by the coinbases, other big vc's, but it takes a village and we should expand our village. So donating time, effort and money is really important.
01:18:10.544 - 01:18:36.338, Speaker C: Yep. Absolutely. Well, that's great. Well, that's good as any place to end it. Thank you so much for coming on. I know it's a lot to work through and we covered probably 5%, but, you know, hopefully we can continue to cover these things and surface them and really encourage people to help, not just with capital, but resources. And I think it's imperative any protocol, not just defi.
01:18:36.338 - 01:18:47.550, Speaker C: It touches everything. So, really, really great work that you guys are doing, Rebecca, and thanks for coming on and really sharing your thoughts. I really appreciate it and hopefully the audience found it useful.
01:18:47.682 - 01:18:53.594, Speaker D: So fun to chat, as always, Santa. We should. We should record one of our lunches and actually just put that in as a fun.
01:18:55.534 - 01:19:07.474, Speaker C: I'm not sure about that, but yeah, I'm happy to keep doing these regulatory series, Miller, always welcome to come on. It's great to have you on for the first time, but we like to have repeat it.
01:19:08.054 - 01:19:09.594, Speaker D: You've made it. That's right.
01:19:11.094 - 01:19:11.406, Speaker A: Yeah.
01:19:11.430 - 01:19:14.122, Speaker C: We probably should have had you sooner. So apparently apologies on our end.
01:19:14.258 - 01:19:15.754, Speaker A: Well, thanks for having me. Thanks.
