00:00:08.010 - 00:00:26.534, Speaker A: That's built on top of that ecosystem. So that's also something that introduces switching costs in crypto. Secondly, intangible assets, there's mostly just brand. I think copyright is not really a thing. Intellectual property is not really a thing. Clothes algorithms are not a thing. Right.
00:00:26.534 - 00:01:05.670, Speaker A: So I think there is essentially just brand. And I think that in crypto, in defi specifically, which is what I care about brand, just a proxy for how Lenly that asset has been around, how long has it been around with how much TVL, and henceforth how safe it is. If something has been around with billions of TVL for many years, the brand that that builds up, it's kind of like a proxy for the end user that it's safe, right. And that it hasn't been exploited so far. So it's probably less likely to be exploited in the future versus a new thing then. Lastly, network effects and efficient scale. I think these two boil down to liquidity network effects in crypto.
00:01:05.670 - 00:01:54.174, Speaker A: So these would be every LP in a Dex wants to be in the dex that gets the most trading volume, and any trader using a Dex wants to try in the dex where there's the most lps, right? So there's a lot of liquidity network effects that get established in crypto as well. And I think that's also just like in web two. The most important one, then syncing in the stack. I basically want to present a thesis that successful D five protocols want to sync in the stacks, meaning go down and become more defi infra for their specific vertical, instead of the deFi app, which is what they all start with. Right? And case studies for that. How's that happening now? I brought three, starting with Unisop. So Unisop V two is a very simple app.
00:01:54.174 - 00:02:28.118, Speaker A: I think it would be very easy to categorize unisop V two as just an application. Right. It's somewhere where you can go to LP and get some yield for your pairs, or somewhere where you can go and try one token for the other. There's not that much built on top of it. There's obviously a bunch of forks, but there's not like a full ecosystem built on top of just Uniswap V two and other default projects using that. However, Unisop V three, I think it's already a little bit below in the DFI stack or in the Amm stack in the sense that there's already some things built on top of it, right. There's, for example, liquidity managers.
00:02:28.118 - 00:03:21.210, Speaker A: Because the LP positions are concentrated, they're not full range, you kind of have to pick the price between which you're comfortable providing liquidity for that pair. And so a bunch of different liquidity management protocols have emerged. Let's say Iraqis gamma mellow finance and a couple others that just sit on top, right in the stack on top of UnisOp and allow lps to more efficiently or more easily manage those LP positions. And there's other things, right? I mentioned derivatives. For example, some people are trying to build derivative protocols that utilize the LP positions in UnisOp v three as their kind of like base asset and then use the buyoffs of those positions to try to build synthetic derivatives on top. So, for example, if someone lps into Uniswap V three, they're kind of like short volatility, right? If volatility happens, they lose money. And if volatility doesn't happen, they make money on the fees.
00:03:21.210 - 00:04:26.874, Speaker A: And then V four, the one that's going to launch this year, I think is a huge step in this direction of becoming more defi infra and not so much a defi app. Most of the people that are going to utilize Unisop V four, I think, are going to go via other things like Unisop X, which was also announced. And Unisop V four is built as something that is trying to become a priori defi infra for liquidity. The reason for that, they announced the concept of hooks, right? Hooks is just a piece of code that you can attach basically to any pool that's in UnisOp V four. And the idea is to have a bunch of different people that previously would have built other separate project or other separate dexes or Dex designs, just take those ideas and build on top of Unisop V four and just add to the amount of things that are built on top of that and to the modes of the Dex. Then Morpho. Morpho started out as a simple app that optimized the rights of lending and borrowing assets on ave and compound, right? So some of the assets would get matched peer to peer instead of peer to pool.
00:04:26.874 - 00:05:38.914, Speaker A: And the percentage of assets that would get matched peer to peer would get a little bit better yield both on the borrowing angle as well as on the lending angle. This is a very simple app, right? And it's something that's very obviously built on top of another project, right? Because of these, obviously their growth and even their moat would kind of be limited to whatever the underlying projects would have as well, right? They wouldn't be able to grow beyond what Tavi has in terms of TVL, or what compound has in terms of TVL. So the new product from Marfo Morpho Blue announced a few months ago, it's basically a lending primitive in this chart. It sits below where Aven compound fit, where aven compound are still relatively close to the app layer, right? They still manage risk, they're still very much so user facing and all of the aspects that would make something an app. But Morpho Blue is much more of a primitive, very simple code, very low amount of lines of code, and something that is designed, again just like unisop before, for people to build on top of. So the idea is that there's going to be these things called metamorpho vaults. There's already some of them which are going to be lending market implementations built on top of the primitive, which is morphoblue.
00:05:38.914 - 00:06:21.958, Speaker A: And then these ones are the ones that sit at the same layer in the stack, Azavin compound. And then lastly, the last example, Dydx. Dydx, obviously one of the major burp dexes, DrDX V three, for example, was something that was built already on an l two, but on Starkx, which was a specific type of l two, that was itself built on top of ethereum being a layer two, right? And it was super successful. Right. The product was super successful dy the xv three. But at some point they decided to sync and build their own chain called Dydx chain, which doesn't rely on Ethereum and doesn't rely on Starkx. And there's a bunch of reasons for that as well.
00:06:21.958 - 00:07:03.870, Speaker A: One of the main ones is that they get to control more of the stack, right. It's almost a vertical integration where they're not just an app that has revenues and as users, as an app, but they're also a chain that already has a lot of demand because of the app demand itself. But it is also going to capture value at the chain level and is more defensible like that too. There's a bunch of other examples. Obviously this is a very short presentation, 20 minutes. So I couldn't be able to just list all of them. But I think once you start looking at DFI and defi strategy through this lens of every app wanting to sync and becoming more like defi infra instead of a defi app, you start seeing it everywhere.
00:07:03.870 - 00:07:36.622, Speaker A: So micro synthetics and lido are other examples that are pretty much as good as these ones presented. And then, just as a recap, why and how. Right. The thesis that we're trying to defend is that successful DeFi protocols want to sink in the stack. And why? And how. The why is because the deeper you are in the stack, the deeper your mode is as well. We've seen how modes from traditional businesses translate into crypto businesses or crypto protocols, and having things built on top of you, having other projects integrate you.
00:07:36.622 - 00:08:55.650, Speaker A: It's much easier if you're a defi infra than if you're a defi app, obviously. And then secondly, obviously you can capture more of the value, which is what happens. And if we believe in the fat protocol thesis that we saw in the beginning, things that sit lower in the stack are valued by the market, and empirically they are in fact higher than things that sit on top of that infra and higher in the stack. So both because of moat building ideas and there's a moat building strategy, as well as from a value capture perspective and from a valuation perspective, I think those are the two whys, why this thesis has been playing out, and why I think it will continue to play out over the coming years, and then how we've seen three different approaches. The first one, Uniswap, I think is more gradual, eventually becoming a little more complex, and relying on additional project and additional builders to build on top of it, just because the full fledged version would be too complex to build as an app in itself. Then we saw Morpho, which initially just launched something built on top of another DeFi project, and then decided to basically take two steps in that syncing strategy and become something that other lending markets could be built on top of. So basically becoming as deep as possible in their own defi vertical, which is lending and borrowing.
00:08:55.650 - 00:09:39.302, Speaker A: And then we lastly saw Duidx, which was a perpstex and now is a perpstex, but also a blockchain in itself, the Duridx chain. So these are like three hows or three different examples of how the syncing in the stack can happen and is happening. And this is essentially our thesis. And my thesis is that DeFi projects will most likely all start out as end user apps, achieve product market fit that way, achieve scale users, all of that. And then when they're starting to think of how does this become something bigger that captures more value and that's more defensible over the long term, they'll start considering how they can sync in the stack of their own, specifically five vertical. And that's the presentation. Thank you for the time.
00:09:39.302 - 00:09:51.780, Speaker A: If you guys want to reach out, this is my email. This is also the fund that I work at Cherry Crypto seed stage fund, mostly based in Europe, but investing globally. So feel free to check us out, and feel free to reach out to me as well. Thank you so much.
