00:00:00.280 - 00:00:20.022, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 14 December 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I saw some comments on yesterday's video about my room and how it's looking quite bearish. Get it? Bear bearish. Pretty bad dad joke there.
00:00:20.022 - 00:00:54.664, Speaker A: But it's because as you all know, I am moving houses. I'm actually moving in this week on Saturday. So pretty, pretty much like everything or most things are in boxes at this point. I put out this tweet today where I said it's taken me five days and over 30 boxes to pack all my figurines, you know, all the ones in here, all the ones, all the big ones that some of you may have seen on Twitter. And that's because I basically had to bubble wrap them all, obviously make sure they're not going to be damaged in transit and all that stuff. So as I, you know, mentioned a few weeks ago, this room is just going to pretty much like whittle down to nothing by the last refill, which will obviously be on Friday. The last refill in this room, not the last refill ever.
00:00:54.664 - 00:01:21.556, Speaker A: And then next Monday, the refuel will be in my, in my new place. It feels a bit weird, like, as I keep packing up things and taking things out, you can see the glass cabinet behind me is out of this room. The room feels, like very big now. It's a tiny room, but it feels big because it's just been crowded for, for a very long time. But yeah, that's, that's the reason why it's, uh, you know, all this stuff's gone. I haven't sold the figurines to buy more ether or anything like that. It's a good theory, though, right? Um, but yeah, that's why it's kind of looking at like, looking like this.
00:01:21.556 - 00:01:59.562, Speaker A: But yeah, just wanted to kind of clarify that for all the comments I saw, but I knew anyway, onto the news from last 24 hours. So ar, from the Ethereum foundation kind of shared this blog post today, I think today or yesterday. I mean, it was fairly recent where she announced the client incentive program. Now this is a new program from the Ethereum foundation to basically support Ethereum client teams. Now, there's going to be nine teams that are part of this program base who? Aragon, Geth, Lighthouse, Lodestar, Nethermind, Nimbus, prism, taker. So these are the clients that are supported. And then you know, obviously the teams building the clients are going to be the ones receiving their support.
00:01:59.562 - 00:02:45.304, Speaker A: Now what I find really cool about this is the support is coming in the form of validators. So the Ethereum foundation is going to give 144 validators to each of these teams, which equates to 4608 ETH each, about $18 million at current price of ETH each to operate on Mainnet for these clients to encourage things like client diversity and stuff like that. And then the ETH withdrawal, sorry, the withdrawal keys for the ETH will be vested out over time or like several years as milestones are hit. So milestones like the, with beacon chain withdrawals being enabled, sharding being delivered like client support, all that good stuff there. So that's a lot of ETH, right, for the team. These teams aren't that large. It's usually like five or ten people working on the core protocol stuff itself from each of these teams.
00:02:45.304 - 00:03:25.822, Speaker A: So that's a really, really awesome incentive for them. And the reason why I think that it's an awesome incentive is twofold. One, they get ETH, right? I mean it's in addition to getting fiat for their work, they should also get ETH because that aligns their incentives a lot better with the Ethereum network, of course, and it gives them a direct stake in the success of the Ethereum network. But also the Ethereum foundation is giving them validators. Now validators don't just sit there and do nothing, right? They secure the chain, they secure the network and they get rewarded for that. So essentially these client teams are going to be rewarded with block rewards from these validators even before uh, uh, kind of like the ETH get, you know, all the ETH gets vested out. And then once withdrawals are enabled they'll have that ETH coming in as passive income.
00:03:25.822 - 00:04:03.558, Speaker A: And then obviously uh, post merge they'll also have uh, uh, fee revenue coming in as well. So all the fee revenue that's not burnt to the tips, which is an amazing passive income source for these teams basically forever. I mean, you know, it's funny, like the, the teams will, will decide I guess, what happens to this ETH amongst them and things like that. Uh, will they kind of like sell some of it? Will they, will they keep all of it as validators? You know, who knows? Maybe, maybe they just keep it as validators and sell the rewards and sell the fees. That's a, that, you know, that's a perfectly logical kind of path to take. But I just think it's, it's just really awesome that these teams now have, I mean, they, they already do have, I guess like a direct stake in ETH. Obviously.
00:04:03.558 - 00:04:54.474, Speaker A: You know, the Delaware community, we donated almost 20 ETH two core developers last week as part of the NFT drop that I did, and that was part of the open grants thing, which already has thousands of ETH in there, kind of like vesting out to teams over time. And this is just, you know, on top of all the other support that these client teams have gotten, both from places like, you know, Gitcoin grants, matching the Ethereum ecosystem support program, which is also run by the EF, any income that they generate on their own as part of other activities that they do. I know a few of them do kind of like auditing services and stuff like that. So there's a lot of funding going towards core developers now, which is absolutely amazing and not just with fiat funding, but with ETH as well because that's what we want. We want them to have ETH. We want them to have a direct staff in the network because at the end of the day, the core developers are playing a major role in kind of like driving value to ETH. I mean, they're the reason ETH two kind of like went live, of course, or sorry, the beacon chain went live.
00:04:54.474 - 00:05:18.806, Speaker A: They're the reason all the network upgrades happen. They're the reason the network doesn't kind of like die and fall over. They're going to be the reason that the merge goes through and sharding and all that sort of stuff. And that all adds a lot of value to ETH. I mean, just look at ERP 1559. That was, you know, it was up to the core devs to research that, to kind of like develop it to make sure everything kind of like went smoothly. And that obviously has directly contributed to its value, you know, since it went live even before that.
00:05:18.806 - 00:06:03.192, Speaker A: Same with the beacon chain and staking and all that good stuff there. So they should definitely have a vested interest in it. And not only should they have a vested interest in ETH itself, but through these validators, they also have a vested interest in kind of like the passive income coming in with these validators. And we get to kind of like, you know, have a, have a more diverse client ecosystem and have them funded as well. So I am incredibly kind of like bullish on this initiative. I really, really like it because it's funny, there are a lot of debates during, I guess, the bear market of how to fund core developers. There are a few ideas floated like block reward funding, which is essentially something where you take a percentage of the network block rewards and you allocate it to some kind of like Dao or some kind of like multisig, and that would get vested out to teams over time.
00:06:03.192 - 00:06:26.268, Speaker A: There are issues with this. If you're going to do this, it needs to be done. From Genesis, I believe doing it kind of like halfway through, it's not really the best way to go about it, I don't think. And the community basically had that sentiment. That's why it never happened. We've obviously had gitcoin grants, matching rounds be pretty, pretty great for these teams. Vitalik donated ETH to these teams back when ETH was basically worth, like, hardly anything to the ETH, two teams.
00:06:26.268 - 00:06:54.656, Speaker A: I think he donated 1000 ETH to all the main ETH, two teams at the time, or at least most of them. And at the time it wasn't worth much because I think ETH was 100 or $200. And, you know, if they held onto that ETH since then or, you know, as much as they could have, they've done very well there and have a pretty, you know, pretty healthy treasury. So we have just so much really, really cool stuff going into the Ethereum core development ecosystem right now. So much, so much funding heading that. Heading that way. And I can't wait to see, you know, any future initiatives that.
00:06:54.656 - 00:07:22.120, Speaker A: That are kind of like, come to, come to play here because the Ethereum foundation seemed to really be stepping up their game. They're being, you know, very transparent about this as well. So, you know, you might see fud on Twitter sometimes about the core devs aren't compensated enough. I actually think they, they are. The. But the thing with the core devs is that, like, it's not money that's the issue, I don't believe. I think what the issue is is just that the personnel, the human capital, it's very, very difficult to find good core developers and good core researchers.
00:07:22.120 - 00:07:58.020, Speaker A: There's obviously these programs that have been spun up in the past. I've gone through them before, the core dev apprenticeship programs, to get more people on board. Um, and. But the money's there, right? In one way or another, the money is definitely there. But as I said, there's the fiat side of it, then there's kind of like the ETH denominated side of it. And you definitely want these people to have a direct vested interest in ETH. And with, you know, by awarding them validators, they not only have a direct vested interest in ETH, but they also have a direct vested interest in making sure the network stays decentralized and secure and healthy and all that stuff for their own kind of like, benefit as well, which they've already been doing, but it just kind of like, adds another layer on top of that.
00:07:58.020 - 00:08:35.190, Speaker A: So really, really great to see this new initiative launched by the Ethereum foundation. I'm looking forward to seeing kind of like how this plays out and what other kind of like, ways they, they add to this in the future. So a new conference was announced yesterday, Devconnect, which is a week long gathering in Amsterdam featuring independent Ethereum events, each with a unique focus. Devconnect aims to bring people together in April 2022 to learn and make progress together. So Devconnect is, I believe, happening April 22, 24th or something like that. During that kind of like week there in Amsterdam. I am most likely going to this one.
00:08:35.190 - 00:09:02.884, Speaker A: I have never been to Amsterdam. I've heard only good things about it. I have friends there, definitely want to go to this. So I, you know, when I saw this today, I was like, this is awesome. Like, this just, this sounds like it's going to be one of the, one of the premier Ethereum events because it's being run by the Ethereum foundation and the kind of like Devcon, the Devcon team of the Ethereum foundation as well. So I think it's going to be a big deal. I think it's going to be pretty much like a mini devcon, I guess you could say.
00:09:02.884 - 00:09:23.116, Speaker A: Right. And Defcon still happening in late 2022 in Bogart and Columbia? I'm hoping to get out to that as well, but we'll have to see how it goes. I'm not sure what international travel is like from Australia to Colombia right now. There's obviously still COVID restrictions and things like that. So we'll have to see how that shakes out. Which brings me to, to a related topic. ETH Global announced all of their kind of 2022 events today.
00:09:23.116 - 00:10:12.144, Speaker A: So as I said, Amsterdam is, is going to be happening from the 22nd to the 24th, but there is so many other events happening. So if you go to this blog post here, they detail them all if it loads up for me here. So, yeah, ETH Amsterdam is in April. You have hack money in May, which is online focused, ethnwy in late June, Hackfs, which again is online in July, ETH Mexico City in August, mid mid August, ETH online in September, ETH San Francisco early November, ETH taipai, which I believe is new, which is early December, which is awesome because like, that's, that's quite close to me. I mean, these long haul flights are going to kill me. But anyway, ETH bogata, which is obviously kind of like Devcon, but like ETH Bugatti, is going to be running alongside Devcon in Q four of 2022. So a full, packed year of events.
00:10:12.144 - 00:10:33.240, Speaker A: I'm not going to go to all of them, of course. I'm definitely going to try to get to as much of them as I can. As I said, like, I'm definitely aiming to get to ETH Amsterdam. I'm definitely going to be in Denver in February, in May. I'm going to be in Florida for permissionless. So there's a fair few things happening next year in terms of, like, conferences and events, and I couldn't be more excited for this. So I'm hoping to see a lot of you there.
00:10:33.240 - 00:11:09.192, Speaker A: I know that my audience is global. I can see from kind of like, the metrics that I monitor, a lot of people are in the US, but, you know, a lot of people in Europe as well. Actually, a lot of Australians, too. You know, we're kicking above our average here in Australia. But essentially, I'm sure people are going to be traveling to these sorts of things, especially people that have been locked down in certain countries, like in Australia. I mean, I know that we're all itching to go and travel internationally, especially to the more exotic locations like Amsterdam and ones that we haven't been to before. I've only been to a few locations overseas, San Francisco, Berlin, Japan, and that's really it, I guess.
00:11:09.192 - 00:11:36.650, Speaker A: Like Denver, of course, but like, yeah, I haven't been to like, a lot of these places, like Amsterdam and Florida and New York and Mexico City and San Francisco and Taipai and Bogarta. Yeah. So that's going to be a very interesting year. I hope to see as many of you there as possible. Always fun meeting people in real life. It's a very different vibe to online, of course, especially after all of us kind of like, sat inside for the better part of the last two years because of the COVID stuff going on. It's going to be great to see everyone at these events.
00:11:36.650 - 00:12:21.578, Speaker A: So, yeah, looking forward to seeing you all at these events next year. So, Pauline, I gave a really great summary today of that podcast with Hazu and Suzu on uncommon core. I'm sure you know the podcast I'm talking about, it's the one where Hazu and Suzu debates, essentially Ethereum and other l one s, which is kind of like the TL too long didn't listen. Now, I am not going to watch or listen to it because I, like, I had certain people kind of like, summarize it for me already. I don't feel like I would get anything out of it if I listened to it myself. And, you know, the arguments, from what I saw, from what I. Yeah, from what I saw basically boiled down to sue just being a profit maximalist, which he is, because he's a fund manager, and Hazu basically being a tech maximalist, which he is because he's a, you know, he's a researcher in this industry.
00:12:21.578 - 00:13:29.960, Speaker A: Now, obviously, having those two people kind of like, debate each other is going to be a weird kind of debate because it's essentially going to be two people that aren't, you know, they, they may have some kind of like, overlap in what they have in common, but they're fundamentally on different sides of, of, of the kind of like, spectrum in crypto, and that's totally fine. Like, I'm all for having healthy debates and things like that, but at the end of the day, I would have loved to have seen a debate between kind of like sue and like a, and like a developer, you know, or something, or kind of like, or maybe another trader or something like that who would take the ethereum side or anything like that. And like, and then like, how to, would debate a developer from another ecosystem or something, or a researcher from another ecosystem. It just, yeah, I mean, I get why they did it, and it's fine that they did it, but yeah, yeah, I just, from the summaries that I saw, it didn't seem like anything new under the sun for me. But Polly now put together a thread basically addressing some of the points made there around, kind of like how we've moved past roll ups are bad to roll ups are awesome, but only on l one bags I hold. And then in this thread, Polynya argues that the whole point of the modular architecture is the concept of l one s melt melts away. Right.
00:13:29.960 - 00:13:58.622, Speaker A: The concept of like, layer one blockchains melts away. And you have that settlement security data availability layer you have, and you have the execution layers and things like that. So this thread goes into great detail about that. I suggest you go give it a read here. But I think what I wanted to kind of like, just briefly touch on was this funny kind of narrative pivot recently. There is still kind of like, I guess, people in other ecosystems fighting roll ups. I know that Anatoly from Solana is not a fan of roll ups at all.
00:13:58.622 - 00:14:17.954, Speaker A: I mean, he thinks, I guess, I think he said they're cool tech, but he doesn't believe that they're kind of like the best solution. He obviously believes Solana is the best solution. And I also think Emon from Avalanche has given similar comments before, thinking that roll ups aren't the best solution and avalanche does. Avalanche's design is. That's totally fine. I mean, you know, people are free to believe what they want. Obviously.
00:14:17.954 - 00:15:03.084, Speaker A: I believe that the modular architecture is the best design and the smartest people I know believe it's the best design. So I'm sticking with that. But it's funny how we, you know, I guess like as a whole from the narrative point of view, we kind of like graduated from roll ups are bad to roll ups are awesome, but only on the l one bags I hold because, you know, I'm sure you've all seen the narrative these days of, oh, roll ups aren't exclusive to Ethereum. Any kind of like expressive chain or smart contract chain can have roll ups on them. And I've talked about this before and how I think that the argument is kind of like moot because if you're a roll up, you're going to basically settle on the most decentralized and secure base layer. Like, this really doesn't make any sense to settle anywhere else. So for the foreseeable future, and, you know, I guess, like for the long foreseeable future, that's going to be Ethereum.
00:15:03.084 - 00:15:21.756, Speaker A: And I don't think Ethereum is going to lose that mantle anytime soon. Will we see roll ups on other layer ones? Sure we will. I mean, other layer ones, you know, a lot of them are just. Just as permissionless to develop on as kind of like Ethereum is right where you can deploy anything you want on there. I'm sure we're going to see that happen. Is it going to make much sense? It remains to be seen. Are the developers even going to want to do it? Remains to be seen.
00:15:21.756 - 00:15:55.060, Speaker A: Like, anyone can fork the code and kind of like deploy say, an optimism fork or an arbitrary fork to one of these chains. But is it actually going to go anywhere? Not sure. Especially if these things have tokens. Right? If arbitrary optimism, Zksync, you know, all the other kind of like l two s have tokens, then those tokens are going to be exclusive to the core deployment and the forks are going to have their own token. So it's going to get messy for sure. I do believe we're going to see a lot of forks of l two s. We're going to see l two s on other chains, we're going to see, like, so much poly wars within different chains and different, like, l one's and l two s and all that sort of stuff.
00:15:55.060 - 00:16:37.454, Speaker A: It's just going to get ugly. But at the end of the day, betting on the developers, betting on where they're going to build, betting on kind of like their alignments, you know, as you guys know, there's a lot of teams within the Ethereum altoo ecosystem. They're incredibly aligned with Ethereum and don't, you know, really don't have any plans to go anywhere else. Betting on those kind of kinds of teams and people is the long term best strategy, even if we have, you know, see roll ups go live on other ecosystems. And I do believe that if these other ecosystems require roll ups to scale, that they're just kind of like, it's just pointless. Like, you know, as I mentioned before, something like Solana, their entire thesis is that they can do everything at layer one without sharding, without roll ups, without any L2 ecosystem, and still be decentralized and secure. They're not.
00:16:37.454 - 00:16:50.784, Speaker A: Right, for starters. I know I talk about that Solana, a fair bit, but I think it's a perfect example. They're not. And the network already buckles under the load a lot of the time. I mean, it doesn't, you know, lately it hasn't gone offline. Some people may have seen that. People say it goes offline.
00:16:50.784 - 00:17:31.967, Speaker A: I don't believe it goes offline completely, but it slows down, like to a crawl. So instead of kind of like the fees going up, it just starts dropping transactions. And, you know, people have lots of failed transactions. So it's funny how that kind of works where it's like on Ethereum, when the network kind of like, gets hit by a lot of activity, the fees go up, right? And essentially you just, you know, you can still get your transactions in, but you have to pay the high fee to do so. Whereas on Solana, when it gets hit with a lot of activity all at once, the chain basically just slows down. It's kind of like a web two platform where it'll kind of like monitor the traffic more closely to make sure that it can serve all the users and put them in kind of like a queue, or at least kind of like have some kind of quality of service mechanism in place. Whichever approach that you prefer.
00:17:31.967 - 00:18:06.534, Speaker A: I mean, I prefer the kind of like, hyphae approach at layer one, because at least you'd still be able to get your transactions in, especially if layer one, if the layer one is a settlement layer, we want to guarantee liveness, we want to guarantee people being able to get their transactions in if they want, especially l two s being able to get their transactions in. But there's other ecosystems that take a different approach here. And as I said, like they're fine to do that, they're free to do that. But I just don't think it is the right approach at all. And I think that it is long term, the worst approach, to be honest. I think long term the ethereum ecosystem is going to absolutely obliterate all these other ones. I think the multi chain world is ethereum.
00:18:06.534 - 00:18:45.156, Speaker A: L1 plus its l two s. I really don't believe we're going to be in a world where we have like 100 different evm side chains all kind of like suffering from their own kind of like issues event when they reach maturation or saturation. I just don't see that playing out at all. I see the l two s taking over relatively soon. I think 2022 is definitely going to be a very big year for l two s, especially when they have tokens. I see l one ethereum getting, you know, that much, much better with obviously the merge, Erp 4488 sharding all that sort of stuff. And I see these other l one s, some of them may survive for a little while, but a lot of them are going to end up like the 2017 era or 28 even 2018 era ones.
00:18:45.156 - 00:19:14.312, Speaker A: The that no one talks about anymore. I just, that's how I kind of like feel about the whole debate there. Can you make money on it in kind of like bullish periods? Sure. Like just like you can make money on anything in bullish periods. As I mentioned yesterday, if you had thrown a dart at a bloody, at a board that had the name of random token on it, and you invested in that token, nine times out of ten you would have made made money on it from January to May this year because the market was so hot. But the thing is, is that short term speculation and short term bullish gains, that's got nothing to do with fundamentals. That's just got to do with market speculation and activity.
00:19:14.312 - 00:19:40.456, Speaker A: If you want to bet on something, fundamentals wise, it's always the long term. Fundamentals do not play out over the short to medium term. It is always the long term. And for that you have Ethereum, you have l one and l two ecosystem, but you have a bunch of other things as well, which it's up to you to decide what you want to kind of put your money into, but anyway, I'm going to leave it at that. Got a bunch more stuff to get through. So an update here from the prismatic labs team. So this is an update on their pro labs client, of course, so or.
00:19:40.456 - 00:19:57.996, Speaker A: And also their team. So they've added four new teammates. They now have ten times optimizations for hashing operations, multi client end to end test suite and more in here. So this is also an update. It's been a pretty healthy update. Seven minute read. This update also covers the merge and kind of like on, you know, onwards towards the merge and what's coming there.
00:19:57.996 - 00:20:20.464, Speaker A: A bunch of other things like P two P and core optimizations, database optimizations and all that kind of stuff there. So if you're interested in kind of, I guess kind of checking this out, it'll be linked in the YouTube description. And also they, they kind of like go into detail about the four new team members that they've added as well. So always great to see new core developers come on board. Really, really awesome. They were able to hire four. That's, that's amazing.
00:20:20.464 - 00:20:33.800, Speaker A: Right? As I said, most of these teams only have like five to ten. I think some of them may have like ten to 20. It just depends on the team that you're looking at. Uh, but yeah, really, really cool to see uh, to see this kind of like update from Prilab. See it. Cool to see them add new team members. Definitely.
00:20:33.800 - 00:21:05.856, Speaker A: Go check this out. So the polygon version or I guess like Polygon ERP 15 upgrade has hit the Mumbai test net. So for those of you don't know, Erp 15 nine is coming to polygon, which is cool to see. So basically I don't remember if this is going to include the burn. I remember kind of talking about this on the refuel a few months ago where essentially there wasn't a burn. Kind of like the 159 style transactions would come to, to the polygon Pos chain. But I don't believe the, it would be burning matic.
00:21:05.856 - 00:21:21.680, Speaker A: Matic token. So just kind of like trying to read through it here to see maybe it. I think maybe it does because originally I don't think it would. Yeah, I think. I think this one will actually burn the tokens. Let me have a look here. The base fee changes do not lower pay since gas fees.
00:21:21.680 - 00:21:31.480, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm not, I'm not totally sure. I'm not kind of like reading it here, but I think. Yeah. The downside of fuel matic tones available because burn is more similar to lovers will give a boost. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So I'm not totally sure.
00:21:31.480 - 00:21:58.294, Speaker A: We'll double check on that. Maybe it's in here and I'm just not seeing it right now, but I don't want to spend too much time on that. But yeah. Cool to see the Pos chain adopting 1559 style transactions. I'm sure like other kind of like side chains and l two s are going to do this as well. And kind of like any EVM compatible chain can do this, which, you know, it just takes a matter of kind of like forking it and applying it to that chain. Makes sense because 1559 style transactions are better than the normal kind of like ethereum transactions we had before that.
00:21:58.294 - 00:22:38.374, Speaker A: And you also get the bonus kind of like burn, which, I mean, look, on networks that are offering kind of like really cheap fees, their fee revenue isn't that high right now. I think on polygon it's about in kind of like the hotter periods, I think it's like $50,000 a day. On arbitrum it's like $100,000 a day. And same for optimism. And if you, if they burn, like, I don't know, 80% of that or something, it probably, it's probably going to be less than that. But if they were to burn 80% of that, it still wouldn't be very much. I think the money would be better used in that scenario, going to, we know how optimism is, doing it with public goods funding or going to kind of like decentralizing the sequences and stuff like that rather than burning it because it's just really not much.
00:22:38.374 - 00:23:07.794, Speaker A: Maybe in the far future when it gets a lot higher than what it is now, but yeah, it's just really not much right now, but still really, really cool to see polygon integrate this into their network. So the bankless guys hosted a Twitter spaces with the optimism team yesterday, I believe. So you can go check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description, but David had some notes here and takeaways after talking with them. So optimism is. Removal of the whitelist is a one way decision. This is optimism committing to a permanent main net.
00:23:07.794 - 00:23:44.798, Speaker A: And then, you know, with it being removed, optimism becomes closer to a public good. EVM equivalents can export innovation and utility to the rest of Ethereum. Because optimism has committed to EVM equivalents, developers can one click deploy any mainnet app to optimism. And it kind of talks a bit more about that. There's so much more room for improvement as well for optimism when it comes to the gas fees, changes to coredata and other optimizations will further reduce optimism gas fees by ten to 100 x. That's awesome, right? I mean, right now for a swap, I think fees are like, what, $5 or something on optimism and arbitrum. So if we can get them down by ten to 100 x, that's going to be quite amazing as well.
00:23:44.798 - 00:24:06.998, Speaker A: So, you know, we can get down to, like, sub ten cent or something, kind of like fee the fees there on an optimistic follow up. So really, really awesome. But. And then the fourth point here. Optimism is a city meant to be permanently inhabited, not just a tourist destination to visit and leave. Cities are defined by the culture of people and businesses that inhabit it. Optimism's culture of optimism, fairness, innovation, will make it an awesome city to live in.
00:24:06.998 - 00:24:32.934, Speaker A: I mean, I love the optimism team. They really do embody their kind of like, I guess a company name, optimism. Right? So great to see this. I mean, go listen to these spaces. It was a good one, but yeah, just wanted to run through the quick kind of like, talk takeaways there from David. So Ruin Christensen from Maker has put out a teaser saying that looks like Maker vaults are coming to arbitrary and optimism and possibly stocknet in Q two. That's really, really cool.
00:24:32.934 - 00:24:58.470, Speaker A: So not only are the, is Dai coming to all these kind of, like, ecosystems through the make a wormhole bridge that I've talked about before, but also the ability to open vaults. And as a heavy maker user myself, this would be awesome. I mean, I pay $100 in fees just to kind of, like, manage my vaults, and it's probably into the thousands at this point, which is not. I mean, trust me, it still hurts, guys. Like, it really does. I mean, I'm giving up, Ethan. I'm doing that, obviously.
00:24:58.470 - 00:25:18.364, Speaker A: You know, some of it gets burned or most of it gets burned, so that's okay. But, yeah, paying those sorts of fees is. Yeah, it's harsh, but, but, yeah, I mean, having it on kind of like arbitrary and optimism means that the fees are going to collapse completely and even stocknet. So that's going to be really cool. Very, very much looking forward to that. And Q two isn't that far away either. You know, it's just like six months away, six years.
00:25:18.364 - 00:25:48.132, Speaker A: Less than six months away now to the start of Q two. So, yeah, very much looking forward to that. Cool little teaser here from roon today. Moving on, a tweet here from tunks ETH, where they put out Visa bought a crypto punk, adidas bought a bought ape, Nike acquired NTFKT, which is a kind of like, Nft ecosystem that got acquired by Nike today. I, you know, I didn't cover it on, I haven't covered on the refuel. I don't know too much about it. I haven't, it's funny, like, I don't spend too much time in the NFT ecosystem, but I know it was big.
00:25:48.132 - 00:26:22.820, Speaker A: And Nike adding it to their kind of like, I guess ecosystem is actually pretty big because Nike doesn't have many of these acquisitions that they do. So that's, you know, pretty huge. But then tungsten goes on to say the common denominator is ethereum in all of this. And it is, I mean, this is all ethereum stuff, right? Crypto puns bought apes, RTFKT, all a theorem base. I know there's like a holy war between crypto punks and bored apes right now, which I find hilarious, by the way. Just absolutely hilarious, is like, all bored apes is gonna flip punks and, you know, punks is kind of like boomer, like bitcoin and board apes is like a theory and it's kind of, you know, it's more, it's closer to a theory. And I love these holy wars.
00:26:22.820 - 00:26:58.892, Speaker A: When I'm not kind of like, involved in him, I just love it. Like, I don't get involved. I didn't say punks are better than bored apes or bored apes are better than punks. But, you know, amongst all of this, it's just like a theorem as the common denominator doesn't even matter if people are fighting. They're still using Ethereum. They're on Ethereum. They're kind of like, nfts are secured by Ethereum, which I think is just a really cool kind of thing to, to point out here is that all these big companies are coming to Ethereum in a bit in, you know, in their own way, whether they're buying nfts, whether they're kind of acquiring companies, and whether they're kind of like spinning up new ecosystems, new apps on these, on Ethereum as a base layer and a settlement layer.
00:26:58.892 - 00:27:28.604, Speaker A: It's just going to keep happening, as I've discussed before. But just a really cool tweet here from Tunks Eve. So Euler is now live on Mainnet. I remember I discussed this when they went live to test net the other day, so I won't spend too much time on this. But oiler is a new money market that's live on Ethereum. The most interesting feature to me about Euler is their permissionless money, permissionless listing of money markets which means you can basically have any asset you want as an isolated market. Um, we, you know, where you can put it up as collateral and kind of like borrow against it.
00:27:28.604 - 00:28:06.386, Speaker A: Now this is enabled via uniswap Oracle. So Euler uses Uniswap as an oracle service, uh, where they do time weighted average price where essentially they can make it so that it's manipulation resistant, especially on the long tail of assets which have lower liquidity to make sure that nothing funky happens with the money market. But even if it does, their isolated market. So there's no kind of like cross marginal cross collateral across the whole money market, which means that the risk is just limited to that one pool. But there's a bunch of other features. I definitely recommend you guys check out the blog post for details on that and go play around with Euler on Mainnet, another really, really great defray product launching on Ethereum. I'm sure they've got l two plans as well.
00:28:06.386 - 00:28:52.622, Speaker A: Obviously this is on l one, but I'm sure they're going to be coming to l two as well. And just, just a disclosure, I'm an investor in Euler as well there. Just, just so you guys know, I'm not kind of like pumping my bags there too much. And finally here, li finance or lead fi, lifi protocol, whatever you want to call it, have basically put together a tweet thread today discussing what they are. And I've talked about them before. They're basically a cross chain swap aggregator or cross chain, kind of like liquidity aggregator where you go to their website and they'll give you kind of like what one inch does, you know, the best kind of like route to bridge from chain to chain, l two to l two, l two to side chain, blah blah blah, whatever, right? And this thread, they detail how they do that, what they use, what it looks like, all that good stuff there. So definitely recommend giving this a read if you want more information about that.
00:28:52.622 - 00:29:49.710, Speaker A: I'm a big proponent of kind of like aggregators, especially within spaces like the bridge space. But at the same time I'm also kind of like curious how it's going to play out because we know within the dex space the aggregators haven't got that much of a market share. Uniswap still dominates, right? So within the swap space or the kind of like cross chain swap space, is it going to be a bridging space, is it going to be one kind of like that dominates, like is it going to be like hot protocol that dominates all the kind of like volume or is it and liquidity, or is it going to be the aggregators that do that? I would actually kind of like say that it may be the aggregators because of the fact that bridging and kind of like cross chain swapping and all that sort of stuff is inherently more complex and kind of like more involved than something like decentralized exchange on just kind of like ethereum, for example. So we'll have to see how that shakes out. I'm not sure, honestly, like, it could go either way. But, but I'm very curious to see how that plays out there. But on that note, I think that's it for today.
00:29:49.710 - 00:29:58.454, Speaker A: So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
