00:00:00.250 - 00:00:31.574, Speaker A: Imagine you have 1000 protocols, each of which want $1 million security. You could have separate $1 million pools for each of these protocols. Or you aggregate all of them and have one single $1 billion pool that's restaked into all these thousand protocols. This second world is much better because to attack any one protocol, the cost of attack has shifted from I need majority of 1 million to now I need a majority. You have 1 billion. So suddenly this is what we call the hardening of security, right?
00:00:31.612 - 00:01:01.146, Speaker B: All right, everyone, we will be back to the program in just a moment. But before we do, I want to share something that blockworks has been cooking up for these last couple of months. March of this coming year in London, Blockworks is hosting Das London, the largest institutionally focused conference in all of crypto, Goldman, JPMorgan, zero 72, all in one room. So you can know what the big money is doing. So click the link at the bottom of this episode, it'll take you right over to the homepage and use Bell 20 for 20% off. And I will see you in sunny London town in March. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve.
00:01:01.146 - 00:01:34.854, Speaker B: Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co host today are their personal views, and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Today, joined by my co host Miles O'Neill Reverie, we are talking to Zachy Manion of Smelier and Sriram Khan of Eigen Layer.
00:01:34.854 - 00:01:36.380, Speaker B: Guys, welcome to the program.
00:01:37.630 - 00:01:39.642, Speaker A: Hey, my pleasure to be here.
00:01:39.696 - 00:01:41.100, Speaker C: It's awesome to be here.
00:01:42.510 - 00:02:27.978, Speaker B: We're excited. Guys, this is going to be sort of a fun throwback, actually, to a couple of past seasons of Bell curve. One where we talked about the cosmos appchain thesis, and then one on liquid staking where we had a great episode with Sriram on restaking, which I would highly recommend everyone go back and listen to. But today we're going to sort of build on the foundation that we laid in previous seasons and talk about this merging of the Cosmos and the Ethereum roadmap and underscore the critical role that Eigen layer is playing there through restaking. But before we get to that, maybe Zakir or Sriram, could you kind of tee up for folks who might not have heard the past season? And it's probably in popular discourse now. But how are, from a high level, the roadmaps of Cosmos and Ethereum kind of aligning here?
00:02:28.144 - 00:02:30.720, Speaker C: I dig into it, which is.
00:02:33.890 - 00:02:34.158, Speaker A: There.
00:02:34.164 - 00:03:04.310, Speaker C: Have been like a couple of things. So Cosmos originally started out as this general purpose staking platform. Anyone can spin up a purpose stake blockchain. We had this initial version of the staking module, and there's like something like 80 something chains that are using it that popped up lots of staking tokens. Ethereum starts out, Ethereum is the shared security platform. So the governance token, like the tokenomic layers, live directly on it. They don't have to provide their own security.
00:03:04.310 - 00:03:38.786, Speaker C: ETH provides the security. So this is the two versions of this world. Most cosmos tokens emit their own security. Most ETH tokens rely on Ethereum security. Where are we going? How are these things converging? So it's like a bunch of things happened along the way. Stunny and Dave came up with this idea of mesh security probably two years ago, I think, at this point. And Sunny and Dave originated this idea of mesh security, which is that Cosmos chains should buy security.
00:03:38.786 - 00:04:32.450, Speaker C: At the same time, Shuri Rhime came up with Eigenware, and this idea of renting out security, of being able to a marketplace for security from Ethereum, well, obviously these things are remixes of similar ideas. And then since then, we've had the release of platforms like ethos, which is now a publicly launched project. But it's the idea of mesh security where the origin mesh security is bought for Cosmos is bought from an Eigenvayer abs, an eigenway, or security from ETH validators. And this is just like a very exciting thing. And now we can finally hybridize these security models and compose them together in a way that's exciting and I think leads to a lot of new innovations in terms of just market positioning.
00:04:33.990 - 00:04:56.010, Speaker B: Yeah. So, to sum up there, I think the irony of Ethan Cosmos and why they're such a perfect fit today is it's almost like we're converging on this idea of a shared security layer, which supports this network of highly interoperable chains, some of which are app specific and some of which are more general. We just started from different points.
00:04:56.080 - 00:04:56.266, Speaker C: Right?
00:04:56.288 - 00:05:47.434, Speaker B: Cosmos kind of started with that vision, and they figured out interoperabilities and interoperability and app chains and Ethereum. And now they're kind of trying to figure out, well, how do I figure out things like data availability and shared security? Hence the mesh security Zaki that you just mentioned, Ethereum started from the opposite point. They built extremely secure block space, and now they're sort of midway through this journey of actually building out their own set of roll ups, which looks a lot like Cosmos. So we kind of are converging on the same end state just from different starting points. And, Zaki, you were starting to get into this kind of like this match made in heaven of the role that restaking plays here. So, shira, maybe I could just ask you to maybe underline again and just make clear for the audience the role that restaking plays here. And then we're going to hop into sort of the value proposition, both from the cosmos sort of demand avs side of things.
00:05:47.434 - 00:05:52.570, Speaker B: Why it might make sense for Cosmos chains to rent security from Ethereum and then vice versa.
00:05:52.910 - 00:07:08.970, Speaker A: Yeah, so the underlying premise of Eigen layer is that people can stake their ETH in the Ethereum platform, and then simultaneously, when they're staking their ETH in the Ethereum platform, they're making a promise that they're following the Ethereum platform holds correctly, and they restake or basically make additional promises with the same ETH that, hey, I will also validate these new protocols correctly and when they do that. So Eigen layer provides semantics for actually expressing these conditions. And now anybody who wants to build these new networks can come and create these, we call them avss, actively validated services, but think of them as chains or modules or like SaaS services, but they want to be decentralized. So that's the other side. And builders who want to launch new services, but don't necessarily have their own token or don't want to use their own token, at least not want to use their own token exclusively to secure the network, can actually use this system to borrow security. So that's the two sides diving in a little bit granularly. We have stakers, people who stake, we have node operators, people who run computational infrastructure for the stakers.
00:07:08.970 - 00:07:22.550, Speaker A: Those could be the same or different. And then we have people who create these servers. Right? And then people who consume the services. That's the different sides of this marketplace overall.
00:07:24.730 - 00:08:42.210, Speaker D: And maybe, I think for the rest of the conversations, we now have kind of laid out how these two roadmaps are converging. We've laid out how Eigen layer can maybe be the bridge between the two ecosystems. And through Eigen layer, I would say e three staking can help Cosmos chains. And through Eigen layer, Cosmos chains can actually help Ethereum by providing services that couldn't be built on ETH directly. So maybe just to start from the side of Cosmos and Zaki, you're probably the perfect person to speak to as somebody who has launched a cosmos chain without Eigen layer as an option to bootstrap security, what is the value prop for you? And maybe just to frame this, imagine if you were starting smallier today and you had the choice of going the normal bootstrapping route of a cosmos chain, which is basically to convince enough people to buy your token and stake it to get up to a certain market cap that is economically secure to the point where people are comfortable using your product versus what you could have done. If I galayer was an option, or I galair via ethos was an option at the inception of Somalia.
00:08:44.630 - 00:09:51.990, Speaker C: So I guess there's been a couple of pieces. I would take this back to the original atom go to market where we were launching a token. It was like me, Jay, Ethan, Sonny, Jack, this whole group of people coming together and building demand, liquidity, all of this stuff for a new asset that has been consistently in the top hundred. But it was an enormous amount of work, and you were writing this way. So the co founder of Somalier Christy Shu, who I worked on conclusion and worked on sommelier, really questioned when we, we decided to do make, could we do something like, and like so many cosmos chains, they just defaulted to basically trying to rerun the Adam story. Right. And I think for both Christy and myself, it was immediately like, it's not a long term sustainable.
00:09:51.990 - 00:10:37.990, Speaker C: Like if we had done, we just opened up out of the gate with inflationary token standard staking. Yes, the token would have done extremely well in 2021 and 2022. And then we continued that story. Our struggles in 23 would have been 22 and 23 would have been even worse. So instead, Christie really focused on, let's question the whole orthodox. So fixed token supply, put a bunch of tokens in the community pool that could be used for paying staking rewards, but don't come out with it. And then for the entire bull market, we had no staking rewards on zone.
00:10:37.990 - 00:11:16.294, Speaker C: Most of the investors were locked up. It didn't make any sense. Why spend anything on security? Most of our security comes from Ethereum anyways, the way it works. And then we've also had this struggle, which was, who you buy security from is part of your franchise, part of how you distribute, how you build your brand. And we wanted to build a brand for Ethereum users. We thought the best product for sommelier would be an Ethereum product, and that's the product we built. And Christy and I have grown that product from Christy I.
00:11:16.294 - 00:11:55.394, Speaker C: The whole team really have grown this product to 65 million tbl in the bear market. Fastest growing yield product in the bear market and testament to the whole technology. But having the whole product then be trying to. Cosmos people, Cosmos stakers trading on osmosis. There's this whole dichotomy that doesn't make any sense. It's been a huge tax on, I'd say, the project in this and its success that, like, we had a token that was like, being distributed to this, like, whole different audience, huge struggle. So these are like the things that were our pain points.
00:11:55.394 - 00:12:42.846, Speaker C: And then beginning in 23, there was a governance vote to allocate some of the community pool. 10 million tokens to paying for security resulted in roughly a 10% APY. And that was painful for us, too, because there's a finite life for this. There's only a finite number of tokens in the community pool. We need to grow fees to be able to justify it. But then you also have to pay a pretty high premium to get people to stake some. When ethos came out and ethos was incubated at Polychain, which is one of our investors, we're very close to the polychain team, they were incubating this idea.
00:12:42.846 - 00:13:39.970, Speaker C: They were like, what if we do something like this? And we were like, sommelier would love to be the first user first announced. Because this solves all of our problems, or not all of our problems, but it solves a set of problems with security that we've really struggled with, which is how do we reduce the premium we're paying for people to walk out of capital to secure the network, and how do we have more control and discretion over that? How do we align more closely the people who are getting som tokens with the users of the product? And we are one of the biggest players in liquid staking liquidity through the protocol. And it's weird that we're not distributing the token to each stakers, and so there's this huge opportunity. So it's been very exciting to see all of these things coming to fruition. And Christy and I are super excited about 2024 and Somilia ethos integration.
00:13:41.670 - 00:14:25.918, Speaker D: So, just to sum that up, most Cosmos chains today, if not all, basically launch with an emission schedule and an emissions rate that goes to stakers, that they believe makes it attractive enough to stake, to buy and then stake this asset up to a certain ratio, a pretty arbitrary ratio, right up. That's kind of 66% today. Nobody really knows where that number came from. Or what the right number is. And there's a cost of capital that they have to. It's an opportunity cost. They could be holding other assets, and now you have an opportunity, basically, to tap into a pool of capital that is already earning yield.
00:14:25.918 - 00:15:01.726, Speaker D: Right. And so it's really the marginal cost to go secure another chain is so much lower. And I guess, how are you thinking through, I guess, what the economics and what security levels are you targeting at this point? Because now I think it's really interesting. We can kind of pay for security at cost. Right. It becomes more of, I would say, a variable cost line item on the p l rather than some fixed emissions rate that was set by governance at one point and then periodically changed. Right.
00:15:01.726 - 00:15:13.650, Speaker D: And so I guess, tactically, how are you thinking about the details? And I guess the economics of getting security through Eigleair via ethos?
00:15:15.750 - 00:16:37.754, Speaker C: So I just want to make, one of the things that I make, I think is the most exciting, I guess, for me, when I first heard about ianware from true RoM, I thought the supply side always made sense. Why would stakers want to do this? It's the demand side that Christy and I have really dug through on somalier side that also makes it so clear, which is it is simply expensive to get people to hold and stake and lock up for 28 days an illiquid asset. There's like a couple of hundred thousand dollars of liquidity on the som token on dexes, and we have tens of millions of dollars of song locked up in staking. And if somebody wants to exit, it's like, where do they exit? Right? And so you have to really pay them to be like, hey. Or they have to have extremely high time preference, which I think we're lucky to have some long term holders in the ecosystem that are very high time preference, but who are willing to hold for a long time as liquidity develops. But regardless, this is just an expensive proposition. And the demand side is really driven by the fact that asking people to hold liquid assets and then earn illiquid assets incrementally is just so.
00:16:37.754 - 00:17:06.760, Speaker C: I imagine that for the same amount of emissions that, let's say, are getting 25% of SoM currently staked, and that is 20, $30 million of economic security, we could double that economic security if we were allocating towards Eigenvair. And I think a lot of our stakers probably wouldn't unstake even if we cut the emissions by like 25%.
00:17:09.450 - 00:17:38.042, Speaker D: And in that sense, you still have the ability to have a governance token that retains the lion's share of the economics. You still have the ability, if there's activity happening directly on your chain, to retain economics through, like MeV, right. And then it's just a question of whether you pay those restakers in real revenue that is coming through your protocol, or if you want to just redirect the emissions from the treasury or from the schedule to these stakers.
00:17:38.106 - 00:18:37.954, Speaker C: The other thing that's not so sommelier has a real revenue mechanism, which is fees from the vaults. Go back to the protocol. There's about $100,000 of fees that were earned over the course of 2023, and it grows linearly with TVL. So we have this real revenue model. But if you actually can be explicit about how you target security, then you actually can kind of tick that item off your PNL, and then whatever remains can go back to the Som stakers, right, rather than this sort of wishy washy, hazy thing today of, okay, we're just going to shovel all of the revenue back into staking security. Some of it will go to Som stakers, some of it will be for security. Everything is just bucketed together.
00:18:37.954 - 00:19:12.240, Speaker C: And you can do things then which I think will be exciting and cool in the cosmos ecosystem. We're very inspired by things you can do in the ETH ecosystem when your token isn't also securing the network, which is like, hey, what if we give you people a larger percent of revenue if you lock up the token for ten years, right, then you can potentially take large chunks of liquidity off the market. Doesn't work as well when you're trying to select validators. Do governance emit rewards all into the same model?
00:19:14.610 - 00:19:47.430, Speaker D: Couldn't agree more. Yeah, I've noticed that when your token is also an l one staking token, you lose a lot of flexibility. There's so much packed under the scope of governance, there's so much packed and so many different types of stakeholders in the network right now, it ends up you more have like the PNL of an ethereum DAP, right, rather than an l one. And yeah, Sriram, anything you would want to add there that maybe we missed from the perspective of other avs?
00:19:48.010 - 00:20:05.062, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. I think examining why shard security makes sense. Maybe like I could spend five minutes explaining the set of phenomena that actually make shad security less expensive. The first one is the power of pooling.
00:20:05.126 - 00:20:05.462, Speaker C: Right?
00:20:05.536 - 00:20:12.698, Speaker A: Imagine you have 1000 protocols, each of which want $1 million security. You could have separate $1 million pools.
00:20:12.714 - 00:20:13.914, Speaker C: For each of these protocols.
00:20:13.962 - 00:20:51.950, Speaker A: Or you aggregate all of them and have one single $1 billion pool that's restaked into all these thousand protocols. The second world is much better, because to attack any one protocol, the cost of attack has shifted from I need majority of 1 million to now I need a majority of 1 billion. So suddenly this is what we call the hardening of security. Security as a scale. And when you're in small scale, it's easier to attack. When you're in larger scale, it becomes more difficult to attack. So it's kind of why we have security at the level of nation states rather than at the level of cities.
00:20:55.170 - 00:21:14.260, Speaker B: I was literally going to make that exact same analogy because some of this sometimes seems a little bit esoteric, but I think you could actually look in many different other human organizations and see a very similar sort of need and design pattern form. I was actually going to literally use the example of nation states and native perfect.
00:21:15.190 - 00:21:36.940, Speaker A: That's pool security. So that already has some benefit. But what you're losing in polling is attribution. You could say, oh, I have my separate 1 million, but it's separate, it's unique. It's for me, like, I know if something goes wrong, I can redistribute it. I can do whatever set of things I want with it. With this billion dollar pool, you're kind of like mixing in everything.
00:21:36.940 - 00:22:32.614, Speaker A: So we bring in this new feature we call attributable security, which is have this $1 billion pool, three staked among thousand protocols, but maybe one of them is a bridge that's doing $30 million daily volume. So it wants to say that if this bridge got attacked because of Eigen layer validator malicious behavior, they can actually get a redistribution of more than 30 million. So what this protocol can come and tell Eigen layer is, I want 30 million of attributable security. I have 1 billion of pool security. But out of this, when it's slashed, we had this problem when you have like a pool protocol, when you're slashing who gets priority, right? Instead you convert that into an economic problem where you say, yeah, whoever pays for it. And they get priority based on how much they've bought attributable security from Eigenve. So you can be like a familiar world and it's doing like daily.
00:22:32.614 - 00:23:22.858, Speaker A: It's adding on, like, let's say a couple of million dollars that you won't say, yeah, and if there's an attack, it's going to take me like a couple of days to detect. So I'm going to have like $10 million of security specifically attributeable, and you have to pay the capital cost proportional to that rather than to this entire pool. You're getting pool security while getting attributable security. So it's a complex protocol function to make sure that the protocol is always solvent and is able to honor all the attributions, because it is possible that all the stakers collude and attack all the protocols simultaneously. Even then, the attribution should be honored. So that's a very powerful new protocol primitive we are building into Eigen layer. It has both pool security and attributable security.
00:23:22.858 - 00:23:26.446, Speaker A: Dakini, do you want to say something? And I have another two things to add.
00:23:26.548 - 00:24:09.750, Speaker C: All I will say is, I think this has, like, been Eigenvair is a really critical missing piece. And sort of look at the tools that are available to builders on Ethereum, right? Historically, you've had, okay, I can pay Ethereum for data availability. Ethereum can evaluate my validity and fraud proofs. It can provide bridging contracts into what I've been building, and then you can have arbitrary business logic embedded on it. But what I can't buy from Ethereum is a committee that is economically secure. There's no marketplace for. Right, the validators are out there, but there's a missing marketplace, there's a missing showing.
00:24:09.750 - 00:24:54.700, Speaker C: There's a missing place to buy and sell this. And so the other thing that you've seen is we've seen these various aboard efforts that have had existed where people have tried to glue cosmos tech onto Ethereum. And the OG of that is polygon. Polygon had this commit chain where they have a validator set that is staked in their native token. But staking happens on Ethereum. Then it talks to a cosmos chain, and it's like a giant rube Goldberg machine, right? That has existed, but no one looks at that and no builder is like, I would love to inherit this insanity. Polygon included is like, we would like to get rid of this as soon as possible.
00:24:54.700 - 00:25:34.200, Speaker C: But you bring Eigen layer into the picture, and it's like all these things that people have tried to use Cosmos tech for, like shutter and encrypted mempools, fairbox encrypted mempools, fully homomorphic encryption, MPC. There's a lot of cosmos tech that's like floating around Ethereum today. But there's no one place where you just go, and here's where you get your validator set. The hard part is people always talk about securing a validator set is hard. It's not hard like their businesses. You send them an email, you get your validator set. Hard part is coordination, economics, pricing, all of that stuff like market.
00:25:34.200 - 00:25:38.150, Speaker C: And I think Eigenware is particularly exciting.
00:25:39.370 - 00:26:18.930, Speaker A: Yeah, that's, I think, a really interesting way of putting it, basically building liquid markets for security, right? So you can just go buy like a validator set, go buy a staked amount coming back to these different features of shared security. So I talked about pool security as a feature, attributable security as a feature. And then the third one is economy of scale. Imagine. So this is one of the mental models for what we're expecting the demand site to be. What people will be building is they're building services. These are not themselves necessarily consumer applications, but these are services that are used in consumer applications.
00:26:18.930 - 00:27:25.146, Speaker A: And if, for example, an application wants to use many of these features, let's say I want to use an oracle, I want to use a bridge, I want to use another data availability service and all this stuff, then if you had to take separate attributable security for each of this, you may have to pay, let's say your app again has $10 million daily volume. So you go and say, I'm going to take $10 million insurance from the bridge. I have to take $10 million from the DA, from each of these. Instead. If somebody were to bundle all these things and then build like a single system and said, hey, here is a bridge, come like data availability, come this, come that bundled, then the economics of that would be much more favorable because you just need to buy one x the insurance from it. So there is a benefit to bundling, but we don't have anybody who knows all the things that need to get bundled because that's the thing is, crypto is new and we don't know how to build the best bridge. We don't know how to build the best each of these different things.
00:27:25.146 - 00:28:15.194, Speaker A: Instead, what idolare does is just allow stat security and free market building. But there's a post facto bundling that's happening because the same stakers are opting into all these things and they can underwrite security across all of these simultaneously. So this is a huge transformation in the underlying security and economic structure of services built on top. So this is the third property we call economy of scale in insurance or economy of scale and attribution. So as an application consumes many services, just needs to pay one extra premium rather than five extra premium. So that creates more value in having a shared common pool. Mike, did you want to say something? I want to bring a fourth feature after that?
00:28:15.232 - 00:28:16.822, Speaker B: Hit us with the fourth feature, Shuram.
00:28:16.886 - 00:28:18.026, Speaker C: Hit us. Yeah.
00:28:18.208 - 00:29:07.382, Speaker A: Okay, so the fourth feature is what we call elastic scaling of security, which is buy as much security as you need rather than. So imagine like let's say Zaki wants to use each staking for some alia, but doesn't want to use agile. So what he could say is, hey, my deposits daily deposit range is between 1 million a year and 10 million a year. So I'm going to go provision for the worst case or the peak load. I go and buy 10 million worth of security just from each peaking. Instead, if you come to Eigen layer, you could buy exactly the amount that you want because there is a large pool waiting and there are lots of services. Each service has different amounts of demand and you can kind of pull all of this and reduce variance.
00:29:07.382 - 00:29:49.500, Speaker A: So this is exactly the same phenomenon that cloud was based on for computing. So Amazon's called elastic compute, this is elastic security. So each one has a fluctuating amount of demand for how much security that they want. And having a common layer basically means you can buffer these variations much better than if you were to go in separate pools. So these are all the properties which I think makes something like Eigen layer and a common chat security system much more powerful than building each of these in separate pools. And hey, here's the pool for x, here's the pool for y, here is the pool for z. So that's our basic thesis on why we think chat security is much better.
00:29:49.500 - 00:29:53.882, Speaker A: I will just say this is obviously.
00:29:54.016 - 00:31:22.354, Speaker C: Better than the magical. Somehow our market cap and our market cap at our TVL, at our secured value are just somehow going to keep moving to grether in a kind of nice way, and we're not going to end up with a million dollars of tokens securing a billion dollars of value, like this sort of wishy washy experience that we've had. And the cosmos hub is sort of grappling with this because it's okay. Like, cosmos Hub now has its own early version of restaking called interchange security, where the cosmos atom validators are securing two other chains right now, stride and neutron, and hopefully soon noble, which is the USDC issuer, but doesn't know how much to charge for this. How expensive should this be? Has no idea. And then atom holders are what? And then it's like, what should be the emission rate of atoms to target? Christy, me, Tony, Shella, you know, obviously we talked a lot about how Christine and I thought about this on the, um, we're like, okay, we should put out, we should test the waters with prop eight four eight on reducing the emission rate of atoms and see whether or not there's what will happen. It was very controversial.
00:31:22.354 - 00:32:05.406, Speaker C: It reduced the emission rates. Security seems to be unaffected, as one would anticipate. And I think the general thesis that we should emit the fewest number of tokens to target the amount of security that we need is a good answer. But we reduced the maximum emissions from 20% a year to 10% a year. Okay, cool. Is that the right number? Who knows? So this is a continuous process of discovery. But what Eigen layer is doing is bootstrapping this from a completely different layer, from a very wide range of stakeholders where there's a marketplace and you're just like, you can see, okay, we emitted that many tokens.
00:32:05.406 - 00:32:29.354, Speaker C: How much security we get? You go look at other comparables on the market. If there are a bunch of tokens that have similar liquidity to your token and they're emitting and they're getting more security, then you can be like, okay, well, maybe we should do it, and somebody can test the waters and go lower. Fewer things. Did they lose security? We can actually learn from this in a way that we're currently not.
00:32:29.472 - 00:33:04.070, Speaker D: I think from the demand side, this is obviously better. And we haven't even talked about kind of the downside risk of having your own staking token with some death spiral dynamic. There's a market event that hits the price of your token, and now all of a sudden in your app is less secure to use. That's probably not a great thing for most projects. Right? And pooled security makes a lot of sense. The bundling the economies to scale makes a lot of sense. One thing I want to double click on, just from, I guess, the perspective of how you're setting up the marketplace.
00:33:04.070 - 00:34:28.210, Speaker D: Sriram, and how you'd be thinking about the details of your security setup. Zaki, is this idea of attributable security and elastic security? Because from my seat with working with osmosis, we're thinking through some of the early mesh security arrangements right now. And I've always asked the question of, okay, should we be paying the same for 10% from x chain of our security budget? If we're going to pay 10% of our security budget to them, should we should probably pay more if that hasn't been restaked anywhere else, we should probably pay less if that security could go away based off of a slashing event on some other chain. Right. And in a perfect world. I think you'd want your amount of attributable security to be basically tied to some sort of logic in your protocol. That is, say, looking at TVL, right? So on a day to day basis, Zaki, if you know Somalia's TVL moons, you don't actually have to have some new governance proposal that goes in and says, now we need to purchase more security, right? So how do you envision, will service providers pop up to kind of intermediate and make all this very easy to interact and I guess manage your security? Or are you actually building these features into the marketplace?
00:34:29.110 - 00:35:26.750, Speaker A: So maybe I'll start with a little bit of comment there, which is the design around these markets just emerging. So we don't have a lot of details on the attributable security market and public, but the idea would be that you should be able to set things which are semi automatic where you say you cap your. It may not be TVL, it may be things like transaction limits for this week. Like you can have infinite TVL. But just because this is one of our realization is that the blockchain is not really protecting all the assets, it's only protecting the assets in transit, in flight, which are during this period of time. So you don't really need to protect the entire. But having some kind of transaction limit tied to the attributable security would be the kind of like, right mechanics.
00:35:26.750 - 00:35:46.700, Speaker A: But I think whether it is going to be so easy that the services will directly do it with Eigen layer or there's going to be this market, I think it's a lot more details are there to fill in the blanks between a technical protocol and actually like the real markets. We love to hear Zaki's thoughts on this.
00:35:49.550 - 00:36:35.562, Speaker C: I think there's a couple of things that I would put into this. Christie had asked the question. It's like, okay, we're doing, we do ethos. How much do we pay for ethos? Which I think is essentially the question that miles is asking. And one of the suggestions is like, okay, well, one uninteresting aspect of it is the sommelier chain currently does not know its tbL. And most chains like at the protocol level, don't know their TbL because they don't actually ingest this information from anywhere. They're like, okay, we have tokens, but we don't know anything about what is happening on the system.
00:36:35.562 - 00:37:11.720, Speaker C: It would be possible for similier to know it's TVL. It would be possible for similier to know how much security we bought from Eigen. Layer. Because our network does run some infrastructure for interacting with Ethereum bi directional bridge. We could suck in that information and that can become a priority now. I think probably the honest answer is early days ethos Eigenv. The answer will just be fixed token commitments for the first year because it's just like easiest to reason.
00:37:11.720 - 00:38:00.514, Speaker C: I've only been seen, participated in in any way exposed to one large scale debt spiral of a staking token in my life, which is the collapse of Terra. And most of Luna's Tbl was Luna and UsT which were coupled together in this debt spiral. But there was $90 million of foreign assets on Terra as it was collapsing. And one wonders how all of that would have played out in a world where Terra was buying security from an abs. I suspect we will eventually have to find out.
00:38:00.552 - 00:38:13.180, Speaker B: Wait, isn't the irony that they were sort of trying to do that in a primitive way? Isn't what they were doing with the. This is what they were doing with the Luna foundation guard. They were buying bitcoin, ostensibly for.
00:38:15.630 - 00:39:11.070, Speaker A: Regulating the collateral debt spiral of the stablecoin, but not for security. So as a funny anecdote I haven't shared with anybody, two weeks before the episode happened, I was on a call with Dokwan, basically running this scenario by him. And, you know, you have this collateral debt spiral that you're trying to hedge by getting BTC, but you also have a protocol debt spiral, which is your platform becomes less rigid if things go down. And as the platform becomes less rigid, assets fly out, and if assets fly out, your platform becomes more unusable. Maybe the token speculated down even more. Then of course, Dove didn't take it seriously, but that is. Know, Zaki, this was actually with David Shea.
00:39:11.070 - 00:39:18.430, Speaker A: We were actually trying to get to use Babylon, which is essentially something like eigenvalues, but using BTC.
00:39:21.090 - 00:39:44.214, Speaker D: And that's always made sense to me, even for established projects. Even like an osmosis or something like that. Just a safety buffer essentially for some part of your security budget of an uncorrelated and much more liquid asset. But yeah, I do think that the demand side makes a million times more sense from a bootstrapping standpoint, but just wanted to add that as well.
00:39:44.412 - 00:40:03.166, Speaker B: Yeah, I would also just add another real world example is this is the same reason why other countries hold foreign exchange reserves, like treasuries or something like that, right? It's like they have their own currency, their own bonds, et cetera, but they hold us treasuries because it's this kind of separate thing, which is treasuries are.
00:40:03.188 - 00:40:06.126, Speaker C: Just staked us dollars, right?
00:40:06.228 - 00:41:20.450, Speaker B: They are 100%. Yeah, they absolutely are. All right, I want to move on to, because I feel like we've done a really good job of fleshing out the value proposition from the demand sort of Avs side. And maybe to just sum up, restaking offers a very powerful tool to augment how you purchase security, be that more granular pricing, exploring different models, et cetera. And I think there was a really important point, Zach, you made a lot of really great points, and I would even recommend folks rewind and sort of listen to the play by play of sort of the sommelier part of this, because that's really great insight to hear from your perspective, Zaki, about why it would have been great for Haigen layer to exist when you were starting the protocol. But I think lowering the just making it easier for people to sort of, from a capital efficiency standpoint, to pledge their existing sort of collateral somewhere else is like a massive point that we'll return to. But I want to move on to the Ethereum side of things and almost take a look at the supply side of the market, so to speak, and why restaking makes sense, a, from suppliers of ETH security, but b why it also actually stands to benefit ETH, the protocol, and why there are abs that currently can't be built today on Ethereum that can be built under a restaking paradigm.
00:41:20.450 - 00:41:50.970, Speaker B: And one thing maybe less of a question, but more just something to respond to that kind of a trend that I think you're starting to see play out. And why. I just think restaking is completely inevitable from the supply side of things. Is this something miles and I explored in the liquid staking season? But it feels like ETH staking yields are coming under pressure from two sort of separate forces. One of those forces is just that liquid staking is as successful as it has been, and so it's much easier. Like, a lot of the friction in staking has been decreased. So you get more people that are staking.
00:41:50.970 - 00:42:36.330, Speaker B: So obviously same amount of rewards spread over more stakers is less rewards per staker. And then the other thing that is maybe a little less obvious is sort of the execution layer rewards of MeV. So all of the apps on Ethereum, like we just did a whole season on Dexes, they are single mindedly focused on recapturing that MEV at the app layer. And actually, I think there's a lot of good evidence out there that it's not actually good for ETh. The network to have a lot of that MEV redistributed to proposers. There's a lot of timing game stuff that's kind of destabilizing consensus currently. So I think all of the incentives point to fewer execution layer rewards, fewer consensus layer rewards, which basically just means people are still going to want that extra yield, and so they're going to opt into restaking.
00:42:36.330 - 00:42:40.750, Speaker B: Sriram, does that feel about accurate in terms of those trends?
00:42:41.330 - 00:42:42.480, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely.
00:42:43.250 - 00:43:28.350, Speaker B: Yeah. Okay, so there's the demand basically for, I think, why it's kind of a slam dunk. And I know Eigenve just announced that they were expanding their caps. You can kind of see the early inflows as evidence of that fact. So there's going to be plenty of demand on the e staking side of things to opt into earning additional yield. But I want to explore the ways that this is actually beneficial to Ethereum as a protocol and some of the avs structures that couldn't otherwise exist today. So maybe, shrum, can you kind of give us a sense of if we were to have a bunch of cosmos chains that were opting into being abs to secure, to do various things on Ethereum, how does restaking sort of enable that? And how is that good for Ethereum?
00:43:29.090 - 00:44:42.674, Speaker A: Yeah, you can think of many different categories or meta categories inside which these kinds of avss fall. And I would say this has been completely emergent rather than something we planned. And even through this very short lifespan that we had for the project, our thesis has been open innovation, which is once we enable builders to do cool things, they'll figure out all kinds of crazy things there will be in the cosmos thesis, which is taking that and bringing it now into this fully composable ecosystem with aligned incentives, because a lot of these builders and participants also hold heat. So what categories are we seeing? Number one, roll ups. So when you talk about securing through some aspect of Ethereum security, roll ups are the natural things that come into mind. And a lot of people ask me initially, oh, is restaking competing with roll ups? And my answer is no, actually, it completely augments all the features that you don't get simply by making proofs about execution correctness. There's lots of things that you can add on to the roll up ecosystem using angle.
00:44:42.674 - 00:45:26.098, Speaker A: So that would be your first category. Things like sequencing, I want to do like fast sequencing for my roll up. And when you're talking about sequencing, there may be no one size fits all for all kinds of different projects. Some projects may want mev aware sequencing mev auctions based sequencing, threshold encryption based sequencing. I think Zaki was alluding to some of these things being built at the cosmos. Like Skip, for example, has these general purpose mev modulation services which go in different, you can customize the different ways, and these can be services that run on eigenve that basically can be consumed by the roll ups. And if you're a roll up, you're branding yourself on Ethereum security.
00:45:26.098 - 00:46:02.250, Speaker A: And if you say, hey, I'm doing sequencing using this token and that, using that token and so on, it just sounds little off to the brand, which is that, hey, I'm borrowing Ethereum security. Here is a slightly different way in which you're also borrowing Ethereum security. That's number one sequencing data availability. We are building data availability. Other partitions are building data availability, some not using restaking different ecosystems, but some using restaking. The third one is inside roll ups. You can think of bridging, right? Like roll ups take, if you're an optimistic roll up, take seven days to settle.
00:46:02.250 - 00:46:59.166, Speaker A: But I want to move assets across even faster. So if I want to move like 100,000, eat from one roll up to the other, if I got enough economic security certifying that you can actually move this across, you can have very rigid, accurate systems which are built on bridges which are as secure as Ethereum itself, because it is metering the amount of the volume and making sure you have enough collateral to actually build highly rigid systems. So bridging is another category, and then another category that we're seeing there is watchtowers. It's an optimistic roll up. I want to make sure that there's a neutral network watching over what set of activities are happening and then raising fault proofs or fault alerts, that's another category that you're seeing there. And then finality layers. I want to get to finality really fast and so that I can use it either for bridging or to give confirmation to users.
00:46:59.166 - 00:47:53.502, Speaker A: But now it comes with an economic certificate behind it, rather than just a promise from the sequencer. So that's all of these, I would say, are categories inside roll up services. And one of the really cool things it does to ether the asset is ether. The asset has accrued some kind of monetary premium as the native denomination of nfts and other assets inside the ecosystem. Now that value is denominated in ETH, the backing collateral to make all these transfers being ETH is actually the right match. Because if you're backing using USD and you're transacting ETH, you need to account for volatility mismatch when you're getting attributable security, so that actually promotes the ETH ecosystem. So this is the roll up services category, but the other categories are, for example, things like coprocessors.
00:47:53.502 - 00:48:36.418, Speaker A: Coprocessors are like roll ups, but without any state. Like you're sitting inside Ethereum. When you want to run a computation, the computation comes back with an answer. You could use ZK to do it, but ZK is very expensive if you can't run AI or whatever like general purpose Linux or anything like that with ZK in a cost efficient manner. So if you have enough economic collateral certifying to the correctness of these co processing services, you can go ahead and take a crypto economic stand and keep moving on. You could imagine Defi becoming much more intelligent when you're doing liquidity provision into a pool. Like there's this AI algorithm or something that automatically adjusts prices, it adjusts your trading strategy instead of just like having x y equals k.
00:48:36.418 - 00:49:44.914, Speaker A: But all of this is done in a rigid way that you're guaranteed your money is safe. That's crypto economic co process. Another category that I think we are seeing on Eileenair Zach mentions all the cryptographic primitives like multiparty computation, secret sharing, trusted execution environments, fully homomorphic encryption, all these really interesting things also starting to get built on. To take a kind of like a great cosmos example, something like Penumbra would be like a really interesting service, which if it's on the Ethereum ecosystem, can utilize and leverage a lot of the eth liquidity in this market. For the listeners who don't know, Panambra is this shielded amm where if you're doing liquidity provision, your particular position is not leaked, only the aggregate position is leaked. So it is a really cool technology. Other categories we are seeing are layer one Ethereum MEV modulation.
00:49:44.914 - 00:50:44.940, Speaker A: Like I want to do some set of services on Ethereum l one like MEV for example, selling block auctions, but only partial block auctions. Or I want to do some event driven actions. I say that whenever this liquidation happens, the block proposal has to include it, otherwise they'll get slashed. Or Justin Drake proposed this idea called based sequencing, which is this idea that if you're a roll up and you're using Ethereum for ordering transactions, one of the things you lose is pre confirmations. You don't get an instant confirmation from the sequencer, but if your block proposal is restaked on Eigenve, it can make a promise saying that, hey, I will include your transaction, otherwise I'll get slashed. So that's called it, I think, based pre confirmation. So there's all these different categories which just emergent, and we're excited to see what more will come up.
00:50:45.630 - 00:51:52.560, Speaker D: So it's super helpful for running us through the different categories. And if you haven't seen the blog post, I think it's called the ideas for building the next 15 unicorns, which does a great job at laying out, I guess, all the different verticals of avs or what you expect to see. And maybe just to pull it back to why Cosmos is sort of relevant, I think, across a lot of the categories that you just listed, these are services that have a specialized committee of actors. They do a job, they come to consensus on a result, and then they send that result back to an app or back to Ethereum in some way. Right. And Cosmos chains are a toolkit for building, I would say, some service that performs logic at the execution layer and then has a consensus engine built in that is basically connected to the application layer. So they make actually a very good form for a lot of these types of services.
00:51:52.560 - 00:52:39.950, Speaker D: And I think, Zaki, I would still maybe have a split of categorization here between these cosmos avs that provide services to dapps and wallets and applications, versus maybe like a form of PEPC or pseudo PEPC by actually having proposer commitments at the l one level. And Zaki, we were talking about, this is maybe an equivalent of opt in vote extensions. Right? And so I guess, what will it take? Or I guess, how do you see the sequencing of this playing out? Know, we get to a critical mass where the majority of proposers are also opting into all these additional commitments.
00:52:43.090 - 00:53:23.610, Speaker C: I think a couple of lines are interesting to be drawn here. One is the line between avss that require a consensus and abs that don't. So not all committee functionality requires a consensus. And I think one thing that's like kind of, we have this middleware that is cosmos, that is the Cosmos stack for building systems that require a consensus. Great, cool. And there's like a huge universe of applications that we talked about. There's also going to be a huge universe of applications where sort of this PEPC kind of thing, ba, et cetera, can be done without a consensus.
00:53:23.610 - 00:54:04.374, Speaker C: Less middleware exists there and builders will build and hopefully like standardized toolkits. But I will also say, I think as developers are learning actually the leap from, oh, we built a bunch of one offs for doing this. We built a bunch of one off l ones. We built a bunch of one off things, too. We have like a good, widely adopted Xandice toolkit. Also, the toolkit builders tend to be the least appreciated types of workers in the crypto ecosystem. But huge value creators.
00:54:04.374 - 00:55:20.450, Speaker C: Right? Marco, the banner builders team who built the Cosmos SDK have just done amazing work, and we're going to need a lot of those teams in the future. So great. So that's like one component of the delta between these two systems. I think the other component is, as we kind of go into more and more proposers opting into these various services, I do imagine a world where the likely outcome is going to be. I'm very much not a big homestaker, minimalist. I think homestaking has never really made a lot of economic sense to me. And so in a world of most bot proposals being industrial scale, which is true today, and I would think likely to be true in the future, most validators will also be taking reasonable decisions about risk reward on, and especially where the risk is using pieces of software that are wide adopted and familiar, people will be like, hey, why wouldn't we bring our customers the additional incremental yield?
00:55:23.380 - 00:56:08.960, Speaker D: I think that makes sense. I mean, there are cosmos chains in the wild today that basically satisfy what we're talking about right now, just don't have restaking involved. And you could argue smallier is one of them, right, for managing positions in ETH deFi, you could argue deflow. Right, which is a order flow auction chain that wallets can tap into as one of them. But, yeah, maybe Sriran, how do you expect to see over time, I guess maybe going back to that, the larger category here, which is actually having proposers opting into additional commitments, potentially out of protocol, and then basically being held to those commitments back on Ethereum.
00:56:09.940 - 00:57:11.988, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that is going to be a longer road, because to make proposal commitments interesting and useful, we need a large fraction of ethereum proposals. So if we have $1 billion of security, that's a lot of security for a lot of applications, but it's only 2.5% of block proposals. Right. So there is a kind of big number that is needed before we can actually start making interesting proposal commitments, where there is like 30% of proposals or 50% of proposers have opted into these kinds of statements. So that's just that it is a longer horizon than the short horizon thing to do in terms of what can be done in protocol versus what can be done out of protocol, which is the whole argument of PEPC. I think there is making it totally permissionlessly programmable, which is kind of eigen layer view.
00:57:11.988 - 00:57:56.656, Speaker A: It's going to be very difficult to make it at the Ethereum L one level, there are two fundamental reasons for it. One is metering. The cost is not at all trivial. Imagine I create like an event driven action where I say that if this event happens, then you should do this, and if you don't follow it, then you will get slashed. But monitoring this event may require some amount of compute cycles. How do I know how much is needed? How do I know what is the gas pricing for all these things? Because I'm doing stuff not only when I'm actually doing the action, but all the time, because that's what an event driven action is. So that makes it very difficult, and we need a lot of experimentation before we can converge on what those good things are.
00:57:56.656 - 00:59:03.560, Speaker A: And number two, protecting against slashing errors is going to be very difficult at the Ethereum L one, like somebody opts in and goes into like everybody opts into a PEPC service, and then that has a fault that's just going to be catastrophic for Ethereum. Ethereum cannot say, hey, you need this and that, like social committee or whatever other things that we can do as a kind of auto protocol layer. So those are the reasons why I think building it out of protocol is more interesting in terms of I think that you're right that there is a line between things that are modulating Ethereum l one actions and things that all the other things that I laid out don't actually modulate Ethereum l one actions. And Zaki also made another interesting dichotomy, which is things that require full consensus versus things that don't imagine. For example, you can have a bridging service which says there's no fix it committee, you just have some amount of id layer restakers, maybe. For some l two to l two bridging, they put in like 10 million. For some other l two to l two bridging, they put in like 50 million.
00:59:03.560 - 00:59:46.870, Speaker A: You don't need to even have a fixed size quorum. It can be just open participation. So you can build like very interesting systems which not only require fix it, which don't even require fixed quorum size, like a proof verification service. I just have proof streamed and everybody just verifies the proof and issues a signature saying that the proof has been verified and that signature can be posted on Ethereum now, like triggering a bunch of actions. So these are things that don't need in protocol consensus. What we figured out is even data availability actually doesn't really need to have a consensus. Ethereum already we built a data availability layer, which is kind of like a purely adjacent to Ethereum, like it doesn't have an existence on its own at all.
00:59:46.870 - 01:00:40.628, Speaker A: Yet the Ethereum blockchain, which is providing consensus and ordering to the roll up, is just a committee that is attesting to its correctness. Because from the point of view of Ethereum, any other system is also just a committee. Because Ethereum cannot do data sampling or any other kind of thing. It's just a contract that's checking that some group has signed off on something. We figured this doesn't need consensus, so we designed a system which doesn't have consensus and unblocks a bunch of bottlings. But in general, I think what we're seeing is more leverage and power to builders, tool builders like the binary builders that Zaki pointed out, which is the predominant reason why we built Eigen layer more power to them. Because DAP builders like, if you're a smart contract builder, there are thousands of smart contract companies.
01:00:40.628 - 01:01:22.900, Speaker A: You could go start your own new smart contract application. But when you were building infrastructure services, there were very few places where you could bootstrap and be productive on your own. The goal of angular is to change the economics of that so you can go try out your new thing, see if it's useful. And what we envision is the emergence of new avss, which are there to serve other avss. It's kind of like what we are seeing already in cosmos. There are zones whose job is to service other zones, like a liquid sticking zone, or like USDC issuance zone, or these kinds of interesting things. I think we are starting to see something similar where avss exists to service other avs.
01:01:24.600 - 01:02:12.172, Speaker D: And ethos is one of those, right? That will be like the intermediary that you will be able to basically consume stake natively through mesh security, which is the easy to use Cosmos standard. But it's obviously coming from IGN layer. And I guess is it fair to draw the lines as avss that need consensus versus don't need consensus, and as well as avs that maybe today would benefit from crypto economic security versus pure verification via proofs. And maybe that line kind of shifts at some point as the cost of verification comes down, but today it's still pretty expensive, right? To rely fully on proof basis?
01:02:12.236 - 01:02:35.236, Speaker A: Absolutely. But I think I just want to add one thing here. A lot of people have a model where they think that ZK is going to come and solve everything. It cannot solve everything. Several things have to be purely crypto economic. Like, for example, how do you ensure that there's censorship resistance? How do you slash, can you give a ZK proof that there is censorship resistance? No, same thing with Reorg. Let's say I'm drawing a chain.
01:02:35.236 - 01:03:24.872, Speaker A: I can give you proof that my chain is valid, but I cannot give you a ZK proof that there is no other valid chain. Maybe I signed another chain and sent it to somebody else. So Reorg is another thing that you cannot certify purely on a ZK Valerie basis. So add to it that we are talking about systems like chat, GPT, which is costing like a couple of cents per each word that it is doing inference on. And ZK is 1 million x more expensive than simply executing something. And just the economics just makes no sense in the short term, so that in the short term, there is the economic reason for using crypto economic security. In the long run, there's simply like a bunch of things that are not susceptible to validity, proof.
01:03:24.872 - 01:03:29.790, Speaker A: They need necessarily some aspect of decentralization, some aspect of economic security.
01:03:32.160 - 01:04:23.752, Speaker B: So I want know start to kind of land the plane here on what this might ultimately end up looking like for Cosmos and the Ethereum ecosystems moving forward. So it feels like, again, we're kind of on this collision course in between Cosmos and Ethereum. Restaking plays a massive role in that, where the thing that Ethereum originally optimized for, which is sort of this shared security layer, meshes really well with what cosmos has been optimizing for, which is this sort of design framework for interoperable app chains. And there are advantages from both sides, from the cosmos, sort of evs, solar chain side, and from the Ethereum side. All right, everyone, we will be back to the program in just a moment. But before we do, I want to share something that blockworks has been cooking up for these last couple of months. March of this coming year in London, Blockworks is hosting Das London, the largest institutionally focused conference in all of crypto.
01:04:23.752 - 01:04:55.652, Speaker B: We are gathering 1200 of the world's largest asset managers. So think tradfi, macro funds, crypto native funds, big allocators and financial institutions. So banks, payment processors, et cetera, all in one spot. It's very rare to get the likes of Goldman, JPMorgan, zero, 72, whatever, all in one room, so you can know what the big money is doing. We're diving into the themes that they care about. So we're talking about the intersection of macro and crypto, where we are in the cycle, real world assets so everything from stablecoins to onchain treasuries to tokenized assets, it's going to be a blast. But the other reason you really want to go is London, baby.
01:04:55.652 - 01:05:13.804, Speaker B: Center of the world at one point. You got pub culture, you got fish and chips, great beer. It's going to be a blast. So because you're such great listeners to Bell curve, there's a code, Bell 20, that's going to get you 20% off. So click the link at the bottom of this episode. It'll take you right over to the homepage. You'll see all of our speakers and use Bell 20 for 20% off.
01:05:13.804 - 01:06:07.040, Speaker B: Ticket prices are going up soon. Make sure you go use that code. I will see you in sunny London town in March. So I guess what I'm wondering is, what do these two ecosystems look like in five to ten years? Because today, although there's plenty of overlap in between ecosystems and product, they definitely do feel like distinct and separate communities. Do you think that ultimately ends up continuing out over the next five years? Are we moving towards a world where they sort of merge and where ETH is kind of the shelling point, shared security thing that we all rally around and restaking is used to secure cosmos chains, and then they kind of become one thing? Or walk me through what are the different scenarios? And if that last scenario ends up playing out, what does this mean for atom, the asset and the hub?
01:06:09.460 - 01:07:07.616, Speaker C: So I have a relatively strong set of views here, which is that the thing we're discussing doesn't just affect ETH and atom, but basically all large cap cryptocurrencies that the future of all large cap cryptocurrencies is, they all start to look more and more like each other, that they have a staking component that people stake for yield, that there is a restaking. Like, I think, eth Cardano near Solana, Adam, Ia. All of these things end up sort of converging in this direction. And so what does that mean? Well, there's a couple things I do think who your security provider is, is part of your. So McDonald's and Burger King are not that dissimilar from each other. They both sell burgers, but they are distinct things. Some people prefer one, some people prefer another.
01:07:07.616 - 01:07:43.180, Speaker C: You put like franchisees decide to buy a Burger King franchise, or like, you could go further, like the difference between a shake shack, a McDonald's and a Burger king. These things all sell burgers. They're all reasonably good, but they cater to different markets and the franchise is very different. Or you can even talk about this as like, if you want to really go down to, it's like sports. The, the Lakers and the Knicks are not that dissimilar from each other. They're just tall men running around, throwing around a ball. But the franchises are really powerful.
01:07:43.180 - 01:08:27.470, Speaker C: And so I do think that sort of my estimation for the next ten years is going to be that you have more and more things in common between large cap cryptocurrencies, ossification of who is in the large cap set, like what the top 50, what the top hundred look like, and then you're still going to have distinct communities. And we're speed running through this world with a version of interchange, security, eigen layer, all of the stuff coming out now, it's sort of setting up the next sort of what the future of cryptocurrency looks.
01:08:31.870 - 01:08:33.798, Speaker B: Sorry, you missed Bonchera.
01:08:33.974 - 01:09:05.560, Speaker A: Yeah. If you would, let me take it like one level more meta. I don't want to pick one asset versus another asset. I just want to kind of bring some context on what I'm excited about for the next ten years. If you look at what we're doing, for example, inside our team, our goal is to be the coordination engine for open innovation. So that's the goal. So when you think about this, essentially technology has accelerated free markets quite a bit.
01:09:05.560 - 01:09:55.510, Speaker A: So you see new technologies come in, like AI, for example. People talk about things like AI alignment. And I think the proximal view of what is AI alignment is AI is just going to accelerate markets like whatever is, well, incentivized by the market, AI is going to accelerate them more. Whatever is disaligned with human interest in the market is just also going to get accelerated in the same way. So we have this layer of markets or innovation, and then there is an underlying layer of coordination, which is usually, like in big country, let's say a constitutional democracy, for example. And we've had technology massively accelerate the free market innovation layer. Technology has barely touched the coordination layer.
01:09:55.510 - 01:10:45.094, Speaker A: And our fundamental view is we are building new mechanisms for coordination, which are self enforcing, self verifiable, rather than coordinated via some committee. So that's the vision. And in this, actually, we've made, as a community, as a crypto community, a massive amount of progress in the last ten years, right? So, people, I was doing the calculation on Ethereum's data bandwidth. It was like tens of kilobytes per second. And I was first disappointed, then I thought about it, and I'm like, no, actually, that's not that bad. We were a society badly able to coordinate on a couple of bits of information every five years, whether this guy is the president or that lady is the president. That's the level at which we were able to coordinate from that.
01:10:45.094 - 01:11:04.060, Speaker A: We're massively enhancing coordination bandwidth and all these different approaches. People trying this on Ethereum, on atom, on celestial, on some other thing is just accelerating us to build much better coordination systems for open innovation. So I'm actually quite excited about all of these.
01:11:07.550 - 01:11:55.078, Speaker B: Think that's. I totally agree that it all feels very positive. Some. And Zaki, I thought there's a really interesting sort of vision for the large cap assets converging on each other and ultimately restaking not being something that's specifically the property of Ethereum, but maybe other l one assets get rehabilitated for security as well. And that actually sort of aligns with this idea of these layer one assets as commodities that are sort of based around block space. There's a certain. Yeah, you can see that making sense ultimately, and hopefully it's a big positive sum outlook or Jesus positive sum outcome, as we can see by kind of this example of restaking, improving both cosmos and ethereum.
01:11:55.078 - 01:12:10.786, Speaker B: So Zaki and Triom, this feels like a pretty good place to leave it. Guys. Folks will absolutely know you've been on Bell curve in the past, and we just talked about quite a bit about what the two of you are working on. But if people want to find out more info about either smelier or Eigen layer, what's the best way to do.
01:12:10.808 - 01:12:11.380, Speaker A: It.
01:12:13.350 - 01:12:15.570, Speaker C: At som finance on Twitter?
01:12:17.430 - 01:12:28.290, Speaker A: For us, the best way also be Twitter at Eigen Layer. There is a good bit of discussion on our forums. We have new blog posts coming up, but all of them are linked by our Twitter.
01:12:28.710 - 01:12:29.460, Speaker C: Awesome.
01:12:30.070 - 01:12:42.710, Speaker B: And as always, miles my for doing this with me. Budy. This was really fun guys. Yeah, let's do it again. Sooner.
