00:00:00.120 - 00:00:15.234, Speaker A: The afternoon session, it is my pleasure to introduce our first speaker, Priya Marjani from UC Berkeley, who's going to talk about how very big, large scale omics datasets are helping her to understand the evolution of the germline mutation rate in humans.
00:00:21.734 - 00:01:19.464, Speaker B: Hi, everyone. Thanks for joining the afternoon session and to the organizers for giving me an opportunity to share some of our recent work with you. As way of introduction, my lab works on genomic data, and there are three main questions that we ask in our lab. One of them is to understand how evolutionary processes generate all the genetic variation we observe around us. We then try to use this understanding as a molecular clock to learn about when different evolutionary events occurred in our history, and use that to then understand human adaptation and disease. Can everyone hear me clearly? Do you prefer if I remove my mask or keep it on? Okay. And so today, I'm actually going to talk about this very first topic, because it's really fundamental to everything that we do in our lab and in general in evolutionary biology.
00:01:19.464 - 00:02:18.912, Speaker B: Understanding the germline mutation rate is really important for, because it's the main source of evolutionary novelty, it's the cause of many heritable diseases and cancers. And also because mutations occur steadily over time, they provide a record of the time elapsed, and hence act as a molecular clock for learning about when different evolutionary events occurred. Yeah, I might remove my mask. The question of mutation rate is, as I said, really fundamental to everything we do. And the earliest estimates of mutation rate actually date back to 1930s, even before it was appreciated that DNA is the hereditary material. Some seminal work done by Haldane measured the rate of hemophilia in families and tried to infer what the mutation rate might be. And today, with large omics data sets, everything that we know about mutation rate is being revised.
00:02:18.912 - 00:03:29.926, Speaker B: There are large data sets now available for pedigrees. These are trios, either father, mother, and child, or large families data for thousands of different individuals, and also large amounts of data across different species. We've seen some of these discussed at this meeting, also with the Earth Biome project and the Darwin street of Life project. And all of this is really revising what we think of mutation rate. Let's first review what we know about mutation rates. The textbook view of mutation rates is that mutations occur during development, in ontogenesis, where in oocytes, all the mutations occur by the birth of the future mother, and in spermatogonial cells, these divide during development and then divide post puberty in males, such that if you wanted to build a model we could then just conceptualize this as there are large number of divisions in females between conception and birth, and then there is a period of stasis where there are no more cell divisions in the female germline. In males, the germ cell divisions occur during conception and birth.
00:03:29.926 - 00:04:10.286, Speaker B: Then there is a period of stasis until puberty. And then post puberty, the male germ line. Again, the spermatogonial cells continue dividing. Each cell division is an opportunity for some errors to occur, and those can get passed on to the next generation as the germline mutations. The number of mutations in an offspring then depends upon the different stage at which the mutations occur, the different number of cell divisions that occur in each of these stages, and the mutation rate in these stages. Now, let's look at what we learned from the sequencing of families. We can directly sequence the genome of the parents and the offspring.
00:04:10.286 - 00:05:18.034, Speaker B: And then at each position of the genome, we can ask, does the sequence of the offspring differ from that of the parents you control for certain errors in sequencing coverage, apply filters to be sure that this is not just a false positive or an artifact of sequencing, but indeed actually a germline mutation. Then you can simply ask, how does the mutation rate depend upon the age of the parents? On average, we find that an offspring has around 70 de novo mutations, between 70 to 100, actually, and this depends upon the age of the parents. For every year increase in the father's age, an offspring gets additional 1.5 mutations. And for every year increase in the mother's age, the offspring gets 0.4 additional mutation. The father's age, of course, is consistent with what I showed you, that there are continuous divisions on the male germline, but the mother's age effect is quite puzzling, and you would expect that there should be a flat line here, because there should be no increase in the number of mutations with the age of the mother because the ogonal cells are not dividing.
00:05:18.034 - 00:06:02.238, Speaker B: However, mutations can occur both because of DNA damage. These can be endogenous or exogenous sources of damage that can lead to germline mutations. In the females, you can expect that there is increase in the rate due to DNA damage. Then in the male germline, you can expect that this is because of replication errors and DNA damage. On average, males contribute three fourth of the mutations, and females contribute one fourth. On average, males contribute three times more mutations than the females. You would expect that this is largely because of the increased mutations post puberty in males.
00:06:02.238 - 00:06:47.262, Speaker B: However, with this data, we can also partition the male bias in mutation with age, you can go in and look at all the pedigrees whose parents were around 20 years of age and estimate what is the male bias in mutation rate. Then, similarly, you can estimate the male bias with increasing age of the parents. And what you find is, surprisingly, a flat line. We expect this line to be increasing linearly, or even others have been even suggested exponentially with age, but instead we find a flat line. This suggests that potentially more mutations are occurring due to DNA damage, which might be similar in males and females. We can also look at this across different species. Here, each point is data for pedigrees in that species.
00:06:47.262 - 00:07:51.020, Speaker B: And what we are looking at is just the proportion of paternal mutations at average age in these species. And despite these species ranging in different parental ages or different generation times mating systems, we find that the male bias and mutation rate is roughly constant with age. This suggests that mutations not only occur due to replication errors, but they also occur in large part due to non replicative sources or DNA damage, which can be both endogenous and exogenous. And this well mirrors the literature from cancer genomics, where we are also finding that exogenous and endogenous sources can also have a big impact on mutation rate. Another thing we can do is we can divide the mutations in the context in which they occur. So we can look at the type of mutations looking at c 2g versus c two a mutations, and then we can investigate how the rate of mutation changes with the age of the parents. We divide the mutations in different types because these give us hints about what the underlying mechanism might be.
00:07:51.020 - 00:08:56.394, Speaker B: If you look at CpG mutations, these primarily occur due to methylation driven mutations. Since the male germline is methylated for a longer period than the female germ line, what you find is that there is increase in mutation rate with the father's age and not really with the mother's age. We can also look at other types of mutations, like C 2g mutations, and they seem to increase disproportionately with the mother's age versus the father's age. And we know from their location and other investigation that these mutations are largely happening due to double strand breaks. This means that not only the mutation rate, but actually the spectrum of mutations, or the proportions of different types of mutations, varies across males and females. Now, another classic discovery in evolutionary biology is the use of the molecular clock. We tend to assume that the mutation rate is constant with age, and so we can use divergence across different species and infer what is the time of divergence.
00:08:56.394 - 00:09:31.226, Speaker B: Now, if we look at closely related species. Here I'm showing you ten different primates, and we look at neutral substitutions in these primates and then estimate how different these rates are. We find that the rates differ quite substantially. We find that if you compare humans and chimpanzees, the rates differ by about 2%. Humans and orangs or other apes differ by almost 10%. Apes and old world monkeys differ by 40%. The rates are about 40% higher in old world monkeys and almost twofold higher in new world monkeys compared to apes.
00:09:31.226 - 00:10:29.338, Speaker B: Again, we can break down the mutations by the type, so we can look at 80 transitions or CpG transitions, and we find even the proportions of these mutations differ across different primates, suggesting that not only the mutation rate, but the spectrum is also changing across closely related species. A third surprise has been that even human, across human populations, there are differences in mutation rate. There's essentially no base composition across human populations. The replication machinery is very similar or is identical across humans. And yet, when you estimate the rate of, say, c two a mutations, or the proportions of c two a mutations in different contexts, in Europeans or Africans, you start finding that these rates differ. Here, each of these comparisons looks at a different context, and the colors indicate how significantly different the rates are. All the blocks with dots are showing you that these are significant differences after correcting for multiple hypothesis testing.
00:10:29.338 - 00:11:12.142, Speaker B: Now, one of the most significant differences is a mutation type called tcc to ttc mutations, where you find that this mutation is present at about 20% higher frequency in Europeans compared to other non european populations. And this transient change has been suggested to perhaps be because of uv exposure or genetic modifiers. And I'll talk about this example further in the next few slides. Also, let's just look at what are some of the processes that impact mutation rate. Each offspring has its own mutation spectrum. This spectrum depends upon the parental age, as I showed you. It also depends upon environmental exposures.
00:11:12.142 - 00:11:35.826, Speaker B: It also depends upon the replication machinery of the parents or DNA modifiers in their genomes. Over time, this forms the mutation spectrum of a population. But there are other factors that matter in this case also. One is demography that matters. Another one is selection. Selection purges out deleterious mutations. And another factor that matters is biased gene conversion.
00:11:35.826 - 00:12:21.014, Speaker B: This is a bias in how you repair DNA. So in a hetero duplex, when you have a mismatch, there's a preferential bias towards repairing from c to g basis versus d two a basis. So this acts like selection, where over time, this shifts the genome towards being a more Gc genome, and there are counteracting forces in the genome that bring it back to equilibrium, where the Gc content doesn't change much. But there can be subtle differences because of bias gene conversion. Also. Now, when we look at this composite effect at the end, after many, many generations, any of these factors could actually matter. And we can't really conclude that the differences we are observing today are because of parental age, or DNA modifiers, or environmental exposures.
00:12:21.014 - 00:13:44.478, Speaker B: For the rest of the talk, this is the question that I'll focus on and how we did some recent work to try to understand what might be some of the causes of the differences we are observing in humans. This is work jointly led with Ziwei Gao, who's at University of Pennsylvania, and by a graduate student in my group, Yulin Zhang. The question we asked is how many changes have occurred in the human mutation spectrum? When and in which populations did these occur, and what are some of the causes of these differences? And for the last question, in the interest of time, I won't go through all the parts, but I'll show you some hints at what we are learning. In order to really understand what are some of the causes, we developed a new framework where we tried to add a time dimension to understand when the differences occur across populations. And we also control for effects of selection and bias gene conversion. In order to add the time dimension, what we did is we took all the data from 1000 genomes project and we reconstructed the entire ancestral recombination graph of these individuals. What that means is just a fancy way of saying we did some genealogical reconstruction such that we divided the genome into bits where there is no recombination, and we try to build trees in those regions.
00:13:44.478 - 00:14:50.930, Speaker B: And then we place down mutations on these trees such that the branch length tells us what the time of the mutation is. We do this for every population together, and then separately also estimate the ages of the mutations, so that now we can tell if we are looking at a mutation that is ten generations old, it's the same mutation, similar age of mutations in other populations. Also, to control for biased gene conversion, what we do is we look at mutation types that are similarly impacted by biased gene conversion. I told you the predominant bias is between towards a shift from weaker basis, that is a and t, to stronger bases, that is cng. And so we can just compare mutation types like t two, c and t 2g, which are both favored by bias gene conversion. Similarly, we can look at mutations which are not affected by bias gene conversion, like c 2g mutations or t two a mutations. And so, rather than comparing the total number of mutations or the proportions of mutations, what we do is we compare ratios of mutations.
00:14:50.930 - 00:15:23.906, Speaker B: And in order to control for selection, we just remove regions that might be selected. And we have many ways of trying to control, even for link selection, where we can look at mostly neutral mutations in the genome. This is what we get at the end of our. After applying our framework on the y axis, is the age of every mutation in the genome. We have about 10 million mutations. In this analysis, what we have done is we've just divided it by the ages. These estimates are in generations.
00:15:23.906 - 00:16:02.054, Speaker B: For every mutation, we can estimate how. When did this mutation arise? Based on our genealogical reconstruction, we can then estimate the ratio of two types of mutations. And then here we are looking at, let's say, the 48 to 107 generation mutations. We bin this mutations in different bins of equal size. We have done the binning in many different ways, and so the binning doesn't really affect things. Then we estimate the ratio of these two types of mutations for all the mutations at this particular age. We can repeat this exercise for different age bins for different types of mutations.
00:16:02.054 - 00:16:52.126, Speaker B: When we do this very nicely, we confirm the european specific acceleration that was found in the previous analysis. In this analysis, I was showing you data for northern europeans, and we find this acceleration that I had shown you earlier. Also, like the other study, we can also do the same analysis for multiple populations. Here we are looking at one northern european population, east asian population, and a west african population. We do the analysis similarly for each population separately, and then we can compare how different these different populations are, or at what rate these mutations occur. When we do this, we find that there are three key differences. We find the european acceleration at this TCC mutations, which is at t to c, two a mutations at non Cpg sites.
00:16:52.126 - 00:17:52.046, Speaker B: We also find a new signal where we find that there is divergence of c to g to t to a ratios across all human populations. Interestingly, whatever the cause might be is still ongoing, because the differences are present even in the most recent time bin. Whereas what the TCC mutation, you find that whatever the causes were, no longer are active and such that all human populations have the same rates. Now we find, surprisingly, a third signal, which is present at the t two c to T 2g mutations at very old mutations. And these mutations predate out of Africa migration, such that all these mutations must have arisen in the common ancestors of all modern humans, so that there are no population differences at this stage. Except our analysis suggests that there might be some differences at this stage. I'll now go through each one of these signals, in turn to show you how we are trying to understand the mechanisms that underlie these for the TCC signal.
00:17:52.046 - 00:18:44.990, Speaker B: A lot of analysis has previously been done that suggests that there are certain mutational contexts that are enriched for these mutations. These contexts are actually surprisingly linked to uv exposure and are often seen in skin cancers, where the TCC context, plus some additional context appear to be driving these differences. And so what we first did is, in our framework, tried to look at specifically this context to see if we also see enrichment in these contexts. And indeed our signals are significant in this case. We also applied it after removing this context. So we remove all of these extended contexts. We still find that there are differences across Europeans and non Europeans, suggesting that whatever the causes are, are not solely driven by these mutational contexts.
00:18:44.990 - 00:19:38.494, Speaker B: And so it's always. It's been really puzzling to think of how uv might affect the germline. And so in some ways, this is reassuring that while this is correlated to the signal, it's probably not driving the signal. We have some other results in the lab, which we are still investigating, which suggests that there are certain loss of function mutations in certain mismatch repair gene that might be causing these differences. This is consistent with another hypothesis that was also put forth by the original study from Jonathan Pritchard and Kelly Harris that suggested that this might be related to genetic modifiers which might be segregating in human populations, and that might have led to some differences. Others have also suggested that maybe the mean age of reproduction differs across Europeans and non Europeans, and that might be driving these differences. And we are investigating all of these hypotheses.
00:19:38.494 - 00:20:16.966, Speaker B: Another signal I showed you is the c signal. In order to understand which of these mutation types is driving this signal, we first looked at. We took these ratios and just changed the numerator in this case to figure out if which one of these is driving the signal. First we looked at the t mutations. We found that there were still significant differences in these bins. We looked at t to c to t two a differences, we still found the differences. But, however, when we look at c mutations, we find that there are almost no significant differences.
00:20:16.966 - 00:21:16.084, Speaker B: And so we find that these mutations are actually driven by a change in the t two a mutation rates. We still don't know what the cause of this is. We have looked at signatures, but we can't really find anything in the annotated cancer literature or environmental exposure literature to figure out what might be causing these differences. The one exciting thing about this mutation type, as I mentioned, is that these differences are still present in human populations. Whatever the forces that differentiates this mutations is still present. And potentially, potentially, we can sequence pedigrees and try to learn about what these causes might be. And now I'll talk about the third signal, which is in some ways one of the most interesting to me, which is because these mutations, where we find differences across Africans and non Africans appear to have occurred, are dated to be very old, and yet there seem to be population differences.
00:21:16.084 - 00:21:59.874, Speaker B: First, we were sure that this might be because of technical errors. In particular, all of the results that I'm showing you is for derived variance. These are mutations that arose on the human lineage since separation from chimpanzees. We figured that perhaps there was some error in our polarization of the data. We tried to repolarize the data using chimpanzees, and we found that the signal is still present, in fact, even stronger. Then we reason that one difference between Africans and non Africans is their history of neanderthal ancestry. We might predict that if there are certain variants that integrate from neanderthals into non Africans, those might look very different compared to the variants in the common ancestor of all modern humans.
00:21:59.874 - 00:23:03.388, Speaker B: If we could identify the neanderthal integres variants and remove those from our analysis, we would not see any of these differences. When we do this analysis, we actually still find the differences are quite significant across humans, suggesting that this difference is not driven by any endothelial gene flow in non Africans. Next thing we did is further try to use this idea of polarizing the data by looking at the sharing with different archaic populations and trying to figure out when these mutations arose. Did they arise here on the neanderthal lineage so that they integrate back into non Africans? This is the hypothesis we tested in the previous slide. We also looked at mutations, perhaps, that arose on the Denisovan lineage and introgressed into modern humans, or the mutations that arose in this shared branch across all modern humans and archaic populations. Here are the results. If we look at just Denisova derived mutations, we find still and remove them.
00:23:03.388 - 00:24:10.634, Speaker B: We still see there are significant differences such that these are not driving the signal. We can do the same with neanderthal derived mutations. Again, like the previous slide, we see these mutations. These are not driving the signal. But if you remove these shared mutations that are extremely old and predate the separation of modern humans and archaic populations, it seems that these are the mutations that are driving the signal. It's the model that and so then we also try to figure out again, is it the t two c or t 2g mutation in this case, we borrowed ideas from cancer literature where we looked at what are some of the signatures in which these mutations occur? And we identified a couple of mutational contexts that appear to be driving these mutations. In particular, one signature at t two c mutations in these three contexts appears to be entirely driving the differences across human populations, suggesting that either genetic modifiers or some exogenous forces that might leave behind this footprint is causing these differences.
00:24:10.634 - 00:25:35.572, Speaker B: The model that emerges from these analysis is that at some point in the past, there were some mutational changes in an ancient ancestor of ours, and these mutations are now present in modern humans, either potentially through gene flow back into modern humans, or due to population structure. Others have proposed that there might be two possibilities, that there is some ghost ancestry in african and non african populations, mutations that arose at some point in the past that integrates into at this point in human evolution. This figure is entirely from this paper and not related to our analysis. It just coincidentally fits very well with our results. Another model that has been proposed is this model of structure in the stem population of humans, where there is evidence from the fossil record that there were many, many human populations at some point in the past, and these might actually have differential contributions to living humans today. We are now investigating which one of these models fits our data better. Some implications of this analysis is that we find that there are many non replicated sources that can also impact, that have non negligible force in shaping the mutation spectrum.
00:25:35.572 - 00:26:56.100, Speaker B: Like replicated mutations, demography and admixture has pervasive impacts on shaping our genetic variation and even impacts very fundamental processes like mutation rate. Also, this has some important implications for molecular clock and its use, where we find that it's very unsteady at short time scales where the rates differ by ten to 15% across human populations. But puzzlingly across humans and chimpanzees, they differ only by 2%. So there must be some stabilizing selection to keep mutation rate at a lower rate and to have similar rates across groups. We are now looking at these questions using other kinds of omics data, in particular non human species data, looking at single cell sequencing data, and then looking at leveraging hybrid genomes, where we can actually look at the two copies of different genomes in the same cell, and then see how those get affected by different replication machinery. With that, I would like to thank my collaborators, in particular Zhi Bei Gao and Yulin Zhang, who led much of the work. I'd like to thank all my funding sources, in particular, Corette, for funding the research on the mutation rate, and my lab for very helpful discussions throughout the projects.
00:26:56.100 - 00:26:57.384, Speaker B: Thank you very much.
00:27:01.244 - 00:27:08.024, Speaker A: That's cool. You can infer. So back in time, so far back in time in a population specific way. Looks like we have a couple questions.
00:27:16.084 - 00:27:30.290, Speaker C: Thanks so much. That was really wonderful to see this work with them. With args. Very smart. 1000 genomes. I had one basic question. Maybe I misunderstood this, but mapping the mutation signatures in the thousand genomes data is really germline.
00:27:30.290 - 00:27:55.778, Speaker C: And you can look historically where mutations occur. If you map this to this cancer signatures, isn't that surprising that you find uv signatures, because that's a somatic mutation. So how does it get into the germline? Obviously, oocytes don't get all that much sun and neither does male sperm. Do you have an explanation for that? And would you not also have to measure somatic mutations in this sexual tissues to really map this over? I mean, that seemed very puzzling to me that you could find those.
00:27:55.866 - 00:27:56.138, Speaker D: Yeah.
00:27:56.186 - 00:28:49.054, Speaker B: So it is very puzzling to almost everybody, because we don't expect the germline to be impacted by uv. And so it's been quite puzzling to see this matching of the signature. I think this is correlation and not causation, though we are investigating that. I think we don't have to be concerned about the somatic versus germline analysis, because when you sequence a pool of cells, you predominantly pick up the germline mutations in those cells. And we are not looking at the minority population, as people do for somatic cells. We have also replicated these results in multiple other data sets, and they seem to be quite robust. I think it's actually correlation, and we have some hints with a gene that appears to be potentially has a loss of function mutation, and that might be driving the difference.
00:28:49.054 - 00:28:50.170, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:28:50.282 - 00:29:23.698, Speaker D: Awesome. So one of the big conundrums in sort of cross population studies are the different kinds of cancers that you get in different populations. Her two positive er, positive versus not. And Braf is super interesting because there's this. This super recurrent v 600 e mutation. It's the one that, like, there was a massive paper a couple weeks ago that everybody got cured. Right, right.
00:29:23.698 - 00:29:30.556, Speaker D: With this immunotherapy. So that vraf v 600 e mutation is actually a perfect control for you.
00:29:30.650 - 00:29:31.016, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:29:31.080 - 00:29:34.376, Speaker D: For the t to a versus t.
00:29:34.400 - 00:29:37.632, Speaker B: To g. Yeah, that's a great idea because definitely look into that.
00:29:37.688 - 00:30:06.216, Speaker D: In fact, when you. I just sort of looked it up when you look at v 600 e to d in cancer, like you'd expect 50 50, based on. Right. Because of the four fold degeneracy, doesn't add. In fact, it's like 95% v to e versus v to d. And so you have this circulating impact of this that then goes to all of these other tissues. So it could go genital even if its origin is somewhere else.
00:30:06.320 - 00:30:14.804, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, right. That's important point. We'll try to look for specifically that type of mutation to see if that's leading to the differences.
00:30:15.424 - 00:30:43.246, Speaker D: My suggestion is actually slightly, which is look at the, if you can, data from liquid biopsy, because that circulating cell free DNA data may actually be different among current ethnic groups in a way that could allow you to test some of this with the natural controls that there are in the genetic code. Because if you could tie it back to that.
00:30:43.310 - 00:30:44.594, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely.
00:30:44.894 - 00:31:07.488, Speaker D: There's even another element, which is the role that HLA and other circulating kind of natural suppressors of these are having. Because my guess is it's not crazy. Right? Like, humans didn't need to adapt to live at not only the uv light, but altitude. That gives you different spectrum of mutation for a long time. So anyway, I think it's a real signal.
00:31:07.536 - 00:31:11.664, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah. Thank you. Yeah. We are really interested in trying to understand the mechanisms.
00:31:11.704 - 00:31:19.304, Speaker A: Ryan, can you get set up? Go ahead. Go ahead and get set up. We're going to take one question quickly, quick one, while Ryan's sitting up.
00:31:19.644 - 00:31:46.030, Speaker E: Very quick. Great work. I don't know if I understood what you concluded about the non replicative versus. How does that square with the three times more mutation rate in males versus females and also the age dependence of the father versus. No age dependence across the primates?
00:31:46.172 - 00:32:27.374, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think that is the puzzle. Like, we always expect that that increases with the age of the parents, right? With the age of the father, the continuous divisions that happen in the spermatogonial cells, except in pedigree data, you find it's flat. And if the mutations are predominantly occurring due to non replicative sources at similar rates in males and females, then that would be the expectation. And so that's why we think that non replicative mutations also have a really big impact. And this is seen in cancer literature, too. A lot of exogenous sources or endogenous mutation modifiers, double strand breaks, are also leading to a large fraction of mutations.
00:32:29.474 - 00:32:34.674, Speaker A: Thank you, Priya. Our next speaker is Ryan Shiki from Institut Patour Pasteur.
