00:00:13.930 - 00:01:00.750, Speaker A: So welcome to Unlayered, the show, where we explore next gen blockchains. I'm your host, Saul, alongside my partner, crime Dave. And today we have a nice chat with Kel. We had Kale on this summer after he put out an amazing report on Solana, and one that I always show to people when they're trying to learn more about not just the ecosystem, but what's on the horizon. I think at the time, when you put it out, Kale Solana wasn't trading at the highest, but nowadays it's gone up a lot, and certainly the interest has been really high, and it was fun catching up with you at breakpoint, getting some of your hot takes. And I love the energy, and I wanted to encapsulate some of that energy into a podcast episode, share it with our fans and listeners who are trying to stay on top of the ecosystem. So, Kell, it's awesome to have you back here.
00:01:00.750 - 00:01:07.780, Speaker A: What's new? What's on your mind? We've been seeing a lot of activity on Twitter, or x, rather, these days. But how are things?
00:01:09.030 - 00:01:43.118, Speaker B: Things are doing pretty well, man. I think breakpoint was a lot of activity, a lot of teams, a lot of people building a lot of different things, random things in different directions, and can almost be kind of overwhelming. But that's a good thing, right? You'd rather be overwhelmed than underwhelmed. So, yeah, a lot of good energy, met a lot of good people. And, of course, token price goes up. Price goes up 200%.
00:01:43.204 - 00:01:44.506, Speaker A: Directly correlated.
00:01:44.698 - 00:01:45.342, Speaker B: Exactly.
00:01:45.476 - 00:02:00.820, Speaker A: It is not the case that the fundamentals are exactly the same as they were a year ago, and nothing really functionally changed about the technology, but actually the tech scales with the price. And so we're seeing that play out in real time with all the interest. Is that the right way to think about this?
00:02:01.990 - 00:03:06.534, Speaker B: I think from a narrative perspective, it definitely is. The whole idea that price leads narrative is one that I've really tried to internalize over my time being in crypto the last two, three years in terms of, you might know, something is super. As true as true can be. Like maybe Salana tech good, or at least salana tech promising. You know what I mean? Sure. But saying that a year ago when price is $8, saying that six months ago, price is $20 or $15 or whatever the case may be, most people are just not willing to accept the possibility that that could be true. And then if price goes up, all of a sudden, people are now like, oh, I'm feeling a different type of way about this.
00:03:06.534 - 00:03:48.120, Speaker B: Certain kind of thing. And so I think the really important takeaway for me as a researcher is that oftentimes you want other people, especially other people you think are smart people, to. You're almost looking for that confirmation bias. Like, that person's smart, they agree with me, therefore I'm not an idiot. But oftentimes, if that person is starting from an opposing bias, then they're just not going to agree with you, no matter what, until the numbers start going up. And then all of a sudden, it's like, yo, bro, I got this salana shitcoin. That's the one mil market cap.
00:03:48.120 - 00:03:50.550, Speaker B: Best thing since sliced bread.
00:03:51.930 - 00:04:29.460, Speaker C: I think there's just so many people that are really well respected in the industry that have been caught offside on this trade, because I feel like it's probably like over 95% of the crypto community was not in Seoul before this run up. And I think a lot of that is people during the bear market looking at where the puck was, which was Ethereum. That's where sort of all the noise was, all the TVL remained. And anyone who actually had a really good look at what was happening under the hood with Solana could see that when volume returns, when users return, it's going to explode, because it can just handle those volumes so much better. Is that how you see it?
00:04:30.070 - 00:05:11.806, Speaker B: I would actually take it a step further and say that even the majority of Solana enjoyers, if you will, I'd say even the majority of those people are offsides in the sense where a lot of people I spoke with at breakpoint seemed to almost want prices to go down or maybe expected. The trend of conference leads to a dump. And I can buy more. I'll buy more. 20. And then once it started going up, it's like, oh, I'd love to buy some more at 30, blah, blah, blah. Now it's at 55, or whatever it's at today.
00:05:11.806 - 00:05:41.702, Speaker B: So I would even argue that a lot of the people. That was one of my biggest takeaways being at breakpoint was, these are probably the most bullish people on Solana, on planet Earth that have ever lived, are here right now, and even they haven't bought as much as they might want to. So in terms of the community at large, everyone's got serious offsides infractions. Yeah.
00:05:41.836 - 00:06:02.560, Speaker A: So let's talk about this. Because you're at Masara, you talk to a lot of people, some soul fanboys, some not. And I think you guys have some great insights into this. I think I've actually seen some tweets and reports from some of your colleagues about this. But what's different about what's happening in crypto? And it's not just sold. A lot of coins are running up these days. Even Avax is up like 100% or something in the last 30 days.
00:06:02.560 - 00:06:33.930, Speaker A: What I'm hearing, though, is that this is an institution driven phenomenon, which is unlike a lot of bull runs, but it's seemingly retail is not really leading this charge. What are you hearing on your side from your people at Asari, or just even yourself? What are you observing? The inflows data seems to suggest this is pretty institutional driven. And now the ETF news that might drop this week might make that even more of the case. But how are you thinking about this? I guess the early innings of a bull run from your perspective?
00:06:37.710 - 00:07:38.640, Speaker B: I don't really know who's buying and who's really driving it. Of course, there's like huge spot volumes on Coinbase, so that maybe gives some indication that maybe some institutions trying to buy into. On the other side, you have like galaxy selling like large amounts of Solana, at least allegedly so, but the FTX related sales. But from my perspective, you really have a few different classes of retail in general. I think the way that the market plays out, at least as far as I see it, is you have the people who just didn't die and for whatever reason decided to stay in crypto. That's effectively your smart retail. It might not even be smart, but they're going to be the people who buy first because they just happen.
00:07:38.640 - 00:08:51.400, Speaker B: They stayed. If you saw the FTX collapse and all this stuff, and you decided like, yeah, I'm going to just keep being in this industry, you're naturally going to be at least your probability of being the first buyers in a cycle. The people buying sole 810, 1214, 15, et cetera, it just goes way up, just by definition, right? And then the way that I've seen it play out, at least this is only my second cycle, so I can only really reference from experience. The last cycle is you have the sort of opportunistic institutions, if you will. And so the last time it was people know Druckenmiller and these other kind of hedge fund types that were publicly getting super bullish on bitcoin and stuff like that at like ten K in the last cycle. And then that's what kind of to quasoros, that's what leads into this reflexivity of like, all right, well, this super smart hedge fund guy said I should buy. So then the second smartest one does it third smartest and kind of catalyzes into this bigger thing.
00:08:51.400 - 00:09:34.734, Speaker B: What I'm a bit more skeptical on is you talk about some of these bigger institutions, or less hedge fundy type of players, if you will, like how much they're getting involved. So, for example, we saw visa talk about using settlement on Solana and stuff, but I don't know if that necessarily correlates to visa esque institutions or pensions. Know, people loading up for ETF and all this, don't. I don't know how much that is material, but this is all just speculation.
00:09:34.862 - 00:10:17.540, Speaker A: Sure. I've seen that, though, where institutional demand was driven by, like, oh, visa might use Solana to scalable payments framework, therefore we should ape in. I'm saying it more from the perspective of, I think the Grayscale Salana trust is at an 869% premium as of today. Like, just fresh news, which seems to suggest that it's positioning or that ecosystem Salana is being positioned is almost like the thing after ETH, the number three blue chip, so to speak, thing to add to your basket of crypto exposure if you're a big fund, that feels to me like a great tailwind, potentially, for this whole ecosystem. It's a trend worth monitoring, I think.
00:10:18.550 - 00:10:22.066, Speaker C: Do we think there's a chance of a solo ETF being approved as well?
00:10:22.088 - 00:11:22.120, Speaker B: This? Yeah. If I knew anything beyond just, like, baseless speculation in my head, I would tell you, but I got nothing there. And quite frankly, I don't even know how much it really matters in terms of, like, I think people kind of overindex on the ETF because they just kind of need opium flows of capital and stuff, whereas I feel like for Solana, and maybe even for other ecosystems as well, you can just kind of stand on legitimate ground of like, hey, we have this ecosystem of these teams that are building this stuff, and that will just be valuable or not, regardless of whether or not ETF passive investors basically bail us out. You know what I mean?
00:11:23.370 - 00:11:42.030, Speaker C: Yeah, sure. So just turning back to breakpoint, I feel like probably some of the biggest announcements, there were quite a few, and it'd be really great to go into those. But the airdrops from pith and from Jupiter, how do you see that unraveling? Do you think that's going to be a big boon for the ecosystem?
00:11:42.930 - 00:11:43.246, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:11:43.268 - 00:14:13.710, Speaker B: So Masari has a great report out they put out a while ago called the wealth effect, or something along those lines. And the synopsis of this is that typically, when these big airdrop campaigns come in, there's a lagging effect that shows pretty decent user growth. And so that's roughly what I expect here in terms of anytime people see big new money tends to hoard eyes and hoard attention. And I think that was my working thesis even before we saw a breakpoint, which already showed that already catalyzed a huge attention flow towards Solana. And so depending on the size of these airdrops and what percentage of tokens go out and when teams launch and how close of a succession different token launches are, you could definitely see a big effect where, number one, the people who have been using Solana the most over the past two years just get a huge inflow of then, you know, of course, some of those people might just sell it, hold USDC, be done with it, but this being crypto, there's a decent probability some percentage of those people either sell it and use it to buy something else, or use it to buy soul and stake and deposit into lending protocol or whatever. And so that can have downstream implications on TVL increase, even though we've, and I think rightfully so, somewhat discredited TVL as a metric, ultimately more is probably better than less, even if it's not as important as some people have made it out to be. And so, in summary, I feel like it's decently likely that with those airdrops and with other teams in the midst of points, programs and stuff like that, it's probably likely that we see on chain activity up Dex volumes up tvl up speculation up, et cetera, et cetera.
00:14:14.130 - 00:14:54.618, Speaker C: I think it's great that the pith airdrop, I think they said that it will be wallets across 35 different blockchains, and it will be an SPL token. So you're going to be bringing in a huge influx of people from outside of the Salana ecosystem, which I think is great, because I genuinely think one of the key marketing tools that Solana has is just getting people on and using it, using the wallets, using the dexes, and just seeing how sort of buttery smooth it is, how cheap it is. Yes, I'm really excited about that. And I think the other thing is that the airdrops we've seen recently, Celestia and arbitrum, both during a bear market, both just absolutely killed the chain. It couldn't do anything. Fees were spiking. It was a pretty horrible experience.
00:14:54.618 - 00:15:06.830, Speaker C: And I, for one, wasn't keen to stay around those ecosystems once I received those airdrops. So I'm hoping that we can finally see some big airdrops happening in crypto, which don't cripple the chain.
00:15:08.210 - 00:16:02.138, Speaker A: Here's the thing about this influx of interest into Solana and Solana adjacent projects. It feels to me like we're not even ready for this action. I mean, none of these sort of projects we're talking about, whether it's Jupiter pith margin, even tensor as a program, and you're staking your, like, none of the tokens are out yet. So it's just like all this interest is now flowing at these really random long tail solana coins. And it's unclear to me if that's a good thing, if people start getting burned on freshly dropped meme coins on Salana, especially because the tooling to demystify all this, it's not quite as robust as it is for ERC 20s. There's literally, like, barely one even telegram bot that can allow you to trade this stuff. And it doesn't have, like, it's not the most feature rich compared to the one with ETH.
00:16:02.138 - 00:16:25.160, Speaker A: There's, like, one site that lets you check if it's a rug. And yet the most active coins, if you go on things like bird eye, you're seeing they're basically all meme coins because there's nowhere else for this money to go. I think bonk is probably an okay bet if you want to play that game just because it's been around for a long time. But, man, it's a little scary to see what might happen here. How do you feel about the timing of all this?
00:16:27.390 - 00:18:09.450, Speaker B: I do think there is a sort of optimal timing window where teams that, let's say a team was thinking of launching a token, like a year from now, let's say, kind of want to maybe consider that the attention, as we're talking about people being off sides, both price wise, but even just narrative wise, I'm sure that narrative is accelerated faster than a lot of people might have thought. And so you definitely want to take advantage of that, at least from my perspective. So it wouldn't surprise me to see a lot more teams consider. I don't really know when teams are going to drop tokens or if teams are going to drop tokens, but wouldn't surprise me to see them try and take advantage of what the rapid increase in attention we've seen. And then in terms of the shitcoining and all of that stuff, the way I see it is, yeah, people would definitely get burned, and that'll be super tough, but I'd rather have activity than no activity. And at the very least, it shows that there's some desire to be doing something where a big critique for three years was like, oh, what do you do on soul? You go, you swap into soul, you stake your soul, lend your soul.
00:18:11.230 - 00:18:43.954, Speaker A: In fairness, that criticism is still pretty somewhat accurate. The fact that there's nothing to do is the reason why these meme coins are getting so much attention versus other ecosystems. It's changing. I think there is a decent amount of things to do. I just think there was always a bit of truth to that criticism. Hopefully that'll a little bit sooner rather than later. But even if you just hop on coingecko or something and just look at the top tokens on Solana, I'm going down this list.
00:18:43.954 - 00:19:10.998, Speaker A: You have to get down pretty far to find anything kind of new that's also monogamous to Solana, so to speak. For instance, like rollbit is one of the top ones here. And that's not just, I mean, they're kind of moving away from Solana. Render is probably like the biggest one. We had them on graph chain link. Like those are multi chain, and then it's just like tether USDC, you got fracs, like step in. That's a throwback.
00:19:10.998 - 00:19:49.590, Speaker A: Marinade helium audience I kind of see. Remember in Defi summer with ETH, these things had tokens you could just allocate into them and they were for better, for worse, legitimate projects, new projects, exciting things. So it feels to me like we're in this weird positioning now, and hopefully we don't kind of miss this window. I don't think that's going to happen, but I think there is now a huge sense of urgency for these airdrops to happen, for people to get that capital and then ideally start bringing new people into Solana.
00:19:50.730 - 00:20:22.820, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it's sort of a result of the points meta that's been going on as well throughout this bear market, and hopefully it just means that they've been biding their time and then they can finally launch these things once the market starts going upwards. So hopefully it is going to work. And I hope it's not that they're just really enjoying the fact that all of their TVL continues to increase and they haven't even had to release a token yet. I hope that they don't sort of get greedy, if you like, on that front, and just see how long that they can stretch it out for. We shall see.
00:20:23.430 - 00:21:16.020, Speaker B: For what it's worth on that point, if it was me, that's probably exactly what I would do. Where there's got to be some optimal function, where you can think of it like, all right, if I wait too long, TvL will flee, people lose interest, et cetera, et cetera. So there's some maximization point that might not be actually knowable. But if I were to guess, that's what all these teams are trying to hit, right? How long can I hold out? Metamask is a great example of this. People have been like, when token for like three years or whatever, and it's just like it's never coming. It's just not a thing. But they're still able to milk absurd fees on the metamask swaps and all this stuff as a result.
00:21:17.190 - 00:21:38.806, Speaker A: Counterpoint would be like Friendtech. Their window ended up being a lot smaller than I think people thought it would be at this point, functionally dead. Do people even care about the points there anymore? I don't know. A lot of people sold their keys, and that meta feels like it had like a three month window, basically. It's not a one to one comparison. It's not an L1, right? But it's a narrative. It's social fly.
00:21:38.806 - 00:22:06.838, Speaker A: But certainly there is risk in waiting, especially if other opportunity costs and other things get your attention. And certainly, Salana doesn't have a monopoly on high throughput chains. I think every new chain kind of introduces parallelization aptos. I know it's down because a bunch of things unlock, but they have an integration with a pretty popular app in India. So that's just to say, let's capitalize on the window. Let's not wait.
00:22:06.924 - 00:22:24.330, Speaker B: No, I totally agree. Totally agree. Yeah. I don't think the three year wait time that might be unique to metamask and their dominance in the wallet space, it's like you kind of have to use this regardless of whether or not you want to farm the airdrop.
00:22:28.830 - 00:22:44.820, Speaker A: Obviously, we were both at breakpoint. What stood out to you in terms of maybe subsector, narrative thing to get excited about? Let's bust some myths. What's exciting, what maybe feels a little overheated. Let's go with that.
00:22:47.510 - 00:23:44.146, Speaker B: I just feel like when I want to look at the health of a given ecosystem, I want to look at the short, medium, long term prospects. To your point about a friend tech, for example, short term was super hot. But there are these really big questions about how sustainable is the bonding curve mechanism, how sustainable are the 10% fees? And then we've now seen that play out in the medium term, where now platform activity is super low. And even when you go in these chats, it's just people saying like, hey, this is me chatting to try and game the point system. I think it's too early to say it's fully fallen apart, but the activity has definitely fallen down a lot, both in terms of the numbers that you see as well as anecdotally, I kind.
00:23:44.168 - 00:23:48.498, Speaker C: Of feel like stars arena might have marked the top of the gun, put.
00:23:48.504 - 00:24:00.440, Speaker A: Out that tweet where it's like, oh, they only lost 3 million guys. And then people realize the guy that's running an entire layer one is saying the grift is okay, maybe this whole space isn't it?
00:24:01.310 - 00:24:48.310, Speaker B: Maybe zero is eminent. This is the bull trap right here. Oh, God. But, yeah. So I think when it comes to Solana, we've kind of talked about some of the short to medium term catalysts in terms of the token airdrops and that incentivizes activity. And these are like, it's also the most legitimate, you know, like Jupiter and stuff like, you know, should hopefully be like, on the medium term. One thing that I thought was just really promising was, again, the diversity of teams that I saw where you have new players in the exchange space.
00:24:48.310 - 00:25:25.826, Speaker B: You have a wide range of players in the deep end space. You have wide range of players in the defi space. You have a wide range of players in the consumer space. Like, way too many to talk about even just one of those, like, for the entire length of a podcast, that's always super promising because, again, this is a community that was criticized for just literally not existing. People just said, like, yeah, there's 70 devs or 75 devs, whatever the meme was. You know what I mean? Yeah. And so this is obviously very contrary to that viewpoint on the medium term.
00:25:25.826 - 00:26:03.710, Speaker B: And then also the hackathons as well, in this case, hyperdrive. Just looking at, number one, the number of candidates as well as the quality of teams, I thought was pretty good as well. And then on the long term, of course, everyone talks about fire dancer. There's also sig, which I think is pretty important, and, like, runtime v two as well. And so we can get into any of those. But that's kind of my takeaway from breakpoint is looking pretty good on each time frame.
00:26:04.050 - 00:26:57.886, Speaker C: You mentioned the exchanges, and I think it's quite an interesting meta, if you like, that's happening right now because you've got Coinbase who obviously have started base. There are now rumors maybe going around that Kraken are about to potentially build out an L two on Ethereum. So it does feel that maybe there was this extential risk with the Salana ecosystem of not being linked to a major centralized exchange to help with onboarding. And of course, during breakpoint, we've had backpack have announced that they're going to be doing their exchange, which will be integrated within the backpack, wallet and Cube as well, are another centralized exchange. I think their light paper dropped today and they're doing, it's like 0.2 millisecond latency, which is lower than Coinbase, lower than finance. So it really feels like you've got these really strong candidates in the sex arena who will be linked with Solana.
00:26:57.886 - 00:27:00.834, Speaker C: How do you see mean?
00:27:00.872 - 00:28:43.780, Speaker B: Yeah, I totally agree that you need a centralized exchange to kind of support the ecosystem from an on off ramp perspective, like most major ecosystems, be it ethereum or the ethereum, l two s more broadly, as well as BNB chain. That's how. If you were able to see finance's internal data, I'd be willing to bet that a lot of the inflows into BNB chain are directly from finance customers. Because when you look at the UX of that exchange, or in a Coinbase's case, like for base, or before that, for L two s, and then way before that, like FTX Salana, the UX can just be tailored in such a way that leads people towards one chain versus another. And so I think it's a super important facet, and obviously, it'd be good to have chains that kind of leverage what Solana has to offer, like, from a tech stack perspective. And so it's cool to see both the backpack team, the Cube team, trying that in their own unique ways. And I think it'll be pretty entertaining to see who comes out on top, or if they both come out on top, maybe there's room for multiple players and stuff like that.
00:28:43.780 - 00:28:44.610, Speaker B: Right?
00:28:44.680 - 00:29:29.202, Speaker A: They seem well positioned to being in Asia. That feels to me like a market that can just light tokens on fire, which is retail interest rest in the US. Until we get more clarity from the SEC, you can't even trade Solana on Robinhood, for instance, or some of these random consumer apps. And so perhaps we'll see a lot of interest coming from those kind of markets. As far as what's exciting, I mean, what I've seen that's really interesting and unique to Solana is that developers, they're not mercenaries in the sense that you can't really just go to another in EVM world, you can just go to another. Like, you know, one day you're a polygon developer scroll is really cool. Okay.
00:29:29.202 - 00:30:04.694, Speaker A: You just hop to scroll, right? There's no switching cost for you. But these Solana developers, not only do they get so ingrained in chewing glass and writing these custom smart contracts and rust or what have you, where are they going to go? They just end up staying. They slog through the mud, so to speak, through the down markets. And the cliche thing to say is that it builds character, but really what it builds is an extremely robust and independent and meaningfully differentiated community of builders. And you see that firsthand at the hackathon. Like all these guys, they know each other. You were sitting in the audience when they did the announcements.
00:30:04.694 - 00:30:38.066, Speaker A: Like, the energy is pretty wild. And that's the thing you can't measure and you can't quantify. You can't go on DeFi llama and quantify that. But when you feel that energy, and I felt it for two years now, or a third breakpoint, every single one, it felt like that. Where these people are physically here, they flew out to this random country, they're spending their money, or the company is spending money, they're hacking away, they're building stuff that's pretty polished and impressive. And 900 something submissions this year, that's by far the most I think of any hackathon in crypto. That's really hard to fake.
00:30:38.066 - 00:31:11.970, Speaker A: You can't fake that data. And you have to be. I think you'd be an idiot to just assume all 900 of those won't become really valuable companies. I think 1% of them, 2%, 10%, they're going to do things in crypto. And so from a statistical standpoint, it just makes no sense to bet against the Solana ecosystem and such. Cool project. Whether it's prediction markets for social content, like social media content, like turning your computer into a deepen network to allow people to stream cloud gaming locally, like in your same city.
00:31:11.970 - 00:31:47.040, Speaker A: That was a team I talked with. They won their deepen track, really cool use cases that they need the scalability of Solana, they need the UX. And it feels to me like, and we highlighted this earlier, the only kind of headwinds is entities like Coinbase. Like their reluctance to embrace Solana feels like the bigger headwind to get people on board into it that aren't already in crypto. So that's kind of how I view it. It's weird. There's like, headwinds, a lot of tailwinds, but still some weird headwinds, at least for the US market at this time.
00:31:50.370 - 00:31:58.674, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, there's always headwinds, right? And if there are no headwinds, then, I don't know, sold flip bitcoin or something like that.
00:31:58.712 - 00:31:59.300, Speaker A: Right?
00:32:00.070 - 00:33:05.720, Speaker B: Exactly. And that's by no means is that advisory, because I certainly will not be betting on that. But yeah, man, I think there's always going to be these factors and these differences in perception, and different companies and different entities will think about things differently. I think Coinbase has done really great work in the vast majority of cases, but I just happen to disagree on, at least from what I can tell, the stated opinion on the consulana. I could be wrong, they could be wrong. Who knows? That's kind of the fun of the game, right? So I think, I'm sure there's plenty of cases where, and I've met a lot of people from Coinbase and they all seem super sharp and all of that. And I'm sure they could pick out, if they go through my recent tweets, a few things they probably disagree with.
00:33:05.720 - 00:33:40.942, Speaker B: That's all part of the game. And I think communities just prove themselves or don't prove themselves in the long run. It's the old kind of short term is a voting machine, long term is a weighing machine kind of dynamic. And maybe we're starting to see that play out to some extent with Salana even. But I don't think that's necessarily at the discreditation of these other ecosystems, even like Ethereum, l two s or cosmos.
00:33:41.006 - 00:34:18.640, Speaker C: Celestia, et cetera, because of course they keep talking about their wallet, how they're trying to enable transactions at less than a second latency and less than a cent cost, which of course you can do on Solana today. And it does feel if the market cap of Solana does increase, if it does manage to continue outperforming Ethereum during this next couple of years, it does feel that's going to be increasingly difficult for them to just pretend that it doesn't exist and pretend that that isn't a better option than trying to utilize l two layers. Really.
00:34:19.650 - 00:35:22.078, Speaker B: Yeah. As we were talking about, it's one of those price leads narrative thing, right? Where for a number of potential reasons, that narrative isn't necessarily there for them, but as the scenario you talked about, the price is going up a better rate than other things, then the narrative changes. And I think we've all witnessed that at a micro level, and that plays out macro level, too. You said a year ago that Lisa and Van Eck and these other people are going to be putting out and rune from Makerdao is going to be saying, we like the SVM people just said, that's insane. But here we are today. And to Sal's point, a lot of the tech roadmap kind of stuff has changed. And fire dancer, they put out more news about how they can accelerate even beyond 1 billion TPS.
00:35:22.078 - 00:35:49.420, Speaker B: Go to 8 billion TPS at least with respect to signature verification. And there's so many different little things, different little teams that might have updated things for the future, but in a year's timeframe, not that much has really changed. Right, but the opinion has changed massively. So it's the same dynamic that will continue to play out. That's how it's always know with Solana, with crypto, with Ethereum is the.
00:35:52.190 - 00:36:27.618, Speaker A: So we've come a long way from Jack Dorsey. Calling it Salano last summer. That was like kind of the down moment, man. I can't even spell it right. Calling it a single point of failure. Know, web five, whatever it was, that whole tirade he went on on Twitter, it's weird. Like this market, and I'm not the one, I've seen people kind of talk about this or articulate it a little bit better, but last cycle, the BTC Maxis were just down on ETH, and ETH went through that whole kind of narrative arc.
00:36:27.618 - 00:36:54.690, Speaker A: This cycle, the ETH Maxis are down on Solana, and we're seeing it once again, narrative arc play out where they were wrong, and it ends up being an ecosystem worth watching. I think it's clear, like, all of us here love or are very supportive of Solana and the ecosystem. What about any hot takes or just things you think are a little overheated? Maybe we got to put the brakes on or just think about more critically.
00:36:59.350 - 00:37:04.050, Speaker B: I think, as my Twitter shows, there hasn't been much critical thinking lately.
00:37:05.130 - 00:37:07.160, Speaker A: Exactly. That's why we got to do it now.
00:37:07.610 - 00:39:09.500, Speaker B: Yeah, I totally agree. I think a lot of people are excited about token launches and potential increases in user activity, but I don't know if we've necessarily really put in the work to show that that will be lasting in any material sense where we could acknowledge that, hey, maybe TvL isn't this great metric, and, hey, these incentives can be skewed where it basically just leads to the turkey on Thanksgiving chart where, like, everything is great and then incentives stop and then everything goes to zero and stuff like that. We've seen that happen many times within, um. And so that, to me, is just like a sign of potential short term focus in terms, you know, I was buying sole NFTs and I was using Jupiter or whatever. So now I think I'm going to basically just get rich off these airdrops, make a quick flip and then be done with it. And so I guess the impact of those on meaningful adoption of these networks would be the thing that I call into question. Just because increase in active accounts, let's say, doesn't exactly map one to one to increase in people who meaningfully use this to drive some value, contrasted to something like maybe like a teleport where if they have users who are taking rides, that's using the chain for an actual use case beyond just like, hey, we have these tokens now I'm rich when lambo kind of thing.
00:39:11.330 - 00:39:16.160, Speaker A: For sure. So you're bullish, kind of deep in space, it seems, at a thematic level.
00:39:17.490 - 00:40:47.238, Speaker B: Yeah. I mean, I'm not even necessarily bearish on all these defi teams that are dropping these tokens, but just in terms of things that feel a bit overheated, in terms of the level of excitement, like this is going to be a panacea that solves all of our problems relative to what we know now about these different things, I think these things would be super good, super beneficial, especially when done well. But I feel like the narrative hype is like, oh, we're going to have all these coins, then TVL will go up and then we'll be better than Ethereum, and then we know, and it's like, all right. The end goal that I have in mind for crypto networks in general, Solana just happens to be the one that I feel like at least today has the best possibility of getting there, is actually having a meaningful impact on actual applications that people use for non speculative reasons with regularity. And I think any one of these verticals can supply that. People use financial things, I use Venmo and I have to pay 1% fee to withdraw my money instantly. And there's a whole host of teams, a lot of them on Salana, that are building things similar to that, that don't have those fees and use Solana for settlement.
00:40:47.238 - 00:41:14.334, Speaker B: That's real usage as compared to those. Teams can drop tokens and that could be great, but just, I feel like not enough. In terms of your point on critical thinking, maybe for what it's worth, I'm sure the teams themselves are doing the actual critical thinking, but the community is just kind of moonboy posting again. You can just look at my Twitter.
00:41:14.382 - 00:41:18.278, Speaker A: If you want to see some of that, basically.
00:41:18.364 - 00:42:18.620, Speaker C: Yeah, I completely agree. I think Solana has a really good opportunity over the next couple of years to really help push crypto forward into providing useful applications for people. Because I think if you look at the previous bull markets, which were predominantly being led by Ethereum, the issue was that as soon as people came onto the network, as soon as you were building up those network effects, then the fees were going up. You're getting this economies of scale, basically. The more people that join, the costs actually increase, whereas in normal businesses, the more people that join, the more products you produce, the costs go down. It's sort of the opposite with blockchain. So I think with how performance Lana is with its local fee markets and all of these useful real world applications being built on it, I think there's a genuine, genuine chance to push the crypto ecosystem forward so that we don't have to spend the next bear market trying to justify our existence yet again.
00:42:19.710 - 00:42:25.740, Speaker B: And betting on hamster races, because we did that, at least I did.
00:42:27.950 - 00:43:05.382, Speaker C: I think one thing that was quite fun was in the opening chat from tully where he was talking. Firstly, the Dragon outfit obviously goes without saying, and then also his piece on Solana alignment. Just if it makes it faster, if it reduces latency, then you are Solana aligned. And I think that's great. I think Solana at this point in history has a very broad canvas of anyone can join, anyone can go in any direction. And it's sort of in opposition, I would suggest, to the Ethereum alignment, which feels far more rigid, far more, you must toe the party. And.
00:43:05.382 - 00:43:19.400, Speaker C: And sort of coupled with that, Ethereum obviously has been struggling price wise over the last couple of weeks. So do you think, how do you view the ETH ecosystem? Is it going through its own existential crisis at the moment?
00:43:20.370 - 00:44:17.834, Speaker B: I wouldn't go as far as to say that they're going through an existential crisis. I think that'd be a little too short term oriented in terms of like, oh, price was flat when other coin went up for like two weeks, therefore we're finished. The thing is up like 50,000% or whatever from inception. So I think they're doing fine. And technical, roadmap wise, I think they have a clear vision. The big disconnect, at least for me personally, is on the timing to execute on that vision and how it compares to the timing for Solana to execute, because I don't think it's some foregone conclusion that Solana has to be the best design. It's over, the game is finished.
00:44:17.834 - 00:45:27.966, Speaker B: And the alignment thesis that Tolle has put out is the be all, end all. And what the Ethereum people have put out is like nonsense. I do agree that to certain extent, Ethereum's alignment thesis or what people have talked about is certainly more of a explicitly sociopolitical one than Solana's is. But at the end of the day, they do have this vision for scaling through roll ups and with dank sharding, proto dank sharding, et cetera, and the advent of ZK roll ups. And if you get more users on them, then that reverses the dis economies of scale you were talking about and all of these things that could very well work. It's just a question of the timing. And how does that timing compare to what salon already has today? And so to answer your question, I don't think by any means are going through an existential crisis.
00:45:27.966 - 00:46:44.170, Speaker B: They're just going through a miniature one where you're like, oh, right now we got to talk about something on Twitter. So let's talk about how Solis is up whatever percent in the last two weeks and how that means we have to sound the alarms. But ultimately, when you look at like two, three, four year time frame or more, I think the question for them is how are we going to get to assuming a fire dancer launches within, I think their target, at least that they put out on YouTube or whatever, is like mid 2025. And if they deliver on what they have discussed, then that's looking at anywhere from six hundred K to a million TPS or maybe even more with the more recent developments. And so the question that I think they have to ask themselves in the Ethereum community or people cosmos community have to ask themselves, or Avax community have to ask themselves is for each one of their respective scaling solutions. Number one doesn't even matter. To get to that level, actually ask yourself if you think that it matters.
00:46:44.170 - 00:48:41.406, Speaker B: I personally think it does. Because when you look at some of the financial applications, like the original Salana vision of the Nasdaq on chain, for example, to facilitate that, you need at minimum high 600K plus kind of levels of TPS. But for whatever vision that those respective builders and those communities have for their chains, you have to ask, number one, can we compete with the scale that Solana has on their roadmap on a two year time frame, like yes or no? And does that matter? And the reason why I personally have gotten much more bullish on the Solana ecosystem in general is because I didn't see any route for those other ecosystems to compete with that level of scale on that time frame. Nor did it seem to be the biggest focus where, yes, there are teams building that and so on, but they seem to be distracted by this philosophical element where, similar to the bitcoin, Maxis became distracted by their own philosophy of, oh, Ethereum is centralized because the founder isn't like a mysterious ghost that no one's ever met or whatever, so therefore it's unholy. And all the stuff ended up missing out on huge opportunities. Or they could have just made a few changes, change opcodes a little bit supported, could have legitimate roll ups on bitcoin and have done the smart contract thing. And they talked about this years upon years upon years ago, they could have just rugged Ethereum's whole vision.
00:48:41.406 - 00:50:08.458, Speaker B: Instead, here they are basically spinning their wheels today. And so that led to a big lost opportunity where maybe the people focused on the technological side. In my head, all of these ecosystems are part philosophy and part technology, and building conviction in things in crypto is like, you have to, on that gradient, decide what matters most and where is your lean going to be. Are you 100% philosophy, like decentralization is all that matters and bitcoin is the only solution. Or maybe you could say Salana is 100% technology focus, whatever makes us faster and lower latency, that is what we're going to do above all else. And I think both sides can crowd each other out when it's a mix. Salana has a mix where, for example, the people who are very open source ethos often get crowded out by the people who are performance, technological focus, where there's a lot of things that should be open source, but that just kind of got overlooked because we want to ship something and we got to just upgrade the performance.
00:50:08.458 - 00:51:33.820, Speaker B: And in Ethereum's case, you might have people who want to and have a vision for how Ethereum can scale to compete with Solana while addressing the bridgers and all these different things that we talk about, but they get crowded out by people who are still having the same spinning wheels decentralization discussion because of a 1.5K or 2.5K difference in node count between Ethereum and Salana, I don't think it's reached crisis levels yet. In summary, there is definitely this strife aspect of like some people just want to focus on building good tech in the way that they seem best in the Ethereum landscape. And I wish all those people the best, but they have to contend with this other group of people within that same ecosystem who, if they're not careful, will grow to such a bloat. Of size, similar to what we've seen in the bitcoin landscape, where nothing gets done, none of these improvements get made. And then you wake up one day and fire dancer is doing one mil TPS, and you're still stuck doing the 15 TPs that most of the roll ups do today.
00:51:34.670 - 00:52:39.722, Speaker A: So you brought up fire dancer kind of in that longer term vision. And I think it's a good segue, actually, to this next question, which is. And I think it's a good question for both of you guys, actually, because I think both of you have done thinking on this, the sole token itself, the economics of the sole token, because I think a lot of people get super, I don't want to say hung up, but they focus heavily on, can this thing actually be worth something in the future? Why should I buy it from a fundamentals perspective? And ETH has that meme of ultrasound money being deflationary, perhaps soul can hit that. Is this. Is there some combination of what's enabled by fire dancer in terms of increased throughput, what increased demand to use the chain would look like? And then on the fee side, because we could increase the fees, potentially without really affecting the Ux. And I think Anatoly has talked about this a few times before. Is there some combination here that you see in the future where if we get these parameters or these levers right, actually, this token becomes net deflationary.
00:52:39.722 - 00:52:41.120, Speaker A: How do you think about that?
00:52:43.410 - 00:53:57.350, Speaker B: I think if ETH is ultrasound money, I'll offer my own meme for soul, which is hypersound money. I think that at least as far as the last calculations that I looked at, you basically need something on the order of 100 to 200 x in transaction count at the same time as, like, a two to four x in average fees to basically go from seven, 8% inflation, whatever we're at today, to basically net zero inflation. And so then anything beyond those levels on either side of transaction count or fees, assuming the same for everything else, would mean that the sole token would be deflationary. I think the jury is still out on whether or not that's a desirable characteristic or just, like, a pumpamental meme. But again, if we're offering memes hypersound money, you heard it here first.
00:53:57.500 - 00:54:01.990, Speaker A: Nice. What's the emoji? You're going to have everyone put in their bio?
00:54:02.970 - 00:54:07.160, Speaker B: I haven't gotten that far, man. Come on, you got to give me some time.
00:54:09.370 - 00:55:09.642, Speaker C: So there's of the things. So, firstly, the inflation rate goes down to one and a half percent from, I think it's like six and a half, but people receive more than that because not everyone stakes. So I think it's like six, six and a half percent, down to one and a half percent. So obviously that hurdle to become deflationary gets easier and easier as each year goes by. But for me, the fundamental thing is that everyone believes ethereum is this incredible asset, deflationary, and it's going to go on add infinite. But I refuse to believe that the market will long term sustain transaction fees to be to the order of 10,000 x higher on Ethereum than they are on Salana. I refuse to believe that there are many businesses out there which would stomach such high cost increases just for using Ethereum, which at the moment maybe it's okay with more liquidity, more tokens, but I think over time the gap is going to reduce about why you would want to launch on Ethereum.
00:55:09.642 - 00:55:52.430, Speaker C: And so I think that the future of the space is going to be very high TPs, very low transaction fees. And then also I think MeV capture will form another part of it. And I think that both Ethereum and Solana will have to get used to that new meta. Again, I refuse to believe that Ethereum can maintain the sort of level of fees that it's been able to accrue in a virtual monopoly for the last six, seven years or so. So, yeah, that's how I see it, that both Solana and Ethereum are going to have to resolve this. And I think it's just going to be very high TPs and a couple of big, big winners and then a lot of blockchains, which sort of fade to obscurity.
00:55:55.250 - 00:57:08.006, Speaker B: Yeah, I guess to be fair to the ethereums, or whatever they would call themselves, I suppose they share that vision in terms of, hey, we're going to scale with these roll ups or roll ups as roll ups. You've seen optimism, super chain and all this stuff, where in the end state, if you will, you do have chains that have super high activity and low, effectively zero fees, but there's just so much of it when you bundle it all down. The Ethel one is still seeing a lot of activity, but from the user perspective, when they're at like Dell two or Dell three, or perhaps even higher, they're experiencing the zero fees while having this kind of trickle down effect to the L1. So again, I think that's a much more indirect way of accomplishing the same thing that Salana already just accomplishes on the L1 by default. Right. But that would be their sort of.
00:57:08.028 - 00:57:55.410, Speaker C: Counterargument, but I think a lot of the revenue that Ethereum receive is activity still on the L1. I just wonder what's the game plan there? It's supposed to be everyone moves to the L two s, but we're not really seeing that yet. I think airdrop farming has accounted for a lot of that activity, but I think either they stay on the ether one, but they're just going to be exposed to increasingly high fees, or they move to the l two at that point. I think then the revenue to e then drops substantially. But yeah, how do you see it going? Do you think that the ether one will be used for, I don't know, whales trading or actually, I suppose my other question is where will defi on Ethereum end up in the future? Because that's something I can't quite work out at the minute.
00:57:55.850 - 00:59:42.710, Speaker B: Well, I feel like you have to differentiate the end state user of these networks versus basically the people who are propping up these networks today. Salana included all the crypto networks, which is degenerate gamblers mostly. We talked about deepen earlier 1% of the total lifetime users of helium mobile or teleport or insert deepen network built on other chain have used those things today, assuming that they actually scale to the level that the people building them want them to scale to. And so in the case of Ethereum, we say it will take a similar huge multi order magnitude increase in the total activity just on these different execution layers, be it l two or l three, for the economics to work out in terms of the token still being deflationary with all of the users being on different layers. But I think it would be like a false pattern match to say the current users haven't left the l one. The current users are all just like people speculating on Pepe or Joe or ticker bitcoin or whatever the case may be. Right? And so those people are a bit more fee inelastic in the sense where if I think I can 100 x on this token, $10 fee, $40 fee, doesn't matter when I'm going to buy my lambo or whatever the case may be.
00:59:42.710 - 01:00:58.030, Speaker B: At least that's the mindset. Of course, as we all know, it doesn't work out like that all the time. But yeah, I think the speculative users are fee inelastic and maybe that's why for so long people didn't use Solana because the lower fees didn't really mean anything. All they cared about was the liquidity prevalence of tokens, et cetera. And now that we're seeing that start to improve on Solana, or even just have the potential to improve with points, programs know theorized tokens coming, or even announced tokens coming, now we start to see like, oh my God, all this inflow of interest, and all of a sudden salana is the best thing since sliced bread and all of that. So I think that's what matters a lot more for the short term user and the speculative users. And then in terms of, in the long run, how will it actually work when real businesses use it? It's going to have to be a thing where there's hundreds of thousands or millions of transactions being executed across n number of L2s or layer threes.
01:00:58.030 - 01:01:11.810, Speaker B: And then the fees that those all kick back down the stack will just have to be enough for the Ethereum L1 to maintain its roughly deflationary status.
01:01:13.910 - 01:01:55.300, Speaker A: So we obviously covered a lot of topics. I think one that we haven't had a touch on yet that I want to, I guess, close out on is just like the stablecoin landscape as it pertains to Solana in particular. And I bring this up because I think I've seen you tweet about Tron a few times, and it's not just you. A lot of people are kind of pushing back against them as any sort of a success case in crypto. I think proponents of Tron point to the fact that tether has very high issuance on it. It's by far the number two chain with the most stable coins issued on it. I think it's like $4 billion or something like that.
01:01:55.300 - 01:02:41.040, Speaker A: Or, no, it's a lot more. It's like in the double digit billions. And then a lot of people in emerging markets send money on exchanges to each other using TrOn or tether on Tron, whereas Salana, it's like there's not high issuance, but the user experience of payments is really good. There's dozens of startups, and we just had one last week talking about a sphere and APIs they're building to enable payments. And obviously you brought up visa, another example where we're using USDC as kind of the rails to settle payments. Like Tron, for instance, is kind of a case study on just how to get, I guess, legal arbitrage with entity structuring and integration with certain exchanges. It feels to me like Solana has never been good at.
01:02:41.040 - 01:03:11.830, Speaker A: Like it's never been good at just getting on centralized exchanges and markets and getting people to care about it. There. Even Coinbase, they don't want to embrace Solana. I tried paying people in the USDC on Solana, and certain states don't even turn on that feature for Coinbase. And so it's very confusing. It's kind of hard to use. Tell me about how you think about stables, because I think a lot of the bullcases we all point to, Deepin teleport, they're using stablecoins on the back end to handle the payments for drivers to abstract away blockchain.
01:03:11.830 - 01:03:53.160, Speaker A: So it feels to me like this is actually really important that we got to get right for mass adoption. And for a good ux, Solana currently, I think, ranked, let's see, Defi llama has them at five. Yeah, five after arbitram. So it goes ethereum at 65 billion, stablecoin market cap tron at 47 billion, then a huge gap, then BSE at 5 billion, arbitrum at 1.8 billion, and salana at 1.5 billion, and polygons right after at 1.17. So just tell us about what you think about stables and salon, like, how you see that playing out.
01:03:56.170 - 01:04:39.640, Speaker B: Um, I think that there's a couple takeaways from. From the scene that you just described. Number one, there's no guarantee that the best tech wins, because you look at example, like Tron in terms of its adoption. You could go to any of these countries that actually use crypto and want to just basically just to hold cash or transact in cash or et cetera, et cetera. What do they want? They want USDT on Tron. To quote a wise man who once said, there is no second best according to these people. Right.
01:04:39.640 - 01:06:24.680, Speaker B: And so I think that's a clear case of, like, yeah, you can hyper optimize your chain, hyper optimize hardware, and truly have people rewrite long standing algorithms that no one has improved in 20 years and make them twice as fast or eight times as fast or whatever, like Kevin Bowers does, there's no guarantee of success. Right. It certainly improves the probability that people will say, all right, I look at these competing standards, and I choose this one because it's an order of magnitude better than the next one, but there's no guarantees. I would love to talk to the Tron BD guys or whoever actually set up a lot of these partnerships in these places, because it's something that really flew pretty far under the radar, I feel like for most, quote unquote crypto native kind of people, until all of a sudden, it was just like they were everywhere. And then on the other end, you talk about a lot of these payment teams and be it Venmo esque or stripe esque or net new entirely, like maybe like a tip link or something like that. I think you have a lot of teams taking interesting approaches to leveraging the fact that you can. It's kind of shocking how expensive the whole financial infrastructure around payments and sending cash from point A to point B is.
01:06:24.680 - 01:08:16.140, Speaker B: Even with simple stuff like Venmo or if I want to instant transfer to my bank, I get rugged for whatever 1% of whatever it is that I'm trying to send in Salana, that could be 0%. And so I think all the seems have a legitimate chance of success because of the old kind of adage that for a startup to win, they have to be ten x better than the incumbent. And I think that is ten x better. Now it's just a question of maybe less so on the tech side and just on the ux side and on the kind of growth hacking side, how do we get people onto this? How do we make this fluid enough where it's only in the last maybe 612 months where you could somewhat seamlessly integrate bank account to wallet app to payment app or whatever, where that makes it pretty competitive compared to a Venmo or some of these cross border kind of payments platforms and stuff like that, where it was always competitive on cost. But people are very ux sensitive is what I find, especially like non tech interested kind of people who are purely utility oriented. Like for us, we like the tech, so we're willing to jump through these loops and traverse chew glass if you will. So I can figure out how to bridge and do all this other stuff.
01:08:16.140 - 01:10:14.450, Speaker B: But for the biggest percentage of users, both retail wise and even institutional wise, much more ux sensitive and want something that either maps closely to what they already have or is a lot smoother and a lot slicker than what they already have. And so I think we're only now kind of getting to the point where that's even feasible in terms of the combination of the on ramps, off ramps, ability to integrate banks and stuff like that. And then the transfer costs have been low, and so now you can get to a point, you can sign in with Google and stuff if you really want to, a lot of these platforms. And so now you can kind of get to a point where at the application level you reach parity or exceed parity on almost every level. And so then at the stablecoin level, the inflows will come. If you have some venmo competitor that hacks its way to a million daily active users, and it's using USDC on the back end, you know what I mean? Whereas I think the historical inflows are mostly from, again, more speculative capital. That's just harder to predict in terms of will this high net worth individual from Switzerland decide to deploy 5% of their portfolio to Ethereum or to Salana? It's like, all right, who the fuck knows? You know what I mean? Yeah, I think Salana is well positioned in that sense to take advantage of stablecoin flows for legitimate use cases and take some time to play out.
01:10:14.450 - 01:10:19.140, Speaker B: But I think we're kind of at the beginning of that cycle, if you will.
01:10:19.910 - 01:10:28.600, Speaker A: Inflows incoming, it seems like. Or hopefully especially these bridges get better too, which I'm noticing much better than even six months ago.
01:10:30.730 - 01:10:55.294, Speaker B: Yeah, I personally enjoy the bridging experience a lot more nowadays than I feel like there's some pretty quick options. Like I've used dBridge. I think that's pretty solid. I think I found them when I was over at breakpoint and yeah, a lot quicker than the 30 minutes black box of the past.
01:10:55.492 - 01:11:17.202, Speaker A: Yeah, wormhole. And then having to find liquidity for that final leg of the trade. I think retail will have a lot of more options to allocate into Seoul. Whether it's more exposure through sexes like backpack and things like that, maybe these exchanges in the US will start embracing it. If the SEC gets more clarity, then the bridging experience is getting better. You can accept whatever token you want to come in on. All super exciting.
01:11:17.202 - 01:11:44.720, Speaker A: I think we talked about a lot of obvious tailwinds covered and hopefully demystified a bit of the mania around Solana. Talked about some important headwinds though, to keep consideration of as we navigate this upcoming, I guess, bull market. It seems just crazy to think about, Kel. It's always fun catching up with you and getting your perspective on things. I'm sure we'll see you around on Twitter as well. But thank you for joining us again for the second take of this.
01:11:46.050 - 01:11:49.340, Speaker B: Thank you all as well. It was always a blast. Awesome.
