00:00:00.240 - 00:00:43.394, Speaker A: Hello and welcome to Metacrafters. I'm Chris, one of the instructors for your course, and I have the pleasure of introducing you to our platform and the educational adventure that awaits you. So let me share with you what Metacrafters is all about. At Metacrafters, our mission is to become the leading web3 education platform. We are dedicated to helping individuals like you learn valuable skills related to blockchain technologies. Our platform offers a unique experience where you can not only gain knowledge, but also earn rewards such as crypto and nfts. Moreover, we are committed to assisting our graduates in securing job opportunities.
00:00:43.394 - 00:01:31.808, Speaker A: Through our talent pool. We connect you with companies actively seeking the skills taught in our courses, offering bounties, part time positions as well as full time employment prospects. Unlike simply watching YouTube or participating in most online platforms, Metacrafters provides you with more than just educational content. You'll be part of a supportive and friendly community comprised of fellow students who are going through the same course as you. Additionally, our peer mentors are readily available to assist with any questions or concerns you may have along your learning journey. You have access to live class offerings and open office hours where you can receive valuable feedback and support. Now lets dive into the course itself.
00:01:31.808 - 00:02:28.408, Speaker A: In module one, well cover the fundamentals, exploring topics such as the basics of blockchain technology and the concept of public and private keys. From there, well move on to module two where youll directly engage with with the blockchain by learning how to create wallets, perform airdrops and conduct transactions. Finally, in module three, we'll bring everything together as you learn to create your very own custom token and delve into the exciting world of nfts. By the end of the course, you'll even have the skills to build your own minting website. Now how cool is that? Now, throughout the lessons, you'll encounter optional challenges designed to solidify your understanding of the concepts. These challenges provide hands on experience and help reinforce your knowledge. Additionally, at the end of modules two and three, you'll be given a project to test your skills.
00:02:28.408 - 00:03:13.666, Speaker A: These projects are individually graded by our peer mentors, giving you an opportunity to demonstrate your proficiency and receive valuable feedback. And now, let's talk about everyone's favorite topic, the rewards. Upon successfully completing your first module, you'll receive an NFT that represents your progress in the course. As you continue progressing and complete subsequent modules, the NFT will be updated to reflect your achievements. When you finish your final project, the NFT will show as complete serving as your digital certification of your skills. They'll remain forever yours on the blockchain. It also grants you access to our talent pool, where you can explore current job opportunities.
00:03:13.666 - 00:03:53.204, Speaker A: And moreover, by completing the final project, you become eligible for any additional rewards specified on the course page. These crypto rewards are manually transferred and are typically deposited into your fantom wallet within seven to 14 business days. Now, if you have any questions or you're in need of any further assistance, we encourage you to submit them on our Discord channel. And don't worry if you're unfamiliar with discord, because in our very next segment, we'll be covering it in this entirety. Once again, welcome to Metacrafters. We're thrilled to have you join our community of crafters. I'm confident that your journey with us will be both educational and rewarding.
00:03:53.204 - 00:03:56.464, Speaker A: Now, without any further ado, let's go.
