00:00:03.480 - 00:00:28.847, Speaker A: All right. Hello everyone. Malisha from Streamflow. Thank you for taking the time to join this early. I know last night there was a lot of. There were a lot of parties, so I really appreciate it. For those of you that don't know what Streamflow is and what Streamflow does, Streamflow solves some of the biggest problems in crypto scams.
00:00:28.847 - 00:01:27.815, Speaker A: Rock pools, bad token launches, bad incentives, bad distribution. And how does Streamflow do that? We do that through secure, easy to use and powerful platform that helps projects to align incentives among different stakeholders. Streamflow launched three years ago at first the Breakpoint and as of now we have over 600 million in TVL. Roughly 600 million processed in different tokens. Over 1 million users have used Streamflow and over 4000 different tokens have gone through the platform so far. The most known projects out there used Streamflow in some capacity or community tokens, Defi, Deepin, Gamify, you name it. Most likely they use Streamflow in some capacity for airdrops, vesting payroll token locks.
00:01:27.815 - 00:02:12.609, Speaker A: And we are just getting started. Actually this is where we've been so far. We're just getting started. We are launching permissionless token staking as a service. All of us love to stake Solana, right? What if you could stake any token out there? I'll show you the demo. So this is launching in October, very simple, first version where you can select any token to create a staking pool, add any token as a reward, set the release rate and boom, in just a few clicks, you're good to go. The stake pool is created.
00:02:12.609 - 00:03:21.239, Speaker A: Any token project can do that permissionlessly on streamflow platform as the staker, individual staker. You go to the platform, add your stake, create a stake account, it's deposited as rewards accumulate, you can claim them and once the lockup period ends, you can unstake, sorry, end demo. So this is one thing we're launching in October, another thing we're launching in October and we are very excited about is aligned unlocks. What are aligned unlocks? It's a novel mechanism that we're bringing to Solana and things so unlocks happen relative to some milestone or KPI. Let me give you an example. A good example is of use of this line. Unlock is you come to, you set a target price for the token to unlock and once there is the unlock is supposed to happen.
00:03:21.239 - 00:05:01.095, Speaker A: Depending on the target price and the current token price, a certain percentage is unlocked and release at that time frame. But this applies to airdrops, vesting contracts, locks, payment streams, you name it across the stack and this unlocks a whole new opportunity for the experimentation and we are very very excited to see what users are going to do with this Aligned unlocks milestone based unlocks so and we are not stopping here either. Like even bigger thing after these two launches in the next few weeks is Streamflow v2. What is version two? Well it's a way and a bigger plan for Streamflow to decentralize and to turn users and community into stakeholders to coordinate this network and to open source the protocol and allow others to build on top of streamflow and no better way to achieve coordination invite others to build and decentralize than the token and the logical question is when Token we're launching staking in October, we're launching aligned unlocks in October and we're launching Token in October. Follow us on Twitter Join our community in the upcoming days and weeks. There will be many many more news on this front. Thank you very much ladies and gentlemen.
