00:00:04.000 - 00:00:24.994, Speaker A: Oh, my God. You guys are awake. Hi, everyone. I know a lot of people were staying out pretty late. There were a lot of late night parties. So I'm really excited that you're here and that this is going to be a really special moment where I get to share my story and we can just kind of like, yeah. Think about and reflect on this space over the last year.
00:00:24.994 - 00:00:54.934, Speaker A: So my name is Tiff. I'm the general manager for Solana at Magic Eden, meaning I oversee all the strategy and execution for what we do on chain. And today I'm going to just share a little bit about myself and where we've been for the last year and where we're going. So kind of going old school with the paper. Hope that's all right. So recently I've been catching myself kind of doom scrolling the news. It's been really hard to look away from the plight that's happening all around the world.
00:00:54.934 - 00:01:42.474, Speaker A: I'm sure you guys have seen it too, right? There's a lot of stuff that's happening, and it's kind of like being unplugged from the matrix. You feel really jolted, right? And I think over the course of the last year, whether it's recently or from months before, there are lots of situations that force us to think deeply about our place in the world, what we're doing with our time, and why this all matters. So two years ago, I joined Magic Eden as our second hire. Personally, I was also not having the best of times. I was living alone in Los Angeles after having left a pretty difficult relationship. I remember I found these two girls on Facebook marketplace, and I moved into this really random one bedroom apartment. And I was actually.
00:01:42.474 - 00:02:23.178, Speaker A: I started magic Eden. And I have this, like, distinct memory of taking a Twitter space while lying on my floor with radium two years ago. And so it was like a crazy, crazy journey. I am 33 today, and I was raised in a very paradoxical environment that many of us can probably relate to. I was a freshman in college when the financial recession happened. And I was kind of. I was held this tension that I saw from the front row how cruel and how difficult the world was while also seeing tote bags and colorful Instagram posts about following your passion.
00:02:23.178 - 00:02:54.310, Speaker A: So I knew how difficult things would be and how I needed to make money to support myself. But I was also a helplessly idealistic millennial. And this has been the ultimate gift and curse. And the truth is, I quit my job and I started at Magic Eden because I thought I could change the world. And I still believe that to be true. Before I joined Magic Eden, I was actually dead set on becoming a full time writer. And I ultimately joined Magic Eden because I thought NFTs could help writers make more money.
00:02:54.310 - 00:03:36.718, Speaker A: Have we gotten there? Debatable. But sometimes you sign up for one thing and then you get swept up into this other thing. And over the course of the first year at Magic Eden, I really clung to magic Eden because it was incredible to be part of something that you can build something from scratch. I thought NFTs, and I still think NFTs could be a technology that can help give people livelihoods. In other words, magic eating kind of gave me hope that my work mattered, and by extension, I also mattered. It's very dangerous to put someone who takes things so personally in charge of marketing because you're constantly looking at what people are saying about you. And those early days, I was so, so happy, so elated when people love magic Eden.
00:03:36.718 - 00:03:54.670, Speaker A: And I felt complete despair when there were days where we would have Twitter fud crypto. Twitter is not for the faint of heart. So at this point, I think we all know the story about magic Eden. Things were great then. Things were very challenging. And now I think things are getting better. A lot better.
00:03:54.670 - 00:04:44.304, Speaker A: It's very easy to dehumanize a platform. But most of our founding team were, like all in our early thirties, mostly a bunch of Asians who wanted to throw the middle finger to the man and build something that we could own. And when I think about the last year, I'm actually so incredibly proud of where we've come. And just like how I've been on a personal journey to become a stronger, more resilient leader, Magic Eden has taken a similar journey. So a year ago, right, we were a scrappy startup, struggling to grow up, torn in a million directions, and we had to work on our fundamentals. We were torn between aggressively wanting to ship at all costs versus caring about the quality of our product. Today we have a sharply designed collection page and profile page, and we're going to be dropping a new homepage pretty soon.
00:04:44.304 - 00:05:30.532, Speaker A: We were also torn between going multi chain versus maintaining focus on Solana, which was a topic of conversation among the community at large. And if I'm honest, maybe we will always have this tension because we are the only truly multi chain platform that has an audience on bitcoin, a bit of EVM, as well as Solana. But over the last few months, and especially over, I guess I would say, the vast majority of this year, I'm really proud of how we've reinvested in the community. On Solana, we've saw a lot of feedback, and as of the last two months, we've re earned market dominance. So thank you for supporting us. A year ago, we were also torn between pushing for results at all costs versus being healthy leaders and managers. And as a result of that, we had a lot of difficult conversations and completely restructured the company.
00:05:30.532 - 00:06:01.872, Speaker A: So now we have two GM's. I'm general manager for Solana. We have another general manager who takes care of EVM and bitcoin. And we have these cross chain teams, such as product engineering, marketing, et cetera, that support the organization at large. So we spent a large part of this time thinking deeply about what kind of company we wanted to be, and we had to make some painful but necessary decisions. Writers often talk about the power of revision. Revision allows us to face ourselves.
00:06:01.872 - 00:06:54.102, Speaker A: Revision allows us to confront our fears of change, our fears of growth. And ultimately, revision makes us stronger people. It's not a coincidence that the word revision has the word vision in it. And I think for all the time we spent in the bowl waxing poetic about visions, I think some, some of the craziest things I heard were like the Defi to gaming pipeline or all these trustworthy platforms that ended up not being so trustworthy that maybe, just maybe, the state of revision, the constant state of revision, is more important to talk about than just waxing poetic about a vision. So we've spent the last year revising becoming a company that knows how to exercise balance and can focus on multiple things at once. And we've done a lot to push Solana, too, in the following ways. Number one, once we got the fundamentals in order, we were able to actually innovate on new products.
00:06:54.102 - 00:07:25.564, Speaker A: That felt fun. So although people kind of joke about it, and it's a bit cheeky, I will 100% talk about Luckybuy right now. So I think Luckybuy is an amazing source of innovation. For those who don't know, it's a product that allows you to receive an NFT, potentially for less than the listing price. What did we do to bring this product to life? Number one, we built an algorithm that supported verified randomness on chain from scratch. And this took weeks to build behind the scenes. In total, we've delivered nfts to over 3000 winners out of 7000 buyers.
00:07:25.564 - 00:08:09.244, Speaker A: And we've raised over 3000 sol for creator royalties. It's so successful, in fact, that other teams copied it, which makes me feel confident that we are doing what we should be doing, which is innovating. And for all of the royalties hullabaloo over the last year, it's an unlikely hero. But Luckybuy has delivered more royalties to creators than any other innovation from any marketplace. The second thing is we also push our teams to experiment with new categories to help reach new users, to make nfts feel like to make sense, right, for the average non crypto native user. So right now, a lot of nfts are pfps. But we wanted more, right? The burden of expanding the market falls on Magic Eden very heavily.
00:08:09.244 - 00:08:53.764, Speaker A: And so one of the things we tried was Pokemon in partnership with collector Crypt. Why Pokemon? Two reasons. Number one is that by trading or collecting nfts that are actually tokenized versions of cards, you can avoid the higher transaction fees on platforms such as eBay. And then the second reason is when people want to collect or buy, sometimes they don't actually want to own the inventory and buy, you know, like having it on the marketplace and tokenized, you can actually claim ownership without having to actually touch the item, which creates a lot of efficiency for the user. So we've had two Pokemon drops. The first drop had over 110,000 impressions on the page, and both drops sold out instantly. And we're just getting started.
00:08:53.764 - 00:10:00.724, Speaker A: Also, in terms of category expansion, we've made a long term bet on gaming. We've supported games for a really long time, whether it was launching them, whether it was building an entire game's page. The thing that we're really excited about now is our API. So we have SPL compatibility on our API, which means that if you are a game and you're trying to build an in game marketplace, whether that's on mobile or on desktop, Magic Eden can help you power that as your liquidity layer. And we're really proud to be supporting both Honeyland and Fedelion as our launch partners, and hopefully many more to come that we'll announce in the upcoming weeks. So on top of this category expansion, right, Magic Eden has still also made long term bets to build infrastructure that's necessary to get new people into this space. So whether that's open editions to lower the barrier of creation, to allow for more creators to create content on Magic Eden, SPL compatibility to potentially enable people to shop with USDC on Magic Eden, or credit card minting, which allows people to come in at the top of the funnel, we are still making these long term bets that we believe are net positive for the space.
00:10:00.724 - 00:10:45.264, Speaker A: And finally, all the way through, we've supported Solana and back in May to be honest things were pretty tricky, but we immediately, we created a group that we call Ma friends. It's like a ton of people that we consult for anything, whether it's new products that are rolling out optimizations for new products, or just sentiment at large. Literally right now, there's someone from HR asking people for their sizes so they can send them hoodies to say thank you. And also, we're really proud to have supported Solana as an organization. We have supported the creator showdown, which was to find new creators on Solana. And we've also supported hyperdrive to stimulate new idea generations on chain. Beyond Solana, Magic Eden is going to break down a currently very siloed chain experience.
00:10:45.264 - 00:11:12.796, Speaker A: There are a ton of people on ordinals that are not looking at Solana because we have a very ultimately siloed chain experience, and we're really excited to close that. We also are making really big moves on EVM. And we actually announced yesterday that we were partnering with Yugalabs on Ape Fest. So there's more to come there. But I'm really excited for you guys to see what's to come in the next few days. There's a lot more that's possible. I'm out of time, so I'm going to try to wrap really quick.
00:11:12.796 - 00:11:54.504, Speaker A: I always go back to the universal truth that why did nfts pop off? And really understanding the truth of that. Nfts popped off during the pandemic because people were lonely and they wanted to make friends and a little bit of money. That, to me, is a truth that we always come back to. And our work right now is to serve a demographic of people who grew up with the Internet, made friends on the Internet, and found a way to infuse deeper levels of social connectivity and commerce. Looking into the future, there are a few principles I hope we can work towards. One, I hope we can continue to make NFTs feel more real and accessible to a non crypto native audience. And two, I hope we can actually make NFTs feel fun and dare I say, magical.
00:11:54.504 - 00:12:23.488, Speaker A: If we're able to live by these principles, then I think what I'm doing, then what the team is doing is worth the pain. The trolls, the unclear legislation, and the larger bear market. There are some days that are unbelievably tough. And when people look at us, me like, oh, you work in web3. Why can't I just right click save the JPEG? But as our CEO Jack told me, there are just no easy paths. And the chances are, when you're stuck with a hard problem that feels hard. It is just hard.
00:12:23.488 - 00:13:10.334, Speaker A: And as Albert Einstein said, it's not that I'm smarter, it's just that I stay with the problems for longer. So today I just want to remind you that behind all of the pink buttons and the Twitter shitposts there is a team that fervently dreams and executes that is navigating the tension of needing to produce results but is fighting every day to expand this space because we believe in the power of digital ownership and its ability to create more individual autonomy in this difficult, frankly very painful world. With deep reverence and respect to everyone in this room, thank you for all being here today. I hope we will all be here next year. No matter our differences. Magic Ena is going to play a meaningful, important role in the expansion of NFTs because we dare to still be here, we dare to keep trying even when we get kicked down and we dare to revise. Thank you.
