00:00:02.810 - 00:00:29.430, Speaker A: Hi everyone, I'm kaido. Today I'm going to talk about based Eigen Layer. I do research abs designs at the team. Thank you so much for inviting me. I know when I came here I'm going to be probably the dumbest one. So I made these slides to be more fun and not super serious and just sharing my two cent on how I'm seeing things from my side. First thing is, most of these things are just for laughs.
00:00:29.430 - 00:01:00.510, Speaker A: Don't take it too seriously. Things are subject to change. Another thing I want to preface is I'm not here advocating for base precomp. There's all trade offs. If you have any concern, please forward all your concerns to Justin Drake on Twitter. All right, sorry, what is Eigen layer? Just quick setting the stage. Eigen layer creates a new primitive called restaking that allows you to contribute economic security to new proof of stake blockchains.
00:01:00.510 - 00:01:36.666, Speaker A: What is based? I think I'm actually very curious if anyone has heard a definition of what is based or have one in their head. I have one hand in the way back, but I can't give you the mic, so I'm just going to say mine. This is my definition of based. So based is a concept of utilizing the Ethereum validator set to make commitments for additional features. And the key part I want to mention here is Ethereum validators additional features. The commitment is how you enable these different things. And there's a lot of discussions going around in the space.
00:01:36.666 - 00:02:09.010, Speaker A: Everyone's very smart. There's only a set amount of cake. We're all trying to split it. So it goes in one of the part I want to mention. What does it means to base is the Ethereum validators are making the commitments. Why is it the Ethereum validator making commitment? Really important for base is because that's where decentralization lies and that where the network effect lies. If it's captured by any other centralized entities across the other stacks, in the long run it could be very detrimental to the protocol.
00:02:09.010 - 00:02:58.790, Speaker A: All right, base sequencing, we talked about a lot about it today in the early mornings. So this, I want to use it as sort of quick 30 40 seconds to get everyone on the same page. So this is a diagram from Justin Drake's slides. I made it myself afterward. So you have the builder talk to the relay talk to the preconfer, who is like a new entity, and the preconfer talks to the block talk to the proposer, and the proposer have the ability to precomp to certain transactions. And I draw a line in the middle here, to the right is what's inside the protocol, and to the left what are outside the protocol. And the dotted line means the communication is happening across in protocol participants and out of protocol participants.
00:02:58.790 - 00:03:39.642, Speaker A: What is based block building? Have anyone heard of this? Bbb? All right, I'm going to name this. All right, bBb. It just means you're using the ethereum validator sets to build Ethereum blocks. This is the most basic thing that exists in the current Ethereum world. And how it works is sort of builder talk to multiple relays, wink wink, maybe they don't. And these relays all connected to the proposer, right? And if you see this, most people are very familiar with this diagram and most people would think, oh, this might be very similar to here. And this is one observation I've made during the calls.
00:03:39.642 - 00:04:30.670, Speaker A: I realized actually not the case. So the relationship between preconfer and the proposer are more like delegation. Instead of a permissionless market everyone can talk to, why is that the case? So, for example, in this diagram, you have one builder, one relay, three preconfers and one proposer. What I'm saying is the proposer should only talk to one preconfer. Because if you talk to multiple, from the user perspective, I don't know who is going to be offering the precomp service at what point, and whether those precomp service are in conflict with each other. So this way it creates a lot of dynamic inefficiencies. And the way you do it is you connect them together, you draw a box on it, you call it blockchain.
00:04:30.670 - 00:04:51.214, Speaker A: Just bro, one more week, we're going to solve it all. Just one more blockchain, I promise. Okay, so in this world, this is very different from the builder world. In the builder world, there's multiple builders, multiple relays. As a proposer, you can connect to multiple relays. There's no problem with that. You can do your own auction.
00:04:51.214 - 00:05:29.198, Speaker A: At the end of the day, try to try to find which bid is the best bid, but in this case it's not. You have to choose one party and give that party its responsibility. So it's a very much delegation kind of role. So delegation and commitments on the highest level. What is happening on the highest level? Basically a proposer is basically delegating, hey, I'm going to give my ability to say what is included in my blog to this person. This person. Imagine your person standing to my right and on my left, and the preconfer will go out to the market.
00:05:29.198 - 00:06:38.018, Speaker A: The market could be users the market could be l, two, the market could be searchers, the market could be anyone. And basically what the preconfer will say to the market is, hey, I now control the ability to offer precoms for this specific proposer, and he's going to make a commitment on that behalf. Whenever you have commitments and delegation. The problem is, what if the commitment is broken? Right? When a preconfer makes a commitment to the end user, say, hey, I'm going to include your transaction or your bundle or whatever. What if that commitment is not fulfilled? What will happen? Do you slash the preconfer, or do you slash the proposer? Where does that relationship goes? For example, if preconfer are the one who are staking money, this is very similar to let the builder stake. Then basically we can say, hey, we're going to make sure the preconfers are all staked, and they have economic stake in the system, so they're not going to lie on behalf of the proposer. So when the user's commitment gets violated, some economic value will be lost.
00:06:38.018 - 00:07:17.362, Speaker A: Therefore, the preconfer will be more likely to follow the commitment. Alternatively, you can slash the proposer. And how would this work is basically if the preconfer commits to an end user, but at the end of the day, for whatever reason, is not reflected in the final block. Maybe it's preconference fault, maybe it's a proposer fault. The proposer will just get slash at the end of the day. Both world would be meaningful, interesting, could work, and I do not know which one it will be in the future. And since I'm in Eigen layer, I think about how we can plug in here.
00:07:17.362 - 00:07:45.962, Speaker A: And the simplest way is you just restake that. So you connect the relationship between the two. Because Eigen layer at the end of the day, is for someone to provide economic value for someone's delegation. I give my stake to an operator, and operator operates on top of that stake. And in this model, it's very similar. The proposer restakes and delegates a responsibility to the preconfer. And preconfer screws up, the proposer gets slashed.
00:07:45.962 - 00:08:26.710, Speaker A: Of course, out of protocol, we can also let the preconfer to do some staking himself. So how would that work? From far right side, far left side, to the far right side is the proposer would restake through Eigen layer, that's on the execution layer. And then the proposer would delegate its preconfer responsibility to a specific preconfer. And that preconfer will be one entity, and that will be one entity. Alone. And the preconfer will go out to the market advocating that I have this proposer's ability to make future block space requests. And then the user will come into commitment to the user.
00:08:26.710 - 00:09:12.258, Speaker A: And if the user request is not fulfilled, then the user will be able to slash the proposer and the pre confer in whatever mixture they want to do. But the slashing will happen in egg and layer. And I put the top right title as top left thing as restaking, because this sort of mechanism is what restaking is. And I just put the egg and layer logo there. I want to be credibly neutral since I'm at a neutral builder event. So that's basically what it is, right? It's very simple how Eigen layer fits in and ties the two players together, especially when delegation is needed in this specific thing. And just to recap one of the key differences, in the block building world, you can connect to multiple different block builders through the relay.
00:09:12.258 - 00:09:46.162, Speaker A: But in this world, you have to delegate your responsibility to one pre confirm. If you don't do that, then you just basically build another blockchain. Okay, what are some problems? The first problem is people quickly run into is sort of the code star problem, right? Do we need all validators to be restaked? Right. Let's say I have one validator being restaked. It doesn't really matter. It doesn't really make sense for any preconfer to come to the market or even for any consumer to buy any services. The reason is because you don't have a big enough slot share.
00:09:46.162 - 00:10:24.730, Speaker A: So you're not, by probability you're not going to have a lot of ability to sell precomp slots. So is there any way that you can separate these two? Right. So is there a way that the validators who are not restate can also make these precomp commitments? But now it sounds like a paradox. If you don't make the commitment, how are you going to be slash? Is there any design space in there? Something we're currently thinking about? Black screen. The second thing is standards. This is what I think about a lot. Because I'm on the restaking layer.
00:10:24.730 - 00:12:13.166, Speaker A: I view everyone else as sort of the application who are building on top of restaking. So I had a few very interesting conversations with people who are building precoms. And the question I always ask is, what do you think will be the user flow? And what do you think for the user to talk to the wallet? What will happen? What is going to happen to the front end? When does the user make a pre conf request? Does it send to another RPC provider? Is it going to impact metamask? Is it going to impact coinbase wallet? What about all the other wallets? How is the standard going to play a role here? And the interesting question from this perspective is, since there's so many different players in the space, not just building preconf, there's so many other front end libraries and wallets out there in the space as well. Without a shared standard on that side, that will mean either two things. Number one is someone captures the majority of the market and just wins it all, or no one takes off because the standard is so fragmented and no one's interoperable with anyone, and no one have enough slosh here to make any meaningful commitments, right? And this is one part of the equation on the user side, the other side is on the relay side. Relay still needs to talk to the builder and all these different preconfer, right? If I talk to preconfer a, who's building a preconf service, how do I know I have the same standard when I talk to Preconf B? Or is it going to be a bifurcation of different relays? Right? For example, I am a new relay, and I'm only going to work with this one specific precomf market maker instead of any other precomp market makers. So I think these questions become really important, because if we do not have a shared understanding that we need to build towards a standard way, then the entire security, not security, sorry, liquidity, will be fragmented again because there's no shared coordination layer for these markets to evolve.
00:12:13.166 - 00:13:04.306, Speaker A: Or worsely, somebody can capture majority of it and we go back to the seven to one distribution for any market structure. Okay? And that's it for my talk. It's very simple. I know I'm pretty new to these spaces, so I want to toss a question back to the audience at the end of the day, because I know you guys are doing the hard work to make this work. So think about standards, how we can build towards a shared understanding, how we can make this market more efficient and facilitate better price discovery for the end user, but also ensure the decentralization and the Ethereum side is secured. And how do we make sure that not all validators are restaked for this precom service to be valuable? Because in that world, Eigen layer would have immense responsibility over the entire Ethereum stake. And personally, I do not think that's the best way for Ethereum to grow.
00:13:04.306 - 00:13:06.880, Speaker A: Yeah, and I will be very happy to take some questions.
