00:00:00.240 - 00:00:40.890, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, the Anthony so Signo, and today's the 21 December 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So today ETH Global announced their 2023 ETH global hackathon season. So this is basically the details of pretty much everywhere that ETH Global is going to be both virtually and in person in 2023. Now, there's a few events here, right? And I don't know which ones I'm going to be attending just yet, but there are a few exciting locations and it seems that most people are getting very excited about ETH global in Tokyo, which is going to be taking place from April 14 to April 16. And I'm pretty excited about that one.
00:00:40.890 - 00:01:24.222, Speaker A: I may go to that one. I loved Japan when I was there, especially Tokyo, and it's very easy for me to travel to Tokyo even though the travel time is quite long. It's a, I mean, depending on the flight, I can't, I get either 13 to 16 hours flight, but the time zone change is like one or 2 hours. So definitely a location that I don't mind taking a long flight for because of the fact that I won't have severe jet lag due to the time zone change. So that is on my maybe list. Definitely there. But there are other great locations as well, like Istanbul here in May 26 to 28th in Toronto, June in June in Paris in July, which is going to be around East CC, which obviously happens in Paris, New York in September, ETH online in October.
00:01:24.222 - 00:02:03.042, Speaker A: So obviously global there. And then there'll be one that's centered around Devcon, wherever the Devcon location is. But anyway, you can go check out the blog post for yourself to check out all the locations here. But for those of you who don't know, ETH Global really is a kind of a hackathon that's run. It's definitely geared towards developers and onboarding developers into the ethereum ecosystem and letting them basically build something, get it judged by some of the best builders and people in the Ethereum ecosystem. And it's a very sex, very, very successful organization, very successful kind of events that get run out of here. But as I said, I am definitely thinking about going to Tokyo here for the 8th global events since it's relatively easy for me to get to.
00:02:03.042 - 00:02:34.690, Speaker A: But there are plenty of others here that cater to everyone around the globe. So you go check this out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, we have an update from Chris here from Flashbots today. So their flashbits have shared their code and key learnings on running geth inside sgs with the community. So this is a blog post and a little tweet thread that Chris has put together. If you're interested in Flashbots's research into SGX and what they've done with it, you should definitely go check this out. Now, SGX is an intel technology that's been around for a little while.
00:02:34.690 - 00:03:09.300, Speaker A: It's used sporadically within crypto. I think the thing that it's used for the most right now, or at least kind of like the highest value thing it's used for, is to secure the Avax bridge. It has come under scrutiny that it's not the best tool for the job for that, for that case. And people have said that there's lots of issues with it. I'm not technical enough to explain those issues, so you may need to google that. But the reason why flashbots is experimenting with it is because I, from what I've read, they plan to use it in their suave architecture. So suave is their decentralized, I guess, like, block building network that they're spinning up, or at least going to be spinning up in the future.
00:03:09.300 - 00:03:34.652, Speaker A: So that's why they're doing a lot of research into it. So if you're interested in, I guess, like learning more about SGX and, and running. Being. Running inside. Sorry, running get inside SGX and all the stuff around that, you should definitely check out this thread and blog post, which I'll have linked in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, we have a little update here from l two beat today. That said, the last two months have been special for L2 in terms of activity.
00:03:34.652 - 00:04:18.734, Speaker A: Both layers of Ethereum processed a total of over 152 million transactions, 58% of which happened on l two. Albatrum optimism combined are also becoming close to flipping our layer one daily transactions. So we have more L2 transactions happening than layer one transactions, which is really cool. I mean, this really does just show the Ethereum roadmap working and the ethereum kind of scaling, I guess, ecosystem coming together. The Ethereum scaling, I guess, like thesis coming together very, very nicely here. And there's a graphic here that shows this L2 transactions are actually dwarfing layer one transactions right now. Now, I've explained before how the reason why this takes place is basically because of the fact that layer one gas limit is very low compared to these L2s.
00:04:18.734 - 00:05:03.574, Speaker A: And we expect the L2s to essentially completely dwarf layer one in terms of number of transactions. Now there are different ways to measure on chain activity. There's number of transactions and there's kind of value transferred, this fees paid. I've gone through all these metrics before, but if you're talking about just purely number of transactions and taking, and if you take into account just roll ups only, especially post proto dank sharding, we can expect to see roll ups basically accounting for, you know, in the next couple of years, 99% of total transactions here. Because as I've said before, Ethereum layer one is very limited in the amount of transactions it can process due to that gas limit. And the highest it's actually ever gone, I believe, is, is just shy, shy of 2 million. And that was actually the other day with all those tether transactions that took place.
00:05:03.574 - 00:05:49.274, Speaker A: But I mean 2 million transactions a day, we're expecting these L2s to do thousands of transactions per second eventually, which would equate to tens of millions, hundreds of millions of transactions per day. So you can see how we, I get to that 99% number just by extrapolating it like that. Now that's not going to come, you know, next month or anything like that. It's probably going to require proto dank shining because obviously fees are probably too high for those transactions per second to, to actually make sense. Because there's not only what the chain can handle, but that's what the chain actually has the demand to process. Because as I've said before, we actually have more decentralized block space today, decentralized and secure Ethereum block space today, then we have room to fill it. And I've said this for quite a while now, and I wrote a newsletter about this a while ago.
00:05:49.274 - 00:06:43.796, Speaker A: We're actually at the point where we, we are starved for demand to an extent, which means that more focus needs to be put on the app layer and building better apps that take advantage of these technologies. And I think that's going to be a key thesis going forward, is that we're going to see a lot more focus on the app layer than traditionally we've seen on the, I guess, protocol layer. So there's been a lot of alt out ones that have pretty much all failed, that haven't really done anything, haven't really gone anywhere. And I think there's going to be a lot less focus on that. There's going to be more focus on L2s as protocols, but there's also going to be a lot of focus on the app layer and building apps that take advantage of all this newly unlocked scale that we have now, not all of them are going to be financial apps. I expect a lot of them definitely to be financial apps and a lot of financial activity happening there. But there are going to be things like decentralized social media, file hosting, decentralized websites generally that are going to be happening on these networks.
00:06:43.796 - 00:07:16.716, Speaker A: Now, file hosting is a bit of a funny one because it's file hosting is a different thing. I don't think you could run a file host on roll ups. I think you would need like a validium or something like that. You might be able to do it in that, in that world, but even then it gets a bit murky. But in terms of meeting the demand of what these rollops are going to be able to provide post proto dang sharding, I think we're going to see an explosion in, as I said, decentralized social media, probably gaming as well, is going to be a big factor there. Nfts definitely, I think are going to be a big thing happening there. But it's on us to find the apps to fill that space now.
00:07:16.716 - 00:07:53.222, Speaker A: And I think the only lasting product market fit that has, that has been proven in crypto so far is defi and specifically stable coins and just these kind of things being used as money. Nfts, definitely, but to a lesser extent, I think right now than Defi because a lot of the, I guess wind has been sucked out of the room, or, sorry, I should say air has been sucked out of the room with nfts lately. But I still think nfts are fine long term. But. But yeah, it's on us to find the demand to fill this scale going forward. All right, an update out of Tyco today. They wrote a blog post on roll up decentralization.
00:07:53.222 - 00:08:32.732, Speaker A: They covered what it means, why it's important, and an overview of what it takes to get there. And there's a summary of the main points in this Twitter thread as well. But if you're wondering how rollups can decentralize and what it looks like when they're actually decentralized, then this blog post can become your new bible. It was written by Matt Feinstone, who's one of the founders of Tycho here, and I highly recommend giving it a read. It's great. It goes through even things like trade offs of a decentralized roll up and, and why some choose to be centralized for a while, and why, you know, some have a decentralization roadmap that's going to take years to play out the differences between things like ZK and optimistic. So yeah, definitely go check this out.
00:08:32.732 - 00:09:14.634, Speaker A: Just wanted to highlight it for you guys. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but yeah, give it a read. It's definitely well worth it. Another thing that I think you should give a read is this thread on account abstraction from starkware. So they've said account abstraction is transforming crypto, say goodbye to seed phrases and hello to multi factor authentication, plugins, fee payment in any token, and more welcome to the new era of simple and secure transactions. Now, I've talked about account abstraction a fair bit on the refuel before. I remember highlighting a thread from argent that was basically one of the best threads I'd ever read that I linked at the time in the refuel was probably a couple of months now, but I'm sure you can just search account abstraction on Arjun's Twitter and find the thread for yourself.
00:09:14.634 - 00:10:29.838, Speaker A: But it's definitely something that I think is getting more and more attention and will only continue to because it's extremely powerful. And as starkware states here, account abstraction is a revolutionary, revolutionary new technology that enables users to have full control of their cryptocurrency or making transactions as secure as possible. Now obviously that's a lot of buzzwords there, but basically they continue by saying rather than relying on cumbersome methods like seed phrases, which often become obsolete, account abstraction allows apps to build authentication features users are accustomed to, such as Face ID and pin codes and multi factor authentication. For example. Users can set conditions for a series of transactions to be completed at predefined times, and can even keep a list of scam addresses that are automatically blocked. It also introduces quote unquote plugins, which act as an App Store for accounts, enabling users to choose features most important to them and to harness the later latest crypto technology that emerges. So the general theme of account abstraction here, for maybe you've kind of clued into it, is giving more control back to the user over their entire Ethereum account than what they have today, allowing them to do things that they're familiar with, as Starkware mentioned here, like integrating with Face ID, which is pretty powerful because like a lot of the apps, or most of the apps, if not all of them that have been updated on the App Store, integrate with Face ID.
00:10:29.838 - 00:11:13.558, Speaker A: You've always got the option of selecting Face ID or pin only, and then it obviously falls back to a pin. So imagine if you had that option with your your native Ethereum wallet. Didn't have to actually be built into the wallet software itself. It was built into the Ethereum wallet itself. So because there's a difference here between it being built into the interface layer of the wallet that you're using, such as Arjun, for example, I know Argent has Face id, but Argent also has smart contract wallet. So for example, instead of it building in, being built into the app itself, into the interface layer, it would be built in to the smart contract, the Ethereum wallet logic, the Ethereum account logic, and then be able to be tapped in from there. That's extremely powerful and it makes it more secure and makes it more stable.
00:11:13.558 - 00:11:33.590, Speaker A: It makes the wallet more user friendly. And that's one of the reasons why people are getting so, so excited about account abstraction, especially as time goes on. And we can do that at L2 is a lot easier, that we can do it a lot easier than we can do it at layer one. So definitely something to keep an eye on. As I said, go search for Arjun's thread as well. Just search Arjun account abstraction. You can probably even google it and come up with the thread.
00:11:33.590 - 00:12:07.072, Speaker A: But also give this thread from Starkware Read, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so optimism. Put out a tweet today, which is their year in review for 2022. They said as we bid adieu to 2022, we thought we'd take a look back at another prolific year of optimism. So pour yourself a mug of your favorite hot beverage and let's review 2022 at optimism to Getha. I mean, I think 2022 has been optimism's strongest year by far. I mean, even just looking at these things, like number of, I guess, like transactions per month on the optimism network.
00:12:07.072 - 00:12:29.484, Speaker A: Look at this growth, guys. This is crazy. At the beginning of the year, they had 1.3 million transactions in January, 2022 per month. Now they're up to over 10 million, right? So it's like an eight to nine x increase during a bear market. Like, this whole year has been a bear market. And then even after we set the, you know, capitulation bottom for ETH in June of this year, it kept growing.
00:12:29.484 - 00:12:51.738, Speaker A: It only had a down month in July after that by a little bit. And then since then, it's kept growing. And you can see in November, the growth has absolutely exploded. It's almost doubled from October here. So having a lot of great success there. And they've also been doing a lot of work with EIP 4844, of course, being on the forefront there. I mean, proto dank, sharding half of the proto dank sharding, I guess, like people who came up with it work at optimism.
00:12:51.738 - 00:13:28.194, Speaker A: Proto Lambda works at optimism, so obviously he's very involved in it there. But optimism as a team is very involved in it, too. You can see the total value of assets held in optimism has increased from 116,000 ETH to almost 1 million ETH in that twelve month period. All these integrations that they have, the fact that they did the token and their Dow governance module. Yeah, optimism has had an absolutely massive year of growth here and it's just amazing to see. I know that they, they definitely have stiff competition with arbitrum, both of them being the leading optimistic roll ups by far, but I think that celebrating both of them is in order. They've both grown very nicely together.
00:13:28.194 - 00:14:05.846, Speaker A: I'm hoping arbitrum does a year in review as well, so I can highlight that. But yeah, this is, this is optimism is one here. But yeah, just such a. Such a big, big year for them and a big year for L2s. And as I've been saying for a while now, the fact that L2s are having such a big year in a bear market and developing so well in a bear market, building ecosystems in the bear market, they're going to be the premier place to be in a bull market, guys. Like, if you thought the altar ones were crazy in last year, I really do think that the next time the bull market comes around, the l two s are going to be where, where it is. I think the l two s are probably going to kick off the next bull market in terms of creating things that bring demand back.
00:14:05.846 - 00:14:35.526, Speaker A: As I was explaining earlier, we just need more things that create more demand, more lasting demand. And with this extra scale, I think we're going to get there. So I'm super excited about the continued growth of altoos. I'm super excited about the apps that can be built on these things that haven't been able to be built before. And I'm personally having a lot of fun on there. I use these, these L2s quite regularly now, trying out all these different apps that are on there. It's really fun just having those, like, fast, almost instant transactions and very, very cheap transactions compared to layer once where I have to give up less ETH.
00:14:35.526 - 00:15:03.114, Speaker A: Right. Even that, even though layer one's relatively cheap right now, I'd rather not give up either. I don't have to. So definitely doing a lot more on L2s these days. But as I've said to you guys before, I don't keep a lot of my value on L2 one, because most of my ETH, I mean, almost all of my 8th now is staked. I have a bunch of ETH left in an ETH hub, which you can see on chain. This was part of the Ethub thing before, obviously we shut down ETH hub recently, that I'm going to be going to be solo staking soon.
00:15:03.114 - 00:15:20.094, Speaker A: It's currently, most of it, I think is in Lido. I think we put it in there like a very long time ago, before rocket pool was even launched. Please don't cancel me. It was put into, into Steve a very long time ago. And I'm going to get it out of that and put it into solo staking and probably spin up some more mini pools as well. I'm at four right now. I want to get to at least five.
00:15:20.094 - 00:15:51.192, Speaker A: But, but yeah, other than that, like I'm keeping, you know, a decent sum on these l two s. As I said before, I don't want to keep a lot on there because they're still very early. But I'm moving more and more there to l two s as time goes on. And I'm using them more and more and I'm having so much fun, honestly. Like, and I just can't wait until we have like a defi summer kind of event on one of these l two s, which just brings all that demand in and then all the users kind of use it and say, and be like, wow, this is amazing. Like Ethereum actually scaled, right. I know there's going to be a bunch of users that don't even realize they're using Ethereum.
00:15:51.192 - 00:16:15.936, Speaker A: That's totally fine. The ones that do will be like, wow, theorem, actually scale. These l two s work really well. Cheap fees, fast transactions. An ecosystem that they want to play around with, a community that actually gives a shit, you know, tech that keeps improving, a token they can speculate on, that's actually very important for people that they can speculate on a token. So obviously there's op token, there's other l two tokens out there today as well. But yeah, that's all coming and it really does feel like it's all coming together.
00:16:15.936 - 00:17:23.838, Speaker A: I know right now we're in the very, very depths of the bear market and it feels like, you know, everyone's questioning the value and the use cases of this ecosystem, but I feel like if you're in the Ethereum ecosystem, you aren't really questioning that. And I obviously not questioning that at all. I mean, I think I vote my vote of confidence in Ethereum comes from, obviously, the refuel, but also the fact that, like, I'm just throwing all my ethan to staking, stacking as much ETH as I can, but also explaining my thesis behind it about the fact that I truly do believe that these l two s are going to lead to the next era of, of crypto. The next, you know, the next massive glut of demand is going to come from these l two s, and it's going to be a very bright future ahead for ethereum, I believe. So, speaking of things that are going to be bringing in more demand to crypto, Uniswap announced today that you can now purchase crypto on the uniswap web app using a credit debit card or bank transfer at the best rates in web3, thanks to Moonpay. So this is amazing, right? Going directly from fiat to uniswap through moonpay as a bridging kind of service here is incredible. I mean, imagine being like, okay, I want to buy some ETH, but I don't want to have to go through a centralized exchange.
00:17:23.838 - 00:17:54.506, Speaker A: I just want to go directly to uniswap. You can do that. You can go on there, pay with a credit or debit card or a bank transfer through the moon pay service, and then go directly to Uniswap and buy your 8th like that from, from Unisop. Or maybe I guess I should use a token that, that maybe isn't supported by moonpay natively here, such as a token that you've seen, and you're like, oh, damn it, I'm out of cash right now. I need to, need to obviously get. Get some money in, get some ETH into. Sorry, get some fiat into ETH, and then I can trade that ETH for whatever I want on Uniswap.
00:17:54.506 - 00:18:26.016, Speaker A: Very, very important and very important for onboarding people as well, because at the end of the day, like, we need to integrate these fiat on ramps, like, natively across all of these defi apps, across all these wallets and everything like them, because that's how we get people in people. We need to make it as, like, as easy as possible. One to two clicks. I've always said to you guys, like, one to two clicks is what we have to do. Someone has to go to the Uniswap web app. They need to be able to have their wallet ready and need to be able to just get from fiat to crypto with as little hassle as possible. No waiting times, no confirmation times, none of these stuff.
00:18:26.016 - 00:19:08.924, Speaker A: We'll get there eventually. I think there are still wait, there's some waiting times and confirmation times with moon pay, especially if you're a new user. But in saying that we're going to get closer and closer to that until it becomes so ubiquitous that value is just going to trans, just going to flow so freely around the web. I mean, that's the whole point, right, of these technologies that we're building is that value can flow so freely around the globe, so, so freely around, through, through different people, as data does. I mean, the Internet did that for data, for information, while now we're doing it for value with Ethereum, with DeFi, with crypto more generally. And these services like Moonpay, acting as that bridge between the old and the new world are what we need. And I'm just super excited to see them going to integrate with uniswap here today.
00:19:08.924 - 00:19:40.714, Speaker A: And speaking of more integrations, Metamask has announced that you can now swap directly on optimism without leaving Metamask on the mobile or extension. So connect to optimism, click, obviously, change your network here, add the network, and hit swap. This is really cool. This is that one to two clicks that I'm talking about, guys like this. Okay, let me take a step back here for a sec. This one to two click thing that I've been talking about for a while comes from the web two world, where a lot of apps are like one to two clicks away, and you can do whatever you want. I mean, for example, with Twitter, it's not even one to two clicks.
00:19:40.714 - 00:20:03.446, Speaker A: It's like, open up Twitter. Okay, technically, it's one click. Open up Twitter on your phone. I don't count that as a click, by the way, opening the app. I'm talking when you're actually in the app, open up Twitter, press the home button, and it refreshes your feed, and you can start scrolling. That's one click. Want to tweet? One more click to click the tweet button in the bottom right hand, bottom right hand corner of your screen, write the tweet, click tweet.
00:20:03.446 - 00:20:40.016, Speaker A: Right. It's one to two to three clicks Max to do anything on the app. That's what we need to do for crypto because we're never getting to mainstream adoption unless we do that. Yes, there is a certain extent where people have to learn new ways of doing things and have to learn new words and learn new kind of like, mechanisms, such as how a wallet works, and they could fund their wallet and like, and maybe gas fees to a certain extent. But it doesn't mean we can't simplify the process as much as possible in order to make it easy for people to onboard. We don't want to scare people off with all these buzzwords and jargon and everything. The way everything in technology has ever scaled is by basically dumbing it down.
00:20:40.016 - 00:21:29.240, Speaker A: And I don't mean that in a bad way, but dumbing it down to a point that allows anyone to get involved with it, almost anyone, to get involved with it without getting frustrated. That's the whole point, right? We don't want to frustrate users, we don't want to make people angry, don't want to cause them stress and anxiety. We want them to have a seamless onboarding experience to do what they want to do, to swap assets, to connect to these L2s like optimism, to use what they're familiar with and just do what they need to do, which I think is what uniswap is doing with their onboarding through moonpay. And that's what metamask is doing here with their native swaps on optimism. All right, so I saw an interesting tweet here from Drea here today who said how I used GitHub, fleek and heavens tools to create a decentralized website on an ENS name note, if I can do this, anyone can. You can read this trade for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:21:29.240 - 00:22:32.438, Speaker A: But this talks to what I was speaking about before with the theme of as we get more scale, as these tools get more built out, and as we kind of get more of these, these building blocks in place, there's going to be a lot of different things that we can do that we haven't traditionally been able to do. And one of those is hosting decentralized websites using ENS names, using the existing infrastructure that we have, and making it so that it is scalable, it's usable, it's reliable, and so that we can, we can actually host things like decentralized finance for people to use. I've talked about before that becoming a fully self sovereign Ethereum user and, but there are ways to become like a semi sovereign ethereum user where you still use your own Ethereum full node as your RPC, you still have like a hardware wallet that you use instead of a hot wallet, and you sign everything from your own account, you self custody, everything. But you maybe don't use your own front end, you use a decentralized front end, or even if you use a centralized one. I mean, it's the, it's kind of okay. Right. So there are like semi stuff, fully sovereign, and then, sorry, I guess semi sovereign, and then there's fully sovereign.
00:22:32.438 - 00:22:57.514, Speaker A: And there's different flavors here for people. But I think that having decentralized front ends is a holy grail for this ecosystem. It needs to be done. And the more of these technologies that get built out and the more than, more of them that get developed, the closer we're going to get to get there. But I just wanted to highlight this thread from, from Drea here today because I thought it was very interesting and it's kind of like a step by step guide on how to do this yourself if you're interested in it. So definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:22:57.514 - 00:23:49.070, Speaker A: All right, so Tim Roughgarden from, who works at head of research at a 16 z and fun fact, worked on ERP 1559, shared today a link to a YouTube channel where videos from the Columbia Crypto Economics Workshop co hosted with the Ethereum foundation. And now up there are talks from people like Barnaby, who works at the Ethereum foundation robust Incentives group, which I've highlighted before, Phil, Diane, the inventor, or I guess like one of the co founders of Flashbots here, Dank Red Feist, half of proto Dank Sharding and Ethereum researcher. You have angs guy here works in Ethereum protocol R and D at the Ethereum Foundation. Justin Drake needs introduction and Elaine, she here, who's been working in crypto economics for quite a while. And of course talks from Tim Roughgate. And so definitely go check these out. I've heard rave reviews from everyone who's watched them that these talks are absolutely amazing.
00:23:49.070 - 00:24:38.832, Speaker A: Crypto economics is a relatively new field studying. I guess it speaks for itself, right? Economics within crypto systems. And it's actually very fascinating, very interesting, and something that I definitely get a lot of value out of these videos but also have a lot of interest in because I've talked about, I guess, Ethereum's crypto economics a lot on the refuel by a lot, right? I've talked about things like the issue introduction with the merge, ultrasound, money staking, how that plays into things, the yields and how the yields are variable, but how like the other kind of balance themselves out deflationary ETH, all these sorts of things, and how to design these systems to be resilient and stable for the long term. And that's what these talks kind of touch on as well. So you definitely go, should definitely go check this out. I'll link the talks in the YouTube description below. But I got a last few minutes here that I've left open a little bit because I had a topic I wanted to talk about today.
00:24:38.832 - 00:25:42.146, Speaker A: It's not about the markets or anything like that, but it is talking to what I was talking about with the L2s before and how we need, you know, we need more demand to fill up these block space and, and all that sort of stuff there. I think that when talking about that subject, sometimes people will say to me, well, what if we can't find that demand for that block space? What if crypto was just going to remain a niche? What if we've already kind of gotten to this, the demand ceiling of crypto? And I mean, it's fair to say that in a bear market, especially, because, especially, I mean, especially if you're a first cycler, you may be looking at this sort of stuff and being like, you know, where's the demand going to come from? Where are these apps going to come from? And I forgive you for thinking that way, but the way I think about it, and maybe you want to put yourself into this frame of mind, is that no one really predicted something like DeFi summer. We knew that DeFi was cool. There are some hardcore believers that thought DeFi was going to be massive, right, and going to take over the world. And a lot of us still do think that. But no one predicted DeFi summer and no one predicted how crazy it would get and how much demand it would drive. Same is true for NFTs.
00:25:42.146 - 00:26:22.474, Speaker A: There were those hardcore believers, but no one saw the NFT mania coming, not at all. Right now we have these L2s that alive. Do you think anyone right now, I mean, the majority doesn't really see these l two s blowing up with demand and basically reaching capacity on their own and, and providing all these new use cases, all these new apps. There are the hardcore believers, like me, who think that this will happen, but there's a lot of people that don't. So I think, as I said, like, put yourself into the frame of mind of that you can't predict what's going to happen in the future. Demand can come from places that you least expect or you don't expect that when you give people tools to build things with, they're going to keep building. Like smart people are going to build things, they're going to build interesting things, they're going to build things that couldn't be built before with the lack of scale that we had.
00:26:22.474 - 00:26:58.170, Speaker A: And you're going to run into a thing where you may think for a while that we don't have the demand to meet that block space, but then all of a sudden there's a new use case that comes out or something gets really popular and then we fill all that block space up and we're back to kind of square one. We're like, well, we have to scale again. Right? And it's always been like that with these technologies where you hit a ceiling and then you have to keep scaling and then you hit another ceiling and it's just a cat and mouse game of, of the demand outstripping the supply, so to speak. And we still have that with a lot of technology today. So when you think about it like that, when you. When you. When you kind of realize that you can't tell the future, you can't, you can't predict everything.
00:26:58.170 - 00:27:19.548, Speaker A: There are unexpected things that are going to happen. There are things that people are building now or not build. Sorry. That are building now that will get really popular in the future. There are things people aren't building now but may build in the future that. That no one can even see coming. You can kind of understand why the hardcore believers like myself aren't concerned, aren't worried, actually believe that there is going to be demand for these sorts of stuff.
00:27:19.548 - 00:27:43.956, Speaker A: And even if in the worst case scenario, in my mind, crypto remains only useful for defi and stable coin payments and nfts, that alone is still an absolutely massive use case and still going to lead to massive demand, I believe. But I'm gonna leave it at that note for today. Hopefully that gives you something to think about. But. But, yeah. Thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:27:43.956 - 00:27:50.444, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
