00:00:20.970 - 00:01:07.950, Speaker A: It is a liquid afternoon here at Eat Denver. There's a little bit of overlap in our talks, but there is some new stuff, I promise. So I'll try to breeze over places where Dan has hit. But as you can tell, a lot of people in the space are excited about decentralized liquidity and defi liquidity in general. I want to hone in specifically on liquidity based on automated market makers us. And so the agenda for today is going to go over these topics. What is decentralized liquidity, the landscape, what people are doing to advance this financial primitive, and also the kind of tokenomics of decentralized liquidity protocols.
00:01:07.950 - 00:01:56.050, Speaker A: And a little side note is just in terms of language, I'm going to use automated market makers and liquidity pools those terms interchangeably, and also liquidity providers and stakers, I'm going to use those terms interchangeably too. So just don't get tripped up on that. So just a brief background on Bancor. Bancor is an on chain liquidity protocol. It performs automated decentralized exchange on Ethereum and across blockchains. When it went live in 2017, it was the first Dex based on automated market makers. And then in the past few months, we've seen locked liquidity grow to over 13 million as thousands of users are now staking their funds in decentralized liquidity pools on Bancor.
00:01:56.050 - 00:02:34.174, Speaker A: 2 billion in total trade volume. And there's been over 2 million in total fees paid out to stakers. So let's just get into background and why we care about this primitive and why it's so cool. Up until now, pretty much every exchange relied on professional market makers and whales to fund the liquidity needed to process these trades. And so this leads to liquidity sources being centralized within small handfuls of market makers. And if these liquidity sources are shut down, the exchange's liquidity dries up, rendering the exchange unusable. So on.
00:02:34.174 - 00:03:26.858, Speaker A: Chain market makers enable the creation of user owned exchanges where liquidity sources can be distributed across an infinite number of users. Anyone can easily stake liquidity on the exchange for trading fees, and this creates kind of open and resilient layer of user generated liquidity. And so I know Dan covered some of this stuff too, but just going to breeze over it, what are automated market makers? Anyone can spin up one of these smart contracts. They typically, at this stage, hold two assets in their reserves. But as we've discussed, that's expanding these reserves replace order books. You're essentially trading against code instead of trading with other humans. And then the more liquidity staked, the lower the cost of trading against the pool.
00:03:26.858 - 00:04:08.138, Speaker A: And so then when we connect these automated market makers together, we get liquidity protocols. And liquidity protocols connect via common reserve token, creating a liquidity network. In Bancor's case, that common reserve token is BNT. In the case of Uniswap, which is another liquidity protocol, that common network token is eth. And this allows the automation of listing. Anyone can create one of these pools which list the token in a registry, the trading. So the organizing of order books, this all happens, all the trading happens with smart contracts, and then revenue capture, which is really the key piece of this.
00:04:08.138 - 00:04:53.690, Speaker A: The circulation of revenue goes to stakers via pool tokens, which are essentially these tokenized pieces of these decentralized liquidity. You know, as I said, anyone can stake inside one of these market makers, they can market make in just a couple clicks. On the left is Xerion, a platform that's integrated with Bancorp, where you can just stake your tokens. You do it with equal value in both tokens, typically. And then you generate these pool tokens, which generate fees off of trade volume. And then, as discussed before, you can also collateralize pool tokens. So we're starting to see the connection to lending protocols, where you can get compounded returns.
00:04:53.690 - 00:05:42.518, Speaker A: And so typically, users track pool tokens, since you're effectively holding two of the reserves. They're typically tracked by thinking about it as a sort of 50 50 hold, plus the conversion fees that are generated by the pool. And so this kind of metric return versus holding, is showing the return you would get from holding the two assets on their own, versus holding the pool tokens, and the price growth that you see from those. So this is the decentralized liquidity landscape. We sort of handpicked the sort of key players here. And starting from the bottom, you can think of the stakers. These could be, again, everyday users, professional market makers.
00:05:42.518 - 00:06:43.018, Speaker A: They could be token teams that want a more liquid token, and they're the suppliers of liquidity to the protocol layer, which then tokenizes the liquidity and it exposes it to the application and the aggregation layer. And what we're seeing that super disruptive is these aggregators blending liquidity across multiple protocols to fulfill trades. And then at the top you have traders which are really driving the demand. And I want to hone in again on these aggregators who have had a very disruptive impact in the landscape in recent months, as they developed a sort of path optimization algorithms. And as you can see, as different paths of the token trade are coming from, in this individual trade, from dai to engine one is coming from Bancorp, the engine to BNT, and then that's getting traded. They're bundling that up into a trade. And in traditional finance, you could think of this as kind of smart order routing.
00:06:43.018 - 00:07:37.434, Speaker A: And so it's worth calling attention to, to the fact that we're seeing a sort of blurring of the protocol layer and the application layer. As you can see, Kyber and Zerox, which really made a name for themselves as aggregators of liquidity, really also starting to invest in automated market makers. And so that's just worth calling attention to. And you can think of, though, it's also worth calling attention to a kind of clear distinction here between aggregated liquidity and proprietary liquidity. On the aggregated liquidity part, we're really seeing a sort of race to the bottom. Demand is always going to shift in real time to the lowest prices. And the ability for aggregators to place a fee on top of aggregated liquidity is really, really shrinking.
00:07:37.434 - 00:08:25.280, Speaker A: We've already seen Kyber remove fees from its aggregated liquidity, and then we've seen on the proprietary liquidity. So where you sort of own the liquidity erase to the top, where supply is shifting to pools with the highest yield or highest APR. And so from my perspective, the revenue potential from proprietary liquidity is significantly greater. And it's why we're seeing aggregators trying to become supply siders. So one inch launching its own private market making pool, paraswap doing the same. Like I said, kyburn Zero X investing heavily in automated market maker technology. So we're seeing a lot of aggregators sort of blend into the supply side.
00:08:25.280 - 00:09:38.546, Speaker A: So what is the next phase of automated market makers? And it's funny, there's a kind of almost identical slide in Dan's presentation that sort of shows how liquidity begets liquidity, driving low slippage volume fees. And that's really how you achieve a sort of deeper pool. This kind of fierce competition among decentralized liquidity players has set off an explosion in innovation among the protocols who are launching these sort of second generation and third generation liquidity pools that are optimized for both stakers and traders and balance the interests of both parties. And the real name of the game is sort of increasing capital efficiency and compounding fees in these automated market makers. So I want to highlight a few areas where we're seeing a lot of innovation in this primitive. You can think of the fees and the weights or the reserve ratios of automated market makers as the sort of parameters, and those were, up until now, mostly fixed. In uniswap, it's 0.3%.
00:09:38.546 - 00:10:29.382, Speaker A: Bancorp. You can set the fee to whatever you want and update it, but we're really going to start to see dynamic fees and dynamic weights that respond to sort of network signals. The number of reserved, as we've spoken about, is going to very quickly expand from two to creating arrays of different tokens. And then on slippage, this is a really cool part, because it kind of reminds you that the end of the day, you're not really trading with humans, you're trading against code. And in that code, you can sort of set the conversion calculation for the contract to sort of spoof it into thinking there's way more liquidity in the actual reserves. So this brings down slippage a lot, and we're seeing a lot of really cool experimentation in that. Bancorp itself has launched a sort of virtual reserve mechanism where that's possible.
00:10:29.382 - 00:11:08.222, Speaker A: And then lastly, on the reward side, up until now, the primary rewards, the incentive for liquidity providers, were trading fees. And we're seeing that really expanded to a bunch of other different type of rewards. This could be from the token project. We've seen synthetics do it to incentivize their liquidity providers. And then very unique to liquidity protocols with protocol tokens is you can also give protocol level rewards. And that's something I want to sort of dive into. And then the last right there is pool token leverage.
00:11:08.222 - 00:11:50.122, Speaker A: So that's, again, taking pool tokens and staking them and collateralizing them in places like compound and other places. And so this is kind of breaking out these kind of three different rewards for lps. Jarvis is a project that we work with at Bancorp. They've set up a liquidity pool, and they're incentivizing their liquidity providers with roughly 5% of network revenue that they generate from their network, and that's getting airdropped in a weekly or weekly basis to their wallets. So, again, for the stakers, you're seeing the conversion fees as one reward, the liquidity provider incentives as a second, and then. Very interesting. Sorry, that's the staking rewards.
00:11:50.122 - 00:12:57.906, Speaker A: Very interestingly, Bancorp BNT staking rewards are getting launched in the next few months, and BNT staking rewards will be voted on by the Bancorp community. Essentially, it will be inflation on the BNT token, and the community will then vote to which strategic pools those protocol rewards get airdropped onto. So it could be any number of pools on the network, and we expect to see that really increase and drive the ROI and the incentive to stake inside those strategic pools. And so it's worth calling out that the protocol reward specifically does require a sort of protocol token. And this really takes us to discussing the core tokenomics of decentralized liquidity protocols. And something that often comes up a lot is why would Bancor use a protocol token? Uniswap has gained some traction using Ethereum as its base token, as its sort of network token. Ethereum exists within all its liquidity pools.
00:12:57.906 - 00:13:54.658, Speaker A: And on Bancorp, BNT exists within all its liquidity pools. So there are definite advantages and also drawbacks to having a protocol token. So in terms of liquidity provision, ethereum is a more widely held asset than BNT. So this does create a little friction for users when adding liquidity into a pool. But this is being addressed with sort of new mechanisms that allow liquidity provision and exposure to only one token within the know. When you think about protocol rewards, this is something that would be quite inefficient to do with Ethereum or a blockchain level asset. But again, with BNT, this is generated through BNT inflation that the community will vote on, and that enables these protocol lever rewards to land on these pools.
00:13:54.658 - 00:15:04.480, Speaker A: And then the third kind of key area to look at, and an advantage that we see is that there's a very strong correlation between protocol usage and the price of BNT. So this is key because many factors influence the price of ETH, and therefore the liquidity pools of so on. Bancor staking inside Bancorp liquidity pools has a direct impact on the price of BNT, since you must hold BNT to provide liquidity. So this means that as more liquidity is added to a pool, every pool on the Bancor network becomes more liquid. And then a final sort of key advantage of using a protocol token is cross chain liquidity. Instead of having to wrap eth for each pair, BNT mints and destroys itself across blockchains and enables cross chain conversions to occur. So in any know, as Dan said, and as we agree, this is not sort of winner takes all game.
00:15:04.480 - 00:16:02.314, Speaker A: The emergence of automated market makers is so disruptive that we believe there will be many players, and there's sort of clear synergies between the protocols too. So having a pool on both Uniswap and Bancorp will create a stronger price oracle. It will also create arbitrage between the two pools that can be really crucial for the early days of a network and of the early days of a pool. And this chart right here is taken from Jacob Horb from Coinbase. He forgot the Bancorp logo, so I've added that for him. And essentially, you can look at Dex based, automated market makers as a sort of liquidity of first resort for low volume, low cap tokens that are really failed by the order book based model. So this is, again, early stage tokens.
00:16:02.314 - 00:17:09.366, Speaker A: We're seeing a lot of innovation in social, money and personal tokens. This could be real world community currencies. Bancor has experimented with different community currency pilots in Africa and in different areas of the, you know, we see this forming a sort of base layer of always accessible liquidity, liquidity of first resort for the sort of early stage tokens and low cap tokens of the world. And this is really where decentralized liquidity can shine and where we're seeing a lot of activity in the bull market as new networks and new tokens are coming to market. And so finally, we have bounties here that we're encouraging everyone in the developer community, both here and then also virtually on Gitcoin, to hack on our pools, to design new pool mechanisms. The sort of beauty of this space is that the smartest, the highest yielding pools will win and can get relatively easily implemented at the protocol level. And so we're encouraging people there.
00:17:09.366 - 00:17:36.640, Speaker A: Those three photos, there are folks from the Bancorp team, along with myself, who are here to help with hacks. We also have Bancorp developer grants for anyone who integrates Bancor's liquidity protocol. And you can always connect with us on telegram, and the link to our docs is right there as well. And that is all. Thank you so much. And I can take any questions, too, if we have a few minutes. I'm not sure if we do.
00:17:36.640 - 00:17:46.870, Speaker A: All right. Everyone's had enough of liquidity, haven't they? Okay, cool. Well, thank you guys so much. Really appreciate the time.
