00:00:07.960 - 00:01:04.030, Speaker A: Welcome, everybody. Today is day two of Market Make Judging, and we're excited to kick off with the remaining teams from this hackathon and the demos that we're all excited to see. So before we kick it off, I want to do a quick intro for how this event was set up and what we're going to expect today for our judging. This is our first event for 2021, and we have 190 hackers from 58 different countries and spending across 17 different time zones. There's a whole spectrum of skill sets, developers, and a diverse audience working on interesting problems in this space and problems that they are excited about, and we'll be seeing a subset of them today on this call. Throughout this whole project hackathon, we have 120 projects that came about at the end of three weeks, and we get to see about 15 today. And what I'll do is I'll quickly cover the format of this call.
00:01:04.030 - 00:02:06.800, Speaker A: We're going to give every team eight minutes in total, out of which the first four minutes are going to be dedicated for a video demo, and the remaining four minutes will be for Q and A from our judges. And then we'll also do a quick three or so minute break after every four teams for the judges to talk amongst themselves and discuss any questions or comments around their projects. And depending on how things are going to go, we're going to have a ten minute break halfway through this event just to give everybody a break to stretch. So in terms of how judging is designed, each team will be rated on these five categories. They'll be looked at from how technical, original, and practical a project is, along with how they've thought about the UI and the user experience and the developer experience for their hack. And then we also recognize that they may not be the perfect and the best way to look at everything. So we also have a catch all that we like to call the wow Factor that lets us account for anything that we have missed.
00:02:06.800 - 00:03:02.340, Speaker A: And before we kind of kick off with our very first demo, I wanted to remind everybody that this is not a competition. People are here to learn, we're not telling them, and they're not aiming to all become businesses. So the intention and the goal for this is to make this a feedback session and give constructive feedback that can help everybody get better in this space and continue building. So without further ado, our judges, who are going to be doing the hard job of giving feedback to all of our teams, I want to welcome Layton from Pool together, danielle, who is an independent personality in this space in the D Five landscape, and then Peter from one KX. They'll be here with us for the next couple of hours talking to all of the projects and sharing their thoughts. So without further ado, let's move on to our very first demo, and that is Team Whiskey Coin. So I believe they're here and I'll let them kick off with their screen share.
00:03:02.340 - 00:03:09.312, Speaker A: Welcome. Great. Thanks so much. Good morning. Afternoon. Evening, everyone. My name is Jasper and I'm here with my cousin Tillman.
00:03:09.312 - 00:03:45.340, Speaker A: Thanks so much for having us. And we are here to demo whiskey market maker. Hi. My name is Jasper Deegans. I'm standing here at Stone Barn Brandy Works, a craft distillery my family started about ten years ago in Portland, Oregon. We created this platform, Whiskey Market Maker, to give investors and whiskey enthusiasts a chance to connect with craft distilleries and invest in aging barrels at the bottle level. The traditional model for investing in whiskey is focused on large, opaque whiskey funds rather than craft distilleries.
00:03:45.340 - 00:04:26.310, Speaker A: At Whiskey Market Maker, the barrels are managed by the distilleries who make it, and each distillery retains 30% of each barrel sold. This increases transparency between the consumer and the producer and increases trust between the digital and the physical. It's not only a great way to discover new, unique, tasty whiskeys, but it's also a great way to benefit from your investment. This is the whiskey market maker platform. I'm just going to connect my wallet here. And this is our homepage, and it's a general overview of how the platform works. So if you're a distillery, you can produce a barrel of whiskey, list it with us, and we will generate and mint ERC, 1155 tokens that represent each bottle in the barrel.
00:04:26.310 - 00:05:06.534, Speaker A: Then the whiskey enthusiasts come along, look at the barrels we have offered, buy individual bottles from that barrel. The fees for storing the barrel in a bonded warehouse go into an interest bearing account through Ave, and that interest is then returned to all the users once they redeem the tokens for bottles at the end of the maturation process. And then the tokens are transferred naturally to the user as the new proud owner of different whiskeys. So here are some examples of barrels. We have listed some different types of rye, and if we're interested in, let's say, the dark roast rye, barrel number 55, we can see some general information about this whiskey. This one looks like it's going to age around four years. Maturing in 2025.
00:05:06.534 - 00:05:30.834, Speaker A: Some flavor notes that it's coffee, chocolatey, stouty, so it sounds pretty delicious. Down here is a price projection. So right now, the price is $44.67 per bottle. Looks like the fully matured price will be around $63, and that's set by the distillery. And we have $5 in lifetime fees per bottle. If I want to purchase bottles, you can see I already own 40, but there's 190 left.
00:05:30.834 - 00:06:01.814, Speaker A: So let's say I really like this whiskey. I think it's going to be a great whiskey. So I want to buy maybe five more. I can head over here, click, purchase it's about $250, and then we convert that to ETH using chain link's price feed, both on the front end and also verify that on our smart contract. If I just hit submit here, it looks like our transaction is going to be about zero point 14. I'm just going to confirm and let that go. As we wait for the transaction to be confirmed on the coven test network, we're just going to look at our dashboard and this pulls in kind of our current holdings.
00:06:01.814 - 00:06:29.634, Speaker A: As we saw before, we had 40 bottles of rye, and once that transaction confirms, that should jump up to 45. And then we can look at some basic stats in how we've used the platform. So it looks like about $3,000 are staked in barrels. Okay, the transaction just confirmed. If I refresh this page, we can now see hopefully this should update. Now we're at $3,200. We have zero point 17 E that are gaining interest in that Ave account.
00:06:29.634 - 00:07:06.366, Speaker A: And if we hold our bottles until full maturation, we should have just over $1,000 worth of gains for just holding that whiskey. So that's pretty incredible. We can also see the actions we can take on each of our barrels and the tokens we own. What most people are going to want to do is redeem, and that means transferring the tokens, exchanging the tokens for the actual bottles themselves. And looks like we have to wait another thousand, 455 days for the barrel to reach full maturation. But once that happens, you can either exchange the token to pick it up at the distillery itself or for distilleries based in the US. You can ship to select states.
00:07:06.366 - 00:07:29.624, Speaker A: And that's whiskey market maker in a nutshell. Amazing. Well, congrats on going first and also amazing to see just a hack that's from a real problem in your day to day lives, too. So I'll let our judges kind of come in with any comments or questions and we'll go from there. Perfect. Thanks. Yeah.
00:07:29.624 - 00:07:54.108, Speaker A: Awesome, guys. Sorry, Peter, I just jumped in. You're using ERC. What was the reason behind the token choice? The ERC, I think it was 1120 211 55. And that was because we wanted to make it kind of semifungible so you can transfer in batch. So, for instance, if you wanted to buy ten bottles, you wouldn't have to transfer once for each individual token. Got you.
00:07:54.108 - 00:08:19.012, Speaker A: Yeah. Okay, so if each one was like a 71 NFT, you'd have to okay, yeah, exactly. You'd have to do that one at a time. But this way you could be like, say, I want to buy ten bottles and do that on one. Go. Yeah, go ahead, Peter. Yeah, just to clarify, how do you settle the ownership of bottles? Is it physically sent? Is that wrong? So, yeah, the physical ownership and we have to bridge the digital and physical.
00:08:19.012 - 00:09:02.020, Speaker A: And right now there's a lot of different regulations for different areas, but we're based in Oregon, and what you can do is you can go to the distillery itself and actually do the exchange there. So you would redeem and then you'd pick it up. You can also send to select states and depending on your distribution network, like for instance, right now, for some reason we can also ship to Japan. We have a distributor in Japan. So certain areas are available, but those depend on the distilleries network. And so if we expand to more distilleries, each one would have when you buy it would say, okay, here's where we can ship to, or here's where you can pick it up from. I was curious about the oh, sorry Peter, if you had any other comments.
00:09:02.020 - 00:09:42.336, Speaker A: So I was curious about the price projection. I saw there was like this linear function. What's the reasoning behind that and how does it work? Toma, do you want to field this one? Yeah, so the distillery just lists the price that they're going to sell the final bottle for. And then we actually at our distillery, we sell unoked bottles. So we had a pretty good idea of what it's like. So for example, we sell an unoaked rye bottle for about $30 and then we sell that final rye bottle for about $55. So we just figured it was a linear function from when it's put in at the very beginning up until the date it's taken out.
00:09:42.336 - 00:10:22.364, Speaker A: Yeah, we considered some other pricing projection functions, but we just wanted to emphasize and incentivize people to invest earlier rather than later. So if you come in earlier, you get the bottle price at less and then it actually matures. So the whiskey, I mean, you can imagine a barrel is an interest bearing account. You put something in and it gains value. So we just figured we'd have that appreciate linearly now, but maybe we'd experiment with other functions, appreciation functions in the future. Interesting. And is there also a concept of supply and demand or is each bottle cost the same whether you're like the first or the last, buying it? So from the platform, we imagine that every price would be the same per bottle.
00:10:22.364 - 00:10:53.620, Speaker A: But as with everything, there's going to be a pretty rampant secondary market. We would hope. So there you would have hopefully some of those sales would be transferred back to the distillery. So depending on how you transact, maybe like 5% of all profits would go back to the distillery. But the secondary market would have a second layer of pricing that would be more variable and flexible. Have you guys seen the Z NFT? The zora NFT standard. It's kind of cool because basically you can set for the NFT every time it sells, a certain amount of the selling price goes back to the creator.
00:10:53.620 - 00:11:16.288, Speaker A: So you could set it like it goes back to distillery. It might be cool thing to look at, but very cool. I really, really love the idea. I would definitely want to use it. I would tokenize the barrels if you're going to do it so early. And then I would Tokenize the bottles if it's already at production because I don't think yeah, but tokenizing the barrels bottles really cool. But I would definitely buy a Tokenized high end premium whiskey bottle that I could have shipped to Me.
00:11:16.288 - 00:11:56.990, Speaker A: That'd be sweet. Yeah. The one downside of tokenizing the barrel is it would be kind of a bit more expensive and it's a bit opaque on how many bottles are actually going to yield from a barrel because you have product loss. Like the angel share is kind of infinite, some of it, but then you don't know how much someone's going to get at the end because you start off with like, let's say it's a 50 gallon barrel, but at the end it actually goes down to maybe 40 gallons. And then you also have to dilute it with water depending on what strength you want. So there's a lot of intricacies, but that would be a really interesting project to do it at the barrel level and the bottle level, or have two tiers, maybe. Yeah.
00:11:56.990 - 00:12:06.464, Speaker A: Well, nice work, guys. Yeah, cheers. Thanks. Thank you all so much. We had a lot of fun. We learned a lot and had a great time. So thank you so much.
00:12:06.464 - 00:12:24.976, Speaker A: Yeah, thank you. Congrats. And yeah, hopefully this becomes more mainstream so all of us can hopefully just give us a ping once it's ready for others to check it out too. Cheers. Cheers. Thank you very much. We are ready to move on to our second demo and that is investing party.
00:12:24.976 - 00:13:53.480, Speaker A: So it's just been promoted. And whenever you are ready for the kick off with your demo, waiting for you to start the screen share hey, sorry. Gabby is going to share his screen. Okay, here is guy. Yeah. Gabby. I'm going to present the video now.
00:13:53.480 - 00:15:06.094, Speaker A: Gabby, we're not getting audio. Would you mind trying to hit the sound button? Yeah, sorry. Inspired by Uniswap's Big Air for the hackathon, we decided to work on a Tokenized AirDrop with vesting platform. Inspired by uniswap's big AirDrop. We wanted to kind of riff on that idea and make it possible for lots of people to do that sort of thing while also adding a vesting component so that people that receive these Tokens have a longer term kind of alignment with the Token promoter or issuer. And we've kind of called these vested Token Airdrops vesting parties. So let's take a look at the demo here.
00:15:06.094 - 00:15:37.530, Speaker A: And this is from the perspective of somebody that's going to host a party. So they'd go to the host dashboard and they'd see other parties they could browse through, but also see this create a party. And it's pretty simple. Here we have a spot to put a Token address. Going to take one that I have handy here. And we just posit that. Then we configure the vesting duration.
00:15:37.530 - 00:16:08.914, Speaker A: Let's say we want the Tokens to Vest over ten days. The cliff duration to be one days. This is kind of the first day where tokens start unlocking. And we also configure an amount of tokens to kind of unlock up front for users. So if we actually made this 100%, it would be like a traditional AirDrop without vesting. And then we upload a JSON file. I'm just going to upload a standard one or an example one that we have here.
00:16:08.914 - 00:16:51.532, Speaker A: But essentially this file is just going to contain a mapping between addresses and amounts. And these are in Hex. We're going to make this human readable, but right now it's in Hex for convenience. But we have our accounts and our balances. And then we start the party for this transaction to mine, which I'll cut out of video. And once this transaction goes through, it'll have created kind of a party page. We won't have funded it with anything.
00:16:51.532 - 00:17:22.632, Speaker A: So this is just deploy a contract. Once it's deployed, we'll have to fund it and deposit tokens. And we decided to make this a separate step in case a community that's running as a Dow or something like that wants to set up the distribution and then use like a vote or something to send tokens into the contract. We wanted to make sure. Cool. Awesome. Well, thanks so much for that video.
00:17:22.632 - 00:17:46.252, Speaker A: And super interesting concept. Also super timely hack. So I'll let our adventures take away with any comments or questions. I absolutely love this. It's so simple. But you don't understand when a token network really raises funds in the space, right? This is pretty standard. Right.
00:17:46.252 - 00:18:28.264, Speaker A: All the fundraising terms often includes a clip and vesting terms either unlocking month by month or block by block. Right. There's a few parameters that vary from different financing deals, but usually it's all like as far as I understand, most teams deploy these vesting contracts pretty manually and for the counterparty. Right. It's actually pretty hard to kind of actually verify and also not verify but see the vesting itself and the different emissions potentially. So I could actually see this being super useful for a lot of projects. Yeah.
00:18:28.264 - 00:19:00.308, Speaker A: So I really think it's just something that could be really peter says sorry, Daniel. Yeah. So I echo what Peter says. I think vesting will become like the new standard for these kinds of token drops. I saw with the graph they did some vesting and I think more people definitely do this in the future. One question for you. Are you planning to open source this? Since I think it'll be really useful to teams that want to keep on top? Yeah.
00:19:00.308 - 00:19:38.604, Speaker A: This is already in our community repository and there are some other configurations, like Peter mentioned, to best in batch. And we only configure as a default one day, but we also have the option to configure best in weeks periods or months period instead. Yeah. And I encourage you to also consider blockly vesting. Traditionally we have monthly vesting but in crypto it's like, why not, right? Might as well do it blockly. I think it's pretty cool and people are always kind of amazed by that. Like, wow, you can invest per block.
00:19:38.604 - 00:20:12.984, Speaker A: It's crazy. Yeah, I don't know what you guys are planning. I really like the idea too, and I think I actually like it for post after a token is already done, an airdrop. I think it would be really interesting to do additional airdrops, but on a more targeted basis. And I think for go to market for you guys, if you wanted to, the place you should start is comp. I don't know if you guys are familiar, but Compound has had a lot of discussion because they didn't do a retro AirDrop. And so there's been a lot of discussion in that community about doing one and they've been talking about how could we do it in a way where the tokens don't just get dumped.
00:20:12.984 - 00:21:07.020, Speaker A: And so you could go to them and say like, hey, here's a tool, you guys set whatever parameters you want. So I really like that idea. That might be a good go to market for you guys. Are you guys planning to keep working on this or what's your plans? Yeah, we were planning to keep working and we were a bit time restricted with the front end and we weren't able to finish the whole thing. But the plan is to also, like you say, allow for several vesting parties to be done in a project with a different configuration if you want. Even allow kind of strategies to help people to get the JSON file with all the claims that they need to submit. For example, even generate one from Twitter or generate one from Discord or whatever to make them really easy to get the user.
00:21:07.020 - 00:21:49.550, Speaker A: I think. I think broadly speaking, every project is trying to figure out how do you get ownership into the right people's hands? And I think this is a really good start towards solving that problem. And there's probably a lot of interesting design space on top of this too. Yeah, and one last thing that I'm not sure if mentioned is that this vest and token are also NFT, the whole bunch of NFT, the whole bunch of vested. So you can transfer them, the whole best block. I might even try to use it myself, my own tokens and just invest it myself. It's also a fun tool in that sense, too.
00:21:49.550 - 00:22:09.650, Speaker A: Cool. Amazing. Well, congrats on demoing this and I think it seems to be a consensus that this is extremely useful and hopefully this gets in the hands of a lot more existing and new projects. Yes. Thanks guys. Thank you very much. It was really awesome to participate on this.
00:22:09.650 - 00:22:32.240, Speaker A: We're ready to move on to our third demo and that is OFSS E. So I see. Jordy, you're here. Whenever you're ready, feel free to kick off your video. Okay. Hi. This is JP OLED.
00:22:32.240 - 00:23:22.004, Speaker A: I'm the solo maker of the offset project. The main goal of offset is to make the blockchain more sustainable by offsetting the user's CO2 emissions. With offset, the user can calculate in an easy and quick way the Ethereum transaction emissions and offset it. Because let's be clear, we all love blockchain, but we should take care of our planet too. In instance, a single transaction cost 26 only 5% of ethereum energy come from a renewable energy source. In brief, user can calculate his emissions, purchase carbon credits and earn of token. In reward of tokens represents a substruction equivalent to one ton of CO2.
00:23:22.004 - 00:24:01.596, Speaker A: This project is in beta and only deployed in the Covenant test network. Let's see how it works. Behind the scents, users can interact with offset smart contracts with two different ways by purchasing off token directly. And for each token, one ton of CO2 will be offsetted or by depositing the rate in the offset pool. This pool works with Abbey to generate interest. And once a month all interest is spent purchasing carbon credits and distributes the equivalent to all pool participants. Now let's see in action.
00:24:01.596 - 00:25:03.780, Speaker A: First we connect with MetaMask. Okay, now we can see some stats like our balance or address, the number of transaction and your impact. The number of kilowatt hour or number of CO2 spent in Ethereum transactions. Users can also add different path, like validator. If you are an Ethereum validator or even offset the world year of emissions then they can offset all this emission by purchasing of tokens. Let's see here we have all the information and this number. The price is calculated by chainlink Oracle that gives you the Ethereum price if the user has not died.
00:25:03.780 - 00:26:00.490, Speaker A: Ethereum Etter there's a message and we can purchase this amount we are Covan test network. Or they can deposit their die in the CO2 die pool. Remember that the interest will be used to purchase carbon credit and obtain Op tokens. Okay, in the future, the plan is to delegate the purchase of real carbon tokens to Dao where ops holders could vote and select which project purchase the carbon credit or help other projects to fight the climate emergency. Hope it like it. And thanks for everything. Awesome.
00:26:00.490 - 00:26:50.116, Speaker A: That's really cool. I really think you did a really good job of packaging it and quantifying it and creating the different tiers. The only thing I was a little confused about is I understand you deposit the die, the interest, I understand that. But the top thing where you're buying if I'm buying an offset credit, it's a token. But that token should be burned or something, right? Because I guess once I buy that offset credit what's happening? Yeah, the project is not finished. I have a lot of work to do and I'm learning. But the main goal is to then purchase the carbon credits and store the invoice in an interparentary file system or similar to link with a token.
00:26:50.116 - 00:27:35.396, Speaker A: And maybe I have to figure out but maybe the token is not transferable because I don't want to make like a speculative in here because I want everybody purchasing as many tokens as they can and maybe then burn this token to prove that this token is not used more times. Yeah, okay. Yeah, got you. Yeah, that makes more sense. I understand there's still more to do, but you did a really good job on the front end of it and the packaging of it all and helping quantify it. Thank you. Plus one, the product design was really great.
00:27:35.396 - 00:29:13.670, Speaker A: And I guess I'm curious, how were you inspired to build this? Well, like one or two years ago I created co founded climate Change group of developers to fight or to finance projects that fight climate emergency. Now it's like a discord with 1000 people, designers, developers and all kind of technology stuff because my girlfriends tell me, well, this blockchain is very good, there's a lot of energy involved and I don't like it. And I think about how to offset this energy. And in the future maybe like other protocols or DeFi projects could offset their wall emission and will create a leaderboard to show which projects are more sustainable. And I don't know, this is my future of all, but we should do something for the planet too because there's a lot of energy. Well, for sure the Ethereum two layer will improve this, but for now I really like the name. It's a great name.
00:29:13.670 - 00:30:05.040, Speaker A: I do have a question as well. How do you peg one offset token to one ton of CO2 credit? Now the price is like $15 for one ton of CO2. But smart contract there's pushing to change this number. The price got you and it's just an oracle for that. Another question. So CO2 is like one way to combat climate change. What about like have you thought about other kinds of ways of quantifying? Maybe like surface area of the ocean clean or something? Yeah, we delegate the voting power to the Dow.
00:30:05.040 - 00:30:39.664, Speaker A: There's a selection of different projects like ocean or forest saving or animals or something like this. Then the ops token holders could decide which project will cool. Cool. Awesome. Well, Cody, thank you so much for this thing. And it's great to hear that 1000 people who are developers tackling climate change. So hopefully there's a lot more ways for this to be useful for people.
00:30:39.664 - 00:30:57.590, Speaker A: That's incredible. Thank you. Continue working on this. Great. So we are ready to move on to our next team and that is project Better. So Chris and the rest of the team has been promoted. So whenever you're ready.
00:30:57.590 - 00:31:30.720, Speaker A: Free to go ahead. Projects in the Ethereum ecosystem lack a standardized way to collect user feedback. Often users choose the shortest path requesting features on social media which results in unnecessary admin overhead. Once we have collected user feedback, we want to automatically signal the need for development and donation resources. And again, current tools don't integrate well into existing developer flows. This becomes obvious with issues that are well known and needed by a lot of users. Like this example of extending MetaMask hardware wallet feature.
00:31:30.720 - 00:32:24.210, Speaker A: While community members with wide enough reach can actually coordinate this on Twitter. Imagine if anybody could do this anytime, anywhere. And ideas come up almost daily on crypto's ocean media from impactful experiments like building a decentralized Twitter to crowdsourcing community and education, and memes like paying for a Twitter hashtag emoji to simplify realizing all these ideas, we build Better, an easy to fork platform, allowing anybody to express ideas, fund and finally build them. Let's take a look. First, a dev project forks our repo to set up a Better sub page. For example, Better Av.com, which mirrors all issues from the project repo and allows users to submit and vote on issues.
00:32:24.210 - 00:33:29.476, Speaker A: Then anyone can select, for example, a feature request or translation request or security audit and fund it with ETH or Avi tokens to collect interest on the pool. And finally, after implementing the feature, the developers who solve the issue will be paid out from the contract, while any update on the pooled funds will be reflected on the project subside and in the GitHub issues powered by our subcraft. So Summing up Better allows Depths to collect user feedback and prioritize their roadmap to receive funding and to discover new talented contributors. And all they have to do is fork our repo. To be fair, this is still a prototype, though we do plan to build this into working products as we see the need for this in Ethereum Ecosystem. Amazing. Well, thanks so much for that demo and seems like it's a super useful utility for everybody to get collective feedback.
00:33:29.476 - 00:34:21.688, Speaker A: So I'll let our judges take off with any kick it off with any questions? Yes, please. I think it's pretty cool that you're kind of bringing the incentivization to the platform that people are already building on. So rather than building like a complete mirror that needs to get repopulated with all the issues, I think it's really cool that you're just like forking the repo. One question, can you elaborate on how the payout happens? Yes. So basically we're using the bounty's network contracts so it would work the same way. So you can press a button on a website, the website is generated from the issues, right? And pressing that button pays out whatever tokens are in there. For example, Avi tokens, do you think? Bounties Network? I'm not familiar with that.
00:34:21.688 - 00:35:05.936, Speaker A: Bounties Network. I think that are the contracts that are used by Gitcoin. So would it just be whoever creates the bounty is the person who decides if that bounty has been completed? Right now it works that way because it was easy to implement that way. But in the end, I think you always need sort of. A judge. We are thinking that the admin repos because it's sort of this ecosystem anyway of that project. Whoever fucks our repo, right, so probably the admin of that project would be like the judge and always when there is something happening that either the funder or the developer is unhappy then that guy would decide in the contracts there's like an issuer.
00:35:05.936 - 00:35:58.600, Speaker A: So that would be the admin who could change anything. And eventually the idea is that we could even make the owner like a dow or the collective community that's around a certain project would be able to vote. What are the criteria for paying things out? Because in theory you could even create issues that aren't necessarily like one to one tasks or Bounties. Hey guys, I want to fund a marketing campaign for Ave v three. Everybody's going to contribute like, I don't know, 500 die to it. And then as people create assets for this marketing campaign and as different parts of the marketing campaign are rolled out you can choose to pay out different parts of this holistic bounty to different parties. Maybe like the Raid Guild comes and says hey, we're going to do this kind of launch like a video and Twitter campaign and somebody else says I'm going to design your graphics so you could have different parties being paid from the same pool.
00:35:58.600 - 00:36:56.948, Speaker A: Sorry. And something else that we'd love to do in the next version, but we don't have it currently is find a way of pooling all of the different assets that have been contributed for a sub project and then gaining interest on that pool. And then that interest can either be reinvested back into the project so for like a treasury for future issues, for example, or perhaps some of it can go back in the form of a tip to the developers if they did a really good job and things like that. Yeah, I really like it. It's definitely cool. And yeah like you said there's definitely an emergent need for it. With what you're seeing on Twitter would people be able to contribute to Bounties and vote for Bounties without having to create an account of any sort? Yeah, the idea is that we want to be able to do it either directly via a wallet anonymously and then a bot would post on your behalf on GitHub and we're also looking into decentralized IDs.
00:36:56.948 - 00:37:40.280, Speaker A: We're thinking of moving the social aspect of everything onto ceramic and leveraging $3 or whatever becomes a $3 to allow logging in from a variety of different platforms or doing it synod. Awesome. I would check out Penvala, the interesting model. Basically you buy Penvala tokens and that's your way of buying into the grant ecosystem and people receive tokens and they can cash it out. I wonder if that model can actually be used to govern this micro ecosystem of Bounties. Right, and you talk about this one admin for these bounties. What if they're basically driven by token vote of this micro Penvala system, right? Just yeah, absolutely.
00:37:40.280 - 00:38:26.612, Speaker A: That's something we're thinking about. And on the one side, you could even have the project using its own governance token to do this and also perhaps rewarding either funders or people who are executing against bounties with some of that governance token. But you could have a meta token like you're saying like Panvala or if we eventually create our own token that would have a worth across projects as opposed to just within a specific sub project. Awesome. Well this is great and good to see some of you join us again for this event and thanks again for presenting and hopefully you get to continue working on this. Nice, thanks for the feedback. So with that, we're going to take a quick four minute break for our judges and then we're going to resume with the continuous offering project.
00:38:26.612 - 00:43:33.744, Speaker A: So what I'll ask is turn their videos off and mute themselves and join us on the other chat from their everybody right? All three of us are here. We'll resume with the next demo. We'll just quickly get the next team promoted. And for this team I am going to be playing their video and as soon as they join us on the webinar, I'll kick off with their video and they can be there to answer the questions. All right, so looks like everybody's here and I will kick off with your video. Hey, we are team Porgy and this is what we built for market make. Our team members are Klip, Anatoli, Kiril, Yevhan and me Fiet.
00:43:33.744 - 00:44:22.756, Speaker A: So we built a marketplace where investors has all information on startups. To save time on researching, gain voting power when investing and secure investments, alice starts the fundraising process for her new venture Selica. The startup is stating that the duration of development is one year and divided into three batches of four months each. If the investor gives one ETH celica will send back one sell token so the investor has the right to vote. Now the Celica startup is in the Porgy marketplace and Bob sees it and decides to invest later on. Felix and Jenny have also joined the party. Porgy locks 300 ETH and deposits it to Ave so the startup will gain additional profits in the future.
00:44:22.756 - 00:44:58.924, Speaker A: Let's dive deeper. 1st 100 ETH unlocked for Selica's first batch and the results have been good. So everyone voted yes to continue the second batch and another 100 ETH plus Ave interest unlocked for Silica. However, the end outcome of the second batch have been mixed. So Bob and Jenny voted no and the project is over. The remained 100 E plus Ave interest rate from depositing are exchanged back to investors. Let's take a closer look at our app.
00:44:58.924 - 00:45:27.524, Speaker A: It is very simple to start a fundraising campaign with Porgy. All you need is to set some on chain parameters such as project duration and money and lock rules. Then simply start the presale that's all funds are already being raised. Are you an investor searching for a valuable project? Then you're really lucky to bump into the Pogi. Becoming an Impactful shareholder have never been that easy. Just search through the projects out there, waiting for a wise investor. Chose those that really looks promising.
00:45:27.524 - 00:46:16.302, Speaker A: And invest. Now you can be sure that not a single way will be sperm without your permission. When the presale is finished and the Min Cup is reached, the first serious amount is sent to the startup team and the rest is deposited to Aave. Now it looks like the series has finished, but it also seems like the project hasn't been doing anything for all the time. So vote no for the series and contribute to project cancellation. After the project is canceled, simply withdraw the rest of your precious funds and receive additional compensation due to Aave. Deposit under the Hood minime is used for voting mechanism ave for depositing ETH.
00:46:16.302 - 00:46:58.946, Speaker A: Our funding mechanism is designed from scratch. One inch exchange contract is being utilized for trading startups tokens and the graph schema for on chain indexation. So for future work, we plan to add support for ethereum based Tokens, rework UXUI to a more user friendly state, add more flexibility to the investment model, finish graph integration to UI and off chain data to IPFS. Amazing. So that was a super cool demo, and I like that. I'm noticing. Yeah.
00:46:58.946 - 00:47:29.070, Speaker A: Awesome. That's really cool. So it's one question to clarify. Is the actual money is some of the money that I'm sending going to the project or is it just the interest earned on the money that I'm sending? If that makes sense? Yeah, thank you for the question. As we stated, you are sending the money and we are only releasing the chunk of your money to the series. Like, the series one is unlocked and you get got you. Yeah.
00:47:29.070 - 00:47:40.020, Speaker A: So this is how we thought about the idea. Okay, that makes sense. Yeah. I was just trying to clarify that. All right. Yeah. Okay.
00:47:40.020 - 00:48:59.274, Speaker A: I'm curious. How do you handle dispute resolution, right? Let's say a milestone or some sort of series? Let's say your product is not delivering, right? How do you identify withdrawals that are fair, unfair, et cetera? Yeah, you can go ahead so I can try to explain the question. When it's like global voting and when most of the investors vote for no, the project is canceled, and we currently don't have any recovery mechanism to kind of dispute this cancellation. So currently, if the project is canceled, it's canceled forever, but later on that can be disputed if needed. Yeah, right. I could see some conflicts of interest, mostly because it's all about the social contract between the supporters and the creators. And one other option to really explore is, like, maybe some sort of written contract and then arbitration through a protocol like Claros, right, where it's like basically it's like a paid kangaroo court, like Internet judge court, right.
00:48:59.274 - 00:50:00.014, Speaker A: Where random Jews are selected and really drop down to adjudicate on soft human like governance issues. Right. Aragon Core also provides yeah, there's a lot of space for Dao things and we actually implemented kind of a Dao here where everyone votes for project and investor kind of do control, put some level of control regarding the project. We actually planning to add more things like investor propose new things and kind of propose new votes for additional features for the projects to implement. Kind of this stuff. There is a lot of place for improvements here, but for three weeks we decided to build just this straightforward model. So in the model that you have, you raise like a certain amount and then each series will disperse some percentage of it.
00:50:00.014 - 00:50:43.630, Speaker A: Is that correct? And what I'm getting at is, is it possible to do a future raise with this platform? Like do a second ICO. Sort of like a second offering? Yes. We have a concept of season and series. So when the project is created, you first create a season and you can do any amount of series there. And on every series, some portion of total funds are unlocked to the project. And at any point you can just simply create another season and to raise additional capitalization for your project using prices from one inch, we actually implemented. So you can check this out on our GitHub.
00:50:43.630 - 00:51:11.400, Speaker A: Very cool. Nice. And I have another quick question. So ICOs seem to have quieted down quite a bit. Do you foresee this being maybe causing a resurgence in ICOs or have you been seeing lots of ICOs lately? At least in my little bubble, I haven't really seen or heard of any ICOs these days. It's just like airdrops mainly. Not really.
00:51:11.400 - 00:51:54.580, Speaker A: We think that DeFi is still like the future and it's a place for any kind of investments to go on. But ICOs has bad reputation and amount of them started to decrease later in recent time. So we think that this model just need to be rethinked and introduce a new way to actually get money from a lot of investors on DeFi space. Awesome. Thank you. Awesome presenting and hopefully people start using this model and actually introduce delivering projects before getting money. Congrats guys.
00:51:54.580 - 00:52:15.030, Speaker A: Thank you for the time guys. Cheers. Yeah. Thank you. With that we are ready to move on to our next team, and that is team project BCRED. So Steve J is already here. So whenever you're ready to kick off with your video, I'm going to present about BCRED, my project submission for the hackathon.
00:52:15.030 - 00:53:05.370, Speaker A: The goal is to implement transient short selling problem. We are trying to solve what is short selling? Short selling is essentially trying to sell an asset, expecting that the price should decrease and then to buy back the asset at a lower price point. The benefits of short selling is that there are potentially bad projects where the price is expected to go down. It's also currently missing in DeFi, except for very few projects like Open on the other side of the picture. It could lead to infinite losses if you're not careful. So maybe a short term short selling or a transient short selling where we take advantage of very high token volatility which is currently present in the DeFi marketplace. So, how to short an asset in DeFi? Now that's where the power of credit delegation by Aave comes into the picture.
00:53:05.370 - 00:53:52.694, Speaker A: So, if you look at this flow in this picture so first some depositor, someone deposits a certain amount of tokens into the margin contract. So the margin contract will be like a pool of tokens, let's say wrapped ETH. For example, the trader on the left tries to initiate a short sell. So he thinks, for example, that wrapped ETH price will go down. The short seller contract then borrows the wrapdeeth tokens on behalf of the margin contract and it immediately sells the token or shorts it in one inch, for example. And in this case the one inch API was used and a main net fork was done. The token, once it is sold, is converted to a stable coin.
00:53:52.694 - 00:54:50.834, Speaker A: So for example, the wrapped ETH could be converted to USDC and then as the dotted line shows, the USDC, that is the stablecoin, can be used to buy back the token or the asset which was shorted, which was wrapped ETH. And this asset is then paid back, that is the delegated credit is paid back to the margin contract and the position is closed. The first step is to deposit the money into the margin contract and for this we can use the deposit collateral method in the credit delegation, the RV credit delegation. And so essentially we are now depositing ten wrapped ether from that contract into this margin contract. After that amount has been deposited, then we can approve the borrower. This will be the borrower contract. So the borrower will be, in this case the short seller.
00:54:50.834 - 00:55:32.650, Speaker A: And the short seller is now allowed to give an or is given a line of credit of about ten wrapped eater. Seller then withdraws the tokens, this about three wrapped eater and build the call data using the three wrap teeth which you have got and also the token addresses. Once you have got the call data, then to call the actual short sell, that is to perform the short sale of the three ETH using the call data and the information. And this transaction is success. Back into the wallet. And as you can see, three wrapped ETH was converted to about 4000 and 992.615 USD.
00:55:32.650 - 00:56:17.390, Speaker A: And then essentially we just wait for the price to go down. So the price which is at this point had just gone down to something like this, which is about 3% drop. And essentially we just wait for this 3% drop or a few 4% drop and then sell the USDC that is swap the USDC using the one inch protocol and get the money back as wrapped. I gave like a more developer oriented presentation. I hope it is okay. Yeah, love it. Super useful.
00:56:17.390 - 00:56:59.290, Speaker A: How are you thinking about I guess how are you thinking of automating all these contract calls from your end? Yeah, exactly. So it's more like I was using Node JS, but then I wanted to now use Python script. So that's the thing I was working on. The only problem is there is slippage and due to the slippage and also due to the nondeterministic nature because when you go to the one inch and then when you're doing it, it's nondeterministic and that's where it breaks a bit. So that's opportunity for improvement from my side. So I'm still working on that part. But the whole motivation behind it was the GameStop, that's why.
00:56:59.290 - 00:57:28.486, Speaker A: So I was initially having a different idea to work on this project, but just during the hackathon, game Shop exploded. So that's why I wanted to do this short selling one idea. So I think you should try check out Gelato network. What they're trying to do is basically automate DeFi contract calls, right? So it's like you can basically set contract calls based on if this and that logic, right. And then they're trying to incentivize this network of bots. So that might be useful. Got it.
00:57:28.486 - 00:57:51.222, Speaker A: I don't need to reinvent the wheel. Yeah, I would do that. Yeah. This is an awesome project. So I'm not very familiar with short selling. I don't really do it at all. I mean, I know what it is conceptually, but compared to the other tools that exist, opium, like Open or whatever, why is this better, I guess? Yeah, exactly.
00:57:51.222 - 00:58:17.346, Speaker A: I wanted to say that. So as soon as this Game Shop thing happened, right, I went to DeFi Dogecoin for example, I wanted to short it at that time because I thought there must be some coins which are overvalued and it was not easy. So just purely from a developer or a user perspective, I struggled to short it because it was more like an option, not like an actual short sell. Got it. Yeah. So there's no permissionless short selling. I got it.
00:58:17.346 - 00:58:27.900, Speaker A: That makes total sense. And I wanted that too, actually. There's been times when there's been tokens. I'm like, oh, I really want to short this token, but it's like no way to do it. So it's permissionless short selling. I like it. That's really cool.
00:58:27.900 - 00:59:05.638, Speaker A: So you're using Ave's credit delegation, right? So how does the liquidation work? So basically the short sell, right? You have to close the contract. So let's say the price goes down of wrap death for example, by 3% or 4%. Then you buy basically the USDC to wrap death and then close. What happens if the price goes up though? It goes up too much. Yeah, exactly. That's why it's a transient short selling. You have to keep it only for one or 2 hours and if the price goes up too much, then from a margin contract you have to close the portion just similar to the CFI centralized finance world.
00:59:05.638 - 00:59:44.382, Speaker A: So like the delegator would have to like the user would have to give add funds to the Delegator's account and the delegator would potentially have the risk of getting margin called or like getting liquidated. Yeah, that's why it's a line of credit. Yes, it's a line of credit and then you have the risk of margin called same. Like yeah, I think it's pretty cool. Obviously you can short sell just like manually clicking. But this is nice because it packages all up together and I think it'd be cool if you had some quirky website that's just like put your money where your mouth is.com or something and just incredible.
00:59:44.382 - 01:00:06.002, Speaker A: Really short a lot of these DEXes. Go on L two and go at it. Right? Okay, I will do that. Great work. It's cool. Congrats on this Vijay. And hopefully perfect.
01:00:06.002 - 01:00:52.580, Speaker A: So we are ready to move on to our next demo. Thanks guys. And that's tokenized asset donation. So, looks like the team's here. So whenever you're ready to kick off with your video this is Tokenized Asset Donation tad, a charitable giving application integrating Aave. Tad enables users to take full advantage of the Aave lending pool while providing motivation to donate a share of their accrued interest to a charitable cause of their choice. Our motivation for this project was to build a new system for charitable donation.
01:00:52.580 - 01:02:01.720, Speaker A: Something that is simply not possible in the current financial ecosystem where interest is not earned continuously, while also to encourage savers to get more involved with socially beneficial projects. So how does the DAP work? Users interact with the Tad smart contract by depositing ETH and specifying a percentage of their interest earnings they would like to see donated. The smart contract sends this to the Aave lending pool and holds the corresponding a token for the user interest is sent recurrently to the Give Ethio, a free and open source platform allowing its users to start and donate to charitable blockchain projects. The Tad Smart contract works by tracking user balances and giving rates with Crud like operations. Every time a deposit, withdrawal or give function is called, individual balances are calculated using the overall growth in the contract's. A token holdings. Since one of these operations was last called, I will now give a quick demo of the DAP.
01:02:01.720 - 01:02:41.920, Speaker A: When users load the DAP, they are prompted to sign in with their MetaMask accounts. Something I've already done. In the bottom left they will see information on how to get started with the application. But assuming we know this, we will navigate to the lending page here. The user can specify an asset to deposit to the Tad Smart contract. An amount and a percentage of their interest they would like to see donated to a charitable cause. We will select Ether Zero One and we will donate 50% of our interest.
01:02:41.920 - 01:03:48.910, Speaker A: We can confirm this with MetaMask and we're done. Once we've deposited, we can navigate to the dashboard here. The user can keep track of their deposits and account information. Unfortunately, we didn't have time to connect up all the variables here, but that is something we'll look to add in the future as well as a list of transactions. So how would we improve our DAP and what work do we still have left to do? Currently, giving events are triggered manually. This is something we would want to do continuously and as often as possible to avoid high gas fees. We would specify a threshold ratio of the total transaction value to total fees paid to ensure that most of what users donate make it to their cause.
01:03:48.910 - 01:05:03.140, Speaker A: Currently you can only give to Give Ethio. We would like to expand the project to deploy further smart contracts for other projects and even add a feature where users can choose their own projects to donate to, as indicated by our name Tokenized Asset Donation. We would like to expand the donatable list of assets while also tokenizing real world assets such as for example, Gold that can also be used to accrue interest and donate. Finally, given high gas fees, we believe using something like the matic network to enable more continuous giving with lower fees would also be incredibly useful. Very cool. I think it's definitely very important kind of idea in terms of lossless giving. I think what really cool is figuring out how you can kind of take this, what you've built and maybe pair of existing social distribution network where there's a lot of activity happening.
01:05:03.140 - 01:05:48.000, Speaker A: Right. I've seen a lot of projects in space try to build not only the tech and product but also try to build the community and audience. I think like you said, giveth might be a good place to kind of start and integrate with just food before. Cool, thanks. Yeah, no, this is really cool. I've always really loved this idea of lossless donations and it's sort of been done but for some reason it hasn't really picked up or fully worked and so I think it still is a problem worth solving for sure. Just to be clear on the flow, this is not like redirecting interest from my existing Ave deposits.
01:05:48.000 - 01:06:22.556, Speaker A: This would require me to deposit into Ave for the first time. Is that right or is there a way to build this where you could say if I already have a deposit sitting in Aave, I could start redirecting my interest? I'm not sure if that's technically possible. Yeah, currently it's separate. You'd have to deposit into our application rather than using your Gotcha. Okay, that makes sense. But I mean, I guess if you batch those transactions it could be reasonable. Yeah, just a thought.
01:06:22.556 - 01:07:18.370, Speaker A: It made me think about tax efficiency. So a lot of rich people like to donate because they can offset their taxes. And whatnot have you thought at all about tax efficiency or designing the protocol in such a way that it allows people to maybe trigger taxes when they want to or trigger donation credits, whatever when they want to? No, we didn't actually think about that angle. It was more about trying to get kind of just improve. Kind of like the contribution to socially beneficial projects from the public. So at the moment if you give to a charity, charities often kind of ask for kind of bigger, kind of lump sum donations which kind of puts people off. So just having something that is kind of continuous and smaller and more manageable for the average person is kind of what we're aiming at.
01:07:18.370 - 01:07:39.930, Speaker A: Gotcha. Very cool. If there are no more questions, I want to thank Max, millenn and Carl for demoing this and hopefully there's a lot more than you can do in this. Yeah. Thank you guys. This is awesome. Thanks guys.
01:07:39.930 - 01:08:31.740, Speaker A: So next up we have Sublimate finance and Team is here and I'll be playing their video on my end. So I'll kick off the video in 1 second. Welcome to Sublimate, a DeFi platform that lets artists, open source devs and content creators accept continuous financial support from anyone in the form of streamable tokens. For this demo, we've set up a mock data set on the Covon testnet featuring our favorite creators in the crypto space. Let's jump right in. First I'll connect my wallet which already has some streamable ETH to give away. The Defiant has been putting out some awesome video content lately, so let's show them some support.
01:08:31.740 - 01:09:22.670, Speaker A: I'll choose to send them zero zero five east every day over the next five days, self Meet will use the average block time of the past 30 days to determine the corresponding stream rate in tokens per block. Let's approve this. And now we are subscribed. Now whenever a block is added to the ethereum blockchain, the streamable ETH balance will decrease while the creator's earnings increase. We've created our own subgraph on the graph to provide analytics for creators in real time so we can see the tokens that they're earning across all their subscribers. And in the spirit of paying it forward, we can also see who this creator is supporting as well. Let's find one more creator to support.
01:09:22.670 - 01:10:18.600, Speaker A: Donnie here is doing a fantastic job maintaining the Ave protocol. So let's stream him some tokens. Note that his wallet address is connected to an ENS name so it shows up in the URL. Let's say I want to stream him a total of 100 die over the next month. In this case though, since I don't already have streamable die, I'll have to send 100 regular die to mint it first and from there I'll be able to start my subscription. Great. Now you might ask, how can I make a creator page for myself? Just head to the Dashboard, fill out your profile, then sign a message with the address you want to receive your funds.
01:10:18.600 - 01:11:14.452, Speaker A: Now I can share my profile link so my fans and followers can support me anytime they want. Thank you, Darryl, for the great demo. Sublimate works with a custom version of the ERC 20 contract that enables token holders to directly subscribe to another address. A wrapping contract lets you convert your native assets to their streamable counterpart. We were really lucky to have some great sponsors and partners, so we did our best to think of unique ways to integrate as many as we could. We have Chainlink as a price oracle with the graph to compute the value of subscriptions in USD and estimate their duration depending on the block length matic. To reduce gas fees for our users and provide a frictionless experience, then Ave users can manage their capital more efficiently, creators can generate interest on their subscriptions, and supporters can subscribe with only their yield.
01:11:14.452 - 01:12:15.290, Speaker A: Thanks to the new Ave V Two, we've also designed a widget that enables integration easily on any web page for newsletters, portfolios or communities. The website also comes with a fully fledged dashboard that lets you customize your profile page and get insight on your community activity and metrics. We have so many ideas that we want to implement and problems that we want to tackle with sublimates. We're preparing the second version of Sublimate set for July 2021 with new functionality and integrations. This remote hackathon was a unique experience for all of us. Our team is global and is comprised of myself and Blackoy, who worked mainly on the backend and contracts implementation, amin as our designer and product manager, and Daryl, who did amazing work on the front end and UI. We would like to thank you so much for listening to this presentation and hope that you will enjoy Sublimate as much as we enjoyed building it.
01:12:15.290 - 01:13:04.852, Speaker A: We're very much looking forward to onboard as many users in the DeFi space as possible and together help make every second count. Thank you. Awesome, guys. Did you guys use sabler for the streaming? Are you using those contracts like a fork of those, or did you just build something of your own? Right, so that was a question that we thought about in the very beginning. So we know that Savlia enables the creation of streams, and then you can create a stream. It's kind of an escrow contract, and then the receiver has to withdraw from the contract. So right now, we've kind of implemented a new token standard that enables streaming directly on the contract itself.
01:13:04.852 - 01:13:22.856, Speaker A: Got it? Yes. There is only a need for subscribe to someone, and then someone can directly use this money without having to call, withdraw or anything. Got it? Yeah. That's a nice enhancement. I like that. Yeah, it's really cool. The.
01:13:22.856 - 01:13:52.004, Speaker A: UI obviously is really good and that's probably one of the strongest things. And I guess my only feedback comment would sort of be I think it's a really cool idea and I think the website's really good. I'm not sure if the streaming part of it is essential. I think it could be just as cool as if it was just sort of like give one time grants to people. So I don't know, that's just a piece of feedback to think on, but I think it's really cool. Right. Thank you very much for the kind words.
01:13:52.004 - 01:14:19.100, Speaker A: So that obviously exists in the form of Gitcoin donations or that kind of stuff, or directly sent to addresses. So our idea with sublimate is that you can set a recurring subscription that would never end. For example, you can send ten die every month to someone you love or enjoy their work, but the subscription will never end. So every time you top up your account, the subscriptions, all the subscriptions that you have, they keep going. So you never forget to reward your people that you have. That's cool. Yeah.
01:14:19.100 - 01:14:48.404, Speaker A: Way to augment it is like you could actually subscribe a token, for example, right. You get the interest, maybe you earn on top of it. Right. But it's also a way to commit to a creator without committing. Let's say I want to commit to a year's worth of subscription, but maybe mid year the creator wants to stop working as newsletter or so on. So that's one use case I can see. Yeah.
01:14:48.404 - 01:15:02.730, Speaker A: Very cool. That's really smart, the token design. Thank you. That's really cool. Yeah. I actually wanted to use sabler for something, but I didn't use it because of that reason that the person has to call it. But yeah, Daniel, go ahead.
01:15:02.730 - 01:15:52.360, Speaker A: Yeah, I just want to say it's an amazing UI. It really feels like a complete product that you could put out in production. Obviously there's improvements to be made, but it's really nice and polished, so congrats on that. Also, can you elaborate a bit more on how the funds get pushed, like the token design that you mentioning? Right. So basically we're overriding the balance of function of the RC 20 with an incoming rate for the receiver and an outgoing rate for the sender. So we also store the block number at which the last balance was updated and then we can compute the balance of which is just the last balance updated, plus the sum of the rates times the time that was elapsed from the last update. Kind of like an extrapolation.
01:15:52.360 - 01:16:41.290, Speaker A: Okay, so that's in the stream ETH contract, so the user is receiving stream e or like stream die. That's in all of the contracts. We have basically an abstract streamable token contract and then two wrapping contracts. One for the ERC 20, so wrapped ERC 20 and another one for wrapped ethereum. So does the user receive the stream token or do they receive the underlying ERC 20 at the end of the day without doing anything right. So they receive the streamable tokens that they can directly reuse to make another subscription or they can use the underlying asset by withdrawing. But the idea with sublimate is that this standard becomes more and more used so that people can directly pay with streamable tokens because there is still the transfer function just like in the regular ERC 20.
01:16:41.290 - 01:17:02.960, Speaker A: Got you. Very cool, amazing, polished and well done hacking. Congrats. I zoom backgrounds by the way. Yeah, that's it too detail that you put into everything that you've presented. So congrats again and hopefully we get to use this fairly soon. We'd love you to thank you very much.
01:17:02.960 - 01:17:34.910, Speaker A: Thank you. Perfect. So next up we have Safekeep Web Three bridge and I'll be playing their video as well. And then after that we'll be taking another four minute break for our judges to deliberate. But I see the Safekeep Web Three bridge team is here and I'll kick off with your demo. My name is Adebayo. I'm representing Safekeep.
01:17:34.910 - 01:18:32.660, Speaker A: Name of our project is Safekeep and going to show you what we're trying to solve now. So in the crypto world, the issue of people losing their private keys is quite common. And then once you lose your private key that's the end of your token. And also the case whereby someone dies and doesn't divulge his private keys to any of his family members, that's the end of token. So what we are trying to solve now is to make sure assets solution is to create a special kind of wallet where interest is on the phone. So this is the Safekeep landing page. Then we are in try to deposit some funds into the account.
01:18:32.660 - 01:19:18.460, Speaker A: Then a buckle address has been updated here. You can manually update it anytime you want. So we can deposit some die to the contract. So now we have an extra hundred die in the contract normally now. So the pink picture, this is the magic feature of the Safekeep wallet. You don't see yourself using your wallet for the next three, four months. But then you want the contract not to know that okay still have access to your wallet, you are still alive.
01:19:18.460 - 01:20:08.150, Speaker A: Just simply pink wallet. Anytime the contractor checks if they are old users who have not been. If the contractor not sees that pink tells the contractor that okay, even though you are not depositing any theorem or die moment, you are still font. So your private keys can also update your backup address anytime you want. Maybe feel like okay, down is no more stable, doesn't want to change easily. Just update down voila. Now we're going to move on to the Admin page and then we switch over to the Admin to the contract owner.
01:20:08.150 - 01:21:24.080, Speaker A: We switch to the contract owner now then all users can see the balance and the contract balance and the contract balance also the AI balance, but only the contract can call the deposit into the heavy lending function. This is where the contract checks for users who have not done any transaction or ping the contract for a while. So since we are at 35 die now, I'm going to try to deposit into Avi lending pool, but not quite wired up now, so it's going to fail at this point. Then we get our fixed. So, yeah, that's the basic idea. So when the deposit die into the ability, I'm going to get die back from Abby display. Check the old things.
01:21:24.080 - 01:22:07.926, Speaker A: You see that there are users who haven't pinked for six or eight months to send their phones interest. Their funds might have yielded back to them. That's baby type. There wallet that gives you a second chance and also interest. Thank you. Very cool. There you go.
01:22:07.926 - 01:22:49.734, Speaker A: Looks like everybody's here. Yeah. Maybe I'll just start off with a question. What made you think about this idea to work on? Or how did you decide to do this? So there's a popular story about a German guy that lost access to his hard drive that contains, I think, $200 million of crypto. And then we thought about, okay, what if maybe he saved it in a place where he could get a second chance at retrieving his funds, not just because you lost your private keys. Then that's the end of 200 million. That's not fair.
01:22:49.734 - 01:23:36.994, Speaker A: So that's the basic idea behind that. Definitely a very important one. With the Safekeep contracts, would you be able to still interact with other DeFi applications or just general crypto applications from that wallet? Yeah, we plan to interact with the Avi lending pool for now. So we deposit the fund 20 tokens into the lending pool so the users can gain interest on their funds. So it's not just the wallets. You also gain some. Right, but let's say I wanted to buy some.
01:23:36.994 - 01:24:19.310, Speaker A: Let's say I want to use uniswap to trade some tokens. Can I do that from the wallet that you provide? No, not yet. We couldn't integrate that. We tried. Proof of concept, I would say. And I definitely think this problem space needs more work to be done. I think there's probably so many tokens that are death locked, and it's something that I've started to think about, if I lose something, how do I retrieve it or whatnot? Yeah, I would love to have something like this for my wallets.
01:24:19.310 - 01:24:58.142, Speaker A: I don't know if there's a way, technically to build it where I could still use my wallet in the normal way I'm using it, but I could also have this feature that would be really awesome. I'm not sure, but it's definitely a really good problem to solve. Yeah, go ahead. For that to be possible, I think you have to choose a part of your funds to be locked so you don't just transfer the interest. You have to lock in the lending pool. Yeah, that makes sense. One quick question.
01:24:58.142 - 01:25:35.420, Speaker A: So for the pinging, does the ping happen if I do a transaction automatically, or do I need to do a transaction specifically just to ping? No, anytime you deposit got it. Or withdraw, you automatically ping the contract. But if you don't want to do an interaction for yeah, that makes sense. Well, awesome. Work on it. I think it's a cool project. Definitely solves a real problem.
01:25:35.420 - 01:26:18.054, Speaker A: If I could suggest a potential alternative approach. I've just thought about it a little bit. Not fully baked out. So one of the things about these wallets, you want to be able to use them for whatever you're used to using them for. So maybe one approach would be to set allowances for all the tokens, or maybe every single, ERC, 20 token in existence, just set an allowance to it, an unlimited allowance to some smart contract, and then that smart contract handles the dead man switch logic. I think that would be an interesting space to explore. Yeah, we're looking for that.
01:26:18.054 - 01:26:50.340, Speaker A: Thank you. Amazing. Hopefully you get to continue working on this, and if there's anything people will communicate to help you build this or help you debug or suggest other things, don't hesitate to reach out to any of us on Discord. Yeah, thank you. And with that great one, guys, quick four minute break for our judges. So we'll just ask all of you to join me on the other chat for a few minutes, and we'll resume in about four minutes. So thanks, everybody.
01:26:50.340 - 01:31:38.260, Speaker A: All right, everybody, we're going to get ready for resuming all the demo, so if our judges are ready, you can turn videos on and we'll continue to the next team. Awesome. Over here. Okay, so it looks like all of our judges are ready, so next up is to Atara. So, Rob, whenever you're ready, feel free to share your video. Let me know if this is looking okay. Yes, now it is.
01:31:38.260 - 01:32:11.338, Speaker A: Cool. Here we go. Hello? Market make. This is future Rob presenting Dark Labs'hack. Turitara is a market and culture watch streaming bot, an audiovisual program of what's currently happening, synthesized straight from the chain. As the crypto space grows, we are building tools that help you keep track of this universe. Turitara is an attempt to deliver live news and information from the Block, utilizing the graph reading smart contracts and presenting a mix of what is going on verifiable decentralized entertainment.
01:32:11.338 - 01:33:06.014, Speaker A: The script written by the smart contracts and the news sourced from Blockchain transactions. During market make, we concentrated on showcasing Aave's protocols. On the left, we have a scroll of lending rates similar to what you would find on Ave's homepage. In order to exhibit Ave's Flash loans and give more information on the lending protocol, we have aggregated their data, presenting the total amount by currency via circulating bar graphs, capturing a high level view of how these services are being utilized in the moment. Moving forward, we intend to include a highlight reel of the largest transactions and explore visualization techniques for viewing these contract interactions. There are few tools as synonymous with the traditional financial industries as the talking heads walk into any modern trading firm. Day trader, office, franchise, bank, you name it.
01:33:06.014 - 01:33:48.890, Speaker A: And there's a good chance you might hear or see them. As we move forward with making the market, we should consider these opportunities to reinvent these tools and make them better. There are countless market streams, but they are mostly just streams of existing platform candle charts. In the near future, please be on the lookout for Turatara on your preferred streaming platform. This will be a curated showcase of projects such as Aave, as well as diving into the arts and culture. Once enough segments are created, we intend to expand the stream to a web platform, a segment builder, viewer, possibly even integrating personalized streams from your address. Thank you for your time and happy hacking.
01:33:48.890 - 01:34:36.060, Speaker A: Okay, I'll let our judges ask questions. I'm curious about the name. How'd you come up with that name? So the Turta is a lizard or a reptile from New Zealand that survived. And it has a third eye, and it's the only type of it. So this is a third eye to sense, and it's a primordial third eye, which was kind of taken away from all the other creatures, but kind of like the television and talking heads. True. Ataris still kind of has that Ethos of past world.
01:34:36.060 - 01:34:58.306, Speaker A: Yeah, this is really cool. I really like it a lot. And it's very creative. It's very different than a lot of the other projects. And I just think I was just kind of laughing watching it because it's know, obviously you have Bloomberg TV or whatever, and this is like our version of it. And it's like, totally wacky and weird. And I really love, like because it's hard to tell.
01:34:58.306 - 01:35:38.240, Speaker A: You could have obviously just sort of photoshopped everything. How far did you actually get on building this? Is that just like a visual prototype or is it actually something behind it? Yeah, so I'm actually streaming, like, four react apps and a project and some video projects. So it's like a really cool collage kind of multimedia thing. And I have it on a server instance, a GPU instance, so I can kind of go ham. But yeah, it exists. It's close. It's infested with bugs here and there, but it kind of does its thing.
01:35:38.240 - 01:36:12.810, Speaker A: I like the idea of, like, real time crypto markets, TV. It's cool. We don't have anything. You mentioned the graph, but are you sorry for interrupting. Are you pulling anywhere other than the graph, or is it all the graph? Right now? It's mostly the graph. All the numbers are CoinGecko. I know once I dive into chainlink, I feel like that's a bottomless opportunity in this space just because then you have weather and then you can get real prices and you can even have gold.
01:36:12.810 - 01:37:02.954, Speaker A: So, yeah, I definitely want to go full aggregator as much as I can with it, but for now, it's only the graph and a couple APIs DeFi pulses in there. How did you find working with the graph? It's great. Sometimes when you get into doing some of the harder math of where you're converting and everything, it's already there for you. It's like almost when you find yourself going too deep into it, someone's already done what you need. Especially in Ope's case. I like the branding. It reminds you of the crypto lizard brain that we all have right, that you were trying to turn off.
01:37:02.954 - 01:37:36.402, Speaker A: But I guess this is one way to delegate that to external source. So I like the analogy. Yeah, really fun. Thanks. I really like that you're having a twitch stream. I think that's a really good idea. And also just this thing that I've been saying about analytics tool, I feel like they're kind of lacking in crypto, and my thesis for the reason is that anyone who has really good analytics will just trade on them and keep it proprietary rather than putting it out in the open.
01:37:36.402 - 01:38:12.910, Speaker A: So there's a huge need for better open analytics tools. So I think it's really cool. Yeah, I agree. And I think what's really cool too, something I talked to Trent about, was like making web platform and then looking at Zapper the DeFi Pulse Project, where you could literally build this from your own address. But I guess my time is up. Rob, thanks so much for this demo. Great.
01:38:12.910 - 01:38:39.520, Speaker A: And with that, we are ready to move on to our next team. And that's gearbox. And Mikhail, looks like I see you here. This is an interesting project as well. And I know maybe you'll cover this in your video, but I encourage you to tell the judges about the background and how this came to be. So I'll let you kind of take on that and look for to share your video whenever you're ready. Yes, I'm ready.
01:38:39.520 - 01:42:13.854, Speaker A: So I start close it. It great. So there's a lot of closed captioning there on the video that sort of walks through this thing. But maybe just for our judges, maybe it'll be useful for you. Just kind of give a couple of lines on go on the inspiration behind this thing and we can jump into the questions. So the idea is very simple because now if I want to trade with Margin or something like that, I should go to lending protocol like Compound and Ave and for example, use my culturized asset to get another one and then I go to Uniswap for trading. It's a very simple idea to combine lending protocols and Dex protocol in one.
01:42:13.854 - 01:43:14.638, Speaker A: So if you want to deposit money, you could put money on Jr box. And if you're a trader, you can put only 25% of your money and give a margin. And so you can trade on uniswap on any protocol using this Jrbox interface. So you have the same prices for different DEXes. But Jrbox protocol contracts that all tokens are whitelisted and in the future it would be solved like a dao. So pool owners could decide which tokens could be accessible for traders and which are not. So if the protocol computes that your portfolio does not cost more than a special threshold, so it automatically be accessible for liquidators and they could liquidate your portfolio for premium.
01:43:14.638 - 01:44:17.730, Speaker A: So it protects totally the funds of depositors and at the same time you are free to do all operation on first class DEXes like Uniswap and SushiSwap until you do not cross this risk management line. But as a trader you do not own your money when you trade using Jrbox. Jrbox controls all this stuff. So the initial collateralization is 25%. What is the liquidation threshold? I think it's just an MVP. So I consider risk model and borrowing model like an hour and probably it depends on asset, but I think it's around 10%. So if you cross a line that your total portfolio are going around, 20 or 10% of your assets are accessible by liquidators, so they should have profits.
01:44:17.730 - 01:45:00.610, Speaker A: And probably it requires a more wise and smart thing because this current gas cost, it depends to be valuable to run the smart contract because it cost $50. So it depends not only the person but some fixed value also. That's cool. So it seems like you're counting out whatever they're taking out the margin for and buying. You're sort of counting the assets that they buy as part of their collateral. You're sort of treating that as like their collateral. So you're using that yes idea.
01:45:00.610 - 01:45:53.480, Speaker A: Very simple, you put 25% of your money and you have four times more, but you should trade using my interface and all got it are stored on my smart contract and it continuously compute that your total balance is more than liquidation price. If it cross the price line, liquidators come and sell your portfolio and it's really very gas efficient if you compare to use a few protocols like Ava plus Uniswap, et cetera, et cetera. Yeah, that's really cool. It's a good idea. I think it's a very original idea. It's a really good idea. And I'm curious, any thoughts on why this doesn't exist already? I don't know why I checked but I didn't find yet.
01:45:53.480 - 01:46:38.370, Speaker A: Probably it exists. You can go to Jerbox Finance and it's totally work for testnet. Probably there is no front end for Liquidators but the contract is written and of course some huge job in the future, but it works and you can check. Yeah, cool. It's a great job. Yeah, and thanks for kartik for inspiration because I was stuck on Saturday but he said yeah, do something and I decided yes, I'm going to do something. It was really nice journey.
01:46:38.370 - 01:47:07.566, Speaker A: Really happy to see you here and presenting this and obviously seems like everybody thinks this is a great idea. And you mentioned already live, so we'll be sure to make sure that others know about this too. Yeah. All right. With that, we are ready to move on to our next team. Yeah, thanks so much. Thanks and have a good day.
01:47:07.566 - 01:47:56.910, Speaker A: Bye bye. See ya. So next up we have price Oracle Connect and I think there are some additions to this video. So it'll just be closed captioned, but whenever you're ready, feel free to play the video. Hello, my name is Lucas Pinor and it's my project for Intergrove. Oracle Connect is a collection of the plugs and websites that help you to use net fashion link in the algorithm to judge for me about price. I made two plurals for an interior that help you to use Shill link in the other in net platform, it's the Fiesta Plumbing Nava.
01:47:56.910 - 01:49:37.310, Speaker A: Now it's possible to reach Ava data provider contract and price Oracle in net. It's a demo show to you how to find the list of the torches within the average data provider and discord show to you how to find price deposit and borrow information. The next is Shinglink program for netherland. Thanks to NES, it's easy to find Shinglink Oracle contract and this card show how to find the listed price and discord show how to find specific price using route ID. Last I did the website that was out Explorers when Kirking launched that the website will find out tokens nava and chat price barlow and the author's information. This website is made in WebAssembly and they only use ocean data. Thanks to Shilling, it's possible to find world prices and it's possible to import standard zone files to create custom list of tokens.
01:49:37.310 - 01:50:37.006, Speaker A: In the future, I want to add support to AIS and Shilling market. I want to continue to work on Spring to help note net developers and improve the website on better design and cache system to speed you up the log time. Thank you to watch. Bye. Hello. Any sudden question? Any question? Yeah, this is quite interesting. I'm curious how much more work do you think needs to be put? The other video started playing good.
01:50:37.006 - 01:51:04.966, Speaker A: Yeah. No. Hey Lucas, I was wondering how much more work needs to be put into this project before maybe this can be kind of leveraged by the existing developer ecosystem. Yes, it's my idea. My disability for Netch in game is mobile. But I do not have time to continue to improve this program. Sorry, I felt bad speaking public.
01:51:04.966 - 01:51:27.742, Speaker A: I'm very nervous. I had problem. This is great. Yeah, I can totally understand you and yeah, I think it's a great project. Obviously on chain prices are super important. Oracles are super important. I actually have an ignorant question.
01:51:27.742 - 01:51:46.354, Speaker A: I don't know what you ported it into. You said is it net? Is that you said I actually don't know what that is. Yes. Net platform windows games. Got it. The main language is C sharp. Got it.
01:51:46.354 - 01:52:09.722, Speaker A: Okay, that's helpful for me, but this is yeah. I think solving the Oracle problem is always a hard problem to solve. So anything you can do to help out with that is really awesome. Thank you. I want you to improve. I do not have time, but I really want you to work chain link. It's so hard for me to do its changes in sharing link it's online.
01:52:09.722 - 01:53:17.982, Speaker A: Heavy JavaScript and Python libraries in the Avad. I do not have to say sorry. I'm well nervous. It's my first hack tongue. What's the main challenge that you dealt with building this project? My main challenge was have a good day in first week. Yeah. Well, congrats on demoing this and hopefully you got to learn some new things.
01:53:17.982 - 01:53:36.360, Speaker A: And it seems like there's a lot of things on your list to add in the future to this project. So we're looking forward to on our side to seeing what you build from here. Thank you, Ann. Yeah. Great work. Thank you. I hope speaking better.
01:53:36.360 - 01:53:56.714, Speaker A: Absolutely. It was really great. Thank you. Reach out to us for more help. Amazing. So we have two more projects to go. And next up we have Abe, who's going to be talking about the Ave V two user retention dashboard.
01:53:56.714 - 01:54:40.200, Speaker A: So obey whenever you're ready. Feel free to share your video. Is my video visible? Yes. Global project is AV two user retention dashboard. There are three components in it while populating the data. So data is pulled from RVB two subgroup and transformed into PostgreSQL tables. On those tables, SQL joins and queries has been created and using those queries, the dashboard and the chart is built.
01:54:40.200 - 01:55:29.826, Speaker A: There are three major features on the dashboard. So at the top aggregation metrics are displayed. For example, total number of unique users who have made transactions, total transactions done by users. That user retention chart is the second part of dashboard where user retention analysis has been done. This helps us understand which features makes user happy. So let's say if a feature is released in a particular week and a lot of new users has joined, then that means there is a good impact of that features on the user. The third part is funnel analysis.
01:55:29.826 - 01:56:22.834, Speaker A: So funnel analysis. In funnel analysis we can track user progress through different stages, identify where in which stage user drop rate is high. So marketing team or the team can analyze those categories, those stages and take actions based on that I'll take directly on the dashboard. So here is the live Ave two dashboard. So at the top we can see Avev two like the aggregation metrics. So there is total user transactions unique users. So there are around eleven 543 unique users who have made transaction.
01:56:22.834 - 01:56:58.242, Speaker A: Out of that there are around ten k plus users who have made repeat transactions. And these are like 1.7K users who have made ten K transitions. Similarly, like 765 users have made 20K transactions. The second part is user retention, cohort analysis. So the Ave protocol B Two protocol was launched in week of November 30 and December 6. So that is Cohort one, then Cohort two, cohort three.
01:56:58.242 - 01:57:30.094, Speaker A: So subsequent weeks are assigned a cohort. Now here we can see that in the first week 842 users had signed up out of that. So week one here is like December to seven to December 13. So around 30% users have made activity and transactions. Like out of 842, 30% have made activity. In week two it is 21%. In week three there is 18%.
01:57:30.094 - 01:58:08.380, Speaker A: And subsequently like in week ten, which is the last week, there are like 0.2 users have shown activity. In week five and week six, we can see there is good number of users who have made activity. So in week five, around 1.6K users have new users have signed up. Out of that, in subsequent week, around 38% have made activity, which is a good number. Then in further weeks it's 23% 16%.
01:58:08.380 - 01:58:56.518, Speaker A: This tells us that in week of December to January 3, there's some feature releases or there's some marketing action has been taken which has increased sign ups. The next part of Dashboard is funnel analysis based on user transaction. There are different categories. User with two plus transactions, user with four plus transactions, user with eight plus transactions. So we can see that there are like 10.4K users with two plus transactions. There are around 62% of users who have done four plus transactions.
01:58:56.518 - 01:59:44.674, Speaker A: There are around like 10% users who have made 16 plus transactions. So there are like mini whales and whales. So many whales are around 4% who have done 32 plus transactions and around 1% users have made 64 plus transactions, which is like kind of wheels. Yeah. So this is the Dashboard and it tells a lot about user retention. I've also created GitHub repo with updated README and the importance of cohort and analysis. Here is the GitHub so that's it from my side.
01:59:44.674 - 02:00:46.618, Speaker A: Let me know for any questions. Thank you. Pretty. After building this Dashboard, I'm curious what's one thing you kind of picked up on or learned about Aave that may have surprised you. Like overall I learned a lot about the Ave entities. And the thing which surprised me, which I also mentioned in my presentation, is in the Cohort five and six, you can see there is a huge spike in new users. So when I talked to the team and asked why, what is the reason for that? So they specified like there were some new features or there were some marketing campaigns from that site that went way that went from this site and that brought like new users on their platform.
02:00:46.618 - 02:01:37.994, Speaker A: So basically the cohort analysis, it tells a lot about the growth of your product, the impact of new. Features on your platform that week. I actually discussed with the team to learn more about their activity. Very cool. Yeah. Great job. Did you build the tool to create the visualizations or did you use a different tool for that and then import the data? Yes, I wrote TypeScript TypeScript scripts to populate the data from subgraph.
02:01:37.994 - 02:02:32.430, Speaker A: So there are like entities, subgraphs swaps wrote the script to populate that data into three different tables in postgres cohort cohort. So table one is cohort cohort. Table two is cohort base values, which is the new users. And cohort three is cohort metric values. And based on these three tables, I created joins in the query and created temporary table in the SQL query to populate this chart. And the chart is not there's. Some library, NPM library is used to create the visualization, but all the data population and the table population is by the scripts.
02:02:32.430 - 02:03:04.854, Speaker A: Got it? Yeah, I think it's pretty cool. It's always nice to see visualization, especially on the blockchain. Everything's public, but there's too much data, right? It's like a fire hose. I'm curious, are you planning to do more? What's your plan with this? Basically, yeah. So there are two next steps, which after discussing with the team, I came to know. One is they want a cohort for deposit amount. So this is the cohort for new use users.
02:03:04.854 - 02:04:12.734, Speaker A: But the next is deposit. So how users are performing on week by week basis based on how much they are depositing amount. So that is a different type of cohort where I'll be showing like USD values on week by week basis. And the next part is, I think a lot of DeFi projects, I mean, they have lot of data, but they don't have a way to analyze using this kind of cohort. So I was surprised to note that Aave, which is a huge project, doesn't have a dashboard with this cohort analysis. So what my thinking is make this tool available for general public, so any project who has big amount of data, they can connect their subgraph and this cohort and funnel will be populated automatically. So that's the second step.
02:04:12.734 - 02:04:33.874, Speaker A: Layton, do you guys have something like this for pull? This would be we definitely would want to use something like this. It'd be cool. Very cool. Nice. Yeah. I'm sure you could shop this around to all the DAOs on their proposal pages, be like, hey, I can do some cohort analysis for you. Get like a graph for each for sure, especially for pull together retention.
02:04:33.874 - 02:05:10.966, Speaker A: And cohort analysis actually is good because you want to see a fun one for you to tackle if you want to work on this more. Congrats for demoing and showing us what you did. And seems like there's a lot of interesting insights that were useful for not just ave, but also future DeFi protocols here with that, ready for our last demo for today. Thank you everyone. Thank you. Nice work. And that is project refundable estate.
02:05:10.966 - 02:05:40.620, Speaker A: So I see Sagar already here, so whenever you are ready. I think we're waiting for one more member. Yeah, I'm just waiting for my friend. He'll be joining soon and whenever you're ready, we can take off with the video. Maybe he has some issues. Karthik, can you put the video? I'll share you the link right now. He's here.
02:05:40.620 - 02:06:47.148, Speaker A: So, looks like the audio isn't coming through. Would you mind ensuring that the audio checkboxes yeah, just give me a minute. We are really extremely sorry. We have changed the machines. Okay, so guys, I'm not able to see the checkbox for enabling the sound of my machine. That's okay. What I'll do is if it's the same video from a submission, I'll just play it on my side and we'll just go from there.
02:06:47.148 - 02:07:27.792, Speaker A: Yeah, great time. Cool. Project is refundable state. Just give me 1 second. All right, so I will kick this off and we'll do our last demo for today. Our project is Refundable estate. Refundable Estate is a game where a person can sell, loan, rent, his virtual land on blockchain.
02:07:27.792 - 02:08:18.180, Speaker A: So this project aims to explain how powerful a blockchain can be in terms of real estate management. So we have used React and three JS as a front end and solidity Ethereum as a back end. So we have tried to give it as a minecraft type of theme or UI. So this is how Voxel Painter looks like. You can see a single blocks represent a square feet on the land which can be traded between the users and users can a person can create this land and save it and saving out MongoDB at last. And this data has a crucial data like square feet area price per square feet rent. And all this data is used for the trading of the land.
02:08:18.180 - 02:09:01.132, Speaker A: So we have created our own external adapter. And I must say, this data is off chain, which is in MongoDB at last. We need it in our contact. So we have created our own chaining adapter and this adapter has been hosted by a node operator. And we get a crucial data such as the square feet and all into our contracts. We can see like we have made a request to our API consumer and got the crucial graphite area on the basis of token ID. And we have then minted number of tokens among these cafeteria.
02:09:01.132 - 02:09:36.792, Speaker A: So we have created a new concept like RFT. RFT, if you see NFT, a person can only trade it only either you buy it vote or you don't. So we have created somewhat like RFD. So RFDS are like where NFD can be sold, traded in fraction ERC 20 token. So a single ERC 20 token represents a share of the NFD. So there we can see it's an NFD. So we have used some NFD address, token address which can be bought partially.
02:09:36.792 - 02:10:31.536, Speaker A: So how this is done is like it is backed by an ERC 20 token and here we can see so I have bought a share in this NFD I have bought some share we'll see how much shares a person has. So this, ERC, 20 token can be termed as an holdable token which represents a person's share on their land. So this thing, like each and every square feet is been marked by a block ID like consider. This as block one and block ID two. So this person has bought some two shares from the land and those are block one and two. And so he has two tokens which represent that this person has a share. Has a share on the land.
02:10:31.536 - 02:12:15.324, Speaker A: So person can build a business upon the land and the business basically represent a project of a user, for example, and which he can be used to advertise or market his project, whatever. So the business holder, business owner has to pay monthly rent. And that rent is divided among all the shareholders of the land and the shareholders like, in terms of I have two shares, so I will be getting 2%. From the water, the rent the person has been also so the concept is like that avikojis are the landkeeper which adds an extra weight to the implemented successfully. We have just tried to mimic it like with the shop facer IO avocado facer solve and we have created our own custom yield farming type of model where a person takes a ghost token and earns ghost token and reward the avicochi owner can determine how much of the cut he will take from the reward and this reward is being generated only be issued from the game admins as well only so the concept is like avegorchi maintains a cleanliness score so if whenever a person creates an Avegochi on his land and interacts with it. So we increase the cleanliness score of that person's profile and then which is mapped to the address. And then the person, when next time tries to buy another land, he or she may get some discount or something which is not yet fixed.
02:12:15.324 - 02:13:06.944, Speaker A: Though we have chain link credit delegation where a person can loan his land for collateralize, his land for loans and et cetera. So we have properly explained a fully functional prototype as the video was too big, so we have to cut short some parts of it. These are the links to it where we can show here we show the fully working prototype of the defunctible state. And here is the fully working prototype of credit delegation. So I will just explain both. Credit delegation concept is like a person can get some loans on behalf on basis of his land or his project of the business. Holder and the borrower can lend him.
02:13:06.944 - 02:13:21.524, Speaker A: So we are even thinking of implementing an Escrow system. Great. Awesome. Jump in. You're muted. There we go. Okay.
02:13:21.524 - 02:13:31.464, Speaker A: Awesome. Cool. Good work. This is a creative project. It's interesting. It's a cool idea, actually. Curious, what was your inspiration for it? To be honest.
02:13:31.464 - 02:14:30.730, Speaker A: I have a friend in what we say Rajasthan, so he owns a palace but the thing is they are not able to maintain it because it's too expensive for them. So they are looking for investor for them so that investor they can buy some shares of what you say that palace and convert into it five star hotel. So I was thinking like that if I can represent the building in the Voxel Painter we have made it by react three years and then person can buy some share and whatever the monthly yield from the hotels and all we can distribute it properly among themselves. But the thing was it has some lots of legal issues. We are freshly out of polychain, don't have much of the experience in blockchain so I thought just let me make a game into it. So let me and the users themselves understand how the real estate management can be done in the blockchain side and then later we can move it to real world. Gotcha very cool.
02:14:30.730 - 02:15:27.916, Speaker A: You're a huge Minecraft nerd so waiting for the moment where crypto hit minecraft minecraft open source entirely modable world its own crazy servers and economies right? If you deploy this live somewhere or deploy in a server, please hit me up. Surely, but we are hoping if someone can help us with mentorship and all we are not that experienced but we are eager to learn and this is our first hackathon. So we can create a server like currently we can create a land and we can store it on the local today. But we have made it to store that config in MongoDB at last. And we are fetching the data from MongoDB Atlas into a smart contract to chainlink. So we can do that. The users can come in and share their designs of their land and they can store it.
02:15:27.916 - 02:16:09.066, Speaker A: And the whole land is an ERC 721 and some fractions of square meter it's ERC 20. So we are making like some ESA 20 token backed by ESA 2020. So we have some idea. Hannah, awesome stuff. Thank you. You mentioned the collateralize, use your blocks as collateral. Can you elaborate a bit more on how that would work? Pricing? Okay, so when you buy a square feet of land, you give some amount of ether.
02:16:09.066 - 02:17:40.274, Speaker A: So each and every blocks of land across some ether. So what we are thinking like a business holder say, like we saw in YouTube, there are some technical indicators what we say YouTubers, they share their technical indicators and then earn some part of the profit. So we were thinking like if possible a business owner can say that please guys, follow my technical indicator strategies and all and then later whatever. So I had so much estimation that I can earn this much some amount of value from a trade or whatever so he can have an esco system. He'll loan his land, his land and ask for loan and with our credit delegation will show it in a table, like a table format where a person is loaning his land with some amount of what we say amount he wants as a loan. So person will go, okay, I am delegating him the loan, he will take the loan behalf of that user and send that amount to the person, the landowner, the block owner, and then he can keep some 30 days of what do you say? If he is not able to repay the loan and interest in 30 days, the land will be open to sale again. And when the land gets sold again, whatever the money comes, the person who delegated will give it to him so then he can swap it and pay his debt and get his tokens back from.
02:17:40.274 - 02:18:14.222, Speaker A: So that was our concept. Did you learn about all of this just in the last three weeks? I'm honest. So our project is not completed ready yet, so escrow part is left, but we have met almost, I can say 80% of back end is done and the UI part like avegochi and the front end is done, but land selling and all for the UI is not done yet, it's in remix yet. And yeah, we have done this all in this last three weeks. Amazing. Well, yash Sagar, thanks so much for presenting. It was a really cool thank you.
02:18:14.222 - 02:19:17.378, Speaker A: Thank you guys. Thank you last project for today and this is kind of us wrapping up this judging. So before I kind of say goodbye to everybody, I want to thank our three judges, layton, Peter and Daniel, for giving us the on their side today and really appreciate all the feedback that you've given to all of our teams and want to make sure that you also have a chance to kind of really hope you find this valuable and hope you had a chance to kind of look at some interesting ideas and concepts. So thank you. And before we end this, I want to also give a special shout out to Andy and Jenny who have been making all of this work in the back end volunteers and making sure everything is again, thank you guys, making this run super smoothly. We appreciate all the background work to make this great, great. So thanks again.
02:19:17.378 - 02:19:39.550, Speaker A: We'll be able to announce everything tomorrow for our finalists and please tune in for the Eigth Market Make finale on Thursday at 09:00 a.m. Pacific. So with that, I'd like to close this off and thanks everybody who stuck around and watched the rest of the demos. Awesome. Thank you guys. See ya. Bye.
