00:00:02.090 - 00:00:56.650, Speaker A: Today I'll be talking about some preliminary work from us at the Robust Consensus Group on modeling the PBS auction in a dynamic way. And this should also be applicable to proposer builder separation and order flow auctions. So first I'll give a bit of a recap on PBS. In this setting we're looking at more of an agnostic PBS setting. So we're not looking at mev boost specifically or EPBs, we're looking at the iron philosophy that splits the validator's role into a block building and through proposing a block and splitting the complexity of block building, which will have these centralization forces so that we can keep a decentralized validator set. And the goal of PBS would be to allow all proposers to have equal access to mev markets. Currently we see that PBS is in the form of mev boost and people bid via a trusted relay that then forwards their bid to some proposer and some builders and relays might collude, meaning that there's some latency advantages.
00:00:56.650 - 00:01:45.530, Speaker A: Here that you can achieve that others might not be able to achieve, which might defeat some of the goals of PBS that we have currently. We also see that arbitrage between decentralized and centralized exchanges is a large part of the mev that can be extracted jointly, which is formalized by Jason in the lever papers. And there are some proposals around separating PBS into more complicated protocol enforce proposal commitments where you could, for example, have a top of block part that allows for people to bid on these arbitrages and the rest of the block part where people can bid for other parts. We'll go into this a bit later. First of all, what we're seeing now is that mev boost auction mechanism is a true mess. If we look at it from auction theoretical perspective. What we see here is on the x axis we have time, on the y axis we have the median bid value and all the different colored dots represent different builders.
00:01:45.530 - 00:02:43.280, Speaker A: And we see that there's a lot of disparity between bidding strategies. So for example, in the bottom corner we see that there's a red line, red dotted line which represents some builder, and there's a blue dotted line which represents another builder. And these are quite far apart and seem to remain this difference seems to remain quite constant. This could probably be attributed to some form of exclusive order flow. We see that some builders only start bidding very late into the slot and we even see that median bit value might decrease for some builders. And this could be due to bit cancellations where for example, external state moves, meaning that your mev extraction might be less profitable. So now we're trying to move from this very messy data that was nicely formulated by Tomat from our research group to a more theoretical model to be able to understand PBS also for the long run, like what happens if this messy data gets more efficient and we need to extrapolate to a long term future.
00:02:43.280 - 00:03:35.934, Speaker A: So we are interested in the following relationships in this PBS option where people don't only compete on price, but they also compete on latency. So we're looking at what's the effect of latency on bidders profit where bidders in the PBS auction will be builders and what's the effect of latency on auction revenue for proposers? And we're not modeling any centralization here or long run behavior where people might choose between investing in latency or investing in higher bids. And we're also not modeling risk reverse bidders, which means we're not interested in inventory risk models here. We're only looking at the behavior between bidders. And the classic example for such an auction would be a common value auction where the auctioned off item follows some distribution. Let's say it's uniform on zero to one and all bidders gets a signal based on this distribution which is identically distributed. So for example, some builders might think that this block will be worth 0.6
00:03:35.934 - 00:04:04.326, Speaker A: e and the other builders might think that it's worth zero two if. But the important part is that they actually don't know. And some people may overestimate this. And we see here that we're making an assumption that the auction off item is pure to one value. So we're not looking at any exclusive order flow for now. Okay, something that's maybe not fulfilling from this model is that we're not actually molding any latency parts here. So if we're looking at what might be more realistic is how mev moves throughout the slot.
00:04:04.326 - 00:04:43.142, Speaker A: So we start at t zero and we will go through t twelve at the end of the slot and we see that at the end of the slot we'll extract this value v. And in this case it might be one or it might be any other number, but it moves throughout the slot. So if you're a builder and you're looking at this market and you're considering when to bid, you see that there is lots of variance and you don't actually know what will be the true value. So let's implement some bidders here. Let's say there's bidder one and bidder two. Bidder two commits to their block at a way later time. So maybe they have better latency, they're faster or whatever, they can commit to their block at a later time, meaning that they are closer to the actual value.
00:04:43.142 - 00:05:38.982, Speaker A: And we see here that bidder one has to commit way earlier at t seven where they actually are not that sure about the actual value that will happen. So from here we can already kind of intuitively see that bidder two has an advantage and that this bidder will probably make some profit. But we'll go into some cases where this might not be true later. So we're modeling this with some stochastic price process because the amount of mev that's collected over time is casted with some drift coefficients because of transaction inflow and also some mev that can decrease because of external factors like the statue moving closer to the decentralized exchange price. And we observed this currently because of bit cancellations. And for now we'll use the geometric brownie emotion to get some closed form solutions for this. So the difference here with the classic example is that signals aren't actually conditional on the value that's being ochined off.
00:05:38.982 - 00:06:13.150, Speaker A: We had in the previous example. First you determine the value that's being oched off, and given this value, people receive their signals. This is not the case here, which makes it more difficult. The distribution of value conditional on bidder signals is actually different for each bidder. So if you have lower latencies or you're faster to the item being auctioned off, you don't only have an estimate that's probably closer to the true value, but your confidence intervals are a lot smaller as well. Whereas if you're very far away, you have very wide confidence intervals. And the difficult part is that you actually have two signals.
00:06:13.150 - 00:07:00.738, Speaker A: You have your last observed price and you have your latency. And this latency is very important not only because of the price that you observe, but also because you might be slower than other people. We'll define two separate forms of latency here, so all bidders receive a latency signal that's private to them. And this will follow some distribution that's identical for all bidders. And based on this latency, they'll observe their price. But the important thing here is that we distinguish between absolute latency and relative latency. And you see here this graph with builders relays and proposers, where for example, we could say that the portion from the builder to the relay is relative latency and the part from relay to proposer is absolute latency, which might be true in an Mev boost model where there is not that complicated of relays and latency is very similar.
00:07:00.738 - 00:07:52.770, Speaker A: Or you could replace relays by a PTP network here if you're looking at Enshrined PBS. But we could also define it differently where builders and relays are, sorry, it should be relative latency there, and the parts from the relay to the proposer will be absolute latency. What we're seeing now is that there are a lot of latency reductions, for example, via vertically integrated builders, which is a bit topic from duration during this conference and some other paid services. And these are more relative latency reductions. You could see, for example, the optimistic relay, which reduces some of the load on the relay as an absolute latency reduction because it gives everyone the same access to the latency reduction. So there's no competition for this. And this is reminiscent of what we see in traditional finance, where this is a graph of some microwave routes between two exchanges.
00:07:52.770 - 00:08:27.886, Speaker A: And we see that there's a large decrease in the top part of the latency above the red bar. And this is like the relative latency reduction. But then there is the theoretical lowest latency limit, which is like the absolute latency reductions. And how we are currently in the PBS ecosystem is that even this theoretical latency could be reduced a lot because we could just make more efficient systems. So let's go back to our scenario and we'll implement this relative latency and absolute latency. You'll see that there's some absolute latency at the end. So no bidder will be able to bid in this part.
00:08:27.886 - 00:09:26.366, Speaker A: So there will be some uncertainty for all bidders and there will be some relative latency in front of that where bidder one and bidder two receive their price signals and we'll do a very naive strategy for now. So if we assume that this is a geometric brown emotion, we could for example, say that naive strategy would be I bid according to my expectation of future price, which is basically my current price plus the drift that I expect to happen over time. So this is represented by the little arrows that you see in the graph here. And what you see here is that bidder one observed their price earlier, they observe a lower price. So they'll bid probably lower because they're just adding some constant because of their time difference to the actual time of execution. And then there's bidder two who observe their price a little later and they'll bid higher. So this isn't because they have lower confidence intervals or something, this is just because they use a very naive strategy and they bid according to their expectation of future price.
00:09:26.366 - 00:10:08.190, Speaker A: So in this case, this might work well, out well for everyone and bidder two wins and bidder one loss because this is what we expect. But there are some other cases that could be more interesting. So if we look at this case, it's the same graph as the previous one, except that the end is inverted. We see that bidder one observes their price earlier than bidder two. But the amount of mev that bidder one observes is a lot higher actually than the amount of mev that bidder two observes. Now, if they both use their naive strategy and think that the mev that they could be tracking is just their current mev plus some drift coefficient, bidder one will actually bid a lot higher than bidder two and they will win the auction. But they will suffer some loss actually because you can see that the amount that the V is only 0.2,
00:10:08.190 - 00:10:58.878, Speaker A: but the expectation of future profits for bidder one is a lot higher. So here not only does the latency advantage of bidder two mean that they have a better price estimate, it actually means that they are avoid from some cost because they have less information than other bidders. So the question now is what can bidder one do to be better off? Well, they could condition their expectation on winning the auction. So if you do this, you can basically use the information that other bidders have and put this into your own bid. So given that you win, this must mean that other bidders have, if someone else came after you, it must mean that they have observed some information. That means that your position is actually worse off. So conditioning on this, you would probably make some bit shading to account for this.
00:10:58.878 - 00:11:42.650, Speaker A: And this is what we would call the winner's curse. So in this scenario, if you were the winner and you didn't account for it, you would have some regrets because you lost money in reality. So conditioning on winning means that they can aggravate more information into the price of their bid. So the implications for PBS are quite interesting in the case that there will be quite some bid shading and there's more strategic biding to be done. Lots of builders have committed now to no strategic biding, but this might be necessary to some extent. The winner's curves can be interpreted as adverse selection costs between bidders. And this is different from the classic auction model where some people might have more information, might have different information than others, but in this case, some information is strictly better than others.
00:11:42.650 - 00:12:26.890, Speaker A: And winning means that other people would have bid less than you, meaning that there is like actual adverse selection costs and not just some risk associated with the auction itself. Relative latency reductions mean a less adverse selection cost. So if you're bidding at T seven and someone else bids at T's eleven, there could have been a giant decrease in price. But if this is, for example, a very small delta, this decrease in price is likely to be less. And this could be an argument why neutral relays may always remain necessary. Even if you implement some kind of EPBs approach so that everyone has access to a similar shape of latency reductions. And absolute latency reductions mean magnitude of selection cost is likely to be less.
00:12:26.890 - 00:13:17.718, Speaker A: So even given any relative latency discrepancies between bidders, if there is a long till of time where the proposer needs to sign their bid, for example, or commit to a bid, this may mean that your adverse selection costs are likely to be larger if someone else comes bids after you. But now notice that this model is actually quite applicable to order flow options as well. So we're just modeling the amount of mev that's available over time and there are some bidders. So this doesn't only work for PBS, it works for order flow auctions. And a very likely candidate for order flow auctions is the loss versus rebalancing that can be extracted from decentralized exchanges. But in this model we also require the bidders in order flow auctions to deal with the winners cures. And this will impact auction revenue.
00:13:17.718 - 00:14:07.930, Speaker A: So this might be you could maybe see this as a decentralized exchange, outsourcing price discovery to these bidders in the order flow auction and then paying some part of revenue to them in a form of preventing their adverse selection costs. So, in conclusion, the PBS model allows for latency being sort of double edged sword. Lower latency means that you are more likely to win the auction, but it also means that if you have higher latency and you win the auction, this is probably bad news for you. So you'll need to take this into account in your bidding strategy. And this doesn't necessarily mean that all competition will be based on latency, though. In this model, we don't account for exclusive order flow, we don't account for your bid payment. So let's say that you have invested very heavily in latency optimizations.
00:14:07.930 - 00:14:31.460, Speaker A: If you still need to bid in the PBS auction and your latency optimizations weren't worth it, apparently you could be running at a loss and this wouldn't be sustainable, of course. And the most important part is, I think that there will be some sort of equal access to latency reductions to decrease adverse selection costs in any form of PBS auction mechanism. So that's what I wanted to conclude with for today.
00:14:54.040 - 00:15:21.950, Speaker B: Thank you so much for the talk. I have a quick question around the external factors affecting mev. So other than sex tax arbitrages, I can't really think of much else, which means that they're a portion of me that's going to be, you know, it when the user places order, et cetera, which is non decreasing, but the sex tax can changes and make the bids larger or smaller. So I was wondering, do you have any thoughts on that?
00:15:22.560 - 00:15:43.312, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think for now, sex taxes are definitely like the largest part of this. I think a fallacy in modeling PBS is that we're looking too much at the current state. So maybe trossomaine mev will become larger parts in future PBS mechanisms in different market regimes and we'll need to look at this. But for now, definitely sex touch will be the absolute largest.
00:15:43.376 - 00:15:45.190, Speaker B: Yeah, all right, thank you.
00:15:48.260 - 00:16:19.572, Speaker C: Thanks for the talk, enjoyed it. I think one of the interesting things that this points out is that you get to see other bids in the PBS auction, but in the first stage bundle merge, you don't get to see other bids. So I'm wondering if you've thought about what the implications are from that when we have integrated builders who are kind of competing in this PBS auction for profits, and non integrated builders who are competing on the same opportunities but are taking profits in the sealed bid bundle merge auction.
00:16:19.716 - 00:16:24.476, Speaker A: So is your question about the difference between the sealed bid auction and the open outri auction here?
00:16:24.498 - 00:16:29.372, Speaker C: Yeah, I was just wondering if you've thought about the kind of potential winners curse implications of this.
00:16:29.506 - 00:16:59.524, Speaker A: I think in this model, we don't really assume that it's either a sealed bid or an open outrial auction. We're more on looking at your valuation. So even if you're in a system where you have no clue who else might be bidding, there's always a chance that someone will come after you and you'll need to retound for this. So in a steel bid auction, you need to retound for this in first price auction with bid cancellations. This is maybe easier because you could cancel your bid if you're timely. Yeah, but that's probably a different dynamic. But in seal bit options it would be quite a similar dynamic.
00:16:59.524 - 00:17:00.170, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:17:04.200 - 00:17:16.632, Speaker D: One two question about the adverse selection. So you had the slide mentioning that as latency improves there's potential for adverse selection. Could you explain that a little bit more?
00:17:16.766 - 00:17:17.256, Speaker A: Sorry?
00:17:17.358 - 00:17:21.528, Speaker D: Can you explain a little bit about the adverse selection on the second last slide? A little bit more?
00:17:21.614 - 00:17:49.572, Speaker A: Yeah. So the adverse selection is because someone else comes after you and they see that, for example, the price has decreased. So if you're bidding at, let's say T is seven and someone else bids at T is eleven, the fact that you win means that they saw some information that's probably disadvantageous for you because otherwise they would have bid more. So in this case, there's like some sort of adverse selection tools because the fact that they didn't bid more than you means that you bid too much, basically. I see. Thanks. Okay.
00:17:49.572 - 00:17:50.850, Speaker A: Thank you, Julian. Thank you.
