00:00:36.364 - 00:01:43.962, Speaker A: So what should we be doing today? I guess mathematics. What particular? Actually, the field of architectural. Well, any, any field of mathematics. Any field of mathematics which is developed for any length of time, contains wormholes where people have burrowed into the ground and come up in a different place. So one of, one famous example with alchemy religious. Is everyone familiar with the work of Bon Jones elite? Bon Jones, well, he did a lot of things, of course, and he started a whole major field of study in phenomenal algebra, where you try to classify. Phenomenal algebras were classified.
00:01:43.962 - 00:02:49.480, Speaker A: If they're what's called amenable, okay, accountability conditions, they're classified. Again, it's a functorial classification, except in this case, it's only a functor for isomorphism. But that's enough, right? So two phenomenon alphabets are isomorphic. Then there's a certain flow, just an ordinary flow. Everyone know what a flow is? Is that a yes or a no? Okay, so, for instance, if you've seen a river that's a flow, it can be all kinds of different flows. I mean, sometimes it's what's called laminar, very smooth, slow, or it might be quite turbulent. Once in the Ottawa river in the springtime, I was crossing a bridge at what's called chauvier Falls, and the river is quite narrow there.
00:02:49.480 - 00:03:20.214, Speaker A: It's a large river. It was a spring sign, so you would expect to have more water than usual. But what was happening was it was going under the bridge. It looked like the wake from the motorola, okay, because it's stretching out like this, but it kept on going, and it had speak. It was 30 foot high, standing weight, that's not quite ten meter. Everyone still knows heat. I don't know either.
00:03:20.214 - 00:03:56.864, Speaker A: The only thing I know is that if you're talking about a kilometer, the accent has to be on the verso. I've gone through that. Everyone know why? Because besides, it is the law. You can look it up, but because no one ever says volumeter, right? Or centimeter. You say altimeter. Altimeter, but that's a measuring instrument. It's not a unit of measurement, it's not a unit of length.
00:03:56.864 - 00:05:58.328, Speaker A: So what von Jones discovered, well, actually you can do with matrix algebra, you can construct this invariant with, just starting with matrix algebra, one matrix algebra contained in another one. But it would never have happened that way, because people are not going to be too seriously studying subalge algebra. That's pretty elementary. Somehow, in the sophisticated context, it was so sophisticated that something completely, almost completely unconnected to the original problem, classify subalgebras. And what is it that came out of that, besides a lot of mathematics about, very important mathematics, about classification of subcontractor? Well, any, anyone want to put it into words? What's another branch of. Okay, so it was a case where one field of mathematics turned out to have a surprising connection with another branch of mathematics, which. This is the left shoe versus the right shoe.
00:05:58.328 - 00:07:10.406, Speaker A: Right. The analysis of sub factors. Jones was able to show a very simple knot, simple as possible, was not the same as a tumir image. And we got a field model for being on basic, and it turned out that, it turned out that it was mathematical, it was related more to physics, you might think maybe that's not surprising with the mirror image. Right. Actually, I wonder if people, I wonder if anyone looked at that, the notion of the fact that the major breakthrough, which is not invariant possible, was a concept which is very important in physics in an elementary, elementary way. Okay.
00:07:10.406 - 00:08:25.496, Speaker A: But I, I think that, by the way, the functor that's used for functor that's used for classifying sub factors is also, well, for that matter, classifying factors. This function for classifying factors, this is because the definition of it is very, is rather similar to the definition of k zero for a star algebra. So for a star algebra, you take projections and look at Marie phenomenon equivalents. Right? And you do it for matrices, too, all of it. If you're looking at a Lehman algebra, well, the k zero is not so equivalent to projections. That's not so edifying, but not so helpful. We're doing.
00:08:25.496 - 00:09:19.044, Speaker A: In fact, that was how K theory began. But it's only a question of dividing. Laminated very roughly into types three, types one, type two, and type three from numeral type one for the type two, or the type three, the type one. This is the classified because it's take one factor. It's just all operators on some Hilbert space. And the dimension of the Hilbert space, certain cardinal number is all you need to know, and it would be expressed as an invariant of the album, like the supernatural number attached to a UHF. Might take a look at that.
00:09:19.044 - 00:10:17.308, Speaker A: Okay, but, so you don't look at projections for you look at this, linear functionals, but it's not finite. You don't look at finite linear functions. You want to get comfortable in hindsight, looking back, you want to get a flow, right? So how do we get a flow? Well, if it's normalized states, then there's no action of real numbers on them, no simple action. But what you want to do, what Kahn and colleagues at the collaborators had the idea of doing was looking at unbounded linear functionals. They don't have a norm, or at least they're not normalized. But even the ones they wanted to look at weren't even normalized, or, sorry, they weren't even finite on all elements. So it's like the trace on bounded operators.
00:10:17.308 - 00:10:58.816, Speaker A: You have a positive operator on the infinite dimensional Hilbert space. It may or may not have a finite trace, right? If it's so, if it's positive, then if it's compact, even if it's compact trace, you're not refunding. So it's unutterably equivalent to a diagonal operator. It's compact and it's positive. And so if we join, and if it's positive eigenvalues are, we could look at them as decreasing down the diagonal positive numbers. There might be some zeros, or there might not. The trace would depend on whether the sum of the diagonal elements.
00:10:58.816 - 00:11:41.694, Speaker A: So it's finite or not. And that would give a trace. Well, that's an example of what's called a weight. It doesn't have to be unitarily invariant to be a weight. And what the co workers looked at, what they looked at was take weights. And you look at Murray von equivalents of weights. You treat the weights like reduction.
00:11:41.694 - 00:12:40.464, Speaker A: So it's almost the same as unitary equivalents, okay? Which is easy to easier even for projections. Unitary equivalents is easy to define for arbitrary operators. It's easy to define unitary equivalents. This means it's a unitary, and they conjugate one together with unitary and syndicate weights. Then they have an algebra, and they have, every weight has a support, which is projection, like the support of the motor projection, on which it's on the esophagus complement, zero, two weights. And you want these productions to be, for the weights to be equivalent, and they're not unitarily equivalent. You want the productions to be equivalent in such a way that all the weight is concentrated inside the production.
00:12:40.464 - 00:13:27.254, Speaker A: So just take one weight on the unit. So that's weight. The key step is you take one of these positive functionals, and if you multiply it by two, you got another one, or you multiply it by any, we'll say non zero, positive real number. Then you get another one, right? But this is, if you look at the positive, non zero real numbers as a group, that's just the whole real line, right? So you have an action of that. That's a flow. So that's the flow of weight. It's called the flow of weights, and it passes to the equivalence classes.
00:13:27.254 - 00:14:23.404, Speaker A: That's, it turns out that it's a arbitrary flow, like arbitrary flow on a measure space. And you can express it as a. You can express it if it's. We're talking about if it's trivial, then it's just flow on a single point, trivial flow on a single point, if it's non trivial and it comes from a factor, means the centers and scalars. Then you just look at l infinity of the interval zero one. Good. And you look at a one parameter group of automorphisms of that, and that's the, that's an algebraic formulation of the notion of flow.
00:14:23.404 - 00:15:16.304, Speaker A: You could have a flow acting on the vector space itself, or on the alliance. Okay, so that was an example of a classification. I'd like to spend some more time between now and the end of the year. We'll have to take a break for Christmas. Well, I don't know if we got a chance to continue after Christmas. Normally, often I give a course in the second term. This year, I'm not well.
00:15:16.304 - 00:16:10.196, Speaker A: And they basically marry phenomenal problems. And it's Easter algebra, complex scalers. And there's k zero and there's k one, and there, somehow sort of related. Right? And over the wheels, it's more complicated. You have k zero, k one, k two, k three, and so on. But over the. Define in terms of the repeated suspension complex numbers.
00:16:10.196 - 00:17:50.384, Speaker A: We could define the k groups by the repeated suspension. But it turns out you get, very soon, you get back to where you started. And there's a way of codifying that, which is very useful for calculations. Remember, there's a bit of work that required. Does everyone remember why? Hamilton, there was a trick. You have two, there are two productions, corresponding k zero class. So we can assume, let's assume the big algebra has a unit.
00:17:50.384 - 00:18:39.934, Speaker A: K zero graduates the difference of the k zero classes, two productions. But it turns out we can take one of the projections to read the unit, or maybe the other unit in that way, and they can change it. That's quite important, because if we want to get something coming, k zero will be ideal. That means we're looking to be k zero with I tilde of one k zero vitality. We want to do. Oh, I wanted to be, if it's in k zero of I tilde, I prefer it to be k zero of I. It's.
00:18:39.934 - 00:19:56.294, Speaker A: You want the image to be zero. Well, here the, you look at this, the image is zero. You assume that the image is zero, and then you reduce to the case that these two projections are unitarily are equal. You reduce, in the case of these two, reductions in the quotient are equal. Okay, but how does that help? So e minus one, sub n bombs to PI. We got stuck with that when we did, when we weren't working with the unit group. Why does it help, Jack? Why does it help to have the unit group? We want to prove that, of course, the image is from ee is equal to one.
00:19:56.294 - 00:21:13.558, Speaker A: Special about the case, about having reduced to the case that e is equal to one. We're just an arbitrary f. We wouldn't know what to do. But if it's, we want to prove that we want to get something in k zero or y tilde, right? And what we want to get projections, well, once again belongs to y tilde, right? And e minus one sub n belongs to y. This is, you don't, you don't believe this is going to happen. Therefore, because we're working with groups, additive groups, therefore e belongs to y two. And we've got two projections, e and one belonging to I tilde, in the recoil module of the ideal.
00:21:13.558 - 00:22:29.674, Speaker A: So that means it's a k zero class. And coming from the image of a k zero class in I. Okay, so that's exactly zero. By the way, we have to, we should check that. If you do start here and you go twice, then you get zero. Okay, is every, has everyone checked out? I think that we start with something here that words, historically, something here say e and f minus f. Look at them in k zero a.
00:22:29.674 - 00:23:21.384, Speaker A: Of course, they may not be the k zero class. E minus m in a may not be, may not be trivial, but the paths pass through the quotient. Then e and f are equal. If you have two projections in a over I are equal, then the k zero class is zero. Anyway, that's, that's called semi, that's called half. Exactly. But, um, and there's also the, um, there's also the j one slide, if you like.
00:23:21.384 - 00:25:20.124, Speaker A: If we define k one as k zero of suspension, which is not too hard to prove if you did define it in terms of vertical. And then we get half exact this year, because suspensions, you have a short exact sequence of algebra. You have to check comparing sa s in a natural way. But John, what's the point of putting the two side by side? Well, we have index maps, right? Yes, we have index maps that go from right. Yeah, that's exactly, that's exactly the. Oh, this is fundamental. One of the ways of stating the fundamental facts about Ethereum complex batting algebra, even for real banning algebra, the even index map ends up in k, zero is defined.
00:25:20.124 - 00:26:17.524, Speaker A: And if it's, if a is the algebra bounded operators and I is the algebra compact operators, then the if, then everybody, a unitary in the quotient a over I is the image of either an isometry or something which I joined. That's not hard to prove. And furthermore the it's a co isometry. That means it's not injected with a kernel. That kernel will be finite dimensional because the logical oi it's inverter. The kernel goes into this room. Kernel is a projection of ideal contact operator.
00:26:17.524 - 00:27:15.344, Speaker A: So that means that the operator has index. We have an operator on the vector space that has indexed, it's a kernel and the co kernel are finite regenerated, finitely generated. In the vector space you have two finite numbers, two natural numbers. The index is the difference of those two numbers, which one you subtract from the other one. Which one? Oh, okay, so, and this is something which is called third home in dance. That's how we told you my story about having breakfast with Fredholm once. No, it wasn't Fairholme, it was Fredholm's nephew.
00:27:15.344 - 00:29:56.434, Speaker A: And by the time I found out he was very nephew, he was gone. Would have liked to thank, I don't know what I would have been thanking him for, but anyway, he was interested that he was already interested that I was visiting the Mathematics institute, university. So we got in the critical, working on the circles one of the main concepts, because after all it's I'm doing case theory, you might say can when it's received, then the index is special case index map format a one algebra extensions of allocalge. I pointed this out and I have a paper which talks about the uniqueness of the index map, your caser. In other words, you have a natural map, k, one of the quotient case zero is ideal, forget about exactness. And the rest have a map which is natural. When you compare to if B is sitting over here and J, and then you have a diagram, two maps, candidates for the index plan are related by that you have extensions, penicillin, and in that this map is unique.
00:29:56.434 - 00:30:41.034, Speaker A: What does unique mean? It means any two such maps, any two such means are very much two such generally always defined maps. For every tension, any two of them have a common multiple, common integral multiple, where they're both multiple. You don't even have to state that it's unique. You don't have to know there is one once it do exists, forming a group. I should mark. And if they don't exist, and if they didn't exist, then there wouldn't be any group, be the zero group. But you have the zero map and always, and always have something.
00:30:41.034 - 00:31:45.034, Speaker A: But the statement is, it's the group z, the group of these nodes, universal numbers. In other words, even without exactness, the index map, this abstract level is very natural. In fact, you need come to integral one. Of course, you can't pin it down, even the definition, even when you find a particular one, it's hard to separate it from the bottom. Minus one times the, we have to decide which two spaces to subtract. Well, okay, and the idea is, once you have this one, if you have, if you bought periodistic, which flips two rows, then you have this one. And the funny thing was, you could define this one using the complex number I.
00:31:45.034 - 00:33:05.014, Speaker A: You couldn't prove exactness. The way you prove, enough about predestined clicking is you take a very special case of this, very, very special case of this, okay? Where the extension is composed over some b quotient n as b, and then a kernel is a suspension, the suspension that, well, b, b is b, and suspension is functions on the line vanishing at infinity. Either side, the cone has functions which vanish at minus infinity, but it plus infinity, they just convert. So we converge to a possibility. That's why you meant the function. That's the case in which we then the moving this, we have exactness here and here. Well, by the way, it's the cone and these groups are zero, okay? And so you have to prove isomorphism, but that's the isomorphism from k zero b to k one, alpha s and g.
00:33:05.014 - 00:34:31.924, Speaker A: That's how, that explains how, it explains why this is called the six term exact sequence of Bach. Very just something that's universally true, one sloping line, which, okay, well, let's, let's review the proof of this isomer. So exactness here. Exactly. Since he's a zero, exactness here says the map is objective, and the exactness here says the obvious, here says the math is surject, and the strategy is your first surge activity, and then as a special case, you get injected. Okay, has everyone thought about how you get the injectivity? Well, you can look it up, two k zero classes, so you have two projections. You have seen each k zero class has its own.
00:34:31.924 - 00:36:09.674, Speaker A: We're talking about the difference of something with a multiple of a unit. And I guess if you're comparing two k zero classes, you can add enough of copies of the unit to do your comparing, and you have look at two projections, and you look at basic path, the fundamental path, k one, just inside of reduction. Or suppose these are homotopic through a path of invertible, okay, these are the, and then we look at the corresponding loops, k one classes and loops. And that's what these are. And we assume these are connected khomatopic. That's why guess what equal. And k one means.
00:36:09.674 - 00:36:55.664, Speaker A: Ordinary path, not a closed path. It's a path here and here. But then that's the same as, the same as working on being sensor one. We just have, and the point is, this path takes place in the matrix algebra, okay? And it's probably, and it's not linear loops. In the past, they're not linear loops, okay? They're just polynomial loops. We don't even know the polynomial loops. We have to go through the whole business of surjectivity.
00:36:55.664 - 00:37:26.394, Speaker A: Look at the proof of surjectivity. Then you get in some large matrix algebra, there is a linear path. There's a path of linear loops. But then that's pretty easy to see. If you have two paths like this homotopic, the projections are homotopic. That's the end of the proof of inductivity. Using surgical.
00:37:26.394 - 00:39:19.904, Speaker A: Got that? In some, in some large, in some large matrix algebra, this path, this ordinary path of groups of invertibles was homotopic to a path of linear one coming from the path. All right, so that's a review of how this, do you have this asking? Right? Then you can say that as a corollary, you get injectivity too. Nice and nice and more. This first step one was constructing the algebra math. And then you have to check that it into a group bed. Okay? And then, and then I just blowing up the matrices entail we have these two polynomial loops. There you go.
00:39:19.904 - 00:40:26.730, Speaker A: By the way, I suppose that we have, there's always the schematic outline of the af algebra proof. This certainly deserves to get filled in. I would call that an exercise. At the very least, anyone wants to fill in the schematic outline for af out horizon workers and theorem using the ordered k zero group together with the class of special class. And that would be very welcome, very good exercise. Okay, but so what do we, what do we do? We want more space. So if it's just complex numbers or complex numbers, don't, they don't have much space, but you don't need much space.
00:40:26.730 - 00:41:58.424, Speaker A: Any path of invertible complex numbers, okay. Or unitary complex, any path from the circle into any closed path inside the circle, going around a certain number of times one way, then the other way and so on. Then it's elementary that the, you can always somewhat talk something like that to a lit, to a linear path, which means to the end for some introduction, no matter how you homotope it, you only ever get one n. The n is an invariant, a homotopy invariant. If two paths have the same n and they're homotopic, well that's a kind of obvious each one that homotopic is yet to the end, then they're homophobic. This doesn't quite solve the general question. For k one you have to look at matrices and well, this is a kind of sort of diversion talking about special cases, the complex number of periodically involved because we almost.
00:41:58.424 - 00:44:32.510, Speaker A: When I said you have to repeat the proof for the general seastrail, General van Gogh in case of contrast, I didn't mean that literally because there was a proof special for matrices. But you don't want to it's worse than the proof. You have a path of unit or closed path of Unitarian the endpoints, just the identity and it turns out you can homo tope it inside the algebra itself into. That's not true by the way, in the case of a phenomena algebra it's also true. And so I would give a reference to the, I referred to the paper that's an elementary discussion which was a pioneering work in case they weren't weaponized they just showed that had a loop of invertibles inside the. And it's homotopic to one that comes from productions power like this, like this inside the outer parts of the. And it's quite the proof I was talking about for matrices is quite different from the proof of rock and TN Smith it might be easier proof that Lesnar could exercise check than the proof of Rocky Smith is easier than the proof of involving elementary taking the unitarians in your closed path and perturbing the whole closed path.
00:44:32.510 - 00:45:25.750, Speaker A: So for every one of these unitaries the eigenvalues are distinct. If it's 100 500 matrices, every one of these unitary matrices has 100 distinct eigenvalues. If you can do that perturbation, then after that it's easy because you just straighten it out. So every one of the eigenvalues is at the end, some in then you make the eigen projections, one dimensional projections I can project them to by constant. So you have your final task of diagonal, single diagonal matrix with different powers of lead. And if you want you can put them all up into one place. Okay, so that's making the argon eye is distinct.
00:45:25.750 - 00:47:46.200, Speaker A: That's outlined in my truth is published referring to earlier things in my bill rein zoolog paper on classification on the classification of historiology and it's published in perhaps very old. Okay, so it would be interesting to see what the rocket space, especially in the communications and mathematical physics. This is really 1971. This is before anyone was talking about case area. Well, I should. That's embarrassing to have to say that because I should just be able to look for an instant, right? Actually, since a lot of people are very helpfully sitting in the same place. Okay.
00:47:46.200 - 00:50:02.004, Speaker A: But I do seem to have some trouble recognizing who Sam Andrew Abner Gail Huxley Jackson Yuja Ting thank you. Curious Kilby Archipelago Siddhartha Douglas how are you doing for homework? Send me an email if you want to talk about and then you'll be see what I mean? I just hope this soundbar Good morning. So, last two people again. If you have any other questions about the homework, please stay in tight. Charles Griffith ten minutes Enviro Joe thank you. Jerome Kelsey Alexander Koh John Kang when he open. So he's on his own? Yes.
00:50:02.004 - 00:52:47.384, Speaker A: If I lose, what about him or she? I haven't met her. Yeah, I haven't met that. Thank you. I think you're just a little closer than last hour, Mohit. Reuben Naga Sardin thanks Greeter Esna I wrote some comments about. Did you have any questions about that? Jonathan, what are you doing for a second? Do you have a second topic for your plans for I'm trying to decide or Larry tongue 101? I've talked about the what the classification is of, well, behavior, simple systro. You look at arbitrary abelian groups.
00:52:47.384 - 00:53:31.456, Speaker A: Arbitrary countable abelian groups are, those are the k zero groups and the k one group. And that's quite a tall order, right? To look at all those. They're not necessarily torsion free. They're not necessarily subgroups of rational vectors. There's a structure theorem for finitely generated groups. Any countable viewing group is an increasing union of increasing sequence by then generated subgroups. So how do you say something but okay, so it's these two groups.
00:53:31.456 - 00:54:08.174, Speaker A: But now if the k zero group does have an order sponsor, you don't need to know it because traces pair with k zero have any production. You can take the traces production. And if it's a non unit algebra, then the join. You can't join a unit because the trace of the unit might be in. We want to have a positive trace. But there's a trick. You join a unit and then say you extend it, you extend the trace to the outer world unit joint in such a way that you just say, take the trace of the unit to zero, but not a positive linear function anymore.
00:54:08.174 - 00:54:24.654, Speaker A: And no, this trace is not positive on the. It's not. Sorry. It's not finite valued on the algebra either. Maybe it's a stable algebra. It's a compact operator, so the trace is not finite on the algebra. You don't get a finite linear function.
00:54:24.654 - 00:54:55.824, Speaker A: But if you look at what's called the ideal, it's a dense side, two sided ideal. In the case of the compact operator, it's just a finite rank operator. And of course, every finite rank operator, the traces of linear, functional, ordinary linear, functional and finite rank operators, right? Yeah. Okay. So you, I get a linear function that way on the osborne, and that's a trace, a non positive trace, but it still appears with piezo disappears.
