00:00:10.250 - 00:00:36.226, Speaker A: Yeah. So from the last talk we get, we arrive at this slide and having a test for non mev needs. But in this talk I'm going to talk about, sorry, but this formulation of mev is mid. So specifically what it means. Why? Because it's like a party guy, a guy at the corner of a party saying they don't know this is not me. While there are people, all of us are like yes, we know and we don't care. It's a good meme.
00:00:36.226 - 00:01:56.330, Speaker A: And memes are important. Memes are more important than arguably many other things in our life. But there is also another extreme in the community vouching for a formalization of mev, right? So some common pitfalls on the definition of the word mev is that we give up on the clarity of the notion we over formalize it such that we lose the memes, right? It is no longer a meme term and we are getting lost in the detail of the real value of defining mev. So in this talk, I will give a clear definition of mev that points to a solution, clearly to the solution recipes on how we should solve mev. And I'm not going to give a mid curve formalization, nor am I abandoning our means. So what is mev? So by the end of the talk, you will see that mev is El Capone evil deity and Louis XVI. So this is so to start, we see that why Al Capone's mafia is mev.
00:01:56.330 - 00:02:51.166, Speaker A: So because mafia extractable value CCM arises when one agent or a collision of agents gains an asymmetric knowledge of another agent's private information. So this condition sounds there exists an asymmetric sophistication between agents. So very easy examples include sandwich internalized front running or in traditional finance, we see that people trading one strategy is that people trading on the limit order books imbalance, which is essentially a form of one agent gaining knowledge of another agent's utility or intent, right? When you see more bid than ask on the books, then you take the best ask and you make the best bid. So then evolve data is a malloc y z mev. So malloc is tradable. Value is a value that was surrendered to the malloc I e. On coordination within your mechanism, your allocation mechanisms for people's preferences.
00:02:51.166 - 00:03:51.238, Speaker A: So one example of this is the negative externalities caused by inexpressive mechanisms. So for example, suppose you have a random ordering, then people spam the network and that is the only way they can express their preferences and it is very one dimensional way, right? So you have a kind of a shrink transaction quality trilemma. And there are of course many other examples. For example, in the traditional high frequency trading arms race example, people, the cost that market maker spends on arms race gaining latency advantages was channeled as charging higher spreads for users. So the externality is transferred from sophisticated agents to unsophisticated agents. There are some other examples finally, Louis XVI's, the monarch. Why is him MEB? So monarch's tradable value arises from the fact that the coordinator so for example, the sequencer or the validator has the ultimate power of deciding what the ordering or the allocation of specification on state is.
00:03:51.238 - 00:04:45.302, Speaker A: So by specification on state I specifically mean which specification or property does the next state satisfy? For those of you familiar with programming languages, you can see that this directly links into the form of application. You have a program and the specification that the next date must satisfy. So then some examples of this include that the validators currently in ethereum or other chains accrue value because they have the power of determining what content is in the block. And many other examples in TradFi such as collocation fees and cross chains such as cross domain market makers for swaps. So then we can see that mev arises from three distinct properties the mafia, the malloc and the monarch. So now a little bit more formalized. Suppose that M is the monarch in our unions or our game E, and W is the social welfare function.
00:04:45.302 - 00:05:53.614, Speaker A: Then we know that the monarchy's travel value equals to the welfare that is achievable by the best possible mechanism for our game to allocate specification on state minus the welfare of the current monarch. And the monarch EV equals to the welfare of the current monarch minus the welfare that already existed in the original game E. Without our current monarch as the coordinators, you can see those closely tied to the idea of externalities. And then from our definition, we know immediately that monarchy V plus monarch extradible value equals the welfare of the best possible mechanism in our game minus the welfare of the original game. So it equals a constant, right? So Malok UV plus monarch EV is innate to the game E and does not depend on our choice of the mechanism M. And finally, defining mafia EV is a little bit harder. But the intuition is that mafia EV depends on the specific sophistication details or the power of agents that is existent in M.
00:05:53.614 - 00:06:35.258, Speaker A: So what this means is that how much exposed knowledge or last look one agent can have over other agents or their coalitions. So then we can see that those three values have distinct sources and those sources of value are non overlapping SAS. We can call them our new definition. Collectively, three EV mafia, malloc, monarch extradible value. It forms a sum type, it's perfection. So then what this implies is that the resolution recipe, right future is in our hands. We know that mafia plus Molok plus monarch is 100% of the mev and that monarch EV plus Molok EV equals to a constant depending only on the original game.
00:06:35.258 - 00:07:30.662, Speaker A: But the percentage of moloch versus monarch depends on our choice of the mechanism. So you can already see that there is a nice link with the notion of price of anarchy in traditional mechanism design here, right? Although in traditional mechanism design, of course there are series, they want bonds, so they define price of anarchy as like the diffusion. But now we are interested in values, so I kind of define that difference. And then finally we can see that mafia EV is also a constant depending on our choice of M. So, since the sources are distinct, we can adjust the percentage of the three variants of mev by transforming one form. Of mev into another in our designing of a better mechanism. M? So I argue that ideally, we should have 0% mafia, 0% Malok and 100% monarch where the monarch's profits are distributed.
00:07:30.662 - 00:08:53.906, Speaker A: So what this specifically means, and why is this true, is that because mafia relies on the existence that there is one exposed knowledge and there's unsophistication or sophistication between agents there is a symmetry. And so specifically once you have this, then the sophisticated agents are going to charge sort of an unsophistication tax on the other agents and thus this hurts long term stability of the domain or long term prosperity. And then why we want 0% Malok is because any value or any welfare that is attributed to the monarch is forever lost, is non recoverable and nor is it redistributable. And why 100% monarch with redistribution is that if there is no redistribution to the monarch, then the 100% monarch EV is going to erode the incentive for people to use your mechanism because you're essentially creating reintroducing the value that they would have paid to the monarch by having them pay to the monarch. Instead you can see there's so users would be indifferent between paying to the monarch in the original game and paying to the monarch in the meta game. So this kind of violates the individual rationality guarantees. So then there are of course some caveats as to our choice of monarch and our definition.
00:08:53.906 - 00:10:01.094, Speaker A: So as we can see that the welfare of the game without the mechanism depends on e, right? So now we assume that the mechanism M represents a domain or a builder or just some collision of agents. Then we can kind of have a notion of interdomain collision factor k where k equals one if the mechanism is monopolistic across all domains. So here we are kind of cheating a bit, we are including time as another domain. So k is kind of like a discounted ndmen of preference curve. And an example of the preference curve you can see on the top right corner and then k equals zero if the mechanism is powerless. So then what this implies is that by forming a larger coalition means the collision has a higher k and this enables them to do more credible extortions. So what this means is that the monarch extrad value for your collision of agents forming the mechanism M equals to k multiplied by the original monarch if m and minus M forms the grand coalition.
00:10:01.094 - 00:11:12.926, Speaker A: So then of course this implies the users can also be the monarch if they have a large enough k, right? And similar for validators searchers or builders, you can imagine different mechanisms than what is currently being played in the mev field. So essentially the interdomain collision factor represents your collective bargaining power which determines how the monarchy is set up, who is thrown as the king and how the monarchy is set up within the game. However, okay, there are some caveats to the choice. How much coalitions can you have? Right? So you can imagine this formalized as a corporate game where the core of the game might not exist if we have too many interdomain coalitions. So this kind of reminds us as the original notion of there exists no monotonicity of coordination and efficiency. And this also relates back to a notion I would like to call the incomplete theorem of mev. Right? So you can see that the game e cannot continue if there is not enough competition.
00:11:12.926 - 00:12:11.542, Speaker A: What this means is that you can increase the coordination but it does not always increase the efficiency of the allocation in reality. And even if you try to eliminate the inefficiencies caused by your extra coordination by using another credible commitment or coordination device in the meta game, then you're just transferring the monarch its credible value in the original game to the monarch in the wrapped game. So this kind of provides a ground for us to refute know previous ideas by Virgil Griffiths and his whole ethereum as game changing technology argument. So then coming back to this, the specific value of the collision factor k depends on how we set up the game. We can thrown or destroy different monarchs. Ultimately we want to choose the best mechanism and start that is most incentive aligned with the long term prosperity and is most capable of coordination. So you can see there's a trade off over here.
00:12:11.542 - 00:13:36.286, Speaker A: And of course, why do we want a monarch? Why do we need this meme, right? Why can't we just go the formalization route, full formalization throw in mass equations. So the reason for this monarchy abstraction is because the outcome in contrary to traditional mechanisms, the outcome in mev is not common knowledge and depends on each agent's private information which the other agents don't have priority to the mev time, which is the allocation time or like blockbing time. So it is hard to analyze the equilibrium within this game, especially when there exists asymmetry in the sophistication of agents. So thus we reduce the guarantee of our mechanism to just have some bounds, like some loose bounds on the incentive compatibility and the individual rationale. So then now to concretize things, we provide some case studies. So specifically we say that we know that there has been vanilla first come, first serve and a frequent batch auction style first come, first serve where we increase the fairness granularity within the receive order fairness protocol. So what this specifically means is that instead of reporting a strict ordering by the receive order time of the transaction, each individual node now reports a partial ordering to the leader of the ordering consensus protocol.
00:13:36.286 - 00:14:52.550, Speaker A: So what this concrete means is that you just take the smaller than two smaller or equal to and then after aggregating each individual node preference, the monarch, in this case the leader of the consensus protocol, gets a weak ordering by first come, first serve. And then of course we know there must exist some unordered batches in it which is caused both by the condor set paradoxes and the initial partial ordering reported by each individual node. So now the monarch tries to resolve the order of the unordered batches using auctions, right? So this is why it's frequent batch auction and then in reality, why is this more dearizable? Let's peek into some data. We see that in reality it's over 65% of the uniswap volume comes from arbitrage, maybe statistical and among the other 35% it's a big few market makers. So what this means is that the mev activity constitutes a huge amount of ethereum activity and the birth period on ethereum which arises from public information reviews, for example, some price discoveries happens on finance or some people, some well send an unprotected transaction into the public mempo. Then once this kind of event happens, it takes around 1.2 second and 75% of the conflict of preferences on ethereum.
00:14:52.550 - 00:16:32.470, Speaker A: Conflict preferences meaning that there is a conflict within what specification should the next day satisfy? It happens less than 4% of the time. And so this means that vanilla first conference serve compared with frequent batch auction first conference serve will be bearing the extra negative externalities which cost worse UX higher fees for users or centralization in the nodes from twelve x more conflicts of preferences. So bursts of periods of preferences are significant. And just adding some partial ordering, just covering that little 4% window, you can mitigate most of the negative externalities on the domain, you can take value back from the malloc. So if we use the three EV framework to compare those two protocols, we can see that they have the same mafia, right? And for Malok, the vanilla version has much more Malok because the vanilla version nobody can express their preferences in a short burst period which constitutes most of the activity, right? So the Malok arises from the tribute to the Malok arises from uncoordination and an ultra simplified social choice function where the social choice function is like I choose to preference by the order I receive them, that does not coordinate any of the burst period mev and the birth period mev. Typical cases include like permissionless mev, price discovery advantage. As you can see from the graph on the right, we are transforming the mafia slowly into the malloc where the value is transferred to the users.
00:16:32.470 - 00:17:11.414, Speaker A: The users have the same payoff, same bad payoff and then from the monarch. It's strictly worse by definition, but also vanilla versions run the wrong monarch. So in latency games you pay more to AWS or Google cloud because you need to play the latency games. And thus the monarch, Google and Amazon are obviously not incentive aligned with crypto or whichever domain you adopt your audio protocol on. And of course it's more centralized because, come on, it's like fan. Okay, so now some concrete examples. Let's see transformation of three EV.
00:17:11.414 - 00:18:08.034, Speaker A: Does three EV actually capture most of the existing mev notions that we have? So for transferring malloc to monarch, we see that one form of this is the spread charged by market maker bridges from monarch to mafia. We see that if in previous ethereum proof of work the miners were to go rogue and still bound us, then they were the monarch. But they choose to gain an advantage using their asymmetric information ability to act on that information. Wait, what? Okay, and then from mafia to malloc, the transformation. So, for example, you go from a public manpole model to a vanilla. First come, first serve, right? You eliminated polymer manpole. So you don't have that information asymmetry, but you have that uncoordination, you have a very bad allocation of preferences which increases malloc.
00:18:08.034 - 00:19:51.958, Speaker A: And then from malloc to maci you see that. So for example, if a malicious coordinator were to pocket all of the surplus welfare that it generates from optimizing the ordering or just existing from coordination. So this case you go from and then what we can do to go from mafia to monarchy is to have programmable privacy, right? So in this case, for example, SGS, you can still do bundle merging or blockbusting or preference segregation, despite that you don't have asymmetry in the information. And then finally, the current model of dao governance is a form of transforming the monarch to the monarch, which is not good, right? So what this means is that dao exists for coordination, but then by launching a dao token and then allowing it to distribute under a bad tokenomics or like whatever, you're creating a ponzi which creates more malloc, right? You could have got that to a monarch stage, but then through more decentralization, you have recreated the monologue in the meta game of the token game, right? So this reminds us of the previous example of the no monotonic relation between decentralization and coordination and efficiency in the mechanism. So then some implications of three EV concretize this idea. Why is this useful? So then the solution recipes how to achieve 0% 0% and distribute to 100%. We can solve mafia EV using program of privacy which allows full expressivity and agents can control how the information is used along the path of the determination of the outcome by the monarch.
00:19:51.958 - 00:21:36.458, Speaker A: Also, this relates to the traditional mechanism design's idea of the definition of how expressive a mechanism is, right? And then concretely, what this means is that you can devise a mechanism for discovering the unsophisticated user's preferences and helping them to communicate this preference to the coordinator or to the mechanism. And then we can solve Maloki thread of value by just increasing more efficiency. We can eliminate the price of energy via refinement of society or ie. Specialization of labor. So what you can see in this example is like contrary to the idea of Maloch, you have the idea of slack. So slack arises from coordination where it's basically you allow somebody to have enough modes or period where they can grind on the higher payoff scene and this is only allowed if you have a highly coordinated specialization of labor in your society and then finally monarchy tradable value, how do we division its value? Right? So the value division we should division it in such a way that we maximizes the welfare or the future returns. So what this means is that you probably shouldn't focus on giving tiny kickbacks to the existing 1% of users but instead focusing on onboarding the invisible 99% of users as monarchy's credible value or like mev in general grows superlinearly with respect of compared with the number of other flows that's existent on your domain, right? So for example, the ways you can do this is through investment into wallets or some idea like ritual acupunctury goods, funding and of course this was the original idea by fair ordering as well.
00:21:36.458 - 00:22:16.902, Speaker A: The idea is that there are 99% of users that would have come to your domain if you order things fairly. It's been on as a narrative specific implementations. We know that three EV was defined by the source of value. They are distinct. So the sync, however the sync of those value are different. So for example, the mafia extrado value sometimes sinks into monarch. So for example, when there is a sandwich and then two very competent atomic searchers the value sinks to the monarch which is the validators and then the think of value impacts the source of value.
00:22:16.902 - 00:23:38.478, Speaker A: So I argue that by controlling the think of the value we can also impact on the source of the value the magic of credible commitments. So some example of credible commitments I'm not going to expand but you can hit me up later after this talk. Examples include builders as roll up or you have a special builder innovation where you grind on the expressivity of the building language or you have a decentralization of building use SGX tokens to align the incentives or like some more fancy things. But all of those solutions conditions are low enough. Interdomain collision factor, right? Remember from before, once you have too much coalition or too much coordination then you can't possibly have a good mechanism or like it's very hard to do so and that a low enough factor means that you have high enough competition which means the market is contestable. So I claim that having more competition in the game by incentivizing having more competition in the game is right curve behavior and optimizing the ordering by learning more about the preference microstructures and then grinding on the design of the mechanism is meat curve. So contextibility is an important tool and it can only be realized if we design the initial market in such a way that it is not centralizing.
00:23:38.478 - 00:25:04.398, Speaker A: What this means is that in reality what this means is that there should not we should definitely devise a mechanism that, where exclusive order flow, wouldn't provide some philosophical foundations for the previous talk, right? I said it's meat. Now it's time to show some real work, show some real test for non mevinis. So then remember that Fraga and Russell was debating why whether the king of French was bold in the beginning of 20th century and they come up with the tests for presuppositions, for utterances of sentences. So, for example, the utterance of the sentence axis mev has a presupposition test that there must exist a game e and an allocation ordering protocol m and that within m and E, using the three EV definitions, we can indeed see that m is constituted by a type or multiple types of the three EV. So in this sense, the utterance of x is mev, has a presupposition of the existence condition of ENM and x being indeed in the set of three EV. Thus, if there does not exist such a ENM which translates into English, if there is absence of a monarch, then the utterance of this sentence x is mev is false and axis not mev. So then some concrete example.
00:25:04.398 - 00:25:49.210, Speaker A: Imagine Kim and Dong are playing a prisoner's dilemma, right? So then they both choose to betray. Now suppose there isn't a coordinator, okay? So then somebody utters the sentence. He says that the value that Kim and Dong is extracting absent a monarch I e eleven is not mev, then this value is indeed not mev. By passing the presupposition test, if we take a free game view and then of course there are other counter examples. Wittgenstein has this notion of a language game where the context depends on social things. So the utterance of axis mev so this sentence might be true as the context of the utterance is social and we might agree on some notion of the game. So if the sentence is provided without context, then the sentence is nonsense and has no truth value.
00:25:49.210 - 00:26:34.922, Speaker A: Thus, ultimately, the test of mev conditions on which philosophical interpretation of language you agree with. If you are Wittgenstein, you're Wittgenstein and believes that the utterance is within the context where it is socially agreeable that a monarch exists. So in the previous rugby case, remember, we often see that say that physics is the monarch, and then over there the value is indeed mev. Okay? So now some takeaways let's change the language game. Are you tired about minor or maximal? Whether grammar isn't even correct, we say maximal mev. All the time and we should just say mev. And it conveniently represents a shorthand for some type of mafia Maloch monarchy extradoll value.
00:26:34.922 - 00:27:13.954, Speaker A: Right. Have you been saying mev because you have poor imagination to come up with the replacement term for minor that keeps the M and makes sense. Is that what we are doing? So the argument is that by changing this language game, we have several benefits. This formulation gives you a distinct value which originates from the source, and then it is more formalizable. And it is formalizable in the sense that you don't get lost in the details. It still keeps the meme and the formalization and the proof only serves as a social process to help people to understand it. And then, of course, this settles the bad mev argument.
00:27:13.954 - 00:27:39.086, Speaker A: And the trade off or the transformation between the three value space is clear what this implies. Also, this implies a clear solution recipe. So some nurse sniping for you. All that is set to research on how monarchy is travel value can be distributed and research on the program of privacy solutions for mafia EV. And then finally, a presupposition test. And so, to conclude, I would like to hypnotize you three V, three EV. Three V.
00:27:39.086 - 00:27:44.500, Speaker A: Three EV. Three V. Three V. That's all. You can hit me up?
00:27:50.070 - 00:28:06.070, Speaker B: Well, I think we all agree that was a fantastic talk. A lot of, like the two speakers we said at the beginning that maybe we have time for questions, so let's pick a couple of them. It's going to be hard for me to get there, so maybe you can shout out aloud.
00:28:08.890 - 00:28:22.410, Speaker A: Yeah, good question. So ofax censorship can be done implicitly using a form of preference curves. But Alejo, maybe is it monarch?
00:28:22.490 - 00:28:26.282, Speaker B: Is it mafia or is it Monarch movie?
00:28:26.426 - 00:28:45.960, Speaker A: It is monarch. Yeah, but as I said, what we want is to shift the structure of the game. Right? Remember the interdomain collision factor. You can unify the users by devising some mechanism to help them become sophisticated and have collective bugging power. So that is what we ultimately want to do. Yeah.
00:28:48.330 - 00:28:58.260, Speaker B: Anyone else? All right, guys, so big round of applause for.
