00:00:00.240 - 00:00:25.166, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grave Refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan the net designer, and today's the 24 January 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So bit of market volatility over the last few days, right? Markets have not been great. We're trending down to under a $2,000 ETH. And you know, I talked about this last week, so I'm not going to get into the price action. I'm sure you guys are probably sick of hearing about that.
00:00:25.166 - 00:00:59.698, Speaker A: So let's get into some, I guess like project updates. But the first thing, which is kind of related to the price action. But I put out this tweet today where I said Ethereum is resiliency during extreme market wide volatility is probably its most underappreciated feature. And then I had to follow up this tweet by saying, since there's some confusion, I'm talking about the Ethereum network, not the price of ETH. I'm surprised there was confusion about this, but there was, you know, because technically Ethereum refers to the network and Ethan ETH refer to the asset. So I never call the asset Ethereum, but I know some people do. So maybe that's where the confusion stemmed from.
00:00:59.698 - 00:02:06.102, Speaker A: But anyway, back to the point of my tweet here, so what this means is essentially, I'm sure you guys saw over the last few days, like during these kind of like really volatile market movements where activity, like on chain activity spikes really, really high across every chain, whether it be a layer one L2 side chain, what have you, activity goes, goes crazy because the market prices go crazy and there's our bots and mev stuff happening. It's just, it's just pretty, pretty active, right, during these movements. Now, I'm sure you've seen with some other chains, they slow down, right, or go offline completely. Ethereum obviously very expensive fee wise, because everyone's trying to get their transaction in and all this kind of like stuff happens. But Ethereum is special because of its resiliency, because of its liveness, because of the fact that it's basically, I mean, it's not impossible to take Ethereum down with a DDoS attack, but it's extremely hard because Ethereum basically has its gas limit right where it's not allowing anyone to just send their transactions. It has a functioning fee market that works to kind of like taper demand. So for example, right now Ethereum does about 13 transactions per second.
00:02:06.102 - 00:02:51.814, Speaker A: So if you want to be one of those transactions, you need to outbid everyone else trying to be one of those transactions, because Ethereum's block space is incredibly scarce. But if you have a network that allows you to send as many transactions as you want to it, something like Solana, the obvious example here, then what ends up happening is that those transactions, because they're basically free, get spammed by bots. By kind of like, I mean really, really bad mev stuff. And because it's like cheap to spam, no one really cares. I mean, there's no cost to doing it, or at least the cost is basically negligible. Now, what this does, it basically degrades the network performance and doesn't, it doesn't price out users from using the chain because obviously the fees aren't going up or anything like that. What ends up happening is that regular users just can't get their transactions in because there's just too much spam going on.
00:02:51.814 - 00:03:40.180, Speaker A: Now with Ethereum, I mean, the worst that happens is that you can't afford to pay the fee to get your transaction in. And, you know, something kind of like bad happens, such as getting liquidated on chain or something like that. But, you know, it's kind of like a debate of what's worse, degraded performance, where no one can get their kind of transaction in because it's being spammed, or high fees because the networks basically reach capacity and everyone's trying to outbid each other. I personally think that the high fee thing is better because it doesn't matter if the fee is like $500 to cover one of your positions, right? At least you can still do it. At least you can save your position. Whereas what happened with Solana is that a lot of people got liquidated because they couldn't save their position because the network wasn't allowing them to do so, no matter how much they paid. And I'm sure, you know, these people would have paid whatever it took to save their, the leverage on chain positions.
00:03:40.180 - 00:04:13.062, Speaker A: That's just kind of like one example there. So, and I think this is kind of like, as I said here, my tweet. One of Ethereum's most underappreciated features is that because it trades off performance for decentralization and security, it also gets resiliency. It also gets a near, basically guaranteed 100% uptime in. Technically, the Ethereum network has had 100% uptime since Genesis, but there's no guarantee that it's going to have that into the future. But I think that having a, you know, relative certainty of 99.99% uptime is what is needed for a global settlement layer.
00:04:13.062 - 00:05:06.080, Speaker A: I don't think you can have something be a global settlement layer if during, you know, volatile periods or even just during periods of high demand for the specific chain, it either goes offline or slows down to a crawl. Now, can these change kind of like chains kind of like fix themselves, fix their issues? I mean, they can put on band Aids and things like that, and they can do things like what's done in the web two world with quality of service and dropping, dropping transactions and DDoS protection and stuff like that. But it's all just kind of like band Aids, you know? And this is why a lot of us in the Ethereum community have been kind of like beating the drum about the modular approach where you keep layer one, basically how Ethereum has layer one. And you can do sharding as well if you want to. And then you do all the execution stuff at L2, because these L2s will also suffer from this, by the way. Like, this is, this is going to be true for anything that's trying to do execution in a kind of like an unbounded way. But the thing with the L2s right now, at least with optimism and arbitrary, they still have a functioning fee market.
00:05:06.080 - 00:05:36.070, Speaker A: And I, I think that it just becomes much worse on these non fee market chains where they don't even have a mem pool. And they're basically just saying, you know, anyone can do anything they want and we'll, we'll service it. I mean, that's just not going to happen. I remember a few months ago I was saying to you guys that I don't believe you can scale to the world at layer one because it's because the load that mean the amount of load that comes through, especially from spam, is just too great. And, you know, we've seen proof of this play out time and time again, so. And it's just funny how people kept calling that fud and it's like, oh, you're just an ETH, Max. You're trying to kind of like, spread this crap.
00:05:36.070 - 00:06:12.438, Speaker A: I'm like, well, no, we're not. We're just, we're literally telling you guys what, what's actually going to happen. This is, this is the trade off. I mean, we didn't, ethereum and even bitcoin people didn't spend the last decade learning about how to scale blockchains properly without, you know, sacrificing decentralization and security. But also optimizing for resiliency and liveness. We didn't, you know, we didn't spend the last decade learning those lessons for nothing. And it just seems like every, I guess like bull market cycle, it just gets relearned because it's just really easy during kind of like a bull market to basically say, hey, you know, we have a super scalable chain, you know, it's cheap, fees come and use us, blah blah.
00:06:12.438 - 00:06:55.610, Speaker A: And then every, you know, the money's flowing so no one really cares. But then when the market turns sour, people start caring, people start taking notice and people start asking questions, especially because they're losing money too, right? Because the token prices going down. So I think from that perspective, a lot of us who basically said that these kind of like super scalable, or at least claim to be super scalable layer ones are on borrowed time. They're an inferior technology. I think we've been vindicated in saying that. So I think more and more people realize that the modular approach to blockchain scaling is the only approach that is long term sustainable, long term, healthy and long term leads to the best results for everyone. And I did say before that at least with Ethereum you can pay a lot of money to get your transaction included no matter what.
00:06:55.610 - 00:07:31.900, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that in the future with L2 networks, with robust L2 networks, you won't even need to pay a lot of money to do it. You'll still have near certainty that you can get your transactions included no matter what. And when I say robust L2 networks, I mean ones without centralized sequences. So they have a robust kind of like sequencer and validator set that, you know, if one or two of them go offline, others can pick up the slack sort of thing. And then, you know, the L2s have a robust kind of like mechanism where they can actually post their transaction data and call data and all that sort of stuff to a layer one without any hiccups there. So that's going to take a little bit to get there. Layer twos are going to run into these issues as well.
00:07:31.900 - 00:08:32.616, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that as of, you know, as I've been preaching to you guys for months now, keeping layer one decentralized and secure means having a functioning fee market and keeping the capacity limited so that the chain can't be ddos. So uh, so that the chain doesn't bloat as well, which makes it much harder for people to kind of like verify the chain. And we don't sacrifice the one property that this whole movement is built on, and that is decentralization. And then by extension comes security, and by extension comes resiliency and liveness. And I've spoken about liveness at length before, so I'm not gonna, you know, double click on that one there. But I think it's very, very important to take stock and reflect on all the lessons being learned now over last few weeks, all the narratives being challenged and where this space is going to go from here. And I truly believe that regardless of what the markets do, I truly believe that by the time, I guess, like, we, we kind of like, have the next kind of, I guess, bull cycle where we get, like, a lot of new people in things like that, we're going to have such an amazing and robust L2 ecosystem that people are going to be able to use that even when markets are super volatile without having to degrade a performance.
00:08:32.616 - 00:09:10.608, Speaker A: And we'll also have cheap fees, too. So best of all worlds, of course, there. Now, one last thing I wanted to say about this tweet was a great thread from Swagdemus here, who basically talked about. There was kind of like that transaction dilemma that I spoke about that Polly now wrote about a few months ago, which basically comes down to, you either choose a fee market and price out users or you don't. And your chain goes down on your users more often than your SR is a little bit of a joke here, but essentially, I mean, this is what I was saying, right? You have a fee market, you have a mempool. It does price out some users who can't afford to do this stuff, but at least some set of users can actually use it. And as I said, as the L2 rollout keeps progressing and it becomes more.
00:09:10.608 - 00:09:36.046, Speaker A: They become more resilient. You'll get cheap fees and you'll get to inherit Ethereum's kind of like, resiliency, too. Or if you don't have this, you basically get spammed and ddos and, you know, it's not good for anyone. Like, not even. No one can get their transactions in because everything's just being spammed. So I think that's just very something that, to keep in mind, something to kind of like, realize that, uh, I mean, has been vindicated at this point. I'm pretty happy about this, to be honest.
00:09:36.046 - 00:10:13.596, Speaker A: Like, it was quite annoying for the last, I don't know, six months or so where the l one narrative really took off and everyone was just screaming about how their favorite l one had solved everything and it was all good and they had no issues. And I kind of like said, I mean, they're all going to run into issues, especially as they kind of like reach capacity, reach their own capacities or people start using them more. And that's exactly what happened. They ran into their own issues then they're worse issues than what Ethereum has in my mind. And maybe they solve them, maybe they don't. As I've said before, I don't think there's room for more than maybe two settlement layers, honestly. I only think one long, long term, but I think, you know, you could have two potentially.
00:10:13.596 - 00:10:45.890, Speaker A: But I really don't think that there's room for like ten different execution layers at layer one. I actually think maybe there's room for, for one execution layer one. And maybe, you know, Solana fixes their issues and becomes that. I highly doubt it. But you know, in terms of execution layers, I expect a lot more to blossom at L2 than at layer one. So the latest all core devs core wrapped up last Friday and there's a lot to cover here. Tim Biker put together a great tweet thread which you can check out in the YouTube description, but there's a lot of info about the merge and Shanghai in this thread here.
00:10:45.890 - 00:11:16.844, Speaker A: So I'm not going to go through the whole thing. You can give it a read, but essentially a lot of updates, a lot of esoteric things, a lot of technical stuff going on across the whole Ethereum core kind of like ecosystem here. Still, I'm expecting that blog post with I guess post mortem and overview of Kintsugi to go live soon. I think Danny Ryan would actually put that out. So I'm expecting that to go go soon. But I haven't heard anything about the merge kind of quote unquote being delayed. I mean, not that it has an official date or anything like that, but everything seems to be going well on that front there.
00:11:16.844 - 00:11:54.230, Speaker A: So definitely check out this, this Twitter thread for more information on that. I'll link it in the YouTube description. So Eric Kwana put out a great tweet yesterday. I think it was where he said hung out with a friend this week that uses Ethereum daily but solely lives on arbitrum, never touches l one. Scaling is happening before our eyes and fast. And it got me thinking about kind of like how I've been saying for a while that everyone's just going to be living at L2, right? No one's going to be touching l one eventually. Like not even, I mean, even some of the whales are just going to be like well, you know, why would I pay even, you know, even though I can afford this, why would I pay for it if I can do the same thing at, at L2 now? You know, the arbitrary and optimism are quickly maturing as ecosystems.
00:11:54.230 - 00:12:18.404, Speaker A: I think the only top app that they're missing right now is aave, and that's going live within weeks, I would assume so. Other than that, they have pretty much everything you would want at this point. They have like, curve, they have uniswap, they have, they have other money markets on there. They have unique apps on there, like options, protocols, things like that. They have NFT ecosystems. So there's a lot going on on those ecosystems right now. And you can pretty much do most of the stuff that you do on layer one.
00:12:18.404 - 00:13:16.118, Speaker A: In terms of Defi, NFT ecosystem is still a lot less mature. The layer one NFT ecosystem is pretty big, but DeFi is pretty portable from layer one to L2, which is really awesome. So, I mean, I've been doing a lot more L2 stuff lately as well. It just feels nice not to have to pay those really, really high fees on layer one and be able to do the same thing at L2, whether that be kind of like Dex trades or doing some stuff with money markets or yield farming or anything like that. Uh, it's really, really cool to, to be able to do that and fast as well. Like, you know, as I've said before, I think an underappreciated aspect of these l two s is, yes, okay, your transactions aren't finalized instantly, but they're confirmed instantly, which is just a much better ux than, than layer one, which, you know, can take anywhere from, it can take up to like one ethereum block to, to, um, more than one ethereum block. But, you know, if you, if you get into the next block and take up to 14 seconds to get your transaction in, and you kind of like have to wait, and there's nothing telling you that the transaction is pending unless you go to Etherscan.
00:13:16.118 - 00:13:46.544, Speaker A: Like if you're using metamask, for example, metamask just has like transaction pending. It doesn't have like a countdown or anything like that. You don't actually know if it's going to go into the next block to get that information. You need to open up either scan. So it's just like all these clicks to go through. And then for newer users, it's just a very poor experience. So at L2, I think the fact that the transactions are confirmed instantly is just amazing user experience and not even just for newer users, but for me as well, like, I love the fact that I can just keep moving around a lightning speed between all these apps without having to worry about anything and getting to do it on the cheap as well.
00:13:46.544 - 00:14:23.244, Speaker A: And I think this is going to be most people, all new people's kind of experience going forward, especially because right now the tide has just kind of been completely taken out. It's actually crazy how quiet the ecosystem has gone in just a few weeks because the price went down. But I think this is awesome because it gives us a bit more time to get these L2 ecosystems to be more mature, to get these kind of like on ramps going and things like that. So by the time these people come around, when the market gets hot again, they're going to onboard to l two. We're going to have a proper, kind of like big l two season and these things are really going to take off. So I'm excited for that. But yeah, it's cool to see that.
00:14:23.244 - 00:14:54.454, Speaker A: Kind of like, Eric's friend is just using l two now, just using arbitrum now instead of l one. And as I said, I'm progressively getting more and more of my stuff on l two. There are still some, a bunch of stuff that I do on l one that I can't do on l two, but I'm seeing, obviously seeing more and more projects natively launch on l two as well. So time is running out for l one, I think. Not to say that that's bearish for l one. I mean, l one being replaced. I mean, user transactions on l one being replaced with just like mev arbitrage and L2 proofs and stuff like that is actually really bullish for the layer one.
00:14:54.454 - 00:15:30.256, Speaker A: And as you've seen over the last, I guess, like few weeks when the price has been going down, network demand is still up. Like the gas price is still around 100 way. Yes, it's gone down in USD terms, because if demand stays the same and the ETH price falls, then yes, it'll go down in USD terms, but in ETH terms and Gwei terms, it's pretty much remain the same. So that means network demand is pretty much the same, which is really awesome to see. And that means that people will just keep on boarding to L2 and not basically forgo it and say, oh, layer one is cheap now. I'll just wait. I'm actually glad that kind of like layer one still pricing people out because we need that to get people to L2 because layer one is not a long term sustainable thing.
00:15:30.256 - 00:15:59.064, Speaker A: So. So yeah, that, that's really cool to see. And I hope you guys are getting a lot of value out of l two these days as well. So speaking of l two, swagtomas put together the first stocknet roundup. So every week he's going to be summarizing all the notable events that happened within the Stocknet protocol and ecosystem, carefully curated, delivered straight to your inbox. So if you want to subscribe to this, you can go to Swagtimus dot substack.com and it'll give you a roundup of all things happening within the Starknet ecosystem.
00:15:59.064 - 00:16:21.330, Speaker A: This is really, really cool. I love this. I mean, it's really, it's been kind of like wild to follow along with Starkware and Stark Net's kind of progress here, and I'm finding myself missing a lot of things these days. I mean, look at this, it's crazy. Like, look at how many projects are already kind of like building or developing or doing things on here. I mean, like, it's, it's just going much faster than I would have thought it thought it would be going. So it's really, really awesome to see.
00:16:21.330 - 00:17:08.014, Speaker A: And he's got links to all this stuff in here as well. So you can go check all this out if you want to. But I highly recommend subscribing to this newsletter as well if you want to get pumped up on things like what pumps me up the most about just Ethereum and the Altoos and this whole ecosystem in general is reading updates like this. Like, I have a lot of newsletters that I subscribe to that kind of provide all these updates. And obviously, whenever I put together the content for the refill and stuff, I get pretty excited about it because it's just a really great way to, no matter what the price is doing, keep your head screwed on and basically see the bigger picture. Because when you start seeing all this progress being made every, you know, every day or every week, you kind of think to yourself, well, who cares what the price is doing in the short to medium term? Like, this stuff's real. This stuff has a lot of, kind of like people building it, there's a lot of people using it, and there's more people adopting it and all that sort of stuff.
00:17:08.014 - 00:17:41.950, Speaker A: And it kind of keeps you kind of like grounded and going. And this is basically what happened during 2018 and 2019, especially 2019, when DeFi started kind of like really taking off in terms of things going live. A lot of us in the Ethereum ecosystem was so excited about it at the time. That that's really what got us through, I think 2019, because that was a brutal year for ETH price in 2019, not just against USD, but against bitcoin as well. It was, it just trended down pretty heavily. But what got us all through that was, um, sticking to the long term, realizing that things were being built. And I think the same is true for any bearish period for the price, because the building never stops.
00:17:41.950 - 00:18:21.608, Speaker A: I mean, the building's actually going to be much better this time around because so many teams got funded and they have funding in USD instead of ETH. Last market cycle, teams raised in ethics because of icos, and then they had to sell that ETH to actually get the USD. And by the time they did that, the east price had collapsed, basically, and now actually directly contributing to the ETH price going down more. But now a lot of teams have raised in USD, they've got a large treasuries, large war chests, and, you know, if they wanted to raise again, they could, because there's all these massive kind of like funds now. So I think it's a much different environment. And that means that I think that the cycles are going to be definitely faster. As I've said, I don't think we're going to go into a two year bear market or anything like that.
00:18:21.608 - 00:18:58.294, Speaker A: We are in a bear market, in my opinion, but going to have to see what happens, you know, with the price and everything. But the best way to kind of like get through it is to basically ignore what the price is doing and just focus on the fundamentals and focus on the building. And one way to do that is definitely to subscribe to this newsletter. So I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to do so. So Uniswap announced over the weekend their multi chain strategy. So basically uniswap is going to be deploying to all, I think they said ethereum compatible networks, which I take to mean like Ethereum compatible l two s and side chains and l one. So obviously they're on arbitrary optimism right now.
00:18:58.294 - 00:19:33.266, Speaker A: They're on polygon Pos chain. And I'm taking this to mean they're going to go to EVM compatible networks such as, you know, Avalanche C chain, and I mean, there's the gnosis chain now, which used to be XdAi. And, you know, I think there's like, phantom is a bunch of these, these kind of things and, you know, it makes sense, right? Like, it makes sense for anything that's on the EVM to deploy to EVM chains and the funny thing is, this just further entrenches the EVM into the ecosystem. So many people hate the EVM because they think it's in like a. It's an inferior technology, which, to be fair, I mean, it's not the best technology in the world, but that doesn't matter. The best technology rarely wins. It's all about what accrues network effects.
00:19:33.266 - 00:20:00.804, Speaker A: And the EVM is second to none in terms of incurring network effects. Not to say that other non EVM ecosystems aren't going to take off. I'm pretty bullish on the stock net ecosystem, which is not EVM and not solidity, but I think the EVM is going to be with us forever. I don't think it's going anywhere, and I think it's going to just increase in popularity and we're going to get stuff like ZKVM as well. So it's just going to further entrench it. But cool to see uniswap detail their multi chain strategy. It's only a short blog post, but I'll link it in the YouTube description for you guys to go check out.
00:20:00.804 - 00:20:36.532, Speaker A: So, optimism put together a thread of everything that's been happening on their network over the last few, few weeks so you can go check this out. Of course it'll be linked in the description, but essentially, there's so much happening on optimism these days. As I was just saying before, both the optimism and arbitrary ecosystems. Now, I wouldn't say equivalent with L1, but pretty close to it at this point. And in this thread, optimism basically details it and points out all the apps that are on there. So you can go check this out. If you're looking for stuff to do on optimism, I know there's lots of people out there right now who are kind of like, okay, well, I've onboarded, you know, what do I do? Well, here's a thread for you to go check out and go play around with all these apps.
00:20:36.532 - 00:21:06.580, Speaker A: Go see what, you know, what tickles your fancy, what you like doing, and enjoy the cheaper transactions, cheaper fees, and faster transactions as well. So, yeah, I'll link this in the description for you. So, Polygon, just a short enhancement from Polygon here. Actually, they've renamed their Polygon SDK to Polygon Edge. And there's a new look here and they're teasing that some more exciting announcements are coming soon. I think this is actually makes a lot of sense. I mean, for those of you who don't know, the, the term SDK stands for software development kit.
00:21:06.580 - 00:21:49.248, Speaker A: Now obviously this is a developer thing, but I think branding matters and Polygon does a really good job with branding. I mean, obviously rebranded from Matic protocol last year, early last year to Polygon and now they have, they've rebranded a lot of this stuff that they've acquired. Like Polygon Zero was, was Mia protocol, Polygon Hermes was just like Hermes protocol. And then there's, well, God, it's escaped me, right. Polygon maiden, which I believe was still might and when it was kind of like Facebook, but they put Polygon there. And this is actually really important from a marketing and kind of business development perspective because immediately, you know what ecosystem these projects belong to, right? It belongs to Polygon and you don't want to have like too complex, complex terms. You want to have like a brand that people remember.
00:21:49.248 - 00:22:25.330, Speaker A: So something like Polygon Zero I think is a really cool name and Polygon Maiden and Polygon Hermes and then Polygon edge. I mean, I don't know, maybe I'm thinking too much into it, but I don't think I am. Branding is very powerful and it's a, as I said, it's a very powerful marketing tool as well here. And they've also got obviously Polygon Nightfall and a bunch of other things like Polygon avail and stuff like that. But, but yeah, anything that makes it easier for people, for users to kind of like, or just people in general to, whenever they think of a polygon product to know the name off the top of their head without kind of getting confused makes a lot of sense there. But you know, I think polygon is going to have a big year in 2022 in general. I mean, you guys know, I'm an advisor.
00:22:25.330 - 00:23:06.336, Speaker A: The polygon, I don't have to close that again. But I think in 2021 they kick started the, I guess like liquidity mining, play on, layer on like a layer one, right? Like not to say that polygon pos chain is a layer one, but you get what I'm saying, right? Like the native token incentives from these things. Just like how L2 s are going to do them. Just like how these alt l one s have done them. They really kick started that and they kind of like showed the playbook and showed how it's done and they've continued that with their acquisition. They've continued that kind of momentum with their acquisitions of all these roll up teams and stuff like that. I think 2022 is going to be a big year where they actually release a lot of this kind of like roll up stuff that they've been working on, and users can actually play around with it and get use out of it.
00:23:06.336 - 00:23:40.160, Speaker A: And I think there's a big upgrade for the pos chain coming soon as well. I believe they're working on v three of the pos chain, so that should fix a lot of the issues that are happening there. And as you guys know, the pos chain is meant to be kind of like a stepping stone before we get to these roll ups and things. But I think that the ecosystem they have there right now is going to persist for a while. It's actually a really cool place for experimentation to happen because the fees are relatively cheap. I know they spike sometimes. And this goes back to what I was saying at the, at the kind of like start of, um, of, uh, of the refuel, where I was basically saying, sorry, of this episode where I was basically saying, you know, you either have a fee market, which kind of like once it gets.
00:23:40.160 - 00:24:13.104, Speaker A: Once the block space fills up and it gets saturated, the fees go up or you don't, and the train and the chain kind of like gets spammed. Um, but the chain can still get spammed with the fee market, mind you, because it depends how much capacity you have and stuff like that, and depends if the nodes can keep up with it. But that's a discussion for another day. But yeah, I think Polygon is going to have a big 2022 with their roll up stuff that they're working on. A bunch of other things they're working on, obviously, like Polygon avail, which is the data availability blockchain, which is a big narrative that's heating up lately. And I think that they're going to be doing some really cool things and really exciting things on the business development front as well. So definitely keep an eye out for all of that.
00:24:13.104 - 00:24:54.906, Speaker A: So finally, Dune analytics announced over the weekend that they have shipped sign in with Ethereum. So you can now connect your wallet to your account on Dune, going by going to settings wallets, show your address on your profile settings profile, and log in with your wallet. No other credentials needed. So apparently, according to Trent here, it looks like you need to have an account first to add your address, and then you can remove the email, which is kind of like, obviously not the ideal way to do sign in with Ethereum, but I think they're working on are they going to be kind of like changing this? And Brantley mentioned as well, this isn't the proper way to do sign in with Ethereum, but I think that they're working on it or have fixed it by now. Where you can just simply sign in with Ethereum like the normal way. I don't know if they've fixed it yet, actually. I'm just looking here.
00:24:54.906 - 00:25:52.548, Speaker A: No, but they're saying they're going to be doing that, but still cool to see them kind of like committing to this and actually wanting to implement sign in with Ethereum. You guys know I'm really bullish on this. You guys know that I think this is going to be a really exciting thing if we can make this ubiquitous across the web, not just web3, but web two as well. And I mean, it's a big deal, right? Like, I think people underestimate how much of a big deal this is. And if you look up the history of Facebook, you'll see that the sign in with Facebook button was actually a massive driver for Facebook. Because every time that someone went to a website and they saw this kind of like sign in with Facebook or sign up with Facebook button, and this was like when Facebook was just getting off the ground in like the late two thousands, people would think to themselves, oh, okay, well, what's this Facebook thing, right? And then they could just click a button to sign up with it and they all of a sudden have a Facebook account. So with kind of like signing with Ethereum, it's a, I mean, it is, it is a bit different, but it's the same concept where people will see signing with Ethereum, they'll be like, oh, okay, what's this Ethereum thing? And they'll go figure out how to create an ethereum wallet, which is a super easy process, mind you.
00:25:52.548 - 00:26:44.716, Speaker A: And then they'll be able to sign in with Ethereum and they'll get like exposure to the rest of the Ethereum ecosystem. So I think this is going to be an absolutely massive deal once we get signed in with Ethereum, integrated across more of, more of this kind of like stuff, more of the web two world especially, but exciting to see Dune have this done here. I'm sure they're going to have the proper implementation done soon. Now, before I wrap up today's episode, I've got a few minutes left here, so I wanted to just quickly talk about the. I know I said I wasn't going to talk about the markets, but I just quickly want to talk about the markets again. I know at this point, with ETH being down, what, like over 50%? Since it's all time high, a lot of people are thinking, you know, where's the bottom here? Like, where is this going to end? You know, is ETH going back to the, you know, the one thousands if they're going back to triple digits. Is Anthony just shitposting on Twitter with all his bear posting that? Yes, by the way, I'm completely shitposting.
00:26:44.716 - 00:27:47.794, Speaker A: I have no idea what the bottom is. Right? Like, I don't, and I don't think it's gone $80 again, by the way. So I put a tweet like that and I'm not being serious. Okay, guys. But as I said before when I was going through the new, the newsletter, that spaghetti misses dwing during times like this, to get yourself through it, even if you're underwater on your bags or whatever, if you, if you're underwater and, you know, you can't handle the stress from that and kind of like you need the money, then you have to do what you have to do in that scenario. But if you're in it for the long term, I mean, you know, you kind of like have to tell yourself or ask yourself, like, okay, how long am I going to hold this for? Like, what's, what's it going to look like? Am I still bullish on Ethereum ecosystem? Am I still bullish on ETH as an asset or the other assets that you're holding? No one can tell you what to do, right? You can listen to all the people in the world telling you how to trade, telling you when to buy and sell, but at the end of the day, no one knows for sure. And, you know, if you have a million people giving predictions, obviously, like some of those people are going to be right just by virtue of the fact that that's a lot of people giving predictions, but they're lucky guesses that no one actually knows where the bottom is, where the top is, how long it's gonna take.
00:27:47.794 - 00:28:29.684, Speaker A: You know, there's just, there's just lucky guesses. So I think maybe, I think that the best thing to do in these kind of like periods, and this is speaking from experience, the absolute best thing you can do is hunker down, learn as much as you can, look for opportunities because there's always opportunities, no matter the market conditions. And make sure that you stick with it because you regret it if you don't, right. If you regret it, if you kind of like exit the ecosystem now, go do something else for a couple years or a year or however long it takes and come back and the price is like way higher than it is now or something like that, I don't know. This is just kind of like how it plays out. Usually, though, you regret it. I regret, like when I did it back in 2014 when I kind of like sold my bitcoin and didn't look at it ETH till 2017.
00:28:29.684 - 00:28:51.952, Speaker A: So, and then I kind of, like made up for it in 2018 and 2019. So I think that's what you should be doing at the moment. And as I said, don't know where the bottom is, don't know how long this is going to last. It seems like we're completely tied to the macro economic environment right now. And as I've explained on previous refuels, no one is an expert on the macro environment. No one can tell what's going to happen there. I definitely have no idea when it comes to the macro environment.
00:28:51.952 - 00:29:35.382, Speaker A: I know some things, like at a high level, I kind of like get it from a high level, but like, I can't do deep analysis on it or anything like that. So kind of like, whenever you see people kind of like talking about this on Twitter and saying, you know, the Fed's going to raise rates, they're going to tape other than do this, blah, blah, blah, like, just know that they're just kind of like in the same position as everyone else is, just trying to, you know, go through the motions, trying to see what happens, trying to guess what happens, trying to buy dips and trying to buy the bottom. I mean, and it's, it's rare that you'll buy the exact bottom, but if you kind of like use a strategy like a dollar cost average strategy or anything like that, and you're happy with waiting it out, then that's probably the best way to go about it. But, but, yeah, you have to use a strategy that makes sense for yourself there. But I think on that note, I'm going to end it there for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:29:35.382 - 00:29:40.674, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
