00:00:00.080 - 00:00:01.124, Speaker A: Joy, it's all yours.
00:00:07.094 - 00:01:28.044, Speaker B: Thank you so much for that very inspiring introduction. Yes, my name is Margaret, and I've been doing, like, very rustic, very rural, very indie Solarpunk for some years in a very dark norwegian valley. So, like, three days in a hackathon is a little bit of a cultural shock for me. And I'm very impressed by the efforts the duct tape and Camilla and Ethereum is putting into this, because they've really been turning rocks on the Internet to find people like me to sort of start building up the concept of Solarpunk online, because I think there is not any other, you know, solar pan conferences out there in this scale. So this is very exciting to be part of. Okay, so this story of ver Ukan Solopunk Academy kind of began with this mirror installation, which was launched in Rukam in Norway in 2013. And the artist that worked on this is Martin on Nelson.
00:01:28.044 - 00:02:26.492, Speaker B: What he did, he'd been traveling the world, and he decided to go to, like, somewhere quiet in Norway and settle. And what's special with this place is that it is no sunlight six months a year. And that is because this is like, an industrial town. They made a town when they made infrastructure for hydropower 100 years ago. And it's actually been like, an idea since 1913, since they founded the town, to try to create mirrors. So the idea has been there, but they needed, like, an artist to have it implemented. And that was like, a long process involving, you know, a dialogue between the artists, the local community, and, of course, also, like, the technology that was not present in 1913, but have been studied by NASA after the mirror rules were implemented.
00:02:26.492 - 00:03:27.610, Speaker B: So in many ways, I would say that Ryukan sun mirrors is like. It is like the archetype of a solarpunk art project, since, like, with the interdisciplinarity, with all of the counterintuitive, and also that it actually has soft power, which conceptual, avant garde art produced within the art institutions very often lack. So I got to know Martin when I was, like, in the process of moving from Bergen. I'm an artist. I was looking for somewhere interesting to settle in the norwegian districts, because the big cities are expensive. I wanted to age in dignity and was absolutely the most interesting place in all of Norway because it's a town that was built by the company he drew. It's the only company town in Norway.
00:03:27.610 - 00:04:07.384, Speaker B: But then he drew, left, and it became very, you know, strikingly post industrial. So it's spectacular architecture, but extremely cheap. So it's like this. It's an ideal place to settle for artists. And this was back in 2019. And what I had been doing then for some years was to stalk scientists that was working on different kind of things, which is relevant in terms of energy transitioning and sustainable transitioning. And I was making art, which was kind of, like, not so easy to understand when looking back.
00:04:07.384 - 00:05:00.236, Speaker B: So I was kind of, you know, I was kind of lacking, like, the communicative soft power in my own artistic work. So I was kind of very open to look at new ways of collaborating to, you know, try to contribute into this historic moment that we in. And one of my collaborators, Siddharth Sarian, has been working on the complexity of energy transition in many different contexts from around the world. And he is also a poet. So in 2019, in the process of moving to Ryukan, I introduced him and Martin and Siddarth mentioned a Solarpunk festival where he'd been attending in Berlin. I think they presented here last year. And Martin, he said that, let's see.
00:05:00.236 - 00:05:36.234, Speaker B: Click. Martin is a punk. The Sun Mirror is a Solarpunk project, and that's how we funded the Ryukon Solarpunk Academy. And we've been, like, where we've been combining community development with building residency for artists and having PhD groups visiting since 2019. So a very eclectic range of projects. Like, you know, Solarpunk is kind of, you know, it's there. It's.
00:05:36.234 - 00:06:18.744, Speaker B: We're all sort of anarchists, so it's a lot of different interpretations out there for what is Solarpunk. And we've been kind of open, you know, like, green stuff is sort of Solarpunk. We've been sort of working on, you know, including. And we are able to do really radical stuff in this remote little town because there is no much. Not much competition. So we like. We call ourselves an academy, so we do art projects with children and young people, and we are, like, sort of always preaching solo punk values, but we are kind of also meeting with.
00:06:18.744 - 00:07:40.262, Speaker B: With a very radical local population and that there might be some historic roots there, since when the industrialists founded this capitalist utopian town. Back in early modernity, there was also a very strong syndicalist movement in Rukan. So in the local library, you find one of the largest collections of social literature around the world, like, hidden in the basement. So it's like a gem that we are showing visiting scholars to much amusement. And it's also like a town with a certain science fiction relevance because, you know, Schulwehr, one of the founding fathers of this generative literature that we are within in Solarpunk he went on one vacation in his life and he actually went to Rukami. And, yeah, this is his route up from Oslo. And the reason why he did that is that if, you know, in the romantic era, in the 18th century, a lot of artists, thinkers, they were going out of the industrialized cities searching for the sublime in nature.
00:07:40.262 - 00:08:36.164, Speaker B: You know, like, this is the origin of eco philosophy and so on. And also this tradition that Solarpunk within. And in Norway, walking from Oslo, you would get as far as Ryka, and then it was like this really wild mountain plateaus after that. So what also happened is that there was a waterfall in the bottom of the valley, and a lot of artists painted this waterfall and made it famous. And a scientist came and measured it, not very precisely, but he kind of thought it was the largest waterfall in the world. So that planted the idea with the industrialists that made this valley sort of the cradle of industry in Norway. And that is like, the reason for, like, very young UNESCO status of our town.
00:08:36.164 - 00:09:40.694, Speaker B: Yeah. So all of this inspired me to try, you know, work very hard, volunteer to kind of make, like, solarpunk laboratory in Rukam. But of course, there is, like, you know, everything is not rosy. And one of the academics we've had visiting is Rhys Williams from Glasgow University. He was also speaking here last year. And he brought up, like, one important criticism of this term, you know, which is maybe like a problem that a lot of us, like, doing green stuff, kind of have in our minds, like, working in this last ten years, which have been, you know, it's so much have been going on. And I guess, you know, like, we had, like, a kind of a naive optimism maybe ten years ago, like, in Norway, that was manifested in the Tesla cars, which was heavily subsidized.
00:09:40.694 - 00:10:08.986, Speaker B: And, you know, in my town, we only see Tesla cars up because there is like, a mountain plateau which is making the shadow. And that is where, like, new, rich Norwegians are gathering to ski in the mountains. So, of course, that is the Tesla cars. And, you know, maybe which is also sort of solar pank, you know, that's what we are discussing here. But of course, like artists, we are always. We should always side with poor people. We are usually.
00:10:08.986 - 00:10:36.894, Speaker B: We are poor people ourselves. We are members of the always living with uncertainty. So we would be on the side of the people traveling with public transport, not affording Tesla cars. And of course, also the people working in the mines where they have the cobalt for the Tesla cars. So. And then there is maybe another, like, structural problem of Solarpunk. Which I have experienced when we have artists working with us.
00:10:36.894 - 00:11:44.494, Speaker B: And that is, like, you know, even hope is kind of making us suspicious these days. And that could maybe have, like, a root in that, you know, the incredible cleverness of marketing, industry, advertising. And there, you know, like, over the last hundred years, I would guess that most of human creativity have been invested in this sector. It is so brilliant, and it is, like, where it sort of owns our hopes and dreams. So that's just something we need to keep in mind, you know, and maybe work around one way or the other. So what I've been doing now, like, after five years of our version of Solarpunk, we are sort of, like, evaluating things and looking at ways of going deeper and evolving. And what I want to do is to get back to the very big picture.
00:11:44.494 - 00:12:37.530, Speaker B: I don't know if you remember the discussion around the anthropocene. They figured out that we're not in the anthropocene after all. All. But, you know, all of these hockey graphs, they kind of illustrate how we are a geological force. The situation is very dramatic, and I kind of want to try to move our Yukon solar punk in a little bit deeper direction into the super wicked problems. And, of course, we have our long tradition of movements of resistance, and, you know, like, this is one of the first Waldorf schools, or it is the first. You know, we are on a long tradition of thinking about alternative societies and so on.
00:12:37.530 - 00:13:41.608, Speaker B: But, you know, there is something special with our historic moment, Greta Thunberg's moment, and that might be, like, a big part of this is, you know, that science is here. Climate science and socioeconomic science are, you know, merging around the big topics of our times. And I think, you know, so that is actually what, you know, like a week before the war in Ukraine broke out, it was an IPCC report with this chart, which is like. It's like the first interdisciplinary working group in IPCC working on, you know, their own future vision. So I guess, you know, Solarpunk should be here. And I don't know how many of you know about, you know, the IPCC socioeconomical pathways. Have any of you seen this before? So I believe it's very under communicated.
00:13:41.608 - 00:14:25.518, Speaker B: You know, IPCC really could use the help of people doing this. You know, the. The brilliant mind that came up with the idea of selling the statement that banks hate us with green ice cream out there. IPCC needs more momentum, more help, and we all, in this room, there is power. There is soft power, much more soft power than what we have in Rukan. But I actually found out that one of my neighbors in this little town is doing this for fun. He's reaching out to 1.6
00:14:25.518 - 00:14:55.860, Speaker B: million viewers with advertisement for eastern philosophy. And, you know, like, so that is very far from how I operate. All the people that I work with operate. You know, the art world is very introvert, a very introvert economy, a very introverted of infrastructure. And so actually is academia. It's very little incentives to communicate for any of our groups. But then, you know, people, people do this like, anonymously for fun.
00:14:55.860 - 00:16:05.144, Speaker B: Seemingly effortless. People are reaching out when they are creative, when they have, like, authentic soft power. So the guy behind this little masterpiece is Daniel Niri, one of our new Rukan Solarpunk members. You know, ordained buddhist monk, eco agronomists. Like being has been part of this, like, moon landing projects of doing circular industrial scale farming of tomatoes. And now it's like a digital nomad walking on the pots around Europe, if, you know, you know, Santiago, Compostella and so on, which is in itself a very utopian infrastructure of humans. So the project, if you remember Schulwern's route up to Rukan, the project Daniel will be working on is to recreate the romantic era walking paths of the artists, which unintentionally created the industrial adventure.
00:16:05.144 - 00:16:45.568, Speaker B: But, you know, a path today with. And also he will be doing this within our framework. So, you know, he is here. A lot of us are longing out of the, you know, consumer societies, delta school and so on. But we need to understand, you know, the nuts and bolts of how to do so. So this is like, basically our plan. We will work on creating this physical, human, man made infrastructure of this walking path from Oslo to Ryukon.
00:16:45.568 - 00:17:45.622, Speaker B: And while we do so, we will be working on our way in the online presence, trying to get but anchor everything in this IPCC future charts. We will find the most communicative of the climate. Scientists like Kevin Anderson, you know, they are under a lot of pressures. Not everyone is comfortable with communication. So finding the right voices is very important. And also, like, try to always keep in mind, you know, the big picture, the very holistic situation, which I also see, you know, Ethereum and Doctor Hepe have been doing in the programming here. We are all over the place with social credit in China and all of these different aspects that is relevant from your point of view.
00:17:45.622 - 00:18:37.964, Speaker B: So that I find very interesting. And I think that is also what the green moment, the green movement really needs, the solarpunk narratives as well. This is like here represented with Trills Gulofsen, which have been in Norwegian Greenpeace and friends of the years for many years, because, you know, the green movement, they always. They have this massive duty of always pointing out the crisis so and that. But then it's actually not really, since there is so little the communication on the, like, real life possible path towards solutions is so extremely complicated. You know, the information about all the crisis. And, you know, in Norway, both windmills are bad and oil is bad, but, you know, how to transition is much more difficult for them to communicate.
00:18:37.964 - 00:19:36.814, Speaker B: And also, of course, we need to try to leave the weird, you know, western industrialized, democratic perspective on things. We've had, like, 500 years of very brutal colonial situation. We need technology optimism, but we need to think, you know, in terms of leapfrogging in parts of the world that have been suffering from status quo. So, you know, many new. Many other nuances of technology optimism after the Tesla era. And, of course, you know, like, it's like an enthusiast project, but I think, like, the first, like, overall research in how to transition in global food systems to compare, you know, a healthy diet with supply chains and so on. So all of this is, like, work in progress happening around the world.
00:19:36.814 - 00:20:24.682, Speaker B: Textile industry affecting, you know, like, the fashion in buttons affecting loads of people working in factories, other places in the world. And it's, again, you know, interconnected with the social changes in the western culture. You know, it's like, all of this interconnectedness is incredibly mind blowing and scary, but, you know, that's where we need to go. And the law, you know, Paulie Higgins, she died. But, of course, there is a lot going on. This spring, young people in Portugal were suing Norway for, you know, we're, like, really bad guys with our oil industry and so on. So, like, we.
00:20:24.682 - 00:21:04.950, Speaker B: We have, like, this gut feel that about, like, right and wrong and the law is. Will is made. Laws are made by people that, you know, they can always, you know, develop. Yes. And metamodernity as a state of mind, I feel that. I think that will probably be a resonance for many of the people involved with this venue. You know, like, we had modernism, the big optimism from 100 years ago, both, like, in political narratives, in socialism, communism, and so on, but also, like, industrialism.
00:21:04.950 - 00:21:50.104, Speaker B: And then we had postmodernism, where we all, like, campaigning with a very big broadening, where we all got very critical. But now, you know, sorting out wicked problems is the metamodernist state of mind. I recommend Rutger Bregman. You know, like, if you're to deal with misanthropy. He wrote a very good book on, like, what our nature is. Are we, how good and bad are we? And also, of course, he wrote about economy. This is the book that inspired Rican Solopank Academy to work for or to advertise the idea of universal basic income in our local community.
00:21:50.104 - 00:22:15.504, Speaker B: And I'm sure he wrote something about crypto as well. Okay, I think I'm there. Yes, yes. Sublime, solarpunk, soft power as a collective goal. Okay.
00:22:17.604 - 00:22:41.696, Speaker A: Thank you very much. Put your hands together for Margaret, please. Thank you. That was fantastic, by the way. I'm a massive military history nerd, and when I saw the industrial complex, I was like, is that where the heavy water sabotage was done? Yes, it was. By the way, if you want a really cool, like, nazi zombie flick from Norway, if you're also interested in military history, please look at dead Snow. It's absolutely fantastic.
00:22:41.696 - 00:23:13.258, Speaker A: Right? Beyond all these pop culture tips, does anyone have any questions? Don't be shy. It's your unique opportunity. Well, okay, fine. I've got plenty of my own. Right, Margaret, you mentioned greenwashing, which I think is fantastic that you did that. I read recently that the UK is putting forward regulations where if you have basically fake greenwashing ads, you can be prosecuted, which is great. It also shows that from a marketing perspective, it's failing.
00:23:13.258 - 00:23:32.914, Speaker A: Only about a third of people actually believe the big companies, that what they're saying in terms of greenwashing is true. How do you think that blockchain can help in kind of making this whole kind of, like, pseudo hippie, kind of greenwashing wannabe kind of vibe? How can it make it more transparent and more no nonsense?
00:23:35.894 - 00:24:45.236, Speaker B: I know very little about blockchain, but I know that you are part of, like, a massive revolution paradigm shift, and that we are in the midst of, you know, the biggest thing since the printing press in terms of, you know, disruptive, radical innovation we've had, you know, humanity has been moving with incremental changes and radical information, radical innovation, and that's what you're doing. And, you know, so it will depend, of course, with what values, what states of mind, who is doing this. But it's like, you know, this. The stickers, banks hate us. Gives me hope, you know, because we have to go. You know, I think in this room and in this community, in the members of the hackathons, you know, all of these bright minds, they are coming from, you know, from this historic moment and is informed with a lot of, you know, stuff. So that's like, I really don't know.
00:24:45.236 - 00:24:49.708, Speaker B: But I feel it looks like there is a lot of potential. Yeah.
00:24:49.796 - 00:25:16.364, Speaker A: Yes, absolutely. And it's interesting, a lot of the conversations I've been having during the festival or conference, a lot of people are talking about community. And I've got a second question for you. The community that you've built and that you're kind of centering around has got a lot of power. Do you think that we're moving towards a much more decentralized community system and social organization and that maybe nation states, including Norway, might not be existent in a few generations time?
00:25:16.824 - 00:26:03.108, Speaker B: Yeah, I think one very natural mechanism for that is the gentrification of the big cities. Centralization. We've had to centralize. It's not so many years since there was the tipping point where more people are living in big cities than on the countryside, but that is forcing people like me and people also with, like, business ideas too radical to get funding right away out in, you know, rural settings. And also, like, it's something, you know, because also the big cities, they're becoming with gentrification and even, like, this, all of this green. Yeah. Processes happening in the same way that everywhere, like, the big cities are becoming more and more similar.
00:26:03.108 - 00:27:02.730, Speaker B: Well, but disabandoned, like, post industrial small towns around, like, I don't know, in Iceland, a small fishing community, which was then invaded by artists and bloomed up, they are becoming, you know, interesting, the interesting destinations. So. And also, like, before the war, I worked a lot in northern Russia, where also art was kind of an infrastructure for critical thinking. And, you know, it's like going out of the very centralized areas opens up your minds and challenges you in a way that I think a lot of us are actually, like, craving these days. And you're getting, you know, we live in a very polarized western world. There is a divide, you know, growing class divide between center and periphery. So if you really want to deal with, you know, the big political issues in the western world today, you can go to the district, go to the local pub, have a discussion.
00:27:02.730 - 00:27:04.130, Speaker B: Yeah, I love that.
00:27:04.162 - 00:27:22.290, Speaker A: The decentralization is the key to a lot of the problems of the modern world, and the scales are tipping for sure. And thank you so much for being a part of that with us. Margaret, thank you again for a fantastic interdisciplinary talk. Thank you. You've been great. Thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen. We have a talk coming up in four minutes.
00:27:22.290 - 00:27:44.254, Speaker A: One more point about Margaret was that there was an image of Gilles Verne, and I think that there's a quote from 20,000 leagues under the seas. Where Captain Nemo says that we can brave human laws, but we cannot resist natural ones. Which seems to be a big theme of today's talks and of the conference as a whole. See you very shortly with the next talk. Enjoy.
