00:00:00.240 - 00:00:29.436, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, the Andes Asano. And today, 10 February 2023. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So some big news over the last 24 hours on a number of fronts, actually. You can see by my chrome tabs here, we have a bunch to get through. But of course, we're going to start with the biggest news of the last 24 hours, which was that Kraken has announced that they are winding down their staking programs due to a settlement with the SEC.
00:00:29.436 - 00:01:19.430, Speaker A: Now, I spoke about this yesterday, at length, actually yesterday, but obviously there's been an enforcement action now, whereas yesterday there wasn't. So I think that it's worth going over this new information. Now, I want to start off this kind of segment by saying that everyone has kind of taken this announcement the wrong way. They think that the SEC and I may have added to this as well by, by kind of calling out the SEC here. But they, they think that the SEC is banning centralized exchange staking, or at least trying to ban centralized exchange taking and going after that in particular, when that actually isn't the case. So in the complaint that the SEC put forward, there is their reasoning as to why they went after Kraken's product specifically. Now, this Twitter account called meat put together a really great tweet thread here going through the highlights of this, of this SEC complaint.
00:01:19.430 - 00:02:21.924, Speaker A: So he says here, the key argument in the complaint is that the staking service and pooling of staked assets provides for advantages and increased returns relative to those that customers could achieve on their own, which inherently differentiates staking via Kraken from staking independently. So essentially what the SEC is saying here is that the product that Kraken is offering doesn't actually look like e staking anymore because they've made enough modifications to that to eat staking, I guess, with their own product, by wrapping their own product around it, that it looks like something completely different. Now, why? Like how is this the case? Well, first, as meat says here, the service makes stack staking passive to participants rather than an affirmative action taken by them to stake the tokens themselves. If I'm reading this correctly, it means that basically, as you can see in the complaint here, to participate, investors need only establish an account@kraken.com and purchase staking eligible tokens from the trading platform. So users don't have to opt into this. They are already basically automatically opted into this by signing up on kraken.com
00:02:21.924 - 00:03:05.070, Speaker A: and if they obviously, if they keep their assets there, they're automatically signed up here. So that already is obviously very different to other products that like Coinbase offers. Rather, staking products like Coinbase offers. Secondly, Kraken pools the tokens with other program participants to provide additional advantages not available to the individual, such as including improving the chances of validating a block and earning additional fees. Then meat continues by saying while on chain staking yields returns determined via software and code. The yields to participants in the staking program, while dependent in part on the software, is ultimately dictated by cracking and the determinations were opaque. Here me continues by saying Kraken pays out returns on a set schedule, whereas staking individually does not follow a set schedule.
00:03:05.070 - 00:03:42.954, Speaker A: Now this is, this is, I think one of the bigger differences because normal, I guess like ETH staking, right? You get execution layer rewards. Like whenever you propose a block, you get that straight away as a solo staker, for example, right? You get that straight away paid out to your withdrawal address. The consensus layer rewards post withdrawals, I should say you'll be getting. Basically, it's probably, I think it's shorter than once a week because it's, it's obviously cycling through all the consensus layer rewards each week. Sorry, continuously. So four to five days, I think the calculation was at current number of validators. So yeah, again, that, that is basically set by the protocol.
00:03:42.954 - 00:04:20.478, Speaker A: Whereas Kraken had their own set schedule here where they said payouts happen twice a week, every Monday and Thursday at 02:00 p.m.. UTC here. And then meat continues by saying staking via Kraken was generally liquid and not bound by cool off or unbonding periods which are applied to on chain stakers. In fact, not all tokens deposited into the program were actually even staked. Whereas many staking protocols require minimums, Kraken did not. Additionally, depositing the tokens in the staking pool did not require paying fees, which staking on chain would. Now, Meek says the critical endpoint is that staking through Kraken fundamentally changed the typical staking process and procedure and thereby making it a different product.
00:04:20.478 - 00:05:12.958, Speaker A: And two participants relied on Kraken to generate the returns. So, and oh, I guess meat finishes off by saying the two biggest killers here were the opacity of Kraken's process of determining payouts and making payouts on their own schedule and holding back a liquid bucket of tokens that is directing use of the funds themselves. So yeah, those are the two things that basically killed this product. Now, Coinbase came out and basically said that they're going to fight the SEC on this if the SEC goes after them, because obviously there are a lot of shades of gray here. What actually crosses that line, and the SEC, of course, doesn't give any guidance here about where the line actually is. You know, when does it stop looking like a traditional e staking product and start looking like a completely different product that just has, that just uses e staking under the hood? And as I said, there's no guidance there from the SEC as far as I know. And that is the fundamental issue that everyone has with this because, okay, fair enough.
00:05:12.958 - 00:05:46.782, Speaker A: The SEC probably has a good case here that the product that Kraken was offering could, could be considered a security, right? Not, not ETH itself as an asset, not ETH staking itself, but the product that Kraken built on top of ETH staking to offer to their customers couldn't be. Could be considered a security. So I understand that. But on the same side of. Sorry. On the other side of that coin is the fact that the SEC expects these centralized providers to essentially adhere to this framework that just doesn't exist. So how are these centralized providers meant to actually know what they have to adhere to, what.
00:05:46.782 - 00:06:38.712, Speaker A: Where the line actually is? And it seems like the line is just set arbitrarily by the SEC themselves. So that is the fundamental issue that everyone is taking with this and that I'm taking with this as well. And I've actually been saying this for a very long time. The proper way to regulate crypto at the, I guess, c five level or at the centralized level is through these frameworks, these regulatory frameworks through guidance, letting entrepreneurs, letting companies know what they have to do to actually be compliant. But the SEC and other regulatory bodies are just not interested in this. They are much more interested in going after these actors through enforcement actions rather than setting guidance for them. And with, with Kraken, they didn't even get, they probably, I'm not sure what they gave them the opportunity to do, but Kraken has actually decided to end their staking program altogether for us retail customers rather than try to be compliant.
00:06:38.712 - 00:07:03.530, Speaker A: Because again, there's no way for them to know what's compliant and what's not because there's no actual framework there. So as I said, that is the big issue that everyone has here. Now, as I said, Coinbase is going to fight this. And I, and I think that Coinbase is obviously right in fighting this. But at the same time, Coinbase's product is actually very different to Kraken's. Coinbase doesn't do this from my knowledge, doesn't do most of the things that Kraken does here from my knowledge. It is an opt in service.
00:07:03.530 - 00:07:31.030, Speaker A: For example, I don't think they have payouts on a schedule. They do have an lsd, obviously, Cbeth, where the payouts accrue to and things like that. There are certain things there that the SEC could argue are security, like properties of the e staking product the coinbase offers, for example. And then there are other exchanges that offer these products as well. But that's basically the gist of it. The fact of the matter is the SEC felt like they had a really good case against Kraken. Kraken didn't want to fight it because it would have cost too much evidence.
00:07:31.030 - 00:08:05.746, Speaker A: And I think Jesse Power was actually on Twitter as well, basically alluding to this, that it just wasn't worth the it cost here. And SEC also has said that they really want to make all these, I guess, staking programs, not just e staking, but staking in general. All these programs, part of centralized exchanges, much more transparent to the user rather than opaque, which I totally get and I totally understand. I think that's the right course of action. But as I said, there isn't really a framework or guidance here to actually help these centralized services do this. Now. Why is the SEC doing this now? Well, it's fallout from last year.
00:08:05.746 - 00:08:51.836, Speaker A: The SEC failed to protect investors through, through other services like Celsius, which actually offered staking services, Blockfi, Voyager, FTX, obviously, and a bunch of other things. Right? So the SEC is basically trying to save face now and do enforcement after the fact, and they're going after the good actors such as Kraken, which is mind boggling right at the end of the day. So that is what happened in a nutshell here. Now, Coinbase's chief legal officer Paul here said that, you know, obviously the, the rumors that Brian Armstrong was talking about yesterday are true, but Paul basically said here what is also equally true, that these products are basically yield products. True. On chain staking services like Coinbases are fundamentally different. For example, the Coinbase customers rewards are tethered to realities.
00:08:51.836 - 00:09:27.548, Speaker A: They depend on the rewards paid by the protocol and commissions, commissions that Coinbase discloses. They don't play games once Coinbase customers have a right to their rewards, Coinbase can't just decide not to pay any rewards at all. And then he continues a little bit here. So, as I said, Coinbase's staking product is very different to what Kraken's was, and that's probably what saved them here from that. And then Frank Chaparro from the block here says that Coinbase has also put out a statement from. From Paul saying that Kraken's news will not affect their staking program. And then Brian Armstrong put out a tweet himself saying, we will keep fighting for economic freedom, which is the mission.
00:09:27.548 - 00:10:05.636, Speaker A: Their mission at Coinbase some days, being the most trusted brand in crypto means protecting our customers from government overreach. Now, what does this mean for staking generally? Right. Well, I put out a tweet and I said, from crisis comes opportunity post withdrawals. People who staked, well, not people generally, but us retail investors that stake their ETH with Kraken will be forced to move their stake elsewhere. It's on us as a community to steward these people into decentralized solutions such as rocket pool and solo staking. Now, obviously, these people can go wherever they want. It's more than likely they're going to go to another centralized exchange service, such as Coinbase or binance, if they were already doing it through Kraken.
00:10:05.636 - 00:10:32.154, Speaker A: But we have a real opportunity here to seize the moment post withdrawals. And will that great reshuffling into existence that I've been talking about for quite a while where. Look, if you. I actually did some napkin mouth today, there is 1.26 million ETH staked with Kraken right now. Right. And post withdrawals, we have to assume that a percentage of that, and it's kind of hard to assume what percentage of that will be unstaked, because what percentage belongs to actual us retail customers.
00:10:32.154 - 00:11:30.034, Speaker A: But let's make a naive assumption that 50% belongs to us retail customers. So that's just over 600,000 ETH that will be automatically unstaked, given back to their customers, and the customers will have to find a new home for that ethnic. Now, how many of that, how much of that 600,000 ETH will get sold? I actually don't think a lot of it will get sold, because if people are being forced to unstake, they're not being forced to sell. So I think that a large majority of that ETH will go to other staking providers. So where's it going to go from here? Well, I think a healthy chunk will go to Coinbase because people who trust Kraken probably trust coinbase the same, because they're both us based entities. Some will go to other centralized exchanges, like binance but some will find their way into the on chain staking protocols, such as obviously Lido, which is a centralized one, but decentralized ones like rocker pool, and some will make its way into solo staking because you've made it easier to do over time as well there. So I don't, I do, as I said, I do expect probably most of the stake to actually go to these other centralized providers just from the nature of those stakers.
00:11:30.034 - 00:12:33.164, Speaker A: But we have an opportunity to capture at least some segment of that ETH and get it staked with a decentralized solution. So that's why I said from this crisis comes opportunity. And it's funny here because the SEC is actually helping Ethereum's decentralization by doing this, because we've just kind of knocked out a nice chunk of e stake that was sitting with a centralized service, and we've gotten an opportunity to move that to more decentralized services, or at least to more regulated ones and to more transparent ones, which is always good for decentralization here. Now, what if the SEC starts going after every centralized staking service provider and manages to shut them down? Well, the only recourse then would be to do on chain staking. Yes, you can do centralized on chain staking still with players like Lido. But lido operators are also, are also probably going to be targeted in some capacity eventually as well, because they are usually companies running these things, right? So they may be targeted, then we just get, we just push into the decentralized solutions such as rocket pool, which are the node operators. The vast majority of them are individuals.
00:12:33.164 - 00:13:21.862, Speaker A: Right. So I actually think that not only is the opportunity in moving more of the stake to these decentralized solutions and spreading more of the stake out, but the long term opportunity here is that if the, these regulatory bodies want to keep going after these centralized institutions for these things, well, I guess like we can welcome that with open arms because it means that decentralization will actually go up. Now, it depends on what this looks like. Obviously, I'm not a fan at all. Of all the regulatory action that's been happening in crypto over the last six to twelve months, it's obviously a result of all the blow ups we saw last year, which again is just really frustrating because the blow ups last year were a direct result of no one being protected from the actual bad actors. And now they're going after the good actors. Yeah, like, like it just doesn't make much sense to me.
00:13:21.862 - 00:13:53.690, Speaker A: But that's a rant for another day, I think I spent enough time on this one today, but hopefully that explains to you exactly why the SEC went up, went after Kraken's product, specifically how that does. It doesn't actually mean that ETH is a security or that ETH staking is a security. And it doesn't necessarily mean that other staking service providers are going to get the same treatment that Kraken did there. All right, so just wanted to give you guys an update on the KZG ceremony. So there is currently 31 days left to get your. Sorry. To get your contribution in, in the KZG ceremony.
00:13:53.690 - 00:14:29.426, Speaker A: And we currently have almost 39,000 total contributions, which is absolutely awesome. Now, there is a new way to contribute. If you are running a DAP node so you don't have to open a tab in your browser, you can simply go to this URL here if you're, if you are running DAP node software here, and then be able to participate in the KZG ceremony. So just wanted to hide that for you guys. I'll of course link this tweet in the YouTube description below so you can copy this URL for yourself. But this has been a great turnout. I think that in terms of participation here, the optimistic case was that we'd get to 10,000, maybe 20,000, but we've blown past that.
00:14:29.426 - 00:14:53.220, Speaker A: We're at almost 39,000 here with 31 days left. If we were to do a really big push, we could probably push that up to 100,000. But yeah, it's probably going to not get to 100,000 at this point. But I think that 50,000 is easily doable with 31 days still left. And I believe there's actually going to be other ceremonies after this, I believe, if I remember correctly, too. So this is just kind of like the public one. There's going to be other ones out there.
00:14:53.220 - 00:15:15.260, Speaker A: Don't quote me on that. I'm not sure if that's actually happening or not. I remember it being discussed, but we'll have to see kind of what happens there. So you can go participate. If you haven't yet, you still have 31 days left to do so. All right, so beacon chain has added a, I guess, update to their website. So they have added something called ETH store, which is your go to source for measuring the staking performance of the Ethereum network.
00:15:15.260 - 00:15:58.394, Speaker A: So this will basically show you the current, I guess, yield on your estate or current APR on e staking across the entire network right now, which is currently 5.3% based on the last reward day and then you can actually see in this nice little graphic here what that looks like over time. So basically the total staking rewards each day and the ETH store, or kind of like the ETH yield for that day where it's kind of like peaking and the kind of lower, lower yield for from there, basically. So this is really cool. Just another tool that basically allows people to have a look at what the yields are here and get a better idea. They do vary quite substantially. I mean, if you're a lucky validator, your yields can spike up pretty crazily.
00:15:58.394 - 00:16:31.694, Speaker A: And it depends on the blocks that you produce, mostly because if you are using mev boost, you can get some really juicy blocks. I know people that are getting blocks as solo validators using MeV Boost of, you know, six, seven, 8910 plus ETH. Right. It's crazy when you think about that, but it does happen. So as I've said before, the Mev boost, a game, or the mev game is a lottery, though. And the more validators you have, essentially the more tickets you have to the lottery. So these people are ETH whales that I'm quoting right, because they get all the juicy blocks, because they have a lot of validators.
00:16:31.694 - 00:17:04.430, Speaker A: But generally because of mev boost, it actually is able to smoothen that out too and make it more accessible and more democratized anyway. But yeah, Mev still remains a lottery for the most part, at least as a solo staker and as, as I guess, like these taking service providers. But they usually will pay out these, you know, large blocks that they get. They'll smooth those rewards out just like the rocket pool smoothing pool does, for example there. But anyway, you can go check out this new section of the Beacon chain website. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right.
00:17:04.430 - 00:17:29.870, Speaker A: There is a new page on the ethereum.org website all about Ethereum staking withdrawals. So finally, great to see this page here. Now, you cannot be confused about Ethereum staking withdrawals anymore and you'll be able to see exactly how staking withdrawals work. And I'll link this page in the YouTube description for you to do so. Now, the favorite part, sorry, my favorite part of this page is here. So this is basically the partial withdrawals time to complete.
00:17:29.870 - 00:17:52.870, Speaker A: Table. So you can see here that if there's 400,000 with partial withdrawals needing to be processed, then it takes three and a half days to complete. Now, if every validator had a partial withdrawal that needs to be processed, well, we currently have, what, five, I think over 500,000 validators. It will take 4.3 days to process. So it's not going to take a week as I have been quoting. It's going to take 4.3
00:17:52.870 - 00:18:26.274, Speaker A: days as stipulated here, or maybe, maybe just up to five days here to process through partial withdrawals. So every five days basically get through all the validators and partially, partially withdraw all of their ETH. But that's not the only good part of this page. There is plenty of information here for you to dive into and of course I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so rocket pool is currently testing their next major upgrade, code named Atlas on the Jejang testnet. So you can see here that it is being test. Oh, this is the rocket scan interface of it being tested here.
00:18:26.274 - 00:19:01.206, Speaker A: And basically going from, you know, the normal pre launch status going into depositing the eats and staking and all that good stuff there. So great to see this. I believe the Atlas upgrade is scheduled for March, April to go live. And it will bring with it withdrawals for rocket pool stakers, I believe as also along with that Leb eight thing thing that I've talking about being able to spin up mini pools with just eight ETH. So great to see them testing this on the jejung testnet right now, which obviously is the testnet that has withdrawal. Public testnet that has withdrawals enabled. This is their only one right now.
00:19:01.206 - 00:19:31.604, Speaker A: I believe the only public testnet that has withdrawals enabled right now. So a lot of teams are testing out their flow and all the things that they can do here. So yeah, great to see Atlas being tested on Jejang. All right, so I got a nice little delivery today. My Proteus device from Joe here was delivered. Now this is a small little device that, that's been custom made by Joe. Inside of it is a Rok five b board and a bunch of different hardware like an SSD and a Wi Fi module and things like that.
00:19:31.604 - 00:20:06.144, Speaker A: And I've got a custom nameplate on, as you can see, the daily Gwei and a custom case wrapped around it in orange, obviously the rocker pool color there. Now I'm going to be using this not to run rocker pool mini pools. I'm going to be using this to run Ethereum solo validators. But the reason why is very unique to me. So this device actually comes preloaded with rocket pool. So it's all ready to go. It comes preloaded with all these different optimizations with the, with the debian image with rocker pool installed so all you would need to do is basically set up your accounts and set up your validators and you'd be, you know, you, away you go with staking.
00:20:06.144 - 00:20:59.324, Speaker A: Now, the reason why I'm using this for solo validates instead of rocket pool validators is because the my, I just finished changing my retirement account to what's called a self managed super fund in Australia, which is basically I'm self managing my retirement account now. Now my retirement account pretty much is all ETH. And in order to stake that ETH, I need to stake it from a separate device to my solo staking. I need just due to regulation. So I can't actually use my existing solo staking pc to stake that ETH that belongs in my retirement account. It's super frustrating because it means I have to have another device running, but the timing actually lined up really well where I was able to buy this device from Joe, buy it using my retirement account. And, and then I'm going to be flashing a new instance of Debian on here in order to run solar Ethereum validators instead of running rocket pool mini pools.
00:20:59.324 - 00:21:38.120, Speaker A: And I guess to clarify again, I forgot to clarify this before, the reason I can't run mini pools is just the way the retirement account is set up and the regulations around that. And it's not possible for me to now go and buy the RPL I need because I can't put any more money in my retirement account right now because there's a cap on how much you can actually put in there each year. And I already reached that cap, so I can't buy the necessary RPL to collateralize the box with. And I can't give myself RPL from my personal account either. It has to all be done completely separately. It's pretty insane how harsh the regulations are here, but that's how it is. So I have to keep everything just totally separate between my personal accounts and my retirement account.
00:21:38.120 - 00:21:57.878, Speaker A: So unfortunately I can't spin up any more mini pools. But in saying that, I'll of course be spinning up minipools under my personal capacity. I'm at eight right now. I spun up one actually, yesterday or the day before. I'm going to be splitting up two more in the short term. I want to get to ten and then slowly trickle them in over time anyway in a personal capacity. But most of you, or pretty much all of you will not have that issue.
00:21:57.878 - 00:22:30.710, Speaker A: So if you do want to purchase one of these devices, they're coming out in waves. You can go to the rocker pool discord to get more information about this. But essentially, as I said, it comes preloaded with everything you need to get started with rocker pool mini pools here. And this may be something that you're interested in purchasing post alib eight, where you can actually stake with, where you can spin up mini pools with just eight ETH and a bit of RPL. In terms of cost here, this device wasn't very expensive. There are different options of what it costs here. I believe my one was 670 USD and I paid.
00:22:30.710 - 00:23:05.170, Speaker A: You can pay with crypto, of course I paid with USDC. So yeah, not very expensive at all to get your device ready. Sorry to get a device like this which is out of the box ready, custom made, custom kind of like a case and all that sort of stuff to run mini pools here. All right, so an update from aztec today. They've said full decentralized borrowing is live on Aztec with 26 times cheaper gas fees than layer one. No borrow minimums, no interest, and of course, full privacy. How? Well, they've teamed up with liquidy to integrate them into Aztec.
00:23:05.170 - 00:23:41.652, Speaker A: So what is liquidy? Well, liquidity is a, is originally a maker fork that basically has no governance and is an ETH only collateral decentralized lending protocol. Deposit ETH and borrow the LUSd stablecoin. So you can do this in an interest free way due to their unique mechanisms you can read about here. But now, if you're a liquidity user, if you're a potential liquidity user, you can now do this on aztec network with full privacy, which is obviously the second main. Oh, it's kind of like the main benefit here. And obviously having 26 times cheaper gas fees than layer one is also a huge benefit. I don't know if liquidy is on one, any of the other L2s right now.
00:23:41.652 - 00:23:57.624, Speaker A: I don't think they are. I actually don't know for sure. But this may be the first L2 that they've gone on. And the fact that they've chosen aztec network is super promising because of the fact that it's a full privacy network. So great to see that. And you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:23:57.624 - 00:24:30.404, Speaker A: But yeah, Aztec is really kicking goals lately. Just getting all these protocols integrated, giving users full on chain privacy, especially in the face of users losing privacy, especially uS users losing privacy with the tornado cache sanctions there. All right, so a big announcement. Out of optimism today, they announced the second op airdrop. So 11.7 million op was distributed to over 300,000 unique addresses to reward positive sum governance participation empower users of optimism Mainnet. Now, you don't have to claim this airdrop if you were eligible for it.
00:24:30.404 - 00:25:03.096, Speaker A: You got it sent to you on l two or on your l two address here. And yeah, and yeah, as I said, there were over 300,000 addresses that were eligible. Now, what was the requirement or the criteria for this? Well, the top two requirements were that you had to have delegated the voting power of your op tokens to one of the governance delegates out there. And of course, I don't think many people did that. There was obviously a lot of people that did that. But I think that there were a healthy chunk that didn't do that as well. So obviously missed out on this airdrop.
00:25:03.096 - 00:25:40.032, Speaker A: And you had to meet both of these things, by the way. And the second thing was that addresses had to spend more than $6.10 on l two gas since March 2022, which is the average cost of a transaction on ethereum l one. Now, while these were the eligibility criteria, you could have earned more op from this airdrop with the multipliers. So basically there were four multipliers. The first one is that you had a substantial delegation, so you delegated 272 op or more for over 200 days, or an equal multiple of more of op multiplied by time over a shorter period. The second thing was gas guzzler.
00:25:40.032 - 00:26:03.174, Speaker A: You spent more than $20 on l two gas since May 2022. 3rd thing was consistent optimist. You used an application on op Mainet in six different months since May 2022. And fourth was active delegator. You had more than 20 op delegated at the date of the snapshot, which is January of this year. So the, the bonus categories counted for different multipliers. If you hit all four, you got a two x multiplier here.
00:26:03.174 - 00:26:37.706, Speaker A: Now, I'm not sure what I hit on here, but I got 5500 op tokens from this airdrop. So that was nice, I guess. But yeah, I'm not sure if I hit all four here. I think I might have hit all four of these bonuses because I am a pretty avid user of optimism, not just on Cecil ETH, but on my other addresses as well. I haven't checked my other addresses yet. I only check Cecil dot ETH, but I don't know if I did, if I, if I was eligible my other addresses, because I don't think I delegated my voting power of op tokens and other addresses because I did it for SASL because I got that big airdrop initially. And there, yeah.
00:26:37.706 - 00:27:18.278, Speaker A: Anyway, enough about me if you were eligible for it, as I said, it automatically got sent to you. So just check your addresses on an optimism block explorer such as Opti scan, and you'll see if you got it sent. It would have been sent to you at time of recording, I think about 15, 20 hours ago right now. But you'll see it under your ERC 20 token tab there and you'll see if you airdropped it. Now, also, this isn't tax advice, but I feel like I need to remind people that if you do receive an airdrop in a lot of jurisdictions, it is taxed as normal income at the time that you received it times the price. So if you received a thousand op tokens and the price was $2, you made $2,000 in income there in most jurisdictions. And.
00:27:18.278 - 00:27:52.044, Speaker A: And you probably have a tax obligation. So I just wanted to remind people there, but as I said, not tax advice. Every jurisdiction is different. But I know in Australia the way it actually currently works is that the original op airdrop, op Airdrop one was not taxed at all, had a cost basis of $0 because it was an initial airdrop. They actually clarified this recently. The australian tax office, they're calling it an initial airdrop when the token, well, it doesn't apply to every airdrop, but it applies to when the token is first being created and then given to people. It has a cost basis of zero, and then it is not classed as income when you receive it the first time.
00:27:52.044 - 00:28:10.580, Speaker A: But because this is a second airdrop, there is an active op market. It is not the initial creation of the op token. This airdrop is taxed as normal income. Now, that's the way it works in Australia, the way it would work in, you know, other jurisdictions, obviously. I don't know because I'm in Australia. I know how it works in Australia. But yeah, you should check with that.
00:28:10.580 - 00:28:32.110, Speaker A: Don't forget about your tax obligations, guys. I've seen tax obligations screw so many people. It's not fun because what ends up happening is that they don't have money for tax, then they have to sell more assets to pay down their tax. But by selling assets, they incur more capital gains, more taxable events. Then they have to come up with money for that and they lose money, and then they just get out of position, and it's not great. Right. So just wanted to remind that for, remind you guys there.
00:28:32.110 - 00:29:30.010, Speaker A: But yeah, there will be future OPA airdrops as well. This is just number two. There's still going to be plenty, I reckon, they're going to do so many of these airdrops based on a bunch of different criteria and try their best to make sure that these, the airdrop hunters don't get all of the op tokens. All right, so I've been talking a bit about ZK AVM provers recently and I talked the other day how scroll got their proving requirements down a lot from their memory requirements down a lot. Well, Eduardo today from the polygon ZKVM. Sorry, from who's a Polygon ZKVM core developer said really excited about our test results on the Polygon ZK EVM proverbs batch proof two minutes 30 with 500 or 250 ERC 20 transaction, 20 transactions per batch on a on a spot m 16 m six id dot middle provers cost 64. Sorry, six cents and around six cents per proof, which is 0.001
00:29:30.010 - 00:29:58.380, Speaker A: cents per transaction. And he's claiming it's the fastest ZK tech and first production ready ZkVM. The prover is no longer a bottleneck. So this is really cool to see that these costs are so cheap here for the provers. Obviously it remains to be seen what this looks like in the in the wild. We're going to have to benchmark these things across other zkvms, but just great to see more ZKVM teams putting out stats or metrics around their provers here. All right, so some exciting news out of the synthetix ecosystem today.
00:29:58.380 - 00:30:48.456, Speaker A: 22 new perpetual markets are now available for leverage trading on Synthetix perps. So you can enjoy low fees, instant execution and an excellent user experience on perp stream trading front ends such as quinta and decent tracks. So the 22 perpetual markets include coins like BTC Link, Aave Matic, and a bunch of others here as well, such as gold actually too. You can learn more in the blog post about all of the the 22 that are supported. There's a list here of which ones are supported. And as I said, you can go trade these on Quinta and Decentrex if you would like and get started there. Now the really cool thing about this is, I think trading these kind of synthetic assets and synthetic perpetual assets for assets that are not available on chain basically, or not available natively on Ethereum and have to be like kind of bridged across is where it excites me.
00:30:48.456 - 00:31:54.498, Speaker A: And the most exciting thing is the real world assets such as, you know, currency pairs and things like gold, which I think it's gold because I saw here xau, which I believe is is goal is actual gold here, but I don't yeah, xau so gold and then currencies and then other tokens that aren't on natively on Ethereum such as BNB and Atom and things like that. So yeah, if you're interested in doing that sort of stuff and trade and trading those assets, these synthetix purpose markets is these synthetics purpose markets are for you. And I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out. All right, so fire has sent out another product update to extension users that helps you keep your assets secure. So here's everything that they pushed a skeleton loader for improved performance, revoking NFT approvals, update and verify tokens and NFT so this thread explains exactly what this is, what this looks like. This is really cool, the fact that you can revoke approvals right from the right from the fire extension, from what I understand here. So that's obviously a big thing, especially in the wake of all these hacks that have been happening, all these experts that have been happening over the last few months when it comes to approval.
00:31:54.498 - 00:32:29.606, Speaker A: So kudos to fire for putting this update out there. If you're using the fire extension, it should have been pushed to your extension automatically here. But yeah, I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so second last update is that the Aave GH oh or Go stable coin is now live on the Ethereum girly testnet. So the go code is public and available on GitHub for you to check out and you can mint Go at Go dot aave.com on the testnet if you would like. Now, for those of you who forgot, Go is Aaves native stablecoin that they're building.
00:32:29.606 - 00:33:04.080, Speaker A: This has been in the works for quite a while. It has been audited by the top auditors in the ecosystem, open zeppelin, Sigma prime and AbdK consulting. So yeah, you can go play around with this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. We're not going to spend too much time here because I'm out of time already. But there is one last very important thing that I wanted to talk about that I mean to talk about for, for about a week now, but I just didn't because I wanted to verify that it wasn't a scam. So we all know about the massive earthquakes that happened in Turkey and Syria and the surrounding areas there that have basically devastated so many people's lives.
00:33:04.080 - 00:33:29.512, Speaker A: Like, it's actually crazy looking at the footage, looking at all the news sites and seeing what's going on there and like, really, it made me really sad, honestly. I haven't really said anything about it on Twitter or anything like that. But I've been thinking about it personally and thinking about, especially the Ethereum community in Turkey and Syria. Especially Turkey. I believe there's a lot of people that are into Ethereum that, that live in Turkey or are turkish. And I really feel for them. Now, if you want to help them, you can.
00:33:29.512 - 00:34:15.152, Speaker A: There is a donation address that has been shared here by ETH Global that you can actually donate to the earthquake relief efforts here. And as I said, I wanted to confirm that this wasn't a, it wasn't a scam before I shouted this out or anything like that. And I have confirmed this. So you're not, it's not like you're sending money into somewhere that it's, it's, you know, that's going to get scammed or it's going to get rug pulled or anything like that. You are, from what I, from what I understand and from what I've been able to verify, you are sending money to go towards these relief efforts directly here. Now, last thing I just want to say about this quickly is that when we see these things happen throughout the world, whether it be, you know, earthquakes or the, obviously the war, war in Ukraine or even other natural disasters that happen, it can kind of feel a bit like we're very removed from it. Like, for me, I've never been to Turkey.
00:34:15.152 - 00:34:34.304, Speaker A: I don't know many turkish people in real life. I know a lot of them online. I see a lot of them online. Obviously, there's a lot of them in the Ethereum community. But I saw, you know, and especially in Syria as well, I don't know, I don't think I know any Syrians personally. Maybe, maybe I do, and I just don't know it because it's their background. But, but, yeah, I just can't think any of any of the top of my head.
00:34:34.304 - 00:35:09.564, Speaker A: And it can kind of make you feel like you're very removed from these people. So what I like to do, or not just the people, but like the countries that they affect because it feels like it's on the other side of the world, so to speak. And for Australia, actually, a lot of the world's on the other side of the world. But you get what I'm saying, right? You can feel very far removed from it. So the way that I, and the strategy that I use to connect myself to things like this is I relate it back to my own life. So, for example, with the earthquake in Turkey, I related it back to how I felt with the bushfires in Australia a couple of years ago. Those really bad bushfires, obviously, Australia has bushfires all the time, but the most recent ones that we had, I believe, was two or three years ago, were the.
00:35:09.564 - 00:35:27.116, Speaker A: Some of the worst on record, and they devastated a lot of people's lives. And there was a bushfire that was actually basically in my backyard. I don't live in the bush. Well, this is all my old house. I don't live in the bush. I live in the suburbs. But there was a massive kind of, like, gorge there, and that caught on fire for the first time ever, I think I.
00:35:27.116 - 00:35:44.004, Speaker A: At least from me living there. Sorry, from when I was living there. And it was really scary because I saw the. The helicopters, you know, the helicopters dropped in water, dropping water. I saw how close it was on the. Online and tracked it all there. I saw the fire moving towards houses that I had driven past and things like that.
00:35:44.004 - 00:36:11.028, Speaker A: And I looked at that and I'm like, wow, okay. That's, you know, that's really, really scary. And it didn't affect me personally because it didn't come to my house and it didn't, you know, my house wasn't affected. I didn't have to evacuate or anything like that. But just that being as close as it did to me really kind of shifted my perspective on these things, because Australia generally, especially where I am in Melbourne, doesn't really get natural disasters. We very, very rarely get earthquakes in, in Victoria, where Melbourne is. And when we do, they're of just tiny magnitudes, and it doesn't really make any difference.
00:36:11.028 - 00:36:47.966, Speaker A: I mean, you might see a chair fall over, right? It doesn't destroy buildings like the earthquake did in Turkey. We don't get tornadoes, we don't get hurricanes. We do get floods from time to time, but that's more prevalent in Sydney and in kind of, like, the more regional areas than it is where I am. But the bushfires was the thing that kind of worked me up here. So that helps me relate to this, because, as I said, like, natural disasters just aren't really a thing that happens in where I am in Melbourne in Australia, besides those, those kind of bushfires. So that helps me relate here. And that's kind of being the reason why I've been thinking about this and looking at all these images and being like, wow, okay, this is just so crazy.
00:36:47.966 - 00:37:11.822, Speaker A: These are real people. Just because you're on the other side of the world, just because there's a language or cultural barrier here. Doesn't make mean any difference, right? These are real people being affected by something that's obviously not in their control. Obviously they don't deserve any of this that's happened to them and they're going to have to rebuild their lives. And I think the death toll is over 20,000 now. So these people's lives have been completely shattered. So yeah, if you want to donate, you can their addresses here, I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:37:11.822 - 00:37:41.262, Speaker A: Obviously, don't feel obligated to donate just because of what I've said or anything like that. If you want to donate, do it. If you don't, don't, you know, totally up to you what you want to do here. But I figured it was worth shouting out. And as I said, my heart goes out to the turkish and syrian communities here within both Etherium and just generally the people that live there and all their family members. I hope you're all are doing okay and I hope that you can rebuild from this disaster that's happened. But anyway, on that note, I think that's going to be it for today.
00:37:41.262 - 00:37:50.974, Speaker A: Thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone. Bye.
