00:00:19.550 - 00:01:19.150, Speaker A: Hi everyone, this is Defi dad and this is another bankless tutorial. Today I'm going to walk you through the new ETh perpetual futures market that was just launched. And quick warning, I am not able to do any trading on this because I'm a us resident. So if you are a us resident, you won't be able to use this new market. You can use the spot and margin trading markets on DYDX, but the bitcoin USD and this new ETh USD perpetuals markets are not available. So I'm going to help you navigate how the platform works. Some of the important moving parts in it, like the funding rate, and then ultimately some ideas or strategies that I've thought about if I did have access to this and could trade on it before we get started, some context to be aware of is just that DYDX is really known as the top margin trading platform.
00:01:19.150 - 00:01:52.472, Speaker A: That is a Dex built on Ethereum. And so they have three different products. Now, the first one is a spot trading market. That's where I'm actually exchanging assets with other buyers and sellers. So there's like an immediate delivery to me selling ether and then getting, let's say die for that. And there's no way for me to be more efficient with my capital other than the value that I already hold. So if I have $100 of ether, that's as much exposure as I can get.
00:01:52.472 - 00:02:48.720, Speaker A: However, then they have a margin trading platform which allows me to use up to five x the value of my funds. I can borrow from others that are lending their assets on DYDX so that I can gain more exposure and I pay an interest rate for the funds that I borrow to trade with, and then those that are lending it are earning the interest rate. So that leads us to today, perpetuals is the most efficient price exposure I can gain. This has become a really popular product in the crypto industry. It was really first made popular by Bitmex. What I like about the ability to trade against Ether is that many people who have ether don't want to sell it for USDC or tether or Dai in order to trade it. They want to grow their exposure to ether.
00:02:48.720 - 00:03:20.710, Speaker A: And to do that, they can just deposit their ether here and then actually trade against the notional value, or in this case the USD value of that ether. So it saves a step. It also saves you from a taxable event depending on what part of the world you live in. Like normally, selling ether can trigger a taxable event. So many of us would rather avoid that and just deposit ether and trade against that perpetuals market is a futures market. It's just a futures market without an expiry. So it allows me to hold a position for much longer.
00:03:20.710 - 00:04:13.344, Speaker A: The way that this works is to do with these three puzzle pieces. First, I have the Oracle price. This dictates collateralization and liquidations based on an onchain oracle price, which aggregates price data from multiple exchanges. This actually refers to the maker, dow eth USD v one Oracle. So all you need to know is that when it comes to liquidations and collateralization, it's based off of an average of prices drawn across multiple exchanges versus depending on the little bubble that is this one ETH perpetuals market on DYDX. Then we have the index price, which is how stop orders are triggered. This is to really prevent flash crashes.
00:04:13.344 - 00:05:01.860, Speaker A: The index price is based off of price data from multiple exchanges, and it's used to trigger stop orders to provide optimal performance. The index price is managed off chain to ensure minimal delay in slippage and stop order triggering. Those two work together to really protect me from flash crashes while the buy and sell orders that happen in this perpetual market dictate what's referred to as the mid market price. Now, again, I'm looking at this the day before the exchange or the market goes live. So this isn't accurate. But when market makers and buyers and sellers all step in, we should see this reflect what is the Oracle and the index price. The funding rate is the part of this that's really interesting to me.
00:05:01.860 - 00:06:13.310, Speaker A: This is really an incentive to drive buyers and sellers to ensure that the mid market price is actually reflecting the Oracle and the index price. So the eight hour funding rate is interest that gets paid either to longs or shorts. If it's positive, it tends to indicate that longs are more in control than shorts, and that the price of the perpetuals market, the mid market price, is actually above what is the oracle and index price. And so to incentivize getting that price down to where it should be according to all these other exchanges, we have this funding rate, and the funding rate again is effectively paying shorts. If the price that is happening here in this perpetuals market is above the price found on other exchanges, the opposite is true. If the rate is negative, it means that the price is below where it should actually be. And so longs are then being incentivized or paid by the funding rate every 8 hours to have a long position.
00:06:13.310 - 00:07:05.002, Speaker A: This is also an interesting opportunity because one could take advantage of the funding rate and they could open up a position here in this perpetuals market, and then open up an equivalent size position, but the opposite. If you open up a long here, open up a short in another spot trading market, and then get paid by the funding rate. So right now the funding rate is positive. I could open up a short position here, and I could get paid by the funding rate if I open up an equivalent position. But long on a spot trading market, they essentially cancel each other out, and I make this funding rate as income. So if I want to open up a position on this EtH perpetuals market, I can deposit my ether here. So again, I'm trading against my ether.
00:07:05.002 - 00:08:02.900, Speaker A: This is an inverse linear perpetuals market versus a linear perpetuals market, which is what the BTC USD market is. Linear refers to me trading against the US dollar or USDC, in this case, versus here I'm trading against ether, which is trading against my stack of ether. And one thing for me to be aware of is the fact that if I'm trading against my stack of ether, as the price of ether is going down, it's not just my position that's being affected, it's my collateral as well. My collateral is ether, and so it's shrinking in value. And so this is a market that I would argue is more difficult to manage. Your risk versus trading in the bitcoin USD market, where at least I'm trading against a stack of stable coins. So if I want to open a long or a short, I've got market and limit options available.
00:08:02.900 - 00:08:57.060, Speaker A: Let's pretend that the price is 385. Right now, I'm going to open up a position at 380 usd, and then I want my position to be, let's say $1,000. This is again the notional value. So this is referring to how large is my position based in USD. But keep in mind, I'm able to use leverage according to how much collateral I have in USD. So let's pretend that I have one ether and it's worth about $400. If I want to open up a position that's twice that big, just know that because I don't have collateral in here, and because I'm not a US, I'm a us citizen that can't gain access to this, this would actually show two x.
00:08:57.060 - 00:09:39.438, Speaker A: So if you were to try this deposit ether and then check this out, and if you look at the amount of your position, you'll notice that the leverage is changing with that. So if I were to amp this up, then to 1200 usd, it would show this at three x. If I were to amp this up then to, let's say 1600, it would be four x and so on. And then you can see here position value is 4.16 in terms of ether. And you can also see that the funding rate is positive at this point. So the funding rate indicates that the mid market price is above what the oracle price is.
00:09:39.438 - 00:10:37.118, Speaker A: And so this means that I, as someone who holds a long position, am going to be paying shorts and so I am going to be paying 0.1% as a rate. It's just something that's going to be deducted from my position and it's something to be aware of again, because if the rate is negative, then the perpetuals market here is actually in need of more long positions. And if it's positive, it means that it's in need of more shorts. So anyways, I go to open up a limit order worth 1600 usd at a price of 380 or lower on ether. And when you go to place that limit order, it's the way that their other markets work where when you click it, it'll just ask you to confirm it. It's a signature so you don't have to actually pay any gas.
00:10:37.118 - 00:11:13.514, Speaker A: And that's really awesome. So the gas comes into play when I deposit and then when I withdraw. And those should be single transactions because they're ether. So I don't have to give approval to move ether, I can just send ether. One more example of the power of these eTH perpetual markets is I could actually deposit ether and then I could open up a short position to hedge against the price falling. So let's say that I want to open up, let's do a market position. Let's pretend that I have 1000 usd of ether up above.
00:11:13.514 - 00:11:56.876, Speaker A: I could open up a position here and say I want to preserve the USD value of what I have in ether. So I'm going to open up a short position. And this just means that if the price of ether starts to fall, I'm essentially gaining a dollar for every one dollars that I lose in the value of my ether. Anyways, this is something to do a little more homework on. It's a very common hedging strategy. It's a one x short and it's available if you're able to use this perpetuals eth market. Okay, just a few risks I want to recap before we go.
00:11:56.876 - 00:12:44.316, Speaker A: First off, bookmark this exchange. Make sure you have the URL correct. I'm always worried that someone's going to create duplicate domains in the future to try to trick people into connecting their wallets and depositing into what they think is DyDX, but it's actually a phishing scam. So bookmark this and that way you don't have to type it in or potentially spell the wrong name of the website. Another risk is flash crashes. So the oracle price and the index price are meant to help mitigate that risk. But there's still a risk of a flash crash because if everyone has stop losses, it would create a domino effect of stop losses triggering one another and the market would continue to crash until enough buyers stepped in.
00:12:44.316 - 00:13:29.604, Speaker A: Then there's smart contract risk. When you use a platform like DYDX, it's powered by smart contracts. So if there's a bug in the code, that would put funds potentially at risk. So I could buy protection by going to nexusmutual IO and I could just look at what's the value of ether I have here and that's the amount of COVID I would want to buy from Nexus mutual just to ensure that if there was a smart contract bug, I would be protected and I would get a payout. Next up is admin risk. I am pretty confident that there are still admin rights that the DydX team has. They're not fully decentralized into a DaO as far as I know.
00:13:29.604 - 00:14:10.180, Speaker A: And if that's the case, I just am accepting that there is some centralized risk here. Lastly, this isn't true in this market, the ETH perpetuals market, I'm only depositing ether and I'm trading against ether. But if I use the bitcoin perpetuals market, I have to deposit USDC or tether, and that is a stable coin. And there's always a risk of a stablecoin de pegging or having it fail and not hold the $1 peg. All right, that's all I've got for you today. Thanks so much for watching. I'm sorry I'm not able to actually execute a trade to show you what that looks like, but I can't do it because I'm based in the US.
00:14:10.180 - 00:14:38.464, Speaker A: If you're not in the US though, I hope you get a chance to check this out. It's a really powerful tool. You will end up paying gas when you deposit or withdraw ether. Those are the two times that I'm aware of. Other than that, you end up just signing metamask signatures when you place orders. So it's pretty awesome. If you're willing to risk holding the value of your ether on DyDX, I would argue that it's a great way to save on gas money.
00:14:38.464 - 00:15:05.250, Speaker A: In the show notes, I will link a referral code for bankless. It gets you 10% off trading fees. So if you use that and you've never used DyDX before, that should save you a little bit of money. And let us know if you have any questions in the bankless Discord group or you can comment on this YouTube video or comment on Twitter and we'll try to get your questions answered. Thanks so much for watching and see you next time.
