00:00:00.280 - 00:00:28.566, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delegate refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 27 October 2023. All right everyone, let's get into it. So kicking off today is a fresh all core devs update here. Update thread from Tim Bico going over all things Den Kun for the most part, and a few other different kind of updates here that I'll go through. But basically there was a healthy chunk of updates actually in this thread around Denkun and all the testing that's been happening.
00:00:28.566 - 00:01:21.850, Speaker A: So as you guys know, Devnet ten went live this week and that's been kind of going through the rounds of testing. And there's actually a really cool document that you can check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, which basically does an analysis on ERP 4844 blobs, as you can see here, with a bunch of pretty metrics that basically show what the impact on the Devnet was when they started spamming it with blobs and they started kind of testing it and running and putting it through its paces basically. And this is the kind of stuff obviously we want to see done because on Mainnet it's definitely going to be different, but at the same time, like we need to be able to test it in some way, right, because we can't test it on mainnet right now, but we have to test it on the devnet and then the testnet. So there's this document here that you can check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below and there's a few others as well. There's, this is the blob analysis document and then this is the stress test document, which has the, you know, kind of similar metrics here and a lot of detail about this.
00:01:21.850 - 00:01:56.414, Speaker A: I read through it just before and it's actually pretty detailed. So I highly recommend going and checking that out. But I think what's relevant to you guys mostly is probably around kind of what the next steps are here after Devnet ten. And I've been talking about the fact that there was possibility that there'd be another Devnet, and there actually is, Tim mentions it in this thread saying that they are going to be doing Devnet eleven soon. And then he also mentions that the core devs really want to get one of the testnets forked. So they obviously want to do girly first. But in terms of timing around that, it's probably going to be later in November rather than the mid to or the early to mid November that they were originally targeting.
00:01:56.414 - 00:02:33.422, Speaker A: So we can expect mid to late November at this stage for girly to be forked. But even then, I mean, from the thread that I'm reading here, it's not, that's not kind of like a confident timeline just because of the fact that there is still a bunch of work to do on a few of the clients to get them up to speed. And obviously there's a lot of testing going on still and stuff like that. But yeah, we could probably see girly forked. I would actually put money on maybe at the end of November, to be honest. And then after that, I'm not sure if we'll get another testnet fork before the holiday period. We may, we may get another one, whether that's a polio whole sky and then obviously not no mainnet until the new year.
00:02:33.422 - 00:03:39.394, Speaker A: Given the fact that the testnet forks are being pushed back already, and not to say that there was any kind of definitive date, but they are getting, the estimates are getting pushed back. I would say that it's more likely going to be February than January for a main net for Den Kun, but it's really hard to tell, I think, what ended up happening and why there's been so much. I'm not going to call it delays because there was never a date given, but the reason why it's taking longer than expected to kind of test this stuff is because ERP 48 44 and blobs are a brand new thing for the Ethereum network that has never been done before and has implications, especially on kind of like the block propagation side of things, which requires extensive testing to make sure that it doesn't. I'm not, I mean, it doesn't kind of like result in any negative consequences on Mainnet. And that's exactly why it's taking longer to test these things. And obviously the core devs want to be sure that we're not going to run into any issues on mainnets that that requires like another hard fork to fix or anything like that. If there are client issues here and there, they're relatively straightforward to fix because it doesn't require a hard fork in order to fix specific client issues.
00:03:39.394 - 00:04:27.162, Speaker A: But they want to make sure that the vast majority of clients are up to speed and basically aren't going to suffer any kind of issues once the mainnet fork goes ahead. Because mainnet conditions are definitely very different to devnets and testnets, but generally it should be quite similar in how obviously they handle these things. They handle blobs. So that's why it's taken longer here. I think at this point in time, I don't think there's any chance that we would get a fork in January for Mainnet. I think February is still on the table, but we'll have to kind of monitor this and monitor how the test nets go and how the timing around test nets go as we lead into that. I mean, I'd be more optimistic on, like, I guess, a sooner timeline if it wasn't for the holiday period because you can basically block out at the very least two to three weeks over the holiday period where basically no work's going to get done.
00:04:27.162 - 00:04:45.282, Speaker A: Right. There's not going to be any forks. There's going to be minimal work being done on clients. So you already got like, a bunch of lost time there. And then that brings us into maybe, I guess, like the second week of January. And then from there, we obviously want to be able to give people time to update for Mainnet, which is usually at minimum four weeks. Brings us into February already.
00:04:45.282 - 00:05:15.508, Speaker A: Right? So if you just run out the numbers here and run out the dates, you kind of get to February and pretty much like all the scenarios and possibly march. Like, I'm not going to say it's going to be march, but hey, like, we don't know just yet. It's very hard to estimate these things. It really just depends on testing. But as I've said before, I don't think it's a big deal. Honestly, I don't see anyone really clamoring right now for, for Den Kun, to be honest, for 48, 44. Yes, it would be nice to have cheaper fees on L2s, but the fees, even though the gas has spiked lately on layer one, the fees on L2 is still really cheap, guys.
00:05:15.508 - 00:05:41.394, Speaker A: And it's not like we're onboarding a ton of new people right now. Yes, the market's a little bit hot, but I'm going to be honest, I'm not seeing any new people really at the moment come into the ecosystem. So I feel like we've got some time here, which is nice. I mean, obviously these upgrades aren't really timed around what the market's doing because it's impossible to time that, and it's not really timed around anything. But when the upgrade's ready, it'll go. It'll go live on mainnet there. But, yeah, that's all the relevant Den kun updates.
00:05:41.394 - 00:06:40.976, Speaker A: There was also some discussion about this new call, this new L2 call called Roll Call, which I've discussed before, and a bunch of other things as well, which you can check out, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do. So alongside this analysis that you should definitely read on blobs you if can, you're at all interested in how testing is going there. All right, so I have mentioned nice node before on the refuel. It's basically a really easy way to get set up with running a full node on any, any hardware or software that you run today. And the reason why I'm bringing up them up again now is because they just added support for Ubuntu 22.04 so if you're running Ubuntu, whether that's on a, a server that you have or whether that's, you know, hosted at home or hosted on the cloud, maybe you're running Ubuntu machine somewhere in your, in your closet or something like that and you want to run a theorem full node and want to do it in a really easy way, you can now do it with nice node. And nice node already supports Mac and Windows as well, so you can go to their website.
00:06:40.976 - 00:07:25.746, Speaker A: Actually if I bring up their website here, I can show you what this looks like. It's basically just a client that you download. You basically a piece of software that you download and then on there you can select which clients you want to sync for an ethereum full node. Obviously you pick the consensus layer client and the execution layer client and it just runs in the background on your system in a really nice kind of GUI interface, graphical user interface here, which is exactly what we need really. I mean I've discussed this before about how do we get more people to run, run full nodes. And I really think that a big part of it is just making it dead simple to run where you basically download a piece of software like you would any other piece of software and then just run it in the background and, and have like a really easy interface to monitor the health of it and to upgrade, you know, when there's network upgrades and stuff like that. So really, really great to see this.
00:07:25.746 - 00:08:04.870, Speaker A: And I'm sure nice note has plans to add validators or maybe they already have validator support in here, but that would be really cool as well. So yeah, you should definitely go check out nice note if you haven't yet. As I said, they have support for Windows, Mac OS and Ubuntu or Linux now which you can go download. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. And actually just one final note on kind of running full nodes here. There was a bit of a discussion about this in the Daily Gray discord channel today around incentivizing full nodes. Now, I've discussed this before on the refill, but I did want to reiterate this, that it is basically impossible to incentivize full nodes.
00:08:04.870 - 00:08:35.626, Speaker A: And I think I discussed this with Eric in the daily great Drive thru episode we did about Lido a couple of weeks ago. Not the latest one, the one before that. But essentially it is impossible to incentivize full nodes because of a variety, a variety of different reasons. And the number one reason is probably. Well, I think there's two number one reasons, so to speak. And they are, it's really hard, if not impossible, to do civil resistance. Like, there's no way to know that one person isn't just running a thousand nodes to get as much of the rewards as they can.
00:08:35.626 - 00:09:51.668, Speaker A: And two, what is the reward curve? Right? Because with, with staking, for example, the reward curve is based on the amount of ETH that you're staking. So if you're a solo validator, it's based on 32 ethics per validator, right? And if you have like 320 ETH, aka ten validators, then obviously you're earning more rewards than you are with only one validator, aka 32 ETH, right? Whereas with running a full node, like what's the, you know, what's the rewards for that full node? Like, how do you even differentiate between one full node versus another? How do you kind of monitor for uptime, stuff like that? Because the full node isn't doing things like a testing or proposing blocks or anything like that. It is basically not possible to, to incentivize full nodes. And also on top of that, um, if you do a reward, uh, kind of like, uh, reward curve, like what the, the rewards have to be proportional to. To, I guess, like some kind of work that's being done. Ready, proof of stake. It's, it's the work of a testing and block proposing and putting up that capital as an opportunity, as kind of like the, um, the opportunity cost there, that 32 ETH in mining, obviously it's doing proof of work, but with running a full node, there's no way into incentivize that in any real kind of like civil resistant way or any real way that allows people to, to essentially earn a reward for that.
00:09:51.668 - 00:11:03.454, Speaker A: Because let's just say you, you basically, let's put some hard numbers to this because I'm just kind of talking in, in, in kind of abstracts right now. Let's put some hard numbers on this, let's say that you issue a billion dollars a year, I'm just doing a random numbers here, but let's say you issue a billion dollars worth of ETH, a yellow to people running full nodes, right? Whatever that is in ETH terms, I don't know, but let's just say a billion dollars there. What's to stop someone from just spinning up full nodes, which are really cheap to spin up by the way, and just getting the lion's share of those rewards? And also at the same time, like how do you differentiate between a different kind of like full node operators? How do you reward one node operator for doing more work than the other? Like for example, do you reward archive nodes more than full nodes because they're doing more for the network than a full node? It just becomes extremely messy. Right. And it doesn't actually add anything to the network in terms of, in terms of security because there's no, there's no economic security because there's not nothing at stake basically. And essentially you're just running a full node getting some rewards and then, and then being able to cyborg that as well. So I just don't think it's possible to incentivize people to run full nodes.
00:11:03.454 - 00:11:48.780, Speaker A: Now in saying that if you're a validator, you are running full node, so that is the kind of incentive there basically where if you're, if you, if you've got validators, you are running a full node, you're probably only running one as a, as a home staker. But a lot of these kind of like big staking operators, they're going to be running more than one. But really at the end of the day I think that incentivizing full node running with, with monetary rewards is not going to work. The better way to incentivize it is to basically educate people on the benefits of running a full node. Obviously, the major benefits being that you get to use your own full node as an RPC. So you get maximum censorship, resistance and you, you only rely on yourself when doing your own transactions. You get to obviously help the health of the Ethereum network overall by increasing the number of copies of the Ethereum chain, stuff like that.
00:11:48.780 - 00:12:40.904, Speaker A: Right. And obviously if you're a solo staker, you're running one because you're pointing your validators to it and you have to do it that way. So yeah, that, just a bit of random thoughts about that, but I wish there was a way to incentivize more kind of like in a monetary way to devise full nodes, but I really don't think there is, especially because of that ease of cyber there. And what I mean by that is, as I said, people can spin up as many full nodes as they want and just get the lion's share of the rewards for themselves at basically no cost. Whereas you can't really do that in proof of stake or in kind of like how it works for. For validators, because to do that, you have to buy more ETH, right? There is a cost to doing that, whereas with a full node, the only cost that you really incur is hardware and maybe, I guess like a marginally more electricity cost. But it's not much, right? The cost is very small, and the cost doesn't scale either.
00:12:40.904 - 00:12:55.544, Speaker A: It's not like the more full nodes that come on the network, the more expensive it is. That's not how it works. It's not like proof of work, right, where there's a difficulty adjustment and stuff like that. So, yeah. Anyway, enough rambling about that. Moving on to the next thing that I want to talk about, which was a new feature from rated.net work.
00:12:55.544 - 00:13:38.890, Speaker A: They now have a page that covers the whole sky test net. So you can go here and check out all the various metrics around the whole sky testnet. Validators such as participation rates, inclusion delay, effectiveness rating and all that. But do keep in mind that this is a test net, this is not main net. So obviously the effectiveness rating is going to be quite a bit lower because there's, again, nothing at stake here. This is actually a pretty, pretty good thing to talk about in the context of what I was just talking about with full nodes, where essentially, because there's no money on the line and there's no kind of like money being lost if your. If your validator isn't online on this testnet, the only reason that you keep the validator online is because you're being a good steward of the testnet, basically, and you.
00:13:38.890 - 00:14:11.184, Speaker A: And you want to help the test net out, but you're not getting rewarded for this. There's no monetary kind of value to be had. And on the, on the flip side, there's no. There's nothing being lost either, if you're offline. Whereas with proof of stake on Mainnet, right, running a validator on main net, if you're offline, you're suffering an activity leak, right. And that eventually leads to, I mean, it takes a while, but it eventually leads to a. A big loss of Ethan, you getting kicked out of the validator set, right? And then if you're offline with a bunch of other people, the quadratic inactivity leak kicks in and it just becomes worse and worse from there.
00:14:11.184 - 00:14:27.864, Speaker A: So that's why you see this here on the test network. You know, there's nothing at stake. So there's not. There's no real kind of kicker here. And that would be the same with incentivizing full nodes, by the way. The only thing that's really at stake is the opportunity cost of not earning the rewards. But by not running a full node, by going offline, you're not actually penalized.
00:14:27.864 - 00:14:48.670, Speaker A: There's no. There's no kind of motivation to be online except to earn some rewards. But, yeah, the rewards probably won't cover the costs. If it was done in such a way where there were so many full notes online and the share of the rewards would be so low, it'd be. Yeah, it'd be a mess, basically. But anyway, enough about that. I've rambled about that too much here today.
00:14:48.670 - 00:15:13.234, Speaker A: But you can go check out this new testnet dashboard from. Sorry, the whole sky testnet dashboard from rated.net work. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Something that I forgot to cover yesterday is this new chain chat feature from Zappa. So a chain chat is similar, I guess, to some of the other web3 chat apps out there, like the one that's integrated into Coinbase wallet with XMTP.
00:15:13.234 - 00:15:38.270, Speaker A: And there's one that's into. There's one in on Etherscan as well. I think there's a few others of these things. But basically this allows you to essentially log in with your Ethereum address, basically, and start chatting to people, uh, you know, I guess like with your ens, right? And then. And adding people based on their ans. You can see in the kind of video here there's a mock up of like Sassle dot ETH and Ben Armstrong dot e. Sorry, Brian Armstrong dot ETH.
00:15:38.270 - 00:15:59.960, Speaker A: David Hoffman, Tim bico dot ETH. And basically this is a. This would be a theoretical group chat where we're all in it and we've all basically got a way to chat to each other on chain here. And there's a bunch of other features as well, such as channels. So group chats are called channels here. And to join a channel, one must buy a share in the channel. So it's, I guess, similar to friendtech in that, in that respect as well.
00:15:59.960 - 00:16:50.210, Speaker A: And there's a bunch of basically on chain experiences embedded into the chat as well, where you can see here on chain links can be a powerful tool to share tokens, wallets, nfts, apps, and whatever you want and whatever you want to share with other members here. So, yeah, if you're interested in stuff like that, you can go check out chain chat from Zappa. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so I'm sure you're all remembering, or you all remember the other day that Uniswap labs put a fee on their front end. So on the kind of like, I guess like official Uniswap front end that Uniswap Labs runs. And there was a lot of discussion around this, and people may be wondering how much money is Uniswap labs making from this. Well, in just one week, they made $500,000 from that fee, you know, for running an interface that they've been running for free and earning nothing from.
00:16:50.210 - 00:17:23.714, Speaker A: To earning $500,000 in one week is pretty good. Right? And I think this speaks to the fact that as much. As much as people said that there's lots of alternatives to the Uniswap labs front end, at the end of the day, it has the most kind of like, Lindy around it, it has the most brand awareness, it has the most network effect, so people are still going to use it. And by doing that, they're obviously paying this fee now, which goes to Uniswap labs and that, you know, amounts to $500,000 in week one. Now, I don't know what dates these covered. It may. No, I can see it on here.
00:17:23.714 - 00:17:53.978, Speaker A: It covered October 17 to October 24, which I guess was definitely a bit of a hotter week than usual, especially towards the end of the week here. But you can imagine what this is going to look like in a bull market where you're onboarding a ton of new users. Right. Um, that don't know any better, especially. And they're going to be just using that front end. I wouldn't be surprised to see this run into the tens of millions of dollars of revenue per week, to be honest, in a bull market. Right, because of the extreme amount of volumes that will be traded through Uniswap, especially for things like meme coins that we, you know, obviously we saw a lot of these in 2021.
00:17:53.978 - 00:18:23.426, Speaker A: So that's a lot of money going to uniswap labs on interface. As I said, they weren't earning money from before. So kudos to them for actually finding a business model that is kind of like working for them. And he's very profitable for them. But I know that a lot of the uni token holders are still hurting a lot from this because they're probably like that $500,000 could have gone to uni token holders. But, you know, I think that I discussed this at length with Eric on the latest drive thru episode. If you haven't watched or listened to that yet, you can definitely go check that out for my thoughts on that.
00:18:23.426 - 00:18:35.042, Speaker A: Um, but yeah, I think generally, if that you want. If you want to protest this, then just don't use the uniswap front end. Right. Just use any other front end. Basically. There's. There's so many out there and you can use cow swap and you can use matcha.
00:18:35.042 - 00:18:50.764, Speaker A: One inch, um, defi. Llama. Sorry, llama swap. There's so many. Zappa has one as well. I mean, there's so many interfaces now that you don't have to use this. But I think I will say that eventually I expect a lot of these interfaces to integrate their own fees as well into the front ends.
00:18:50.764 - 00:19:34.060, Speaker A: Um, but I think that there will always be a Felix front end available because people, someone will just be like, you know, screw the, the fact that there's fees on the front end. I'm gonna host one that doesn't have fees on it. Um, but yeah, I mean, for the, the newer people, for the people who don't know any better, they're definitely just still gonna use this. And as I said, I expect this to spike to tens of millions of dollars. And maybe towards the like, end of the bull market where it's getting real frothy, they could exceed $100 million of revenue in a week, sort of thing from, from this front end fee, we'll have to see. But I think if the numbers start getting into those territories, you're definitely going to see the other interfaces integrate this because they're just leaving money on the table by not doing it right. And I'm not trying to kind of like, say if this is right or wrong, it's just more of a business decision for a lot of these projects.
00:19:34.060 - 00:20:08.516, Speaker A: Right, where they're basically thinking, well, I'm leaving millions of dollars, tens of millions of dollars potentially on the table here. I'm going to just put this fee in and for them, it's. It's a very simple thing to do. Like, it's not like it's a huge engineering effort. It's very simple thing to integrate into their front end and then it would immediately take effect and I think a lot of their users would be none the wiser about it, but yeah, I think that's probably how it ends up shaking out there. All right, just lastly here, I have a quick shout out to Polar, who released his new book for pre order on Amazon here. So this book is titled Absolute Essentials of Ethereum.
00:20:08.516 - 00:20:30.764, Speaker A: I did have a sneak peek of some of this book. I was talking to Polar in DM's about this. Honestly, I pre ordered this straight away because it's looking like a very, very awesome book about Ethereum. I think that there aren't that many good Ethereum books out there, but I think this one is definitely going to be one of them. And as I said, like it's up for pre order now on Amazon. You can go. You can go pre order it.
00:20:30.764 - 00:21:07.864, Speaker A: I haven't been paid to shout this out or anything like that. I'm just shouting it out because I think that it is, as I said, like a really good book covering a lot of things around Ethereum. And it's definitely going to, is definitely going to up your Ethereum knowledge for sure. And I think it's a good book to recommend to people who maybe don't have any grasp of crypto or ethereum to read as well if they want to learn about it. And it's definitely going to be a lot more relevant in the bull market when we have a lot more new users coming in. Because as we all know, it is quite difficult to explain Ethereum to people. Like, it's like, this is the main problem Ethereum has, I think, is where the most bullish thing for Ethereum is, for it to be understood.
00:21:07.864 - 00:21:38.440, Speaker A: But it's hard to understand Ethereum. Whereas with bitcoin, I think for on the surface level, it can be generally easy to understand because people will just say, oh, bitcoins like digital gold. But if you actually want to understand why it's like digital God or why people think it is, then it becomes a deeper, deeper topic. So I think there's depth to both kind of both ecosystems, but Ethereum is definitely infinitely more complex because there's just so much more you can do with Ethereum. So I think this book is definitely going to help a lot with that. But yeah, you can go pre order this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:21:38.440 - 00:22:30.642, Speaker A: All right, I've got a few more minutes left here of today's episode, and I actually specifically left this because I wanted to talk about something that I'm seeing a lot of ethereums talk about on Twitter, you know, in various other places and especially in the daily way, Discord channel. Now, this is not something that I usually talk about on the refuel or really that often because I don't really think it's relevant. But I want to talk a little bit about the ETH BTC ratio. Now, what this is is basically the ratio that charts eats performance against bitcoin from an asset perspective, not the network perspective, just from the asset perspective. And of course, the reason why people are talking about it a lot lately is because over the last few months, the ETH has been trending down against BTC. And people are kind of questioning this. They're like, why is this happening? You know, I thought the merge and ERP 1559 would make ETH a really bullish asset and would outperform bitcoin, blah, blah.
00:22:30.642 - 00:23:29.074, Speaker A: I wanted to kind of walk through the way I think about this and kind of try to explain to you or at least kind of bring it back down to earth as to why this is actually happening. And I think there's two main reasons about why it's happening, specifically over the last few months, maybe over even like almost last six months, I guess. And I think the number one reason should be obvious to people, but maybe it's not. And it's because for the last few months, I think since June, since Blackrock filed for a BTC spot ETF, the narrative of crypto has squarely been about that. Right? It has all been about that. You can see it on Twitter, how closely people are following this thing. Now, if you're a trader or you're, or you're an investor who likes to kind of like, not necessarily day trade or trade week to week, but you're more of like a month month kind of investor, where you're like, you know what? I'm going to trade this and then swap into this in a few months time, what asset do you think they're going to buy on this narrative, right? Because the narrative is huge.
00:23:29.074 - 00:24:00.154, Speaker A: It's everywhere in crypto. I mean, it's even outside of crypto. It's in tradfi. It's a huge deal. Right? So what acid do you think these people are going to buy if they want to get exposure to the spot BTC ETF narrative? They're going to buy BTC, right? They're not going to buy ETH. Like, I'm, you know, as bullish as they come when it comes to ethics, but I'm not blind to the fact that no one is going to really buy ETH based on BTC getting a spot ETF. It just doesn't make any sense, especially from a, from a narrative trade perspective, and also from a shelling point perspective, because you guys know about the concept of a shelling point.
00:24:00.154 - 00:24:20.818, Speaker A: It's basically a point where everyone kind of like just naturally agrees on. That's the spot. Like, for example, if you're in New York City and you want to meet someone and. And you don't know where to meet them, the shelling point would be Times Square. Just like the shelling point for trading this narrative would be BTC. It's the most obvious thing ever. So because of that, people aren't buying ETH.
00:24:20.818 - 00:24:55.406, Speaker A: Based on that narrative, people are buying BTC. BTC outperforms ETH, right? I don't think there's much of the, the long term ETH investors selling their ETH for BTC. I think this is more of kind of like the short term traders and those kind of more short to medium term investors just playing this narrative trade. And you can see since June, how much ETH has gone down against BTC. I think it's been like, what, 25% or something like that, which is a pretty big fall, right. Even though ETH has gained in USD. Of course, lately it's definitely accelerated to the downside because the BTC spot BTC ETF narrative is heated up a lot.
00:24:55.406 - 00:25:32.410, Speaker A: So that's the first reason. And the second reason is more of, I guess, like a crypto native thing. And it's more about the fact that typically BTC will lead at the start of a bull market, or at the really early stages of a bull market, or at least lead getting out of the bear market. And that's happened a few times now through the cycles, but after that, the rest of the market basically catches up and just vastly outperforms bitcoin in a bull market, including Ethya. And if you want to go kind of like, and look at this from a long term lens, over the long term, ETH is still up massively against BTC. Right? And I'm talking like since inception, basically. And it has been on a general uptrend.
00:25:32.410 - 00:26:31.944, Speaker A: But obviously the weakness over the last few months has been as people kind of questioning things like, you know, why is it so weak? I really honestly think, guys, that it's because of that ETF narrative. And I do think that at this point in time, especially over the last few weeks, the market, especially with BTC going from twenty six k to thirty five k, the market is actually now pricing in the, the BTC ETF's right I don't think they were pricing it in before for one reason or another, but I think they are now. So, ironically, what could end up happening is that the ETF's go live and then eat starts just vastly outperforming bitcoin because everyone's suddenly like, okay, well, the narrative is dead now. There's no narrative to trade anymore. It's real, the products alive. So I'm going to go play another narrative. And what do you think the narrative is going to be straight after that happens? It's going to be, okay, well, when spot ETH ETF, that's the narrative straight away, right? And all it's going to take is some people, some people to keep repeating that narrative for it to become like another selling point of crypto.
00:26:31.944 - 00:26:57.748, Speaker A: And then if we go into, like, a proper crypto bull market, the natural outperformance of ETH against BTC happens as well. And then you can just see ETH outperforming BTC in the bull market there. So that's how I generally think about these things. But as I said at the start, I don't think about this that often. I don't care about this that much. In terms of like a short to medium term perspective. Yes, it does frustrate me sometimes when I'm just, when I go on Twitter and I see people kind of like, shit talking ETH, but whatever.
00:26:57.748 - 00:27:29.926, Speaker A: Like, I, you know, I try to kind of detach that and I try to not become too emotionally invested in that. And sometimes I do. And I. I rant to my friends about and I'm just like, ah, this is annoying. But at the end of the day, like, you guys know I am when it comes to ETH as an asset, and when it comes to ETH outperforming BTC, it's always long term for me and long term being multiple years, like decades, it's not three months, it's not six months, it's five plus ten plus years for me. And so far, that has been the case. ETH has outperformed BTC over that, that long term timeframe there.
00:27:29.926 - 00:28:09.436, Speaker A: But if you, as I said, want an explanation over the last few months, those are the two main things I can offer you. The ETF narrative, which to me is the most obvious thing in the world. Right? Like, as I said, there's no other thing that you're going to really buy. If you're, you know, if you're choosing between B two, C and ETH, you're just going to buy BTC for now, because you're playing the narrative. And the second thing is, as I said, BTC typically likes to lead out of the bear market into the early stages of the bull market, which then flips to ETH, kind of taking over from there and the other assets as well. And I know people will say, well, there's been other assets that have been outperforming BTC and ETH over the last few weeks. Yes, but the market caps of those assets are vastly different to eTc.
00:28:09.436 - 00:28:18.540, Speaker A: Sorry, to. To BTC and ETH. BTC is what, like 600 billion almost. Uh, no, it's more than that now. It's 660 billion. Right. ETH 213 billion.
00:28:18.540 - 00:28:54.720, Speaker A: So those two are much bigger than the next biggest asset that is outperformed, I think, over the last few weeks, which is maybe Solana, which is at 13 billion. Right. It's so much bigger than that. So this goes back to what I've said earlier about this as well, where essentially it's much easier to move something that has a much smaller market cap than it is to move something with a bigger market cap. And also on top of that, BTC and ETH are usually viewed as the same in terms of, like the, the pristineness of the assets. Contrary to what BTC maxes will tell you about ETH being a shitcoin, it's viewed as the same by a lot of people. Right.
00:28:54.720 - 00:29:26.428, Speaker A: In terms of portfolio construction and stuff like that. But if you're a short term, short to medium term trader investor and you want to play a narrative, the BTC spot ETF narrative has been one of the better ones to play. And then if you want to play the next one, people will just sell their BTC for ETH when the time comes, and then you'll probably see it outperform from there. But as I said, not something I usually talk about, but something that I figured was worth clarifying for people today because I've seen a lot of people talk about it before. But yeah, hopefully that gives some color for you guys there. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:29:26.428 - 00:29:33.484, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone. Bye.
