00:00:03.520 - 00:01:10.768, Speaker A: All right, how's everyone doing? And thank you for hanging in for the end of your day here. Hopefully, I've got some interesting things for you guys to hear about today. I appreciate your attention. My name is James Tromans. I obviously work at Google Cloud, and I've been working at Google Cloud for the past four and a half years. But of that journey, I've spent about two years trying to lead our product engineering strategy and operations teams towards a common goal around what can Google Cloud do in the web3 space? Something that's grounded in integrity, something where we can enter this space gracefully, and something which makes sense for the wider community as a whole. Because it's not lost on me that as a large existing technology company, I often get asked, what are you doing in web3? Why are you here? What's interesting to you about this space? And so I'm here today to not only convince you about why we're here and tell you a little about that journey, but I'm also here to tell you very concretely about the things that we've been building, because this has been a great period for building.
00:01:10.768 - 00:01:51.986, Speaker A: And as was suggested before, Nalin, one of the PM's from the team, was here with Anatoly last year on stage, kind of looking forward to what Google cloud can be doing in this space, in the Solana ecosystem. And I'm very proud now to be able to talk to you about what we have been doing for the Solana ecosystem. So that's a little bit about me. I actually had an AI background before moving into web3. Been dabbling for the last ten years, but this is my first professional role. And I joke because when I got off the AI train, the generative AI movement took hold and that ship just went to the moon. So if you want another bull run, I'll let you know when I'm getting off the web3 train again, and we'll get it again.
00:01:51.986 - 00:02:32.446, Speaker A: So, Google Cloud, we've actually been in this space for quite a while, so not everyone knows this. We've been indexing blockchain data for over five years. We've been putting that blockchain data into Google Cloud bigquery, and we've been making that data accessible with the help of the community, actually, for folks who actually don't want to have to run a node or index that data themselves. And we've had a few success stories off the back of that. In fact, Nansen were one of the early companies that helped make that possibility. We've been going to events we've been coming to events like this one. But I have to say, when we went to consensus the first time, we were probably pretty nervous about hosting one of our own events, one of our own side events.
00:02:32.446 - 00:02:53.886, Speaker A: We're trying to get people to the Google office. And so we went, we listened, we learned, we talked to the developer community. But this year, coming to events like this one, it's almost been the opposite. We've hosted some side events, and not only have they been successful, there have been people queuing out the door to come. The women in web3 event that we held in Austin was a particular highlight for me. And so we are now. Thank you.
00:02:53.886 - 00:03:23.302, Speaker A: Yeah, we are now at a position where we feel like, ok, we understand the space. We're an engineering company at heart. Google is just the group of people that like to build stuff, and we open source a lot of the work that we've been doing. So I'm going to talk to you a little bit today about some of that work specific to Solana. So for those of you that don't know, we've been running and operating a validator for the Solana network for a while now. In fact, we were the first validator in Brazil. I think there's three there now.
00:03:23.302 - 00:04:59.388, Speaker A: And that the reason we picked Brazil is because at the time, there were none others there. And it's an opportunity for where we can actually take an existing infrastructure like the GCP network, and deploy nodes in places that are underserved in their communities, right, people that need access to, to these nodes who don't have them through any other traditional means. And so if you think about adding the 100 plus zones that Google cloud has, the 26 undersea cables that Google Cloud owns, and Google owns as a whole, and adding that to the rest of the Internet, that gives you more routes through the network, gives you higher quality traffic, and it lets us do things that perhaps would not be possible if we weren't such a big organization that had made these significant investments. And so our thesis overall is, how do we take the millions of developers that are already on GCP today and bring them to the Solano ecosystem, or the blockchain ecosystem as a whole, and help those folks build in blockchain technology more easily? How do we abstract away the complexity from actually running your own infrastructure and actually indexing this data yourself? If your value proposition is further along the chain, doing something different, building games, building loyalty programs, building the new future of finance, this is where you folks are operating. But not everyone wants to be operating at the base level infrastructure. So we feel that the things that Google Cloud already has under its tool belts can be additive to this space. And so it's with great pleasure that I can also tell you about our startups program that's been around for a while now, but if you haven't taken advantage of it, you really should.
00:04:59.388 - 00:05:38.854, Speaker A: So I'm just going to unpack very briefly what's in there for you, because if $200,000 of Google Cloud credits doesn't sound good to you in this market, then come and tell us what you would like instead. Because in the web3 specific startup program that we've launched, it isn't just access to GCP for all of your developer needs that you might have. We want to make GCP a fantastic place for web3 developers to build, but we also want to do that in partnership with the ecosystem. So if you are selected, the application process is very straightforward. You can just literally go to that URL and sign up. Today. You get access to our partners programs and services as well.
00:05:38.854 - 00:06:19.836, Speaker A: So for example, Alchemy are on there, Solana, we have a relationship there so that you get easier access to their programs. We have third weber on there and a whole bunch of organizations that if you're part of our startup program, you get the benefit of being able to access their goods and services, as it were, as well. So that's up to $200,000 in credits, $100,000 in the first year. There's some constraints, such as you can't have used more than $4,000 of credits in the past and you have to be pre series a. But for the most part it's a very inclusive and very diverse program that lets anyone take advantage and get cracking with GCP. So it's a little bit about the startup program. It's been running now for a while and it's been very successful.
00:06:19.836 - 00:07:06.398, Speaker A: We've had hundreds of startups sign up and I'd encourage you to do so if you're interested. What I want to talk about are some exclusives. As was mentioned earlier today, we have a couple of product exclusives to talk about. So as I referred to at the beginning of the presentation, we've been working in this space for a while and we've been indexing blockchain data for a while. But for the first time today, I'm happy to announce that we now have Solana data fully indexed into Google Cloud Bigquery. And more than just getting access to that data, I'm going to show you a demo right now about just how easy that is and what you can do with that data. And the demo is couched in the context of using Google Cloud because there are lots of developers on GCP today who we want to get using newer technology, different technology.
00:07:06.398 - 00:07:34.614, Speaker A: And so let's have a little look at this demo. I'm hoping that the clicker will just start the video. So you're logged into the Google Cloud Bigquery studio, going to create a new query here. You'll notice again, first time the crypto Solana Mainnet us data sets the blocks table we're just going to select the latest slot from when we recorded this video last week. So you can see that this thing's actually working. So it's the one here ending in my eyes aren't good enough. 7028 there.
00:07:34.614 - 00:08:17.448, Speaker A: And so this is just proving that it works. But we can do a lot more than this. So let's create a whole brand new query again. Now you've probably heard of this generative AI thing. Why don't we have a look at duet AI and SQL query to have an understanding of what that can mean for when you want to start querying blockchain data today. So to save time, we have here typed out show me the pub key and lan ports for bigquery public data crypto Solana Mainnet us accounts. Let's cast the LAN ports as numeric, let's divide it by a billion and let's order this by, well top ten and then order by Lamport's descending so we can have duet automatically produce that query.
00:08:17.448 - 00:08:39.602, Speaker A: In SQL. We can tab to select that query so that it's nicely formatted right there. And we'll hit run. So you'll see. Just to reiterate, we've got LAN ports, we're dividing by 1000, we're casting, we're limiting to ten. And right there within the console you've got the top ten addresses ordered by the number of LAN ports and wallet addresses that you have there. So this is a nice combination of existing AI capability in Google Cloud Bigquery.
00:08:39.602 - 00:09:05.822, Speaker A: But in front of you here we have looka. So for those of you who aren't familiar, looka is a UI building tool that sits on top of a number of different data sources and we have weekly transactions there, a number with wallet addresses. But we can go deeper, we can look at this more. So let's create another dashboard for the creator economy. And we're looking at this for the last week where NFTs are true. And we'll see that if we click on Sunday. The nice thing about this tool is it will cross filter your data for you live.
00:09:05.822 - 00:09:30.510, Speaker A: So that query will run in the background. It will filter by what's going on just on Sundays. And we'll see that the minute collection, one of the most common one used for new builders who are getting into this space. It clearly presents itself right there. And if you look at the times of day, for example, this is just a toy demo to give you a sense of what's possible. You can see that people are kind of doing this in the evenings, late at night, on the weekends when they're hacking away. We can also look at the all time NFT mints.
00:09:30.510 - 00:10:03.408, Speaker A: You'll see the step in token here, maybe, no surprise, 36%. And you've got a whole count there in chart. Up to 900,000 of those have been created. So this is what you can do with the data. But some people, especially business users, still have their penchant for sheets. So we recognize that everyone likes to be met in the tools they're already comfortable with. So you can easily export this data, you can take it into the environment that you like, you can do whatever you would like with it, and you can work with it in the tools like workspace that also have their own AI capabilities being built in as well.
00:10:03.408 - 00:10:46.656, Speaker A: So it's a little bit about the data on bigquery that we're excited to talk about today. Wow, thank you. Yeah, really appreciate the feedback. And so we're also going to talk about the other things that we've been working on. So the second exclusive product announcement that I wanted to mention today for feedback from you guys is our product called blockchain node engine. So for those of you who aren't familiar, as I mentioned before, Nalin sat down with anatoly this time last year, and we were talking about how we were adding Ethereum product for building blockchain node engine for Ethereum. That means that you could come to Google Cloud and through a CLI, an API or the command line, you could instantiate a blockchain node.
00:10:46.656 - 00:11:23.162, Speaker A: And I just want to be really clear about what this means. This is not a solution where you're having to manage the instance, do the DevOps, the site reliability engineering, or download your own open source code and deploy it, and do a blue green patching setup for when things don't go right and you need to upgrade the node or restart it. This is fully managed by Google engineers, and we've now done this for Solana. So I'm going to run a little demo to talk to you so you can see this firsthand about what this means. But ultimately you can now deploy Solana non voting RPC nodes in the regions that we support across Google Cloud. And you can do that without having to lift a finger. And we will take care of all the heavy lifting for you.
00:11:23.162 - 00:11:45.034, Speaker A: So let's have a little look about that demo right now. And again, I hope the video just works. All right, so we're logged in to blockchain node engine. If you just go to Google Cloud, you can select blockchain node engine from the navigation on the left where all the products are. Obviously for me, it's pinned at the top. So right in there I'm going to click create. And we're going to give this a little name.
00:11:45.034 - 00:12:11.704, Speaker A: So we'll call it Breakpoint 2023. And from there you can select the blockchain types that you want. We support Ethereum Polygon, and we're very excited to now talk about Solana, the first non EVM chain. You can specify the network type. So we're going to go for a main net node right now. And then of course from there you can specify the node type for the initial launch and preview. We're supporting the non voting RPC and the block producer validated client is obviously from Solana labs.
00:12:11.704 - 00:12:42.666, Speaker A: So then you can pick your region. We're very interested in feedback on where you would like to be able to deploy your nodes. But these are the three core ones that we support today. And we'll pick Belgium because we're in Europe, why not? And if you had a whole fleet of nodes, you could add labels to help sort manage, metadata to filter. It's a key value pair capability. And then of course when you click create node in the background, that node's coming up online. You'll get a dashboard showing you the active nodes that you're either creating or deleting or running all the kind of crud operations that you'd be familiar with.
00:12:42.666 - 00:13:14.304, Speaker A: So that will change automatically from creating to running when it's ready. And in the meantime, you can see you get a whole bunch of interesting information about the node that you can use, both now whilst you're waiting, but in the future when you're using. So you get your JSON RPC endpoint, you get your websocket endpoint client metrics, endpoint. We'll talk about the API keys because you'll need that. And then of course you get other things like your cpu utilization and all the normal good stuff that one would be interested in observing when they're using a node. So here is an example of the node now running. So let's actually go ahead and do something with this node.
00:13:14.304 - 00:13:40.570, Speaker A: How would you do that today on GCP? So we're going to click the copy to clipboard button that's going to obviously put it on the clipboard. We're going to paste that into the URL section of this readymed curl command. You'll see that we're going to do a get balance on that address, but we also need our key. So all of these endpoints are secured with an API key. The API key is something you create. So we've got one here that we produced earlier. We're going to grab this, put it on the clipboard, and then once that's completed, we can just go back here, paste it in.
00:13:40.570 - 00:14:05.820, Speaker A: We'll copy the whole thing onto our clipboard and paste it into a terminal. And we just want to make sure that this is working. We just want to prove that it's real. So there you go, it's showing us the value for that address. Let's go and cross reference this to some authoritative source. Blockchain is, and of itself authoritative, but we want to show that this is not a Google thing specifically. So we're going to put it into the explorer and we see that the numbers match, which is obviously a very good thing.
00:14:05.820 - 00:14:27.996, Speaker A: I'd be worried if they didn't. So if you're interested in this product and you think that it would be nice to have someone to cast the running nodes for you, you can see the email address at the top here. Please feel liberal to connect like it's real humans. It's our team on the other side. Solana Dash previewoogle.com and just take your time to email us. We'd really appreciate it.
00:14:27.996 - 00:15:43.874, Speaker A: We're really excited to be part of the community and bring this product to market, and we'd love to hear your thoughts on that as well. So to kind of bring this all together, I think from our perspective as a large web two organization, we're in a fairly unique position to help grow the developer ecosystem by not only making these products and capabilities accessible to more people, to the millions of developers that are already on GCP, but we can also help educate the enterprises that we work with and the businesses that we work with to understand how blockchain technology can be best used to solve real world business problems. And so when people ask me, why is Google Cloud interested in this space, I think the reason is because we see the value in the technology. But the technology is only valuable when it's being applied to solve problems that are actually real and problems that people actually have. And Google Cloud is a fantastic melting pot of organizations that have real world business problems. They're already solving them on GCP today. So if we can help them understand in more detail how they can apply the Solana blockchain to solve for their problems in a way that makes sense for them, then I think we're doing a really valuable thing for the community, not just for Solana, but for the blockchain space as a whole.
00:15:43.874 - 00:16:13.518, Speaker A: Running a validator taught us a lot of lessons. I think when we do run validators, we actually do it for about a dozen chains. And in running those validators, we're not doing it because we're interested in it's recognizing the revenue from those things. We're doing it because we want to help secure the network. We're doing it because we want to learn. And by running the Solana validator, you can imagine that the act of doing that informed us on how to run and build our first party product inside blockchain node engine. So these things create a virtuous cycle of understanding.
00:16:13.518 - 00:16:42.002, Speaker A: The engineers that are behind the scenes that are building these things are just like you. They're super excited to be working in the blockchain space. They get to do it at Google and they get to do it at scale. And so it's really rewarding to be able to do that as well. I did want to come back and just highlight the web3 startups program. I can't stress enough how keen we are to give you guys your credits and get you using GCP and testing it, you can apply those credits to your bigquery queries. So we store that data for free, we're storing it.
00:16:42.002 - 00:17:26.395, Speaker A: Once you don't have to store that data, you just get billed whenever you touch it to query it when you're doing something interesting with the data and you can apply your credits to that. Similarly, you can apply your credits to actually getting your Solana node through blockchain node engine. So if you want to go and get a few nodes and you've got an interesting use case with a lot of throughput requirements, you can try that on our preview. Just email Solana Dash previewoogle.com and you can apply those credits there as well. And so as we go forward thinking about what is our role in this space, we're very keen to, to think, ok, well, as Google Cloud running infrastructure and indexing data seems quite natural to us. But what is the third and fourth thing that we could and should be doing? And for that, we're looking for partners.
00:17:26.395 - 00:18:18.544, Speaker A: We're looking for people to say, well, we've got this cool idea. We'd love to put this type of data into Google Cloud and join it with the Solana dataset. Or we'd love to have some sort of serverless architecture where if you're running the node and parsing the data and putting on a message bus, we can help you turn that into a product that anyone could use to go and call a cloud function. Any of these ideas? We want to hear from you because we're excited to know what you're building and we're excited to hear what you're about. So please do reach out to us and let us know. And then I wanted to mention one final thing, if you give me a little more of your attention, that is, as part of our startup program, we actually have a discord channel, which is developers in there building right now, chatting right now, talking to one another, and you can get our engineering team straight up there. You don't have to go on email, you don't have to go some other route.
00:18:18.544 - 00:19:09.394, Speaker A: You can get direct access to Google product managers and Google engineers, and they can answer your questions and they can take your feedback. So concretely, if you're using the Solana preview product, or if you're part of the Google Cloud for startup program, you will get minted an NFT to gain access to a gated Discord channel. And I don't think any other hyperscale cloud provider is doing it the way we are, the more native way. And once you're in there, you get that kind of first party support and communication, not just with us, but with your peers and your community. So we'd really like to see you there. And so, just to bring us home, I'd like to sort of reiterate that we feel that Google Cloud has been building in this space for a long time. We're really excited by the product announcements that we've made today with the bigquery public data set and also for the blockchain node engine product.
00:19:09.394 - 00:19:22.394, Speaker A: And if you're interested in trying them, just give them a go, reach out and we'd love to hear from you. So with that, that's everything I have to share with you today. Thanks for your attention. It's been great to be here. Look forward to hearing from you and keep building. Thanks very much.
