00:00:00.600 - 00:01:03.834, Speaker A: Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to our research client call. Glad so many people made it. Despite the nice weather outside, we prepared a program for an hour, and the general idea of this call is to look back to the last quarter and the publications we brought out in the three months and give you the chance to ask questions, and also for us to try out a new channel for the material we're providing. Before I'm going to the agenda, let me quickly introduce the research team of bitcoin Swiss. Next to myself is Dominic Weibel, who is a crypto researcher working for us already quite some time. And the third person is Dennis Obermann, also a crypto researcher who is also involved in the investment department.
00:01:03.834 - 00:02:10.906, Speaker A: Our goal is to provide professional crypto research to investors that is usable, actionable, investable at best, original analysis, which is very important these days with much information available on the Internet. But it's quite hard to get reliable information online today, especially in the crypto space. So if you're not yet familiar with our publications, I invite you to scan one or both of the QR codes. You can see one is leading you directly to an overview of our publications, and the second one gives you the opportunity to subscribe to one or more of the different publication formats. So the agenda for today is quite straightforward. I will show you two or three more slides because there are also a few updates from the research team, given that this is the first call of its kind. And then we jump directly into the first presentation.
00:02:10.906 - 00:02:53.832, Speaker A: Dominique Weibel will talk about decentralized finance, and contrary to what I just said, that the call is meant to give an overview of what happened the last three months in terms of publication. This will actually be a preview. So glad you could make it to the call. You will see information that will only come out in written form next week. Then I will cover the latest decrypt where we talked ordinals and bitcoin security. I will keep that very brief because I have the introduction as well, to stay on time. And then Dennis will talk about the four editions of the series.
00:02:53.832 - 00:04:11.046, Speaker A: Is the bottom in the crypto and macro, and at the end, you will have the opportunity to ask your questions, and we will be around to hopefully answer them as best as we can. During the entire webinar, you can use the chat function online to ask your questions, but of course, you can also do that at a later point. All right, so let me jump in. One of the reasons why we do all this is because we revamped, we rethought, and restructured the portfolio of our publications, what you can see here, all the dark gray boxes are different formats of publications we regularly publish. Everything with a red border is an entirely new format that started in Q one and Q two of this year. So clients who are with us already for a longer time see familiar names like the Outlook and decrypt and fundamentals, and everything else is new. At the bottom you see the global crypto taxonomy.
00:04:11.046 - 00:05:45.964, Speaker A: The taxonomy is not necessarily a piece of publication you would read as a human. It's more a structure which we use to classify tokens according to their properties from an investor's point of view. And the classification list right above the taxonomy is exactly that. So together with the structural information on sectors and subsectors, we also publish an ever expanding list of tokens which we classify on an ongoing basis. Currently, we have a bit more than 300 crypto assets classified. Then right above, in the middle, you see the investment navigator, which is sort of very new format also in terms of content, because it's only possible to write the investment navigator when you have a taxonomy, because we go through the taxonomy and highlight individual sectors one by one, going through the different editions of a navigator, we started with smart contract platforms, and the next one will be on decentralized finance. Right, top left, you see the crypto and macro report, which is covering, well, global macro, and the crypto market as a whole, which is usually done in the crypto space by looking at metrics and indicators of the bitcoin network, given that it's still the largest.
00:05:45.964 - 00:06:24.984, Speaker A: And yeah, is taken as a representation of the entire crypto market. And on the bottom left, you see the decryption. Probably some of you know the name already. We didn't change the name, but as we revamped the entire portfolio, the decrypt is also now more geared towards investors, is more actionable in the sense of giving information and helping you making decisions. It's still the most crypto native format we have. So if you're interested in new trends and narratives, this is the place to go. And the other one is the outlook and the fundamentals.
00:06:24.984 - 00:07:17.224, Speaker A: I'm not going into that now because of time. And on the right side, you see all the different principles we try to implement in this new portfolio. So we want to be more data driven, have it much more structured using the newly developed taxonomy, and as I said, be more actionable. The design should also reflect this. So we are on the way of introducing new designs for all these publication formats. With each new edition, you may see improvements on that site to also receive feedback on that new publication portfolio. We just launched a survey for all of you.
00:07:17.224 - 00:07:39.164, Speaker A: It was sent out to our clients yesterday, so some of you may have received it and seen it and maybe replied already. So thanks very much to everyone who already did that. It's a very short survey. It has around 20 questions. Most of them are multiple choice, so you just can click through them with the mouse. Less than ten minutes. It's 100% anonymous.
00:07:39.164 - 00:08:27.724, Speaker A: Yeah, we have no idea who is answering and who is not. And it will be live roughly for two weeks until Friday the 4 August and I will share the QR code because it's for clients only at the beginning of the Q and A. So bear with us through the presentations. If you haven't received an email or any other information about the server, you can get the QR code at the end. Another piece of news, and then I'm already done with the introduction, is that we are in Bloomberg. That's very nice and very cool. The research team is very proud that already for a few weeks you can find our publications online in the Bloomberg terminal.
00:08:27.724 - 00:09:02.852, Speaker A: Just search for bitcoin, swiss research, or for investment Navigator, depending on what you're looking for, and you should be able to read it directly out of the Bloomberg terminal. All right, with that, let's jump into the topics. As I said, we will start with Dominic Weibel on the next edition of the Investment Navigator, which is covering decentralized finance. So handing over, cool.
00:09:02.948 - 00:09:52.094, Speaker B: Thank you Marcus for the introduction. As Marcus mentioned, I will today give a brief overview of the next Navigator, which is our quarterly format where we utilize our GCT framework in order to analyze different sectors and subsectors. So the next investment Navigator will deal with decentralized finance. I feel we will publish it next week so you don't have to wait too long. What you find in there is basically a sector overview. We had the same thing in the first navigator, so you have the high level sectors. Then second, we have a sector deep dive into decentralized finance.
00:09:52.094 - 00:10:40.164, Speaker B: Since DeFi is a very diverse field with up to eight subsectors. We have four subsector spotlights. I explain which one within that presentation. Following up, we have some key metrics of the top twelve DeFi protocols and finally we have things to watch and some info from that. I just came back yesterday from the Ethereum CC conference in Paris, so some infos in there are basically very fresh from the hot plate. So decentralized finance is basically the most diverse and dynamically evolving sector of the crypto industry. Aside from smart contract platforms that we covered in the last quarter.
00:10:40.164 - 00:11:32.374, Speaker B: What we have are like eight subsectors, which is exchanges. These are protocols that allow you to swap and trade any cryptocurrency. We have derivative protocols. These allow for options, perp or futures trading based on tokenized derivatives that basically mimic the value of another asset. Or like syntactics, we have credit protocols. These can be protocols where you can borrow or lend your assets, and also protocols that are known as ctps, that basically allow you to mint your own stablecoin using a collateral, a predefined collateral. Then we have asset management, a sector to watch, which we will cover in the next navigator.
00:11:32.374 - 00:12:06.594, Speaker B: It allows you for any kind of on chain tooling for asset management, or different asset management vehicles known from traditional finance, but on chain. Then we have prediction markets. These markets basically allow you to bet on future outcomes, such as sport events or elections. We have insurance. The name is very telling already, basically ensuring DeFi protocols. If there's a DeFi protocol hacked, you can ensure yourself with these tools. Or dapps.
00:12:06.594 - 00:13:03.834, Speaker B: We have liquid staking, a rather new kit on the block, but also seeing the highest growth rate currently. I explain why in the next couple slides. And then we have payment services. These target any kind of on chain payment activity, like Stella or just recently launched knosis pay, for example. On the right hand side, we curated some key metrics of the sector based on the quarterly performance. So within the GCT, which is our taxonomy, the Defi market cap is up to 19 billion right now, but it dropped almost 20, a little bit more than 20%, quarter over quarter. The total value locked is also down a little bit, around 7%, down to 45 billion.
00:13:03.834 - 00:14:00.186, Speaker B: The red bars basically indicate if it's up or down, and the non filled bars are neutral. An important metric to look at is which protocol is is the most dominant one within the sector. In that case, it's lido, a liquid staking protocol. It rose up to almost 15 billion in total value locked, and has now a dominance across the whole decentralized finance sector of more than 30%. Interestingly, funds stolen by Defi hacks are only up 1%. So we are now ranging close to 3 billion in DeFi hex across the whole history. And a very interesting metric to look at is how much is allocated by DeFi when we look at the burnt eve.
00:14:00.186 - 00:14:52.200, Speaker B: So Ethereum is one of the chains that has one of the highest activities across the industry, Defi, and it also has a burning feature. So if you have activity, a share of that transaction fees is getting burned on the Ethereum protocol. And Defi makes up the highest share of burnt eve, 24,000 around in the last 30 days, which is 35% of all ETH burned. So the biggest burner. And that also implies that it has the highest activity. Sorry, these eight sub sectors that you see, four are indicated with red frames. And in the next navigator, we have spotlights on the subsectors with the red frames.
00:14:52.200 - 00:16:00.026, Speaker B: Why did we pick them? A nice survey by Binance research came out in June, and what it told us is that institutional investors, they surveyed 200 institutional investors and the outcome was that the most utilized subsectors are exchanges, followed by derivatives, credit and liquid staking. That's why we chose these four in the first shot to spotlight within the next navigator. Interestingly, Defi makes. If we look at the market cap, exchanges make up almost 39% of the market cap across the whole defi sector. But if you look at the right hand side, there are some other fundamental metrics. When we look at the combined total value locked, actually the credit sub sector is leading with 24 billion and very closely chased right now by the liquid staking sector with 21 billion. That's very impressive in my opinion, since it's a very new sector that is, that is growing at a very high pace right now.
00:16:00.026 - 00:16:56.344, Speaker B: And a second metric that might explain why is so much value allocated to exchanges is the protocols deployed. These are the gray bars. So exchanges actually have the most protocols deployed. And that might, as I mentioned, explain why the market cap for the exchanges is so high compared to others. On the next slide, I give a brief overview on the core developments within each of these spotlights. I know it's a lot to digest, but next week when we launch the full content, you will find way more information on all of these metrics and developments. So basically, let's look top down from exchanges down to derivatives.
00:16:56.344 - 00:17:43.514, Speaker B: On the right hand side, you find key metrics that match these developments. DAX volume quarter over quarter is substantially down more than 20%. But if we look at the decentralized exchange to centralized exchange volume ratio, we see that it's substantially up. And the reason why is. So the Dex two, sex dominance is up to 16.8% now. And the reason why is that we had this very hefty us regulatory clamp down in the United States, and that kind of led to a lot of people moving on chain and utilizing more, more decentralized exchanges.
00:17:43.514 - 00:18:28.954, Speaker B: The second thing I want to cover in exchanges is the innovation we see. It's like very, very impressive. For example, Uniswap just announced their V four and Uniswap X. What they try to do, and it's a movement that we see in a lot of protocols right now, they are trying to become a platform akin to, for example, Airbnb or Uber, and they try to be this liquidity platform for ammonia automated market making services. What else do we see is a lot of developments with solving impermanent loss. Like impermanent loss is something that blocks every liquidity provider. And there are very interesting projects like swap or gamma swap.
00:18:28.954 - 00:19:26.772, Speaker B: Gamma swap, for example, allows you to long straddle on your liquidity position. And by that, basically you hedge impermanent loss that is triggered by high volatile assets. And what we also see is like other approaches outside of Amms, IG mank growth. So basically decentralized or on chain order book exchanges that also grow because we now have more scaling solutions. So these are kind of enabled by more scaling or a broader range of scaling solutions. When we look at the credit subsector, we see that total active loans are up as well, and that despite a decrease in core collateral assets, so outside of stablecoins, and that is basically triggered by liquid staking as well. I explain why soon.
00:19:26.772 - 00:20:11.680, Speaker B: And we also see new business models that just recently we saw that our maker and curve are pumping in price. This is because they are shifting their business models towards more sustainable tokenomics with more rewards based on liquid staking tokens. And also oracle free system is something interesting to watch, like protocols such as Anya. When we look at the liquid staking sector, we see that it's the fastest growing sector by far. And it was enabled by the Chappelle upgrade that enabled withdrawals. Total assets staked up 20%. But what it's also very important to look at is the lido dominance.
00:20:11.680 - 00:21:15.614, Speaker B: So within the whole staking sector, it has 30%, but it's slightly down in the liquid staking sector, because a lot of other competitors are joining right now, which is a very interesting development. So they are trying to get the lido dominance down. Also, decentralized and Lst backed stable coins are absolutely exploding right now, like Libra or Prisma. What they do is imagine you can now use a yield bearing collateral, like a staked asset, use that as collateral to mint a stable coin, and still earn yield on your stable coin. So they are kind of, they are being a huge competitor right now to centralized stable coins, to like USDC, but also now bonds that are coming on chain. And then lastly restaking, where you can restake your stake in order to secure other middleware such as oracles. A protocol to watch is eigenlayer.
00:21:15.614 - 00:21:55.694, Speaker B: Their TVL just pumped up to 90 million. And finally, derivatives, very interesting space. We see substantial innovation there in for example, interest rate derivatives that is also triggered by liquid staking. The derivatives volume is also up around 5%. Options get momentum. This is a space that I feel will see a lot of growth since it's still tiny and traditional finance shows how much revenue it can generate. When we think about Robinhood for example, and also perp innovation is at peak right now, GMX version two is coming and synthetix v three.
00:21:55.694 - 00:22:55.516, Speaker B: And it's very important to understand that these solutions basically thrive because they are enabled by scaling solutions such as layer two. And they meet network effects of Ethereum when they become a layer two on Ethereum. And that is basically why we recently launched arbitrum in the last navigator. We identified that across a lot of key metrics. When we look at adoption on chain metrics or economics, arbitrum actually ranges first with Ethereum, and it's the leading scaling solution on Ethereum right now. And their USP's are they have a very high total value, logged 65% of market share, a lot of debt integrations, 9 million plus unique addresses and very nice technology. So it's not only l two on Ethereum, but they also have palladiums.
00:22:55.516 - 00:23:43.074, Speaker B: These will enable gaming, for example. They are even cheaper and faster. Or arbitrum orbit that allows you to deploy a layer three on top of arbitrum that then settles to Ethereum. And the next catalyst that I recommend to watch out is arbitrum stylus. It allows for other programming languages, permissionless validation, and last but not least, proto dank sharding that will introduce data blobs and l two transactions will become way, way, way more cheap. I know it's a lot to digest, but next week's edition of Navigator will provide more information. And with that, I give back to Marcus Dub on our resource.
00:23:47.734 - 00:23:49.086, Speaker A: You were cut off, but I think.
00:23:49.110 - 00:23:49.742, Speaker B: You'Re still with us.
00:23:49.758 - 00:24:42.354, Speaker A: Tomik yeah, thanks a lot. As I already said, I will keep the next few slides very short, and they will also be less heavy on numbers. So what's the story about ordinals and how do they relate to bitcoin security? Titled that decrypt fee follows function towards a sustainable security model for bitcoin and why we bring these two things together, ordinals and bitcoin security you will see in the following slide. Most of you are familiar with the fact that bitcoin is using this proof of work mechanism to process transactions and to secure the network. So, in fact, energy is protecting the bitcoin network. And the more energy is used, the more energy is needed to attack the. The bitcoin network.
00:24:42.354 - 00:25:42.888, Speaker A: Miners are getting rewards, and they're getting fees from transactions. So each block contains of transactions, including fees, and they include one transaction, which is so called block reward, or the block subsidy, which is currently 6.25 bitcoin, that the successful miner gets every ten minutes. And these rewards are famously halving every four years. The next halving will be in April 24, and then it will be 3.125 bitcoin only, and we'll see how that develops. But the question in the long term is, and therefore, we called it bitcoin's Gretchen frage, what about the year 21 40? So what about the year 21 40? Well, it's the year when the last Satoshi literally will be mined, and then the 21 million are all out there, and then there will be no block rewards anymore for miners.
00:25:42.888 - 00:26:38.774, Speaker A: And the big question is, will miners still have an incentive to continue? And the answer is, well, there are only a few options of how that could happen that are currently discussed. One is so called tail emission. That means you kind of reintroduce inflation. You could say we issue half a percent or a percent or 0.1%. It doesn't matter. Just a small percentage per year on a constant base, literally forever, to recover for lost coins, to have this incentive for miners, another one could be just accepting the fact that this is what it is. And not unlike gold, large holders of bitcoin would just have to pay for the security and for miners to do transactions for them and keep the network alive.
00:26:38.774 - 00:27:43.136, Speaker A: Today you have, if you have physical gold, you have storage costs or transportation costs that are not very small. And considering bitcoin to be this gold 2.0, you could argue for having it organized in a similar way. And the third approach, which kind of would be the most elegant, is that the network is sufficiently used that transaction fees are high enough that it continues to make economical sense for miners to do transactions and to create blocks. And in that context, bitcoin can learn from Ethereum, because Ethereum is that space where a lot of innovation, as Dominic was just explaining, happens a lot of layer two, a lot of smart contract functionality and fees follow function. So when new functionality comes out and users are interested in that functionality and start using it, fees go up. And this is what we experienced in the bitcoin ecosystem.
00:27:43.136 - 00:28:16.004, Speaker A: But before I show that slide here, the graph shows you how much more active other protocols and chains are than bitcoin. Bitcoin. Following this gold 2.0 narrative today is very often, I mean, aside from speculation and short term trading, is used as a, as an asset that you buy and you hold. That's working out today. And fees are very, very small. Very, very small.
00:28:16.004 - 00:29:21.684, Speaker A: But it's not clear that that will hold for forever. So ordinals came around. New functionality was there all of a sudden in January 23 or since January 23, you can do inscriptions. So ordinals, first of all allow you to add or attach arbitrary content to individual satoshis, to individual units of the bitcoin monetary network, and because they have different levels of rarity. So the first satoshi of a block, the first satoshi after difficulty adjustment, the first satoshi after halving, the very first satoshi in the Genesis block, etc. Etcetera. So you can create a logic of rarity and all of these things, ordinals plus rarity, allow you to build collectibles like the nfts we all know it's the same, same logic.
00:29:21.684 - 00:30:14.116, Speaker A: So in the initial wave, most of these inscriptions were images. People just literally copied over nfts from the Ethereum network and recreated them on the bitcoin network, or came up with new ones that are more native to the bitcoin ecosystem. This pumped the size of average transactions considerably and thus pushed fees up. And this spike in fees you can see on the left side in terms of miner revenue, which of course was also increasing quite considerably. A next wave of innovation, if you like, happened with so called BRC. Oh, sorry, that should have been an r, not a t, BRC 20. So that's a play to the ERC 20 token standard in Ethereum.
00:30:14.116 - 00:31:28.554, Speaker A: So BRC 20 tokens use that ordinal mechanism, but not to do nfts and collectibles, but to sort of re implement fungible tokens on top, like a smart contract on Ethereum, can create a normal ERC 20 token that is fungible. A BRC 20 token is realized using ordinal's mechanism to create a different token that is not bitcoin on the bitcoin blockchain. And all of these things led to very fierce debate, and the debate is still ongoing about the freedom of using the blockchain of bitcoin how you like versus misusing the bitcoin blockchain. The decrypt from which I'm summarizing this has an entire page listing the pros and cons. I'm not going into that because of time. But the simple arguments are ordinals are bloating the blockchain and the blockchain is so valuable, we should only use it for actual transactions that are needed. And it prevents other people from doing normal transactions because they become too expensive.
00:31:28.554 - 00:31:56.674, Speaker A: And the main argument on the other side is, so what? It's a permissionless blockchain. Everybody is allowed to do whatever they want. Innovation can happen freely on top of it. And now it's ordinals deal with it. So our take is, yes, kind of deal with it. Like it or not, ordinals will stay because you cannot really stop them or you would need to change the protocol quite severely. And that also raises issue of censorship, which is a no go for the bitcoin community.
00:31:56.674 - 00:33:15.368, Speaker A: So they simply use what segwit and taproot, these technical improvements that were implemented over the last few years, they simply use the new gain functionality based on these two upgrades, however, what could arise stemming from the fact that you now create new and different tokens? Different in the sense that they follow a different economic regime compared to bitcoin native? The problem of MeV could show up because miners now do not have this. Maybe not very intelligent, but very simple heuristic of I go for the large fees. If you have tokens on top that follow a different economic logic, and they are successful and gain in value, attract funding, then miners may act differently and that may affect the stability of the network. So there is a larger discussion behind this. So what to do and in which direction to go. And this is the situation where the bitcoin ecosystem currently finds itself in. There is a group of improvements in payment functionality.
00:33:15.368 - 00:34:03.654, Speaker A: So the most famous and popular one is the lightning network. More recently, Ark is proposed by a bitcoin developer that solves a few of the problems of the lightning network, but introduces other things that are critical. And the third interesting one I think is fedimint. Fedimint is federated mint. So that means communities can put their trust, or parts of their trust, in a subgroup of their community which processes and stores funds for them. So processes, transaction and source funding for them outside of the base chain. And that's the problem, right? The problem is the base chain.
00:34:03.654 - 00:35:08.776, Speaker A: If 8 billion people would like to use bitcoin on the base chain, it would not be possible. And even with lightning alone, it's currently not possible, because to onboard all these people, you need. For every pair of people who want to exchange funds on the lightning network, you need one base transaction. So for 8 billion people, you would need 4 billion base chain transactions, and that would take years to process. So we need to find other solutions and ark and vediment our approaches. The middle category is broader in the scope. It allows more than payments, but the smart contracts that are currently envisioned on the bitcoin network are still less powerful than what we see on Ethereum, with the argument that the bitcoin network doesn't allow as many different ways of programming smart contracts as Ethereum does, which helps in chasing bugs and avoiding problems.
00:35:08.776 - 00:36:10.814, Speaker A: So I'm not going through all of them in detail, just to say stacks and rootstocks are sidechains that offer smart contract functionality. Rootstock is even compatible to the EVM to the Ethereum virtual machine. Liquid is a side chain that is specially geared towards investors. You have confidential transactions and it's optimized for large transactions. RGB goes without a token, which is a very interesting and rather complicated design that promises very powerful smart contracts in the future. And then you may have heard of Taro, which has been renamed to taproot, assets that tries to enable, well, the immediate use case here are stablecoins and then we have the third category which are roll ups. So I'm not going into any definitions in detail what a roll up, especially a zero knowledge or CK rollup, is sufficient suffice.
00:36:10.814 - 00:37:14.284, Speaker A: It's enough to understand that a roll up means you take a bunch of transactions off chain, bundle them together and only send the proof of that bundle to the main chain. There are different versions, different approaches how to do that that have implications on the trust. But the CK roll up sends a validity proof to the base chain, which means it's cryptographically insured that the entire transaction bundle is represented by that proof and the base chain can process it and it's all good and all the transactions are off chain. So that saves a lot of space and allows on the other side to process many more transactions. And also it's more privacy preserving because these transactions are not on the chain. So we recommend to watch this space. Much innovation is happening in many different directions.
00:37:14.284 - 00:37:58.244, Speaker A: Roll ups provide a particular benefits in terms of trust and privacy. Smart contract functionality is emerging, but will take some more time because it's just technically a more difficult, more restricted environment. But in any case, layer two functionality, as soon as it reaches the possibilities of creating new tokens and new economies, emerging may render the bitcoin network into a hybrid asset, and we'll see how that will go in the future. With that, let me hand over to somebody who's talking about what bitcoin, the asset, is today still without DeFi and smart contracts. So over to you, Dennis.
00:38:01.104 - 00:38:34.244, Speaker C: All right, thank you, Marcus. So I'm going to talk a little bit about the Crypto macro series. It has currently been titled is the bottom in? That's actually also the inception of the series. So it started pretty much. Us also asking ourselves in the beginning of January is actually the bottom in for the current cycle of the crypto market. And, yeah, what you can see is a bunch of charts and data and metrics we created in the interim. Already the fourth edition is also coming out in the coming weeks, and I'll jump into a few of these.
00:38:34.244 - 00:39:18.462, Speaker C: The goal mainly, of course, for crypto and macro is navigate the cycles, identify is the bottom in. And what we do, we look at on chain data, we look at cycle metrics. But of course, since crypto is just another asset class, we also have to look at macroeconomic indicators, ranging from monetary indicators, economic indicators, and, yeah, let's jump into the first chart. That's actually Metcalfe's law. We dove deeper into this one in the last edition. What is nice about Metcalfe's law is basically that we try to evaluate bitcoin or the crypto asset as a network. This valuation technique comes also from traditional assets or how to evaluate Internet companies, and it works quite successfully there.
00:39:18.462 - 00:40:37.132, Speaker C: So what we do here, basically in the background, that's the gray line, is using the active address count of bitcoin. So we look at how many users are they actively for the bitcoin network that's in the background. And since we then want to have a clear trend, so to speak, to analyze what should be the price that is implied by Metcalfe's law, we then do a normal regression, a logarithmic regression. That's the curve you see in the background. And if we look at this long term regression trend, it spends a time of almost more than a decade, 13 years, we can see pretty much that the bitcoin price or the market cap, so to say, in that regard, really follows along with this implied network valuation metric. And what's really nice also in that regard is that it does follow, it sort of cyclically, which means that at the tops and at the peaks of a respective bitcoin cycle, or a crypto market cycle for that matter, it really aligns with the implied market valuation that this network valuation implies. So using that trait of Metcalfe's law and the crypto market cap of the market cap of bitcoin, we can derive a nice risk metric to sort of identify when would you expect? Or when is the top very likely for the respective market cycle? And when is the bottom in for the current cycle, of course.
00:40:37.132 - 00:41:28.456, Speaker C: And that's also something we can see then from the risk metric and Metcalfe's law. So we have these long, prolonged times at the bottom with a relatively low risk. Of course, low risk doesn't mean prices cannot depreciate further or fall further, just means we're pretty much in the middle of two peaks at the bottom territory overall. And that's also something that this metric implies overall, is that given the active users that are still left in the bitcoin network, because they also declined a bit after a peak, of course, we still have an implied market cap that's substantially higher than current prices. And therefore, then the risk would also be relatively low, of course, next up. So then also go a bit beyond how we evaluate bitcoin as a network would be to navigate the cycles with the help of inflection points and the general momentum. So how prices change over the long run.
00:41:28.456 - 00:42:07.774, Speaker C: What we have here in the background is the bitcoin price. And then we have two very long, durated simple moving averages. One is the 100 week, which is in the red dashed line, and the black dashed line is the 200 week moving average. And basically, we now have the average price of bitcoin over the term of two and four years. So this very, very long durated moving average, which is basically spanning over two to four years. So roughly from half to one full cycle, the average price, if we now were to divide these two, we get a fractal, and that's the yellow line at the bottom. We already see a nice wave, a very cyclical and reoccurring curve.
00:42:07.774 - 00:42:54.520, Speaker C: And one might now think, okay, if we have this fractal, this moving curve would basically sell at the bottoms or at the tops, which is of course, first of all, it's not a trading indicator, it's just a long term cycle navigating indicator. But it's rather actually these shifts in momentum that we're interested in for this one. So if we were to derive the function of the curve we see at the bottom, then we could tell basically at the point where do we shift from a downward sloping momentum back to an upward sloping momentum. And that's basically these inflection points of the momentum. That is the point if you then want to go deeper into the quantitative part. Behind it is where we go from a convex function part, so one that decreases more and more and we always go faster downwards to one that increases faster upwards on the other end. And that's the point we're basically interested in.
00:42:54.520 - 00:44:09.546, Speaker C: If you now look how this performed in the past, we can see basically that, for example, the cycle bottom between 2015 and 2016, we see this green line marked through the chart. That's basically when the momentum shifts from downward sloping to upwards, which implies that the bearish momentum fades away in the market cycle and we shift or transition to a positive one. And of course, you might now ask, why is it getting bullish if the differential, so to speak, of the momentum is still sloping downwards? Because the positive momentum starts, though already it's getting slower and we're already in the bullish recovery phase. Another thing that's quite notable, of course, is that the bullish momentum fades more rapidly. Therefore, we managed to identify the cycle peaks pretty much exactly, almost within one or two days on point in the past. Whereas then, of course, the, you might call it buy signal, or the momentum shifting bullish in the bear market, shifting not exactly at the bottom, but in a later stage of a bear market. And the reason for that is also then of course, if you look at other factors, it's simply that the momentum needs more push and more force and more buying volumes to push it to bullish in the long run.
00:44:09.546 - 00:44:56.354, Speaker C: Whereas then the selling volume and switching from bullish to bearish at the peaks, that is really this blow off top like peaks that we had in the cycles in the past. The latest flashing of the signal was roughly in end of March, beginning of April, at prices of around 22 500 for BTC. That does not imply, again, for example, we had the double peak in April 21. It does not imply prices cannot go lower, but it means the general momentum, and that still holds true, is shifting from a bearish one to a bullish one. So generally we expect that the market shifts more bullish in the future. That's of course, no implication or direct signal for the prices, whether they go up or down. It's just the long term momentum.
00:44:56.354 - 00:45:49.426, Speaker C: Next up, these were always the nice info boxes we had in the crypto macro report, making the case for crypto, the interlink between crypto, other asset classes and macro as to why crypto assets as a general investment are viable, or maybe even needed in general. Looking at this data, of course, what we have here on the left y axis is the factor returns. So we have a few assets in this chart. The black line, for example, is the return of the S and P 500. So the largest 500 share companies in the United States, followed by the gray line, which is the Dow Jones industrial average. So it's basically the largest 30 industry manufacturing companies in the United States, and looking at the factor return, and basically turned out to rough four x on either one of them over more than a decade, which annualizes to 10.5% and 9.5%,
00:45:49.426 - 00:47:10.872, Speaker C: roughly speaking. But now, if we look and put that sort of into perspective as to what did global liquidity did in the meantime, and global liquidity is, of course, a nice term, but what is global liquidity, actually, or how we proxy it and how you derive it, it's basically looking at all the asset purchases, the balance sheets and liquidity provisions of all central banks in the world. So we're looking literally from russian bank, Swiss Bank, bank of Japan, Chinese Bank, Reserve bank of New York, all these central banks that are important in the world, basically, what are they doing in terms of liquidity provisions? And that sort of implies then also the asset returns, and that is already at 8% annually. So if you look at the largest and also best performing indices amongst them, then the S and P 500 barely managed to outperform the growth of the assets and balance sheets of central banks by 2% annually. So the return that's basically exceeding the liquidity provision induced returns of an asset indices is barely 2% annually over more than a decade, which has been quite well performing as well, because there has been no mayor recession in the meantime. If you compare that to bitcoin, that's of course the long term trend in the background. Yes, we see a return that has a factor of roughly 10 million, which is tremendous.
00:47:10.872 - 00:47:51.314, Speaker C: But we also do not really want to care or sort of inflate the picture, because it has a hypergrowth stage. It started from nothing at inception. So what we did, again is the yellow line. We can look at a period of roughly three and a half years, which would have coincided pretty much with the midpoint of the past bear market, roughly at the end of 2019. So if someone had bought at the last bear market and held until the bear market as of now, then you would still have had a return of 4.2 x, which is 52% per annum. So even if one bought at the last bear market and held until the next bear market, now, bitcoin would have still basically outpaced the liquidity provisions of central banks.
00:47:51.314 - 00:48:53.814, Speaker C: All their asset purchases and liquidity provisions, as well as the mayor stock indices, basically last up. This will be also in the next crypto macro report in 4.0 is basically the total crypto market capitalization, which is color coded by risk metric, that I will explain in a minute and basically apply also a long term logarithmic regression trend to it. And what we can see is that not only bitcoin, but also the market as a whole for cryptocurrencies, really follows this long term logarithmic trend. What we did as well is define the upper band, which is pretty much the top regression. So the absolute cycle peaks in the past as well as a bottom regression band, and then the all time best fit trend line, which is the golden one. And what immediately really sticks out is that it follows the trend very, very sustainably and very reliably.
00:48:53.814 - 00:49:57.396, Speaker C: And another nice trait is, of course, that in these prolonged bear market phases, we are always finding the price or the total market capitalization of the crypto market back between the trend line and the lower regression band. That's also then the point in the chart, but also in the data itself, where we then spend some time, the color coded part by risk. Of course, then we look at momentum, we look at the trend, we look at the strength of the market to sort define when would it be a high risk period, which also then coalesces with the peaks we saw in the past and marked in red, and then the lower risk areas marked in green or darker green. Again, here, high risk does not mean the prices cannot go higher, and low risk does not mean it cannot go lower, of course. But what we see is the combination of the risk metric as well as the long term logarithmic trend for the whole crypto asset market. We can then really identify the peaks in the past. And that's also where we see the dark red areas, the moment those really coincided, while being above the trend line.
00:49:57.396 - 00:50:56.674, Speaker C: Also, especially closer to the top regression, we could really confidently identify the cycle peaks. And conversely, once we hit the green risk territory again. But while we're also below the trend line, this really has been the time to buy in the past. So going just off this one indicator, of course, one indicator is never sufficient to tell the whole picture. We could have also identified then, similarly, the bottom, for example, earlier this year, around the same prices of the inflection points, because we've been below the trend line and we had a low risk overall based on the risk metric, where, for example, the momentum has been fading somewhat in spring. That's also when the risk increased a bit bit, and we've been below the trend line. So overall, this gives a very nice indication of whether the bottom is in or whether, let's say, in the future in a few coming years, whether the next top is in to navigate the cycles and be at least confident.
00:50:56.674 - 00:51:22.304, Speaker C: Is it in general the time to expect a cycle peak or a cycle bottom? And at current times, of course, we know that the risk is on average relatively low to moderate, and we're at times where the long term logarithmic trend of the crypto cycle has been aligned with also very favorable long term prices for the crypto market. Based on the model, of course.
