00:00:00.320 - 00:00:39.574, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of the deli Gray refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesar, and today's 26 August 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So Coinscenter is out today with a detailed factual explanation of how tornado cash works. Now this is quite detailed. I read through it today and I kind of learned a lot about how tornado cash works under the hood in even more depth. I've obviously got a good understanding of how it works, but this goes very, very deep into it and basically has a whole overview of how the contracts work, how things like the relayers work, how the mixing actually works, how the compliance tool works.
00:00:39.574 - 00:01:39.964, Speaker A: Because for those of you who don't know, Tornado Cash actually had a compliance tool that allowed you to essentially prove where the funds were, you know, were going to and where, where they went via a PDF report because of the fact that the compliant, the cryptography powering tornado cache allows you to do that. So, you know, it's kind of funny how far tornado cash went to make sure that they provided everything for, for users and made sure that the users could kind of like protect themselves from certain things. But I mean, you know, we still saw what happened with the OFAC sanctions, but uh, I do want to give a huge shout out here to coin center. They have been so active with uh, I guess like since the OFAC sanctions happened that they've been trying to educate as many people as they can. They've been putting out posts like this and they really are a great non for profit organization within crypto in order to kind of like bridge that gap between crypto and the kind of politics side of things. Right. And the regulation, the law side of things, they've been at it for a very long time.
00:01:39.964 - 00:02:29.832, Speaker A: It's obviously, coin center is obviously nothing new here, but they've been doing a lot of amazing work, especially around tornado cash since these sanctions hit. So I mean, I'm not going to say that you should, that you have to go donate, but as they are a non for profit, they basically are funded through donations. I believe they have an ETH address at Coin center ETH that you could donate to and they typically have a coin grant spun up as well. So I just wanted to give them just such a shout out here because they're doing instrumental work and a very, very important work that, I mean, few of us actually have the knowledge and know how and access to do. At the end of the day, if you want to convince lawmakers, if you want to convince regulators, you got to speak in their language, you got to play in their playground. I can't do that. I mean I have a, have a, an understanding of how things work, but I don't think that would kind of like listen to me.
00:02:29.832 - 00:03:01.430, Speaker A: I don't think I'd be, I'd be able to prepare the proper statements whereas coin center does that. They act as our bridge, which I think obviously is extremely important. I highly recommend going and giving this, this detailed explainer a read. If you, if you just want to learn all about tornado cash and all there is to learn about it and how the tool is not made to enable money laundering. Right. The tool is a tool, it's made to allow anyone to essentially protect their privacy because blockchains just not, do not give us privacy by default. Except, you know, I mean, I shouldn't say not, I shouldn't say all of them, obviously.
00:03:01.430 - 00:03:28.050, Speaker A: Manero and Z cash allow for, for privacy at layer one. But most blockchains out there, especially ethereum, does not, do not give you any privacy. So we need these third party tools or any of these, these kind of like applications that are built on top of these networks to allow it. And, and yeah, I mean, as I said, go give this blog post a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. Alright, so I wanted to highlight this amazing little staking setup here. I shouldn't say little.
00:03:28.050 - 00:03:55.836, Speaker A: It's a pretty big staking setup here that David Theodore shared to super fears. So he's basically got a setup running on Starlink and is powered by pure solar power here in a caravan. So obviously David here is a bit of a nomad and you can see he's set up in his caravan here and you can see the solar panels and you can see basically, you know him kind of. I think this is in Canada, I believe. Is this. No, it's in, it's in. There are different pictures in different places.
00:03:55.836 - 00:04:39.670, Speaker A: So one of them was in Colorado and Forks, Wa. I don't know what wa is. I don't know what state that is in the US. Maybe Washington, northern CA, which I'm assuming is California. But this is just so cool. I mean, as I said the other day, I love that super fears started this trend because there's this popular narrative, I guess, within the wider crypto circles that no one can run an ethereum full node, you know, no one runs, you know, solar, no one's solo stakes, no one's a home validator. Well here you have someone who's literally off grid running validators, and he's not only running mainnet validators, I believe he's running girly validators as well, testnet validators, and also fuzzing a beacon chain clients, which is part of testing the merge.
00:04:39.670 - 00:05:20.010, Speaker A: So I mean, David is just, I guess like the quintessential Ethereum, going off grid, living the life basically as a nomad, visiting awesome places, and you know, still being able to run validators on the network. And if you, obviously, if you go to the stake from home, hashtag, there's a lot of new setups there since I covered it last time. Really, really cool. A bunch. You know, I'm actually surprised by the amount of nukes there are. It's kind of funny because like a NUC, as I explained on, on the last refuel, it's the easiest piece of hardware, I guess, to buy. You can slap like a Dap node on it and just make it super dap node is a, is a, is an, is a piece of software you can slap on it and just make it super easy to stake.
00:05:20.010 - 00:05:48.982, Speaker A: But yeah, there's so many nux, there's raspberry PI's, there's full blown server racks, there's so many. I mean there's avados here, as you can see, which come preloaded with DAP node. There's even some Mac minis and stuff like that. And yeah, I mean, you can see all the setups, which I think is very, very cool. I just love this sort of shit. Guys like you guys know that from day one I had my own pc set up to stake with staking from home. I was a beacon chain genesis validator, and I've added many validators since then to my setup.
00:05:48.982 - 00:06:20.714, Speaker A: I can't think of anything more, I guess, important than being a solo staker on the beacon chain. As an ethereum, that should be everyone's goal. If you're a true ethereum. I know that the barrier to entry at 32 ETH is quite high, but Rockerpool, for example, is lowering that barrier. You can do it with 16 ETH right now, and they're planning to lower that even more in order to run those, those mini pools. Yes, it is not like 100% the same as solo staking and fully sovereign solo staking, but it's close enough, I think. You know, I don't blame people for not being able to get the 32 ETH that is.
00:06:20.714 - 00:06:50.616, Speaker A: That is a very high barrier to entry. It's the highest barrier to entry. And maybe that'll be lowered in the future sometime. But if you do have 32 ETH and you're willing to put it up, I mean, as I've said before, staking is not risk free, but you're willing to put it up for staking, you should always go the path of, of solo staking. In my opinion, it is the best way to stake. Second best, I would say, at this point in time, is probably rocket pool because they just got such an amazing, decentralized setup there. But if you have the 32 ETH required, solo staking is definitely the way to go.
00:06:50.616 - 00:07:18.598, Speaker A: You don't have to go as, as, as all out as David here has done with solar power and Starlink and all that, you can obviously run at, at home. But I guess this is David's home, right? Like, and he's just gone the extra mile. So I wanted to highlight that and talk a little bit about how I think it definitely does reflect, you know, the ethereum kind of ethos of running, you know, on grid or off grid. Running a. No, running a validator. That is what, what being an ethereum means. So very, very cool to see this.
00:07:18.598 - 00:07:46.192, Speaker A: Thank you to David for sharing it. And thank you for, to superfizz again for getting this trend going. You know, maybe. I don't know if he's doing this. If superfizz is doing this, maybe someone should create a website where we can have pictures of everyone's staking setup so just, you know, basically document everything and all the tweets on there so that we can just scroll through it from time to time and see, and just get inspired by how many people are staking from home. Because honestly, I felt inspired scrolling through all of it because it's. It's all well and good for people to say, oh, yeah, I stake at home.
00:07:46.192 - 00:08:05.232, Speaker A: Oh, yeah, I do this. Oh, yeah, I do that. But it's. It's another level to actually visualize it, to see these boxes, to see people's different staking setups, and to see that it really is different for every single person. Like, no staking setups are alike. Just because someone has the same nucleus, someone else, doesn't mean their setup is the same. They could have any number of different setups going.
00:08:05.232 - 00:08:27.736, Speaker A: People get really creative with it, as, as David here has done. Other people have, like, breadboards with raspberry PI is attached, kind of like cable tied to it and linking them all up so you can get as creative as you want with it. At the end of the day, like, you guys have seen my setup it's. I mean, it's just a basic pc. It's nothing over the top, but I put like a figurine in it, I put a little car in it, and I put it like a metallic sticker on it. So I made it my own. Like, that's the whole point.
00:08:27.736 - 00:09:11.100, Speaker A: You make it your own and you are contributing to the security, decentralization, and just wellbeing of the Ethereum beacon chain, which obviously is very, very cool. But yeah, I'm going to move on from that. Just wanted to highlight it for everyone today. All right, so I missed this a couple of days ago, but Kane Warwick from Synthetix has put out this tweet where he said the other day I found out that EIP 4844 effort is bandwidth constraint, and this is the proto dank sharding effort. The same thing happened in the early days of 1559 work in 2019. I spoke to Tim Biker and offered to help bounty fund bounties with up to 100,000 SNX. I just sent out the first batch, so that's about $300,000, I believe, at current SNX price, so it's nothing to scoff at.
00:09:11.100 - 00:09:48.246, Speaker A: And you can see on etherscan here the transaction that it's. That the first batch has been dispersed out, which is very cool to see. But yeah, Cain was pretty instrumental in getting ERP 1559 across the line with, or I guess, like, getting work to actually begin on it in earnest because of the fact that there was, you know, bandwidth constraints and there was money constraints and all that. And he's using his platform and he's using things like SNX, which I assume is his SNX, to get the ball rolling here. And this is, this is, this is really cool that he's gotten the ball rolling on 48, 44. You know, I don't have any timeline still on proto dank sharding. I feel like it's kind of funny.
00:09:48.246 - 00:10:17.014, Speaker A: I was thinking about this just before. The merges is very, very close now, but it's kind of. We're just waiting at them at the moment. Like, the main net clients are out, they're all published and everything like that. Besides the geth bug, I think the rest of them, the rest of the core devs are probably just, you know, doing run of the mill testing, doing kind of like as much testing as they can and make sure everything's all well and good. But other than that, I feel like people are itching to move on to the next thing. They want to be able to work on the next upgrades coming to Ethereum.
00:10:17.014 - 00:11:02.596, Speaker A: Now that the merge is pretty much done, we're just waiting for it to be activated on Mainnet and ERP 4844 is at the forefront. Obviously we need beacon chain withdrawals, and I think recent advance has showed us that we need them much sooner than, than we otherwise would have. But that's like a relatively basic thing to do. I think the only holdup with beacon chain withdrawals is that they want to see the chain running for a while under proof of stake before they, they do another hard fork or do another upgrade, which is fair enough. Right. And they obviously want to give the core devs a time to kind of like step back a bit, take a break, because they've been working so hard on the merge for so long. But AIP 4844 is definitely something that should be at the very top of the priority list here, simply because we have the window opportunity right now where the market's quiet, it's a bear market.
00:11:02.596 - 00:11:46.290, Speaker A: The, you know, the usage is relatively quiet, so we can get this out by the time, you know, if the bull market comes back next year, hopefully by early next year, we have proto dank sharding live on the network, and then we have those very, very cheap transactions at L2. Because in my mind, the worst thing that could happen for Ethereum is that we have these L2s live, but layer one hasn't kind of given them what they need through proto dank sharding. And we have these massive influx of users again, and they still don't get the benefits of, of L2. I think that could, that that's one of the worst things that could happen. Now. Do I expect the bull market to come back anytime soon? I have no idea. I think that arbitrum has proven, and optimism, I should say, as well, has proven that just because it's a bear market doesn't mean that they can't satisfy their activity.
00:11:46.290 - 00:12:13.360, Speaker A: I mean, you saw arbitram saturate its activity very, very quickly via the Odyssey program, and that's restarting soon. Nitro is a week away from, from today, less than a week away from today. So I'm assuming Odyssey is going to restart shortly after that. And they're kind of like just filling up that capacity. Like, you can't just see, this is the thing with, with scaling, and this is the thing with offering more block space. You offer more block space, especially valuable block space, especially ethereum block space. Right.
00:12:13.360 - 00:12:44.670, Speaker A: You offer more of that, developers are going to fill it, users are going to fill it, and then you just back to square one. That's why scaling is a never ending thing. Like, we're never going to get to a point where like, okay, ethereum scaled enough, let's not, you know, let's not scale anymore. It is a constant thing. Scaling layer one, scaling L2, and all the other stuff around it, right. That I know starkware has been talking about layer three and layer four and things like that, but it is an ongoing process just because people say, oh, it's L2 summer, or it's this summer, that summer at the end of the day. Like Defi Summer wasn't just a kind of one time thing for Defi.
00:12:44.670 - 00:13:07.038, Speaker A: Like obviously defy summer was very, very active and there was a lot going on. But Defi building hasn't stopped since then. There's a lot of innovations that have come out. There's a lot of defi products that have gone live since then. You know, obviously most of them fail because that's just the way it is with, with things. Like most things end up failing, but the things that succeed and continue to succeed, such as Uniswap, as the quintessential example, is doing amazingly. And they're there.
00:13:07.038 - 00:13:53.604, Speaker A: I'm sure v four is going to be out soon, sooner rather than later, at least be announced sooner rather than later, which is, you know, obviously going to probably change the game again. I think Uniswap's got a good track record there, but, but yeah, I think we need 48 44 ASAP. I don't think we're getting it until earliest, early next year. I think Beacon chain withdrawals might come as its own separate hard fork, which would mean that we might not get pro dang sharding until Q two at the earliest next year. So we're going to have to see, I'm just literally throwing out dates right now, uh, with not much context behind them. Uh, it's not like the merge dates that I used to throw around where I actually had context behind it. Until the merge is done, until a few weeks after, I don't even think I'm going to have an any sort of accurate picture on what's going to happen here because I don't think that the core devs even have that.
00:13:53.604 - 00:14:16.284, Speaker A: They know what they want to build, they know what they want to do, but it's all about priorities. And I think, as I said, beacon chain withdrawals have been, have become a bigger priority than they once were. But so is ERP 48, 44. So is scaling like that. That's the problem with things that are all high priority. You have to kind of, you know, put something as like critical priority. And I don't know if I consider beacon chain withdrawals to be critical priority at this point.
00:14:16.284 - 00:14:58.694, Speaker A: Yes, they are high priority, but I do think that 48 44 is, is, is just as important. But we'll have to see. As I said, I'll keep you guys up to date on any kind of context around dates that I come across. But right now it seems that everyone's just waiting for the merge, holding their breath, wanting the merge to go well and go smoothly and then we can move on to talking about these next upgrades that are coming after the merge. All right, so a new update out of oblabs here today. So Ashin on Twitter posted surface saying, surfacing today after a crazy last few weeks to say we have released Charon version 0.1. This is our biggest release jet and he's based on everything we've learned from rolling out our first testnet Athena.
00:14:58.694 - 00:15:43.962, Speaker A: So you can go to GitHub and check out the release here, but you can read Oshin's thread here as well for a description of what, what happened here. And I'll read a little bit just to give you an idea. So he says over the last month we've had 100, over 100 distributed validated clusters created by our community and most of them have been able to get up and are testing on Gully. It is hugely encouraging to see something you have worked on so hard on get picked up and loved by ego enthusiasts. The biggest feature in this release to flaunt is Sharon now supports blinded beacon blocks and MeV Boost. Shout out to Sierra Sierra and Yep for the hard work on this and the Teku and Lighthouse teams for assisting. We've also spent a huge amount of time improving Charon self healing such that it can handle boot node failures better, which you've had to deal with a lot over the last month due to unprecedented demand.
00:15:43.962 - 00:16:14.392, Speaker A: Very, very cool to see that this DVT from Obel is coming along very nicely, it seems here, I think that this blinded beacon blocks. I, I haven't heard of that before, but I wonder if it's got to do with, with the shadow rise beacon chain I spoke about the other day. If I just google blinded beacon blocks, I'm not coming up with anything here. No, it's coming up with minecraft results. Okay, so that's not relevant there. I wonder what that is. I actually have to have to see what blinded, what blinded beacon blocks is.
00:16:14.392 - 00:16:29.394, Speaker A: So because I think that that sounds like the shutter eyes beacon chain. And what I mean by that, it sounds like you may be able to have. No, maybe not. I don't know. I'm just speculating here. I'm not going to kind of like go too deep into that. But maybe it's on the GitHub if I go here.
00:16:29.394 - 00:16:54.860, Speaker A: GitHub? Mmm. Blinded beacon blocks anywhere? No. Maybe it's an herbal specific thing. I'll have to kind of like look into that and get back to that. But very cool to see that version one out is out here of Sharon, which is, which is kind of like Opals technology here. And DVT is going to obviously play a very big and important part post merge with staking. It's something that's going to help a lot with decentralization of the beacon chain.
00:16:54.860 - 00:17:37.202, Speaker A: And I mean, as a practical example here, basically what this allows for is that you can retain ownership of your and custodianship over your keys when staking, but you can outsource the staking to a centralized exchange, like Coinbase, for example, and they can run the validator for you. So I think that's the simplest example of this. But it's, it's a really powerful one because it means you don't have to give up custody of your ETH when kind of like staking here. Yes, there's still obviously slashing risk and things like that, but it means you can kind of keep the keys on your own. You can exit at any time without needing permission from the, I guess, staking service provider to exit. Now that's going to be mostly important post withdrawals. But yeah, this technology is very, very important.
00:17:37.202 - 00:18:03.046, Speaker A: So great to see this latest release here. So if you're looking for some beacon chain decentralization data, Superfizz has a list of websites here that will give you everything that you need. I have gone through a bunch of these websites on the refuel before, such as eatsunshine.com, client diversity.org and a bunch of others here. This was Project Sunshine, which has got to do with measuring the health of ethereum decentralization. I remember highlighting, highlighting this a while ago.
00:18:03.046 - 00:18:43.794, Speaker A: So it measures things like consensus client diversity, execution, execution client diversity, and a bunch of other things like geolocation diversity, staking pool diversity and stuff like that, which I think is obviously very important. Like if we want to, you know, ensure that we have these healthiest beacon chain possible, we need to be able to monitor metrics and have accurate metrics and also educate users on how they can help improve the metrics too. So that's the project sunshine client diversity.org is that website that I kind of went through the other day going over what client diversity looks like on both the consensus layer and execution layer. We all know the execution layer needs some work here, but that's going to be a focus post merge. And then there's a bunch of others like Raider.net work, Ethereum pools, beacon chain.
00:18:43.794 - 00:19:17.674, Speaker A: Like, you can go check this out, I'll link them in the YouTube description. But these are ways to keep up with the Ethereum Beacon chain specifically and things that surround that and things that surround proof of stake. So definitely go check all those out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Eleanor here from a 16 crypto has announced that a 16 Z is committing $300,000 for open source developers in the next round of Gitcoin grants, which is Gitcoin grants around 15, which is happening next month on September 7 to September 22. This is awesome. I love seeing big name VC's like a 16 Z giving back here.
00:19:17.674 - 00:19:54.414, Speaker A: That's a, that's a, that's a healthy chunk of change. Yes, I know a 16 Z has billions of dollars and all that good stuff, but at the end of the day, like $300,000 is, is quite large for something like this. And this is just one thing that they're doing. I think it's kind of funny because a 16 z and these big name VC's, they cop a lot of flack for their investments and they do invest in a lot of things. And inevitably, you know, some of those things are not going to be, you know, great investments, not going to be things that we agree with. I do want to make two notes here. One, they have a lot of money from the rounds that they raise and they have to deploy that money.
00:19:54.414 - 00:20:26.342, Speaker A: If they don't deploy that money, the investors will take that money out and go elsewhere and, and then a 16 Z loses business, so to speak. Right. So they have to deploy that money. And that means, you know, when they've raised billions and billions of dollars, putting money into basically everything that is even half decent. Right. And then secondly, they do a lot of work outside of crypto from what I can tell, especially on like the regulatory side. And because they have so much money and they have connections, they can do things that we may not ever be privy to but have that paid dividends.
00:20:26.342 - 00:20:54.612, Speaker A: And there's also things that we are privy to, like them committing $300,000 to open source developers on Gitcoin grants. So I sometimes kind of get annoyed when people, I guess like put all the VC's in the same bucket, so to speak, because there are extractive VC's out there. I mean, I've gone on record before and I've made fun of them on Twitter a lot. Multi coin capital, for example. They're very extractive, I believe. I don't think that they really are net positive for the ecosystem. They extract a lot more value than what they put in.
00:20:54.612 - 00:21:17.760, Speaker A: Uh, it's kind of, it's kind of hard to quantify this as well. But I think. I don't think I'd bucket a 16 Z in there. I don't think I'd bucket paradigm in there. I'm just thinking of like the big name VC, the really big name VC's, there's a bunch of others out there as well. Um, but when you're looking at these sorts of things, like, I know it's easy to say all VC's are evil, but I don't think they are. And I think that a 16 Z didn't have to do this.
00:21:17.760 - 00:21:52.190, Speaker A: They didn't have to send $300,000 to get coin grants here and kind of basically donate it to them here. So I'm really happy to see this. I hope they continue to do this because this is going to go towards funding public goods, which you guys know, I mean, if anything, on public goods, maxi, right at the end of the day, so good, good to see this, but I'm always curious to hear what you guys think. Like, I'm not trying to defend anyone or put anyone on a pedestal here. I'm not an investor in a 16 z myself. I pretty sure I've co invested with them on various projects, but that doesn't change my opinion or anything. I just want to see more nuanced.
00:21:52.190 - 00:22:17.794, Speaker A: Takes a lot of the time when it comes to, to investors, especially ones that are giving back to the community. That's critically important. We need to support that as well. So, yeah, I guess, like, thank you to a 16 z crypto for doing this. Really, really appreciative of it. All right, so compound has announced today that compound v three, I guess, is live. So compound v three is a streamlined version of the protocol with an emphasis on security, capital efficiency and user experience.
00:22:17.794 - 00:22:57.966, Speaker A: This is the largest upgrade compound has done in quite a while. Compound has been quiet for a while. Right? Like, they obviously kicked off DeFi summer in May, June 2020 with the comp liquidity mining, and they were instrumental in just DeFi summer becoming as big as it was. But in terms of like their strategy over the last couple years, I haven't really agreed with it. They tried to do their comp chain thing, which didn't materialize. They've been very slow to deploy to other networks, whether they be a L2s or side chains. And now they've come out with v three very, very, you know, I guess like very, very long after v two.
00:22:57.966 - 00:23:33.268, Speaker A: Now that's getting that out of the way. I still think this is a pretty cool upgrade that what they've kind of, kind of done here. So it basically includes advanced account management tools for developers and new UX for applications to be built on top of the protocol, like a starter interface, as you can see here. And there's a bunch of markets that have been launched with, with, with compound v three that allow you to borrow USDC using ETH, WBTC, link, Uni and comp. And over time, the protocol will support more assets on more blockchains. So as I. As I've talked about before, they are planning to expand to other L2s and layer ones and side chains.
00:23:33.268 - 00:23:53.428, Speaker A: They've just been kind of slow on that front there. And, and yeah, this is, this is, this is live right now, which is which. Very live on the Ethereum mainet, I should say, which is. Which is very cool to see. See, um. And I think the biggest upgrade, as you can see in the second tweet here, is that in collateral remains your property, so nobody else can borrow or withdraw it. It's safer.
00:23:53.428 - 00:24:32.094, Speaker A: While you won't earn interest on the collateral, you'll be able to borrow more with less risk of liquidation and lower liquidation penalties while spending much less on gas. I think that's a pretty big feature because as I've mentioned before, in a lot of these money markets, when you put the collateral in and then if that collateral goes to like 100% borrow, then you have to wait until some of it gets paid, paid back for you to withdraw and it can become like a. You could be locked into a position for a little while there, depending on market conditions. So this is really cool. And, you know, I kind of like was saying that compound moves slow. I don't actually think that's an overall negative. I think you want certain projects to move slow instead of moving really fast and trying to add everything just for security reasons.
00:24:32.094 - 00:25:10.330, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day, in terms of, like, I would have to say in terms of where I'd put my money and to borrow against it, I still think for me, maker would be number one. I would. I would still put my ethan to make, I'm borrow against it on there because I think maker would be the most secure. But then compound and Aave pretty much tied, I think, for me, I've used both of them. I've used, I mean, I've used like all of these kind of money markets, and it's just about what I feel most comfortable with based on a variety of factors. And I would say that makers definitely first and then compound and Aave would be tied for second here. Um, and I think aave even, I mean, even Aave doesn't move that quickly.
00:25:10.330 - 00:25:27.874, Speaker A: They'd be much quicker to deploy on other chains. But in terms of major protocol upgrades, they still move relatively slow. I think compounds are the slowest of the bunch. Maker is definitely the slowest of the bunch. But, but compound is, is probably the second slower step. But again, that's not necessarily a bad thing. Slow and steady, secure.
00:25:27.874 - 00:26:00.874, Speaker A: And making sure that the protocol doesn't get hacked or exploited and people who don't lose money is a very, very important thing. Um, but yeah, that's why it's probably taken so long for compound v three to come out. But it's live now. You can go use it. Uh, and I'll link it this in the YouTube description below for you to learn more about it. I finally, here we have the arbitrum nitro whitepaper that has been published, uh, just in time before arbitrum nitro goes live on mainnet. So you can actually go here, download the PDF, or just read it on GitHub and see the entire, I guess, like nitro.
00:26:00.874 - 00:26:23.286, Speaker A: All the details about nitro here. Now, they're calling this a second generation optimistic roll up. So this is not just like a small upgrade, guys. Nitro is an absolutely massive upgrade for arbitrum. That's why it's taken so long for it to come to mainnet. But you know what's funny? I was thinking about this the other day. Not only has arbitrum done nitro, they've also done arbitrum nova, which has Reddit using it.
00:26:23.286 - 00:26:43.730, Speaker A: Right. And that's actually gaining traction as well. So they're hitting it from multiple fronts right now, which is very, very cool. They're managing their ecosystem very well. They don't have a token yet, and they still have a lot of usage, which is very impressive, I must say. And they just keep, they just seem to be kicking all the right goals here, which is very, very awesome to see. So if you want to read the white paper, I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to do so.
00:26:43.730 - 00:27:09.172, Speaker A: It's not that long. It's not that dense either. I think it's only about 15 pages, so you can go check that out. If you've read a white paper before, you know exactly what you're getting yourself into. Be very cool for them to publish this just in time for arbitrum nitro here, which, which I'm super excited for personally. And I hope they restart odyssey rather quickly so I can get back at it because I was having a lot of fun on it. And then it basically got paused because of the network hitting low.
00:27:09.172 - 00:27:22.956, Speaker A: And I totally understood that it hasn't actually been that long. Right? It's only been a few weeks since they paused it, I believe. So. It's good that they were able to get nitro out relatively quickly. And I can't wait to see it go live. I can't wait to see them scale up and I can't wait to see all the L2s continue to scale. Right.
00:27:22.956 - 00:27:43.350, Speaker A: Like obviously optimism. Bedrock is coming towards the end of the year. ZK sync ZkvM mainnet is coming within like 60 days or something. Polygon has their ZkVM coming to Mainnet. Hopefully by the end of the year as well. Scroll has their ZkVM stuff happening too. Like there's too much happening in the L2 space now for me it even keep up with anymore, which is amazing.
00:27:43.350 - 00:28:11.566, Speaker A: I love it when that happens. So I will obviously be covering it on the refuel. But I'm super excited to see all this stuff. I think we're going to get like a really strong close to the yard and the L2 front. And leading into next year, hopefully the, I guess, market heats up again so that we can get more users in and hopefully we have, you know, that, that scale there for users to take advantage of so they don't have to go to other chains. They can stay on Ethereum. They can get all the benefits of Ethereum with the cheap and fast transactions, which is what we all want at the end of the day.
00:28:11.566 - 00:28:21.694, Speaker A: But I think on that note that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
