00:00:00.330 - 00:00:36.882, Speaker A: Hey everyone, I am Uttam Singh and in this video of Polygon Defi guide playlist I am going to show you how you can deposit or bid your token from Ethereum to Polygon via Polygon bridge. So if you haven't checked out the Polygon Defi guide playlist yet, go and check it out. And now let's get started with our video. But before that like this video and subscribe to the channel if you are new and also hit the bell icon as well. I am on Polygon wallet. As usual, the link to the Polygon wallet is in the description of this video. So you can visit the description and you can click on the link and you will be redirected to the polygon wallet.
00:00:36.882 - 00:01:10.478, Speaker A: And this is how the Polygon wallet looks like. You will have an option of Polygon wallet. You will have an option of Polygon Bridge. You will also have option of polygon staking and a widget dashboard. In this video, specifically we will be using Polygon bridge, but I will create another video for you guys to know how you can use all these four apps. Right now let's get started with our video. But before that I want to clear you that right now I'm using the Polygon testnet wallet, right? So there are two wallets, one is on the main net and the other is on the testnet.
00:01:10.478 - 00:01:47.722, Speaker A: So right now I'm using the Testnet wallet and there is no difference between these two wallets. Both the wallets works same to same, but one is on the testnet and the other is on the main net. Right? So the process for bridging your tokens from Ethereum to polygon is going to be same. Okay, so the first thing here you need to do is connect to your wallet. So on the top right corner you will see a button that is connect to wallet. Click on that button and if you have installed your wallet, that is metamask, you can choose between different wallet, metamask, coinbase wallet, bitsky wallet and wallet connect. So as of now, we have installed Metamask.
00:01:47.722 - 00:02:33.050, Speaker A: And if you haven't installed metamask, check out my last videos of Polygon Defi guide playlist in which we have installed Metamask and added Polygon network to the Metamask. Right? So now click on the metamask wallet and then if you have installed metamask, the metamask notification will pop up and it will ask for your permission for sign in. So click on the sign button and you are allowing the site to log in via Metamask and now you have to wait for confirmation and then you will be again redirected to the Polygon wallet. And there you can see that now you are logged in with your wallet. That is your account, right? So now you can click on the account. And there you can see that it is your account number and account address. And you can see your QR code as well.
00:02:33.050 - 00:02:55.534, Speaker A: And you can also click on the logout to log out whenever you are done. You can also see the app. So these are only the four apps that are in the apps. And if you want any of the help, you can click on the support button and you will be redirected to the support website. And here you can create a new support ticket. And you can also read those faq if you need any of the help. Right, now let's use Polygon Bridge.
00:02:55.534 - 00:03:27.338, Speaker A: So click on Polygon Bridge and you will be redirected to the Polygon bridge. And this is how it looks like. One of the button is deposit and the other is withdraw. So in this video we are going to focus on the deposit. And in the next video of this guide and this playlist, we will focus on the withdraw. Right? So now let's deposit our token from Ethereum to Polygon. And here, as I said that right now I am on Polygon testnet, right? So that's why it is showing Goreli chain and it is showing Mumbai chain, which are the testnet for Polygon and Ethereum.
00:03:27.338 - 00:03:59.638, Speaker A: But when you are on the live testnet, that is on the live wallet, that is on the main net, right, you will see Ethereum chain and you will see the polygon or matic chain, right? So now let's select your token. So if you want to transfer ether to the Matic chain, then select ether. So right now we have 0.2 eth in our wallet. So we will click on the ether button. And then if you want to transfer your money, like how much money you want to transfer, you need to write it down here. So as of now, I want to transfer like 0.2,
00:03:59.638 - 00:04:29.522, Speaker A: right? So I want to transfer 0.2 e. And if you want to transfer all of the amount, just click on the max button, right? So yeah, now we are transferring our 0.2 e from ethereum to polygon, right? And now let's also click on the transfer button. So now we are transferring 0.2 e from ethereum to polygon. And the transfer mode is pos bridge, right? So click on the transfer button and then you will see something like that.
00:04:29.522 - 00:05:14.542, Speaker A: What's supported and moving fronts from ethereum to polygon. Yes, we are moving it and what's not supported that is delegation to validator. So if you are doing it for the delegation or staking purpose, you don't need to do it here, you have to visit the staking UI where you have to do it from there, right? So now click on the continue button and you will see that it is showing that deposit forces for ether consists of single transaction and the estimation of total gas required for this transaction is you can see dollar 56.74 and this is the complete deposit transfer fee. Right? So click on the continue button and then it will again ask you to confirm your transfer. And that is from Gorill network to Mumbai network. Yes, from ethereum to Polygon and the amount is 0.2.
00:05:14.542 - 00:06:10.446, Speaker A: Ether, that is in dollars is transfer mode is pos bridge and it will take around 3 hours when you transfer your tokens back to ethereum. Right, and the estimated transaction fee is $56.74. So click on the continue button if everything is all right and then you will see a metamask notification that is a pop up of metamask and it will ask for your transaction amount, right, so let's wait for metamask to load and our metamask is loading. And now you can see that metamask is asking for your permission to confirm the transactions, right? So you can see all the information that is we are transferring 0.2 ETH and the estimation gas fees is zero point 64 ETh, right? And the total gas fees. You can also see the total gas fees as well. So if you have confirmed all these, click on the confirm.
00:06:10.446 - 00:06:46.078, Speaker A: If you don't want to confirm this, click on your reject. So everything is all right as of now. So I am going to hit the confirm button and after you hit the confirm button you will see something like this, that your transfer is in the process and the transaction is also in the process and Ethereum transaction can take longer time to complete based upon its network congestion. Then please wait or increase the guest price of the transaction and I don't think so. We are required to do so. You will wait for a few seconds and it will automatically come. Meanwhile, if you want to see your transaction on ether scan then you can click on view on Etherescan button and you will be redirected to the Etherescan website.
00:06:46.078 - 00:07:27.190, Speaker A: Now let's get back to the Polygon web wallet and there you will see that your transaction is now confirmed, your transfer is en route and it will take around seven to eight minutes for the deposit to get completed and on completion your valence will be updated. And again, you can also see it on the Etherescan website and it will take around seven to eight minutes to complete your deposit. So let's wait for seven to eight minutes. Meanwhile, you can click on this cross button. Click on that one pending button above and there you will see all your transactions. So here all your transaction will be mentioned, whether it is deposit, whether it is withdraw. Right? And now click on that pending tab.
00:07:27.190 - 00:07:55.470, Speaker A: So after you click on the pending tab, all your pending transactions will be visible here. So right now we have one pending transaction. That is, we are depositing 0.2 eth from Goreli to Mumbai, that is from Ethereum to Polygon. If you want to see your transaction hash then this is your transaction hash on the Ethereum chain. And if you want to redirect to the ether scan again, you can click on this button as well. Now let's wait for seven to eight minutes to get our transaction completed.
00:07:55.470 - 00:08:31.900, Speaker A: Your transaction is now successfully completed. You can see the green tick here as well that your deposit from Ethereum to Polygon has completed. Now let's move again to the Polygon bridge and there you will see that your Mumbai chain that is on the Polygon chain has now the balance as 0.2 e. Right? So your transaction is now successfully done and you have moved from Ethereum to Polygon. So thanks a lot for watching this video. If you found this video useful, click on that like button and also subscribe to the channel and hit the Bell icon and stay tuned for the next video.
