00:00:00.560 - 00:00:40.358, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesano, and today's the 11 December 2020. Alright everyone, let's get into it for today. So some big news out of JPMorgan today. Not sure if it's Ethereum based news, but basically what they announced was that they have executed a blockchain based repro transaction using JPM Coin. Now for those who don't know, JPM Coin has been this thing that's been in the works for quite a while, basically like a stable coin for like inter bank payments and things like that. It was announced quite a while ago, it might have even been announced last year.
00:00:40.358 - 00:01:09.920, Speaker A: It's, yeah, it's been around for quite a while. But basically they announced that they had executed this, this repo transaction and apparently it plans to make the product available to external counterparties as well. Uh, people, you know, other companies like Goldman Sachs and things like that. But I don't think it actually mentions what blockchain they used. I don't think they use the public chain. They would have used a private implementation. And JP Morgan has, you know, toyed around with private Ethereum in the past.
00:01:09.920 - 00:01:45.368, Speaker A: They built like an entire kind of um, private Ethereum, uh, implementation called quorum, for those of you might be familiar with that. Um, I think consensus ended up acquiring that a little while back. I might be wrong there, maybe I'm misremembering, but that was like what they had done, so that they're not like unfamiliar with Ethereum. And if I had to guess, this was probably built on something like quorum. But they don't really go into specifics here from what I saw. So hoping to get more kind of specifics there, but I guess this is pretty cool. It's basically these bigger institutions getting comfortable using this technology.
00:01:45.368 - 00:02:19.750, Speaker A: You know, they're not going to start on the public block blockchains, right? They're not going to start with public Ethereum, for example. They're going to start with private implementations, do all the testing, do everything, and then eventually come to the public blockchains. But there are still quite a few issues before they can make that leap. Obviously, scalability is a big issue. Privacy is a huge issue for them. You know, getting familiar with the tech, getting it adopted in these different companies, you know, the network effects just aren't there. So it's going to be a slow grind, I think, and it'll happen over many years to come, I don't know when they'll start talking to public Ethereum.
00:02:19.750 - 00:03:02.158, Speaker A: It'd be really cool if they did it, you know, sooner rather than later. But as I said, there's a few critical issues there that they need to kind of iron out before they can do this. But you know, it's always funny seeing JP Morgan in the news when it comes to crypto. Obviously their CEO is famous for saying that, you know, bitcoin was worthless and wasn't a big fan of bitcoin. But you know, that's just that I guess like he is the CEO. But at, at the least, same time, JPMorgan's a large institution. They will definitely have obviously these I guess, innovation arms where they look at this sort of stuff and if it means that they can improve their processes and they can have a cheaper, no more efficient system then they're not just going to be bogged down by, you know, comments that the CEO says sort of thing.
00:03:02.158 - 00:03:38.772, Speaker A: They're going to actually pursue this stuff. So really great to see that. I know that, you know, this might go against like, you know, we need to dismantle the banks right? You know, we need to decentralize them and everything like that. And yeah, you know maybe eventually we get to that reality. But for the time being I think having the banks play friendly with this sort of stuff and integrate into it is much better than them trying to you know, dismantle it or like, you know, ban it or, or have it kind of like, or like lobby politicians to ban and things like that. So yeah, great to see that JP Morgan is kind of making strides here. I think you can get more website about what they're doing with J.
00:03:38.772 - 00:03:57.972, Speaker A: Sorry. Get more information about what they're doing with JPMorgan on their website. And the website is what jpmorgan.com. I mean there's a slash here. If you just search JPM coin on Google you'll be able to find this. And it's got a bunch of kind of information here and there's a, there's a faq and everything here. So definitely go check that out.
00:03:57.972 - 00:05:06.938, Speaker A: If you want some more context around all of this, I have some drama today in I guess maker and Uniswap. So basically what happened was that Uniswap governance is considering a proposal to restore uni farming but cut the DAI rewards but keep the rewards for the other pairs the same or higher. Now because of this, Nick from Makerdao who is the head of oracles there and works on the back end there, basically said that in light of this kind of proposal, maker governance should reconsider adding Uniswap's LP tokens in favor of Sushiswap LP tokens. Now, this is quite funny, right? This is just like governance wars, I guess you can say, where it's basically, you know, saying to uniswap governance, hey, if you don't keep the DAI rewards the same as the other pairs, or make it higher, you know, make a governance might not do uniswap LTP tokens as collateral, like, and put it into maker. Like I discussed on the other day's kind of update, you know, so, I mean, Nick's just one person at maker. Like, he doesn't speak for the maker governance process. He doesn't speak for, like, any else except himself.
00:05:06.938 - 00:05:46.770, Speaker A: He's just giving a suggestion here. But it's always funny to see this because we haven't really seen governance wars play out like this in the past. I think we're going to see it as time goes on, as more of these protocols become intertwined and like, they want to have influence over each other's kind of governance process and things like that. I mean, you can see here that Hayden Adams of Uniswap kind of replied here and said that Dai rewards are currently zero. So if this proposal were to pass, it would be a huge subsidy to die liquidity where there is none right now. And he goes on to say he gets where Nick's coming from, and he didn't create proposal himself. But in his opinion.
00:05:46.770 - 00:06:13.412, Speaker A: In Hayden's opinion, this post is unnecessarily hostile and inflammatory, which, I mean. Yeah, I mean, I get that, right? I get that. It's a bit of a big, like. I mean, I'm not a big reaction, but like a kind of. A little bit of a hostile reaction, right. Where it's immediately going to, you know, let's cancel lp tokens going into maker because they're not going to subsidize Dai with uni farming. You know, that that's a bit of a scorched earth kind of approach there.
00:06:13.412 - 00:06:41.352, Speaker A: So I kind of, kind of get that from Hayden's point of view. But at the same time, this is how you make people pay attention, right? This is how you get people to, you know, think harder about these things, right? Because, you know, Nick's got Hayden talking about this. He's got the community talking about this. He's got me talking about this, right. I didn't even know that this was a proposal on Uniswap's governance. Obviously, I knew about the makeup proposal, but I didn't know about this Uniswap one. So by Nick kind of tweeting out, I guess maybe not in a hostile way, but in a.
00:06:41.352 - 00:06:55.624, Speaker A: In a way that's kind of like, you know, a bit sensationalist. He gets people's attention. So it's worked. So, you know, I actually think what Nick did was good. It gets more people talking. People are getting involved with the conversation. They're going to be more involved with governance.
00:06:55.624 - 00:07:18.152, Speaker A: Right. There's going to be more people replying in the threads. So this sort of stuff is how you get attention on things. And this isn't like anything unique to creating crypto, right? Like, drama always gets attention. But, yeah, it's good to see that. It's funny that he mentioned kind of sushi swap here, because you then have Zero X Mackie, who is kind of like the lead Dev of Sushiswap, who comes in and says that, you know, we can help. Right? Sushi can help.
00:07:18.152 - 00:07:36.368, Speaker A: And, you know, it's just another protocol entering the war. Right. It's like, you know, Nick suggesting maker and sushispot for form an alliance against, like, the uniswap enemy, for example. You know, that's just my, my spin on it. But we're going to see more of this happening. I mean, Rick Burton here says, it says. Posted a really funny comment here.
00:07:36.368 - 00:07:58.788, Speaker A: Like he says, heating up the protocol. Wars are, and they are. This is. We're going to keep seeing more and more of this happen, especially, I mean, as I've been discussing how Wyvern has created its own kind of ecosystem that kind of challenges the incumbent Defi protocols. Right. You know, you had cream under wire and challenging compound in Arvair. You have sushiswap challenging uniswap, things like that.
00:07:58.788 - 00:08:30.976, Speaker A: So there's just going to be more of these wars going on and more of these battles being fought over time, I think. So something to keep an eye on, something to think about, you know, if you're one, if you want to, like, get involved with these governance kind of things and, you know, peruse the forums and getting. And have tokens that you like to vote with, definitely something you should be considering going forward. Right. An announcement out of DYDX today about some institutions adopting DeFi. So this was basically the announcement from curve. Now, that's Cu rv curve.
00:08:30.976 - 00:09:03.120, Speaker A: Not cu rve, not curve, the stablecoin protocol. But this is curve. They're basically trying to bring DeFi to institutions. So, like, you know, big centralized institutions trying to kind of bridge them into. To defy here. So the announcement is basically that curbs partnered with consensus to launch these solutions. And basically, I mean, what they're trying to do is that they're trying to integrate every defi protocol into these institutions and make it so that they can actually use these things.
00:09:03.120 - 00:09:35.166, Speaker A: I mean, you can go to their website and see that they basically allow institutions to onboard really quickly into DeFi, basically give them enterprise level controls and protection across things. You know, get the on ramps going for institutions, and adopt any DeFi protocol, essentially. So, I mean, they're using metamask to do this. I mean, they're working with consensus. This. I think this is gonna be big, right? Because the. I mean, the, the Defi ecosystem is, is big already within crypto, but outside of it, it's like a blip.
00:09:35.166 - 00:10:00.410, Speaker A: Like you think about, you know, let's be generous and say there's $15 billion locked in Defi right now. The traditional finance system is just like, that's a rounding error for the traditional finance system. That's. That's nothing. It means absolutely nothing outside of crypto. So, you know, to get more growth and to kind of like, you know, embed ourselves into these traditional finance systems, we need these institution adoption. And of course, you know, this stuff isn't going to be decentralized, right.
00:10:00.410 - 00:10:21.708, Speaker A: The institutions are going to have control over the funds that they're investing in these things, but that doesn't matter because they're actually using the protocols still. What matters is that the protocols are completely transparent. There's more liquidity in the ecosystem. There's more users. There's. There's. There's kind of, like, more things going on in terms of interoperability between all the protocols and institutions and things like that.
00:10:21.708 - 00:10:45.838, Speaker A: So I think that that is the benefit here. And I think, you know, centralized kind of, I guess, like interfaces through these institutions are going to be the main kind of window into defi that most people interact with. I mean, for better or worse. Like, I would. I would personally love if everyone just, you know, was self sovereign, ran their own full node, used metamask. Right, whatever. But that's just not reality.
00:10:45.838 - 00:11:20.128, Speaker A: Most people aren't going to do that. Most people are going to go through these centralized kind of intermediaries to access defi, which I think is fine. It's all about having the optionality there. You know, you have the option to either do it on your own or go through a centralized service to do it and things like that. So great to see you know, curve doing this here with working with consensus who's obviously got a lot of enterprise experience and working to bring to onboard all these kind of companies into Defi. So I'm looking forward to seeing how that pans out. So another announcement from Yam and I guess Umar today.
00:11:20.128 - 00:12:27.052, Speaker A: So they basically have teamed up for something called degenerative finance. So basically it's a collaboration where I mean they describe it here. This new suite of DGen derivatives will begin with Umay's recent UGAs contract and expand a variety of speculative and hedging products catered to the Defi ecosystem. So basically, I mean it's, it's basically going to be yam having like Umay the Ugas token under its umbrella. So you labs will pass over the ownership of Ugas to the Yam finance team and then the yam kind of ecosystem will manage this Ugas token and enhance the user, user experience here. So I mean this is, you know it's funny because you know they're saying it's a collaboration, right? Whereas maybe if this was a wire and thing that they'd say you know, it's a merger or something, right? Whereas I think collaboration or partnership is the right word for these things because obviously you AMA is not merging with, with Yam here, right? They're just like synergizing and, and, and kind of like working cross protocol here with, with different communities. You know it's funny, I, I just, I just thought of it now.
00:12:27.052 - 00:13:00.828, Speaker A: I've talked about Yam a lot on, on the, on the daily grave refuel so far. And it's funny because I don't, as I've mentioned before, I don't own Yam tokens anymore. I mean I was big on Yam when it first kind of came out and I still follow it very closely. I think, I still think it's a really great project. They're doing a lot of really great things. I kind of view Yam as like this glue for the, for the, kind of like the Defi ecosystem where they're going to end up partnering with a lot of different, not partnering but like collaborating with a lot of different protocols. And they have like a really tight and awesome community that's going to be pushing these things out.
00:13:00.828 - 00:13:40.016, Speaker A: So you're going to see Yam pop up here and there and they really are doing it for community as for the community as well. I mean like their treasury does a lot of good work. You know, they donate to get coin through their treasury and things like that. You know, I think that the one thing that lets the Yam project down is that their Token has, like, a rebasing mechanism. And I discussed on yesterday's DAily gray refuel why rebalancing coins are problematic, especially simple. Sorry, rebasing coins are problematic, especially simple rebasing. You know, there's more complex systems like empty set dollar and things like that that are trying to improve the model, whereas Yam's model is basically, I guess, a slight improvement on AMpleforth's model.
00:13:40.016 - 00:14:13.018, Speaker A: So, you know, maybe, I don't know what, what Yam's kind of plans are there. I think it kind of lets the project down. So hopefully they have plans to fix that as well, because I really do think people are overlooking just how good this community is. And I wrote about the importance of communities in the Daily Gwey newsletter today. That's what's kind of Got me thinking. I was just, like, thinking about, you know, what are the best communities in Defi? And I'd put Yam up there definitely, that every time I go into that discord, I'm like, so happy because I just see people, like, genuinely building things that they care about. And it's not about, like, token price speculation or any of that stuff.
00:14:13.018 - 00:15:03.264, Speaker A: You know, it's the same feeling I get with Wire and when I go on the, for the governance forums and I see people talking to each other and, and, you know, adding tons of value, and there's a, there's a lot of projects like this. But I think Yam is something very, very special because it was, you know, the way, the way it came to be was just so, such a big event, right, for people that were around back when, when it happened, when Yam came out, it was, it was basically, you know, the biggest thing since, since Wyvern. And then after that, we obviously had the diminishing returns of all the, all the food Ponzi's, as they came to be known. But yam is kind of like battle hardened, battle tested, born out of that kind of era. And I think they're going to, they're going to go far. So definitely a project that you should be keeping your eyes on. I don't suggest, you know, I'm not saying you should go buy the token or anything like that, but you should definitely keep an eye on what they're doing and how they're doing different things within, within Defi.
00:15:03.264 - 00:15:38.516, Speaker A: So a new DeFi project closed a seed round today called Swivel Finance. They raised $1.15 million from a bunch of, I mean, investors that a lot of you would be familiar with. It was led by Multicoin Capital, which I'm sure a lot of people are familiar with. Electric capital, CMS holdings, divergence ventures, and Defiance Capital, and also angels, including Stani from Aaver and a couple others here, like Imran Khan from the Defi alliance and Alex Pac from. From Huobi. He's an advisor there.
00:15:38.516 - 00:16:36.238, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, what this, I guess, protocol is aiming to do is it's basically, I mean, I was looking into it before, basically a protocol to facilitate interest rate swaps. At least that was the first version of it called Civil V one, and that allowed lenders to lock in guaranteed yield and speculators to level leverage their rate of exposure. I think as part of, you know, what, what's kind of coming next for this protocol, they've got a lot in the pipeline. I think when I went to the website, if I can find the website here, basically, fixed rate lending and interest rate derivatives is what they're kind of targeting here. These are, these are pretty exotic financial products, actually. These exist obviously in traditional finance, but they're not products that retail investors usually play around with. Their products that, you know, professional investors and traders and things like that will play around with.
00:16:36.238 - 00:17:07.516, Speaker A: But I think just like with all of these other products that we have coming out with DeFi, we're going to have. I guess we're going to have, like, more and more people getting exposed to these exotic products that they would not have been exposed to in the traditional finance system. And that's just great overall. Right. We have more players. It's fair up because it's in Defi, it's obviously non custodial and things like that. And it means that we get to expand the amount of people that kind of like, play in this area.
00:17:07.516 - 00:17:38.232, Speaker A: And of course, overall education goes up as well. So, yeah, I mean, they describe themselves. Here is the decentralized protocol for fixed rate lending in interest rate derivatives. Off the top of my head, I can't think of any other major protocols doing this just yet. I'm sure there's a bunch of them in stealth as well. I mean, I've actually been looking lately and doing a lot of research around, you know, what projects are out there. Kind of have a Twitter account, have like, soft announced in the past, but aren't really making noise yet because they're still building out their protocols, which is normally referred to as, like, stealth.
00:17:38.232 - 00:18:22.180, Speaker A: You know, projects, you know, projects that just like, literally in stealth, aren't making much noise. And there's a lot like, I I came across a lot of projects across, like, every vertical within DeFi, whether that be options, products, perpetual products, stuff like this, fixed rate lending and interest rate derivatives and derivatives in general. There is so much coming to Defi. It's just gonna be like this massive race between all of these teams building these protocols to basically scale up to billions of dollars and to become a dominant player. And I think that's another reason why the Wyo and ecosystem is forming. You know, its own little thing with different protocols is because the competition is just going to get more and more fierce. And you want to have allies during this.
00:18:22.180 - 00:18:36.514, Speaker A: You don't want to be a Lone ranger during what's coming. You know, what's coming for DeFi over the next couple of years. It's. It's. I mean, as I said, I've done a lot of research into this, and it's a lot. I was surprised by how many projects are spinning up. You know, it's gonna.
00:18:36.514 - 00:19:24.356, Speaker A: It's gonna make things kind of, like, harder, I guess, in general, to kind of cut out the wheat from the chaff, because there's gonna be a lot of scams as well, unfortunately, especially as the bull market heats up. But, you know, in general, I think paying attention to what's happening across all these projects is good from, I mean, out of general, you know, genuine curiosity or if you're investing in these markets, you definitely want to know where, you know, all the. All the kind of interest is, and, you know, what projects they're growing, what aren't growing. You know, I've kind of. At this point, I mean, I spent so much time in ethereum, and I've already lost track of, like, all the projects in the ecosystem. Like, I come across projects that have been out for a few weeks, and I have, and it's the first time I've heard of them, you know, even though I spent every day, you know, looking through it all. And that's simply because there's just too much happening and you just won't come across everything, which I think is pretty bullish, right.
00:19:24.356 - 00:20:10.814, Speaker A: It means that kind of, we've reached this kind of escape velocity with Ethereum and DeFi, where, you know, it's just going to get, like, a life of its own. And no kind of one person has, like, a whole view of what's happening. And that's, you know, really healthy going forward, I think. So as I spoke about yesterday or the day before, there was this ether fund going live on the Toronto Stock Exchange, which went live today or yesterday, depending where you are in the world right now. So you can buy this if you're in, if you have access to the Toronto Stock Exchange with your brokerage account or registered retirement account. So you can basically, basically get exposure to ETH through your retirement accounts in this kind of jurisdiction here. Similar to what I spoke about yesterday or about, like, the ETH product from Grayscale.
00:20:10.814 - 00:20:40.412, Speaker A: I pretty sure this is a similar product, but, you know, they claim it's the world's first regulated and major exchange listed ETH fund. So I think it works differently to those products. I think with the ETH e product, there's no redemption feature where, you know, once you're in, you can't kind of sell or like exit sort of thing. At least I think that's how it works. Whereas with this fund, I'm assuming that you can, like, actively buy and sell it at will. And there is a redemption feature there. But, yeah, if you want to go check that out, I'll be linked in the show notes.
00:20:40.412 - 00:21:10.476, Speaker A: You can check out more details about that one. All right. I think that's everything for today. Everyone that I, that I had, you know, a bit of a slower day today, actually noticed there wasn't as much news coming out as, as other days. Maybe we'll see some, some fireworks over the weekend or maybe into next week. I know that we have those pending regulations still where there's those rumors about, I guess, you know, banning self hosted wallets or doing more KYC, more regulations. I think we're going to get clarity over the next few days around that.
00:21:10.476 - 00:21:51.676, Speaker A: I think that's why the, you know, the markets are the way they are right now, where markets hate uncertainty. So any kind of uncertainty kind of puts pause and people like, you know, I won't buy now because there's this kind of thing that's coming. We'll see what happens there. I personally think that it's going to be a kind of like, sell the rumor by the news. Like, I think they're going to come out with these new regulations and it's going to be, you know what? I think I've said it on the, on the, on the kind of show before where it's just going to be like, tightening KYC regulations and also making it so that you're limited to how many withdrawal addresses you can have or crypto withdrawal addresses you can have on centralized exchanges. So I'm expecting that. We'll see how it goes.
00:21:51.676 - 00:22:05.044, Speaker A: I'll keep you guys updated with everything, of course. And if you haven't yet, definitely subscribe to the YouTube channel, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter and join the discord. And I hope you have a great weekend, and I'll see you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
