00:00:00.650 - 00:00:22.062, Speaker A: Welcome to Uncommon Core where we explore the big ideas in crypto from first principles. This show is hosted by Su Zu, the CEO and Chief Investment Officer of 3 Hours Capital and Me hasu a crypto researcher and writer. Hey sue, it's good to see you again. It's been a while.
00:00:22.116 - 00:00:23.166, Speaker B: Hey, you too.
00:00:23.348 - 00:01:20.680, Speaker A: So we have a topic for today that's related to market structure and it's also a question that is relevant for anyone that's coming into crypto now, which is true for a lot of people or who's maybe already been in crypto for a while but is mostly engaging in sort of buy and hold strategies. And the topic is yields in crypto and where they're coming from. And the yields in crypto, whether that's on US denominated or crypto denominated, but especially US, they are far higher than what you can get in the traditional financial system where the yields are either zero or even negative in Europe. And when something looks too good to be true then smart investor usually thinks there's a hidden risk they're not seeing and that prevents many people from touching these opportunities. So we want to talk about today. So where do these yields come from?
00:01:21.370 - 00:02:39.386, Speaker B: Sure, I think there's I categorize three broad types of yields in the market. I think the first being the demand for leverage. And that's the same type of yield that you might see in a commodity market where if a gold future is trading above the spot market, then people can sell gold future, buy gold spot or gold physical and then store that gold in a vault somewhere and capture that carry. So the demand for leverage in crypto is very high both across DeFi as well as CFI exchanges. So whether that's people borrowing stablecoins while posting BTC and ETH and other crypto assets as collateral or via buying perpetual swaps, buying futures to get a similar type of leverage exposure. So because we're in a bull market, that demand has been astronomical throughout the bull market and that sort of is the main reason why we see these dollar yields that are quite comfortably over 15% pretty much always and sometimes spikes well over 100%. I think it used to be that people would say that there's an exchange counterparty risk being priced in here with the carry.
00:02:39.386 - 00:03:25.280, Speaker B: And I think that does play out to some extent. Like not all exchanges have the same dollar rates. But you also see this contango, this carry yield even on CME, which has relatively low counterparty risk. So suffice to say that I think it's a key primitive of the crypto markets in a bull market and you've seen this in a lot of traditional asset markets too. I think the one I know best probably the India stock market. When Modi got elected, stock market went absolutely nuts because they thought he was going to be a reformer and the contango went very high for almost a year, similar things in the H share market in Hong Kong. So in equity markets, people are already used to this concept in emerging markets where the derivatives are always going to cost more because people will pay for that leveraged access.
00:03:25.280 - 00:04:26.622, Speaker B: That's first. I think second, the main type would be the native token in DeFi. So what that means is that when people are using a DeFi protocol, whether that's supplying liquidity or trading on it, they're receiving in kind the native assets of the protocol they're using. So a good example of this would be compound where by supplying assets into compound, you get comp tokens from doing so. This kind of activity is sort of also not a ponzi because what's actually happening is that people are getting percent of the network by participating in it. So it comes back to the idea of users owning the network. And how do users come to own the network? Well, they must be given tokens as the protocol grows.
00:04:26.622 - 00:05:28.610, Speaker B: So kind of like an early user reward system for helping bootstrap the network effect. And third would be just the actual protocol activity and the fees. And we see this in something like a Sushi swap or something like a Bancorp, where what's happening is that you're not necessarily being paid in native token, you're being paid based on how much trading actually occurs on the exchange. So this kind of is more analogous to equity or owning a percentage of an exchange, right? If you own shares of CME or Eyes, then every so often they'll pay your dividend or they'll have earnings on the balance sheet. And that comes from the fact that people are trading on that exchange. So here's the same thing, there's activity on it. And as a result, by holding some of these assets which are entitled to these cash flows, you can then also get a yield on those assets.
00:05:28.610 - 00:05:56.138, Speaker B: I think this kind of shows that all these things come down to sort of a supply and demand, sort of a natural need. And I think the yield opportunities now are probably big enough to catch the attention of a lot of MSM. Banks as well because of the high contango. Ms. Banks are wondering should we be using our balance sheets to go and provide liquidity into these markets?
00:05:56.314 - 00:06:17.570, Speaker A: I see. Okay, so those are the three categories and let's try to unpack those a little bit, maybe starting with sort of the source of leverage. So the demand for leverage in crypto is really high. Who would be basically the parties who demand the most leverage?
00:06:17.990 - 00:06:57.838, Speaker B: So I think speculators probably first, foremost, these are people that think the bull run is a super cycle and they want to get some leverage exposure. So they want 1.5 x, two x, maybe three x, maybe 510 x exposure into the market. And so they will trade it in this manner and have a net long exposure. Sometimes people too, when they buy a token. They don't want to just buy token BDC pair anymore. That's kind of what people used to do in 20, 16, 17, where people were like, I buy the token and I sell my BDC or I sell my ETH.
00:06:57.838 - 00:07:41.214, Speaker B: Now they're like, okay, well, I buy the token because there's no leverage on that token, let's say. But I also then immediately open an ETH long, ETH USD long. So in their mind, they feel like they're keeping their ether long while also buying a token. So you get this multiplicative effects. I think one of the big reasons for the success of FTX is that you can use any coin almost as collateral on the exchange. So if you own some weird DeFi coin and then you want to get quickly long, a lot of bitcoin or ether, you deposit it and then you go buy these perps that's I think the biggest user of the leverage. I think secondarily, when the contango was lower, you would have other people that would use it.
00:07:41.214 - 00:08:15.740, Speaker B: Like, for instance, if you're a lender of BTC, or if you're a borrower of BTC, you can sell BTC USD, buy BTC USD derivatives, and then you've essentially converted a BTC deposit into a dollar deposit. So when the contango is low enough, people will do this, and then they'll be able to unlock, let's say, the use case of that collateral as fiat or as ether or as something else. But basically the transformation of one asset to another is also a big use case for why people might buy this.
00:08:16.510 - 00:08:28.190, Speaker A: So when people want to go margin long on an exchange, how does that translate into yields in completely other places of crypto? Because at first it seems kind of isolated to that exchange.
00:08:28.610 - 00:09:46.450, Speaker B: Sure. So when there's big leverage buyers on any exchange, the cost of their leverage will go up. And through that cost going up, people will come in and arbitrage that, right? So if people have dollars sitting around, what they'll do is they'll buy bitcoin USD spot, and they'll sell the derivative that's paying a lot of funding or paying a lot of contango, and then they'll lock that in and that incrementally pushes up the cost of dollars everywhere, right, because dollars are flowing from one place to another. Dollars generally flow toward the market with the highest yield in it. So through this process, the dollar rates will roughly reach some kind of equilibrium where it's quite high at the moment, and people will go into the market saying, okay, I can come in, I can have my dollars and deploy into the market and get this. So you would think in an efficient market, right, that if the funding rate is very high in one exchange and lower on another, another way that gets equalized is people will sell the derivative on the high exchange and buy it on the lower one and have kind of a spread trade on. And so people will also do this kind of trade and then from that capture some edge.
00:09:46.450 - 00:09:51.000, Speaker B: But of course with that you then have liquidation risk on both legs and that's something that you have to manage.
00:09:52.110 - 00:10:15.154, Speaker A: Okay, to summarize, basically, if there's margin demand, or if a futures product trades like very high in contango or even remotely in contango, then this creates an incentive. Basically the longs pay, the shorts of that trade, or you can pay to take the other side of that. And in order to hedge that, you.
00:10:15.192 - 00:10:40.730, Speaker B: Want to long spot and sell the derivative. And in doing so, you've basically provided that exposure. That the margin long wants. The margin long wants to be long, but he doesn't have enough dollars. So the way he does it is he enters the market and buys and is happy to pay whatever that cost ends up being. And then the natural sellers are for one, people who want to be short. But in a bull market, nobody wants to be short anything.
00:10:40.730 - 00:11:30.726, Speaker B: So that's why the funding is high, because nobody wants to be short anything. The only people who are sellers are people who are dollar denominated, who want to capture yield in dollars. So they'll come in and they'll sell these derivatives and they'll buy a spot. They'll have basically done that service for people. And so if you're an investment bank, this also looks attractive to you. Normally in the dollar funding markets you may be deploying dollars and earning 2% over Libor, which is considered an extremely attractive yield. I remember back when I was at a bank, people will build billion dollar books of emerging market equities if they can earn 2%, because they can borrow from central banks at much lower rates, and they can also borrow from each other at lower rates.
00:11:30.726 - 00:12:01.038, Speaker B: So that kind of yield spread is very attractive to them if they can get it. And so I think definitely as the market continues to grow and mature, you're going to see this kind of pull factor be too big to ignore for a lot of financial institutions. And that's probably the biggest reason why this beginning of this year I predicted that you're going to have a lot of messing banks open up desks and open up either prime brokerage or their own trading desk, facilitation desk, just because this business will be too lucrative for them to ignore.
00:12:01.214 - 00:12:21.130, Speaker A: Yeah, this would have actually been my next question. So how is it possible that these yields persist for so long? Because wouldn't you think that when you can get two digit returns on stablecoins and even more if you're willing to put in some research, then shouldn't there be massive inflows of fiat denominated capital into crypto pushing the yield?
00:12:21.470 - 00:13:38.722, Speaker B: I think there has been a massive inflow of USD into the system. You've seen that in USDT growth also in USDC, so that inflow has been coming, but the crypto markets themselves have grown much faster than the stablecoin growth. So when the market goes ten k to 60K or 200 to 2000, as in the case of ether, the corresponding amount of dollars in the system to kind of provide that liquidity doesn't grow as quickly quite often. That's why I always tell people the leveraged demand always far exceeds supply in any bull market, no matter where it is, whether it's in crypto or traditional markets. Because at the end of the day, there's still being a dollar denominated supplier of assets. You kind of have to be a little more institutional and you have to be sort of viewing it as you have a large amount of capital that you can borrow dollars from a very low rate and then you can supply. Because actually for retail, right, or for a lot of even bigger traders, they're not that attracted by the stable coin yields because they just say, well, look, these assets are going up like three X in a week.
00:13:38.722 - 00:14:30.882, Speaker B: Sometimes I'd rather research what the next gem is, right? That's how I make the real money. I think Arthur Hayes had a article recently where he just compared the return of dollar denominated funding yields versus just owning bitcoin. And of course, owning bitcoin just beats by a lot, right? It feels like it shouldn't beat during some windows or during a year and a two, but it beats it really fast in just a matter of days, a matter of weeks. That kind of reality does make retail not kind of like this trade as much just because for them it's like, well, I have a once in lifetime opportunity to participate in the hyper monetization of assets. Why would I collect my double digit stablecoin yield? Because they don't have infinite capital. They have a fixed amount of capital. Right?
00:14:31.016 - 00:15:08.160, Speaker A: Exactly right. Because it's the wrong way to compare a portfolio of $10,000 in BTC versus a portfolio of $10,000 in stablecoin because they have completely different sharp ratios. Right? They do like, what the institutional investor would do, or what the intelligent investor would do, is they would leverage up dramatically on the stablecoin trade or basically the far less risky one. But that's something that maybe the smaller investor can't do because they don't have access either to capital at all or to leverage at all or not to as cheap of capital as the institutional investor has.
00:15:08.850 - 00:15:10.718, Speaker B: That's right on a bit of a.
00:15:10.724 - 00:15:20.050, Speaker A: Tangent, but do you think that the average crypto participant, or maybe even like the average top 20 crypto participant uses too much or too little leverage?
00:15:20.950 - 00:16:25.766, Speaker B: That's a tough question because I think leverage is all about preference. I guess it's kind of a utility curve. And I hate using the word preference here because it's very hard to define exactly what that means. But I think broadly it means what is the goal of money to someone? What is the goal of trading? So if someone's goal is to make as much money as possible and they don't care about risk of ruin, then yes, they sometimes should use large leverage if they have high confidence, especially if they're good at risk management in general. So I think there have been very big success stories in crypto from people using pretty high leverage. I do think that that's like a double edged sword though because there's always things that can happen that you never really can account for. So during the March 2020 COVID crash that wiped out people that were on like two X long, which is quite conservative, consider it should be considered quite conservative, or 1.5
00:16:25.766 - 00:17:27.658, Speaker B: x long. Even on BitMax, those guys got liquidated pretty rapidly. So I think for folks like that, there's no free lunch. Basically there is no free lunch in the market. So if they're playing with a defined pool of capital that they're going in the markets like a professional thinking like a professional, meaning they have strict risk management of losers and winners, then I do think crypto does offer some unique asymmetric opportunities, right? I mean for instance, if you had just when Sailor first announced his buys, I think with prices around like ten point eight k, eleven k ish, and then you would have said, okay, I think market more likely to go up five X than to go down 20%. Then you can go quite big, right? And you can say that's a great trade, and just go in and you do it. But then people thought the same thing before the having and then they were wrong.
00:17:27.658 - 00:18:20.970, Speaker B: So I guess what makes a good or bad decision is very much about the result actually. It's not necessarily about the process. Like even in the cases of high leverage, the path dependency goes through the roof, right? The path dependency. And you won't have the chance to play it twice or three times or ten times. It's not like poker or it's not like those kind of games where it's like a repeated iteration game. Here, if you were in cash going into COVID, going into the post having environment, the pre having environment, and then you had the chance to buy the lows below six k, below five k, then that decision, the path dependency of that allows you to take more risk down the line. That's kind of what makes the markets exciting, right? But I would say the leverage should be based on the style of trading that you think has an edge for you.
00:18:20.970 - 00:18:46.950, Speaker B: If you think you are good at picking those turning points, then yeah, you should be using some leverage and to capitalize on those moves. If you really just want to own assets, then fine, you can just buy Spot. But I do think there is something to be said where I think especially on crypto, Twitter, you generally see kind of like two sides of the market. Either people are hunting for one day, one week moves. Or they're like, oh, you never sell anything, you never trade anything. You just hold forever.
00:18:47.530 - 00:18:52.946, Speaker A: And you don't even use BlockFi and so on, because it's too risky. We wouldn't even lend your BTC.
00:18:53.058 - 00:19:37.800, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that there's no right or wrong answer, but I will say that for the latter, clearly, the markets have shown that people very much do want to trade it around all day, and whether that's on derivative exchanges, spot exchanges, in DeFi, that's kind of the whole lifeblood of the market. Right. So I do think some of the folks who say, like, no one should ever trade, it's kind of ironic, because some of these people may also then own a coin that derives its revenue from people trading. So you kind of say, well, nobody should trade. But it's like, you need that to happen for there to be any activity and for there to be any liquidity, either. So I do think that the market needs all types of participants, for sure.
00:19:38.170 - 00:20:03.134, Speaker A: Yeah. Makes sense. Makes sense, yeah. Pivoting a bit to GBTC and blockfly. So GBTC grayscale bitcoin trust dipped into a discount to NAV, like, up almost 10% lately and hasn't stayed there. And so I want to unpack that a bit, what that means for the market. So how is it even possible that GBTC trades below net asset value?
00:20:03.332 - 00:21:08.580, Speaker B: Sure, I guess to understand that, you have to first understand what GBTC is. GBTC is a closed end trust in the US. And what's happening is you can create shares of it by subscribing into the trust, whether that's with BTC or with dollars, which they then use to buy BDC. And after six months, people can then sell that in the market if they want to, or they can hold it. So GBTC has been around for many years now, I think almost five years now, and its purpose is to offer folks in the stock market a way to own bitcoin exposure by selling one stock and then buying GBTC instead. So, for instance, GBTC is now, I think, a top five holding of millennial portfolios. So it's like very high penetration into the market and historically has traded at premiums anywhere from 5% to over 100% at some point.
00:21:08.580 - 00:22:22.326, Speaker B: And it has traded at slight discount before. Although, very briefly, I think when the Winklevoss ETF back in early 2017, when they were applying for that, some people in GBDC really panicked and they said, okay, I'm going to sell just to get out, whatever. That didn't end up happening. So, knowing all that, I think that last year, as institutional money has been coming into the system, I think a lot of people have been seeing the persistent premiums and being like, well, if I have bitcoin assets, I might as well put them in the trust because then I can harvest the bitcoin yield. Right? And for some time, this was feeding the yield and I think what ended up happening is that it became quite a crowded trade where people just assumed that there's no risk and they can just subscribe, right? And it turns out that because I think a few things are happening now. I think one is that people have more ways to buy Bitcoin than ever before, right? They have whole hosts of new funds or they can buy on more and more spot exchanges, more and more ways to own. So that kind of diffuses the ownership story.
00:22:22.326 - 00:23:06.600, Speaker B: And then I think two is that the crowdedness of the supply side and then kind of the panicky nature of it. They were just like, okay, it's unlocked it's at a discount, let's just sell before it goes to more discount. Right? And I think too you have also like a tax selling involved where because it's March, April, it's kind of general time period if you're sitting on a lot of gains, if you're mark to market capital gains, whatever you need to sell some GBDC just to pay taxes. There's kind of a natural profit taker in the market for some of these holders who have been holding it is now a 5678 X for them. So I think those are the broad reasons that it's gone into discount now.
00:23:08.250 - 00:23:16.346, Speaker A: Yeah. So, just to summarize that the trade would be you subscribe to the fund, you put in BTC and then you have to hold it, what is it, six or twelve months?
00:23:16.448 - 00:23:18.042, Speaker B: It's six months and then you six.
00:23:18.096 - 00:23:54.386, Speaker A: Months and then you hope to sell it at the premium basically, right? So you get one share for one BTC. Okay, so Blockfly was like the market thought at least that Blockfly is one of the largest participants in the GBTC trade and then when GBTC dipped to -10% then so a lot of people started panicking in the general market. So what risk does this discount pose for an institution like Blockfly but also other participants in the trade?
00:23:54.578 - 00:24:51.754, Speaker B: I think it poses very little risk to Blockfly just because thing you have to remember is that the Bitcoin are still in the trust. It's not like the Bitcoins are not there. So it's very much the backed asset and the cost of carry is known. The management fee is 2% a year. That fee is known also not that much higher even than some of the new competitors that are coming out with other funds. So I think that kind of means that when it goes to 10% discount, that also is a buying opportunity for some people, right? If they think that the discount will come in because the assets are worth indeed that much, then they'll sell Bitcoin spot and buy GBTC if they're set up to do so. So I think that's also why I think the panic went to as low as 15% discount and then intraday and then it bounced back the same day to like seven, 8%.
00:24:51.754 - 00:26:36.090, Speaker B: I think now it's around six, 7% discount. I kind of think that the market likes to find things to panic about in general, in Crypto, and I think that this is something that sounds big, they don't really totally get it, but it sounds like something that they can panic over. I do think that the other thing people don't quite understand is that if there were to be an ETF, then there's a very high chance that Grayscale products would be first to apply to convert to an ETF, right? Because you think about the way that that will work is people, at the end of the day, they just want to own bitcoin. That's all they want, right? So GBDC already has all the volume, it already has all the liquidity. If given that there are bitcoin ETFs allowed, grayscale will convert to an ETF and then maintain its entire market share volume and possibly even grow assets, right? Because once people don't have fear that it's going to go in discount, then they'll just hold it like any other tracker product, right? They may pressure the management fee to go lower, they may push for these kinds of things, but at the end of the day, they just want to own bitcoin. Right? So I think that mechanism is something that's quite compelling and I also think that there's still not guaranteed we even get an ETF this year. There's quite a few ETFs applying, but there's still not that much movement on that front.
00:26:36.090 - 00:26:56.082, Speaker B: So I think that Blockfly having the backers that they do, their Series D, they had some of the biggest names in Crypto participating. They have the assets, they have the capital to weather the storm. They won't be the ones who need to sell it at 10% discount to raise money to pay people.
00:26:56.216 - 00:27:03.938, Speaker A: Is the only way for GBTC to turn on redemptions, to turn into an ETF? Or are there other ways?
00:27:04.104 - 00:27:48.062, Speaker B: There are other ways too. I think in the case of XRP, they did a redemption as well. They can always sell the assets and pay out a cash dividend as well, but they probably unlikely to do that in the case of GBDC because it would just be enormous. But there's a couple other mechanisms also, just a matter of if they think it's necessary, right? Like, let's say there is no ETF for two years. There's no need to turn on redemptions, just need to have the panic sellers finish selling, the tax sellers sell, and then it's back to normal again. So that still has a high probability of happening. That is the high probability.
00:27:48.062 - 00:28:35.620, Speaker B: And then you also have the fact that when there's an ETF, there is a very large chance that GBDC will convert to an ETF, at which point there will just be daily redemptions happening. If it's trading at discount, right, arbitragers can buy it. Can buy it, deliver the shares to the trust and the trust gives them BTC unfortunately, too. I think part of the panic is from the fact that in December it traded at quite high premium and traded at almost 40%. And there's a lot of people that say, well, I bought at 40%, now it's 10% discount. It's so bad, I just get out of it. I don't know what's going on here, but that kind of stuff.
00:28:35.620 - 00:29:04.380, Speaker B: A lot of participants who trade these things, they don't really know what the premium is. They just trade it on price as well. So if they don't like the way the price is moving, then they also will go and sell it. And so I think it's tough to say that. I've seen some people say that this will go to 50% his scan or whatever. And I would just say that it's quite insane. The assets are actually in the trust.
00:29:04.380 - 00:29:52.766, Speaker B: There's this concept where it's a confidence game, right? If everyone thinks it will go to 50% discount, then and they all run over each other to sell it, then yeah, that's always non, zero chance. That's always possible. But for every seller of it, there's also someone who's like, wait a second, I can now sell BTC and buy GBTC and double my Bitcoin. Why not, right? Unless I really think that they're going to scam everyone forever. So I think that there's going to be a lot of info asymmetry there that's going to be interesting to see how it plays out. But, yeah, I would recommend people. If you own GBTC, you just pretend you don't care and you just hold it as BTC.
00:29:52.766 - 00:30:09.966, Speaker B: Don't try to time the premiums. Don't try to time anything. You just don't think about it too hard. Because think about it, it's one of those things the more you think about it, probably the worse your decisions will be because you're not thinking with enough knowledge. You don't have enough of the details, right?
00:30:10.148 - 00:30:29.042, Speaker A: Yeah. And it sounds like you said that if an ETF is being delayed, then it's good for GBTC because it has less competition. And if there's an ETF, then it forces them to actually turn on redemption. And that also would also curse the discount to basically normalize.
00:30:29.186 - 00:30:30.200, Speaker B: Yeah, sure.
00:30:30.650 - 00:30:57.840, Speaker A: So moving on to native tokens, and this is probably something that people from outside crypto, even from outside DeFi, like even anyone almost, you talk to who's in Bitcoin or so on, who's not deep in DeFi, struggles with it enormously. How is it possible that these, like, a project that launches, let's say, like SushiSwap, for example, that they pay customers, like, such high yields to use the platform?
00:30:58.290 - 00:31:46.302, Speaker B: Well, SushiSwap, just taking that as an example, people are valuing the protocol based on its growth as well as its team and also its current cash flows. So they look at all these three things and they say, what should the value of one token be worth? And they go through that math and they go through. That analysis, and then they go and they bid for this asset in the open market. So that's where the demand side of these assets come from, right? The supply side is coming from the users. They're getting given sushi tokens and then they can decide if they want to hold it, if they want to sell it. And that kind of decision is based on how much they believe in the long term growth as well. Right.
00:31:46.302 - 00:32:39.998, Speaker B: So that kind of is actually one of the most powerful parts of DeFi, which is that if you are a power user of a protocol, there's some correlation there with your belief of its token as well. You probably also think its token is not bad. You probably think that the code is safe. You probably think that the team is good. So that alignment generally has meant throughout DeFi that the people who supply liquidity, the people who use a product, also tend to hold a large amount of the tokens they're given from this process. And so I do think that we should clarify, though, between I guess when d five projects have a token that has some tie to cash flows and some tie to growth and you get this versus, let's say entirely. New token with no real code behind it.
00:32:39.998 - 00:33:16.970, Speaker B: Let's say, like a pure fork. Just like a pool two game. And what do I mean by a pool two game? Right? It's like the basic idea of pool one. Pool two is so pool one would be the assets you use to earn that new token. So let's say you stake your ether or you stake your ether and USDC as a pair, or WBTC and ETH, whatever it is. You stake some assets into a pool and then you get given the native token. And if this is a proper vaporware project and this native token, they won't tell you what it does, they won't tell you what it's going to be used for.
00:33:16.970 - 00:34:08.026, Speaker B: They'll just say you need to value this because we're all thinking about it like a mind share concept, basically, right? Yeah. And then the way they create liquidity for this is through pool two, where once you get this token, you can then supply this token versus USDT or USDC in a pool two. And by supplying it there, you're basically being forced to buy more of it as the price goes down. Right. Because you're supplying two assets into an AMM pool. So through that they create a demand for the asset. And so you could say like pool one, pool two games, when the underlying token is not known yet what it will be used for, and it's not known yet how strong the team is or if there's any team.
00:34:08.026 - 00:34:42.706, Speaker B: These are kind of what more I would call like pure ponzies or like pure ponzi. Nomics. So not that they can't go up ten X because they absolutely can, but just that you are very much requiring more people to enter the game whereas for a lot of DeFi now nobody knew has to enter the game. People just have to keep trading on it. Right. It doesn't require ever larger amounts of new money for it to sustain the way it is. Kind of like a restaurant.
00:34:42.706 - 00:35:38.780, Speaker B: If you own a restaurant you don't need constantly new people showing up at your restaurant. Even if you just have your existing customers and you get natural organic growth and even if you lose some customers you can still run because you have a profit margin then you have an ongoing business. Right. What they call an accounting like a going concern. You have a going concern, your costs are zero, your costs are very low and your revenues are what they are. So that is why I would separate the two types because I do think there's a fair point that these are now getting to the point where they're very well designed Ponzi games and it's important to recognize that these are Ponzi games. If there's not a team that's going to really play out a roadmap, if there's not a clear differentiation then rugging is something that you have to be aware of.
00:35:39.390 - 00:36:57.154, Speaker A: Yeah, I like that you kind of distinguish between actually legit projects and sort of more Ponzi like ones where you have a way higher risk of failure. But I'm actually more interested in the legitimate projects. And I think there's a lot to unpack there, because when you are one of the participants that we mentioned, then what you really or you can think about market structure and so on. And you don't really grasp what's different compared to traditional markets, which is more a huge difference in ideology. Right? Whereas in traditional markets like a new company that's very promising they might sell some of the equity to a small group of high profile investors and keep the rest of the equity and then try to grow the company. Maybe raise like a second Citron or round A, round B, round C and so on. Eventually they go public and the way that sort of crypto projects work is really different so they tend to explore new ways of growing I don't want to say companies because they are more protocols, right? It's actually a completely new form of organizing human cooperation if you will.
00:36:57.154 - 00:37:47.970, Speaker A: And so what they do is they give away actually a lot of their equity right from the start and they don't necessarily give as much to investors though they might. So they would actually give a lot more to their users. And they do this on the one hand to basically give people an incentive to use their product early. But on the other hand it's sort of necessary because a lot of DeFi sustains itself on sort of the value proposition that it's sort of legal arbitrage, regulatory arbitrage. It's sort of a parallel financial system that offers people some things to do that traditional financial system can't. And then you actually need this sort of robustness. You want the ownership of the protocol to be in the hands of as many people as possible and that itself creates value for the protocol.
00:37:49.190 - 00:38:45.018, Speaker B: Absolutely. And think. On the one hand, you can see it as the natural conclusion of years of big tech subsidization, right where it's already been a big growth story in the traditional space to say, if you have a product, I'm going to offer it to you at below my cost. Because I want you to buy it, I want you to use it. I want you to come into my ecosystem. That kind of is the tried and true model that big tech has basically grown with since Facebook, that growth model. But I think it's taking it, like you said, to a higher plane because it is then recognizing well, through this process of giving tokens away to subsidize early usage, I also am accruing intrinsic value from the decentralization of ownership.
00:38:45.018 - 00:39:30.130, Speaker B: And I'm also creating an ultra fast community feedback loop, right where in normal products, the only way you really give your feedback is you type in something like customer support. Here's your feedback. And in practice, companies have to spend a lot of money to get that feedback. They have to do these A B testing. They have to go and hire Q A, hire people like community Liaisons. They have to go and search out that feedback because the customers are not going to give it to them readily and it's going to be difficult to source that kind of stuff. Whereas for DeFi that's community owned, there's not that problem at all.
00:39:30.130 - 00:40:02.110, Speaker B: If anything, people are constantly thinking about how do we improve it, how do we contribute to it? So that process of open source applied to the primitives of decentralized finance, I think that's a very powerful primitive, and that's one of the biggest reasons why it's done so well, is because, in fact, for many of these applications, this is the best way that they develop, as opposed to a siloed command center type of an approach.
00:40:03.090 - 00:40:45.690, Speaker A: Yeah, totally. So I think that if someone looks at the yields that you can get in DeFi, I would call this like usage mining or something where you get incentivized to use a new product for the first time. And the way that you get rewarded is with basically an ownership share of that protocol that you're using. And I think when someone compares that to using traditional finance and so on, then I think it's important to recognize that this is really a new paradigm of how we do economics, how we do growing businesses and so on. And that's what makes it, I think, very legit. Some of these native tokens. And that's sort of the third category that you touched on in the beginning.
00:40:45.690 - 00:41:07.250, Speaker A: They also pay cash flows and might be kind of curious how you think about comparing cash flows across different DeFi protocols and maybe different DeFi categories because what we see as sort of revenue and profit seems to vary a lot by protocol.
00:41:08.790 - 00:42:22.274, Speaker B: Yeah, first of all, there aren't that many coins that have cash flows yet, but the ones that do, they have pretty substantial ones. So probably a few categories like borrow and lending, cash flows. So you have Maker Ave compound and then on the trading side, obviously the deck side, that's where the main cash flow amount is. So we have generally liked DeFi products with cash flows just because we can then say this by growing, we get these cash flows. But it's something where right now, with the way that ethereum congestion is, and with the way that you've seen a big growth in volume on BSc Binance Smart chain, which is an ethereum fork with almost no fees, because the validator set is smaller, you see that the volumes, as high as they are now, they can easily go another 100 X. Because right now, only whales can use it. You have to be actually incredibly wealthy now to use Ethereum main net, you have to be legitimately wealthy.
00:42:22.274 - 00:43:56.706, Speaker B: Even if you have 150K or something, if you use Ethereum Mainet every day, you're going to be broke in a year. You just can't afford it. So I'm really looking forward to seeing that process where whether that's on Ethereum or on other chains as well, of then really onboarding a ton of users and all that fee space then will go toward these applications. So I think that the applications being the direct user interface between the user and his desire and his wish and the product, I think that is something that is incredibly powerful and he or she will find it incredibly natural to pay fees into that kind of a system. So I think that the cash flow kind of reality of these DeFi projects too is also the main reason why we've seen a lot of institutional investors come into the space. Because in the past they would have possibly said well, Bitcoin is a ponzi, Ethereum is ICOs. But now they say, well, okay, I actually get now that some people are supplying liquidity, some people are then trading from one asset to another that now is a real thing because that has a parallel to the same thing, but not on chain.
00:43:56.706 - 00:45:02.330, Speaker B: So off chain. And once you have that, then they're simply asking which cash flows will grow faster and how will they grow and what will be the catalyst for this future growth. And so that's why I think bringing cash flows, bringing intrinsic value into the crypto asset sphere, it then also makes people realize, okay, well, then you have this trading activity, you have this financial activity and then the system also then that activity then generates kind of intrinsic value for Ether. Right? Because Ether is the native token of the entire protocol that it sits on and also generates intrinsic value for bitcoin, bitcoin being the cap supply first coin. The idea that there needs to be a digital scarcity kind of makes people understand it better as well because people see that, wow, it's actually much more useful to do things on chain than I thought. Well, this lends a lot of credence to the idea that we need digital scarcity and we need digitally native assets.
00:45:02.910 - 00:45:48.650, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. I think most like, people will a lot of people will start to see bitcoin in a more even more positive light when it actually has more applications as sort of pristine collateral. Right. Right now there's not a whole lot that you can actually do with bitcoin in terms of financial services, but I think that's going to change very rapidly in the next two to three years. So one question about cash flows in DeFi protocols. Do you think it's actually good that protocols pay so much profit to investors today, or should they think more like a traditional company? Should they keep it in a treasury and maybe reinvest it into constant growth?
00:45:49.970 - 00:46:22.422, Speaker B: That's a good question. I think there's pros and cons. Right. On the one hand, paying out cash flows gives intrinsic value and the users can always invest back into the protocol too. But the one problem with keeping a treasury is the bigger the treasury gets, the more people will now fight over how to distribute this treasury again. And you may end up in a situation where then there's nonstop governance fight over this huge treasury. Right.
00:46:22.422 - 00:46:47.360, Speaker B: I mean, we saw that with Digix Dao where there's over years that there's votes on like, okay, we need to pay out the ETH treasury to all the DGD holders. And these votes, like, they almost succeed and they fail. Almost succeed and they fail. So I kind of see a very big treasury as kind of like a honeypot where it's now like, governance attacks. People are just focusing on how do we do this thing?
00:46:49.090 - 00:47:12.946, Speaker A: Damn, that's so good. I'd never thought about that before, but makes total sense. And if the feedback loop between making a suggestion, implementing a new feature that creates value for users and then that immediately creates new cash flows to the token holders, if most of the revenue is paid out to the token holders, then that feedback loop is incredibly short. Yeah. Which can create very positive incentives.
00:47:13.058 - 00:47:49.780, Speaker B: Yeah. In the case of Sushi, there's been a lot of users that have spent money to improve the system. They've given grants, they've done investments. They've also used that capital to invest in other coins and then do synergy with the coins that they like the most. So that kind of like thin layer approach. The kind of thin treasury approach I generally think is advisable for most DeFi. I think for some DeFi with really high R D costs where you have a large investor set then I think it does make sense.
00:47:49.780 - 00:48:18.458, Speaker B: Not that it will make sense or not, but that it'll be inevitable that you do have a treasury of a lot of native tokens and you probably also do have a treasury possibly of fees. But that is something that they have to slowly move away from over time not lean into. So I think that kind of already shows that what the ideal would be. But then if you do need to spend a lot of money to get to the product, to where it needs to be, then you do have that kind of to consider.
00:48:18.624 - 00:48:37.634, Speaker A: Okay, I think that was a fascinating discussion. To summarize it all, what would you tell someone looking into crypto from the outside or someone who's only like in Bitcoin, who's only buying and holding thinking these returns are too good to be true? Do you have any last statement about that?
00:48:37.832 - 00:50:11.150, Speaker B: Sure. I kind of think the recurring theme I'd impress on you is the idea of the internet of value being such that the massive profits that have been made by financial intermediaries, by financial activity all that fundamentally is still derived from peer to peer activity in the first place. Right? Just that that activity is being obscured in the traditional world because when someone deposits to a bank then mystically somewhere else, the bank then lends for a mortgage and the bank may also do this and that but the bank kind of like it kind of has a balance sheet. It has borrow and lending, trading and it kind of makes its own determination on what people should get based on the markets. What DeFi has done via the power of the internet and the power of open source is it has harnessed that energy and brought it into crypto. It's changing the very structure of how finance is done. And that's why I also think the future of finance meme is quite a good one because it really is the structure that you can imagine the entire financial system eventually going toward.
00:50:11.150 - 00:50:37.590, Speaker B: Because just think about how many employees are needed for a bank versus for a fintech startup versus now for DeFi. And that efficiency gain coupled with astronomical growth rates kind of tells you everything you need to know already, which is that we are in a paradigm shift in finance.
00:50:38.090 - 00:51:32.274, Speaker A: Yeah and not just like the amount of people you need also I'd say the regulatory barriers like how many people do you need to ask for permission, how much money do you need to put up, how long does it take to get licenses and whatnot and what markets can you serve right all around in DeFi? Actually, someone from their parents bedroom can create like a billion dollar market cap project that serves users in the entire world without asking anyone for permission and without raising any money from venture capitalists and banks. So I think that alone I totally agree. I think it really is a paradigm shift, and it makes sense that we see the extreme growth rates and that we see the demand for leverage that we see, and that then in turn feeds back into the yields across the oh.
00:51:32.412 - 00:52:03.258, Speaker B: Just as we are concluding this, barry Silbert has tweeted out Grayscale's intentions for a Bitcoin ETF, and they have made public their desire to convert to an ETF, and they say that they have been trying since 2016 to be an ETF. So the whole meme of the idea that Grayscale will want to sit on everyone's bitcoin forever is kind of not based in reality, in my opinion.
00:52:03.434 - 00:52:09.286, Speaker A: Yes, sue, thanks so much for the discussion. We will see what happens to the GBTC Premium then, later today.
00:52:09.468 - 00:52:10.500, Speaker B: All right, take care.
