00:00:00.520 - 00:00:22.414, Speaker A: Interested in tech entrepreneurship and disruptive technologies, was one of the earliest product managers at YouTube. And then 2014 was another happy accident. Something smarter than me was like, hey, there's going to be this new thing called ethereum. Maybe it'll be the next bitcoin. I was like, that sounds cool. I tried to access my wallet, but at the time, everything was so immature. No one was even using Metamask.
00:00:22.414 - 00:00:50.338, Speaker A: It was the desktop client called NIST, and it was really buggy. My password didn't work. It took me a good week and a half to figure out how to get into my. My account, and then I got really, really hooked, right? So that's when I started digging deeper into the community, trying to understand what the potential ramifications of smart contract technology could do. This could be hugely transformative. I need to go all in. And so that's when Josh and I decided to go all in into crypto.
00:00:50.338 - 00:01:12.530, Speaker A: It started out a little bit as an NFT launchpad where celebrities and influencers could launch nfts. We did Blau's $11.7 million sale that really kind of set headlines for the entertainment industry. Paris Hiltone in really cool celebrators and influencers, as well as, like, NFT artists like Trevor Jones or a lot of money. It's really interesting. Drop with SpaceX.
00:01:15.630 - 00:01:27.850, Speaker B: Well, today I'm super excited to be joined by Matt, founder of Origin Protocol. Super excited to have you here, Matt, and talk all the inner workings of the protocol and what you've built at Origin.
00:01:28.590 - 00:01:37.470, Speaker A: Thanks so much for having me, Logan. I'm really excited to engage with you and your broader community, and I'm always excited to talk about. About what we're building in origin.
00:01:37.770 - 00:01:49.550, Speaker B: Perfect. I would love to. Maybe before even getting into some of the backstory of origin itself, start with a little bit about yourself, how you got into the crypto scene, how you fell down the rabbit hole, so to say.
00:01:50.250 - 00:02:12.280, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. I like to call it almost like a happy series of accidents. But I've always been interested in tech entrepreneurship and disruptive technologies. Was one of the earliest product managers at YouTube coming out of school. And then later on, Google acquired us and spent a number of years there. But I always had that startup itch again. Right.
00:02:12.320 - 00:02:15.568, Speaker B: And being part of another podcast in itself.
00:02:15.744 - 00:02:57.092, Speaker A: Oh, yeah. It was just like such an amazing journey to see how much impact disruptive technology could have. And YouTube was just like one of those rocket ship companies. So thereafter, I was always kind of, like, searching for, like, hey, what is next? Where I can kind of devote my career to something that is going to have global impact is going to really transform the world and is also just really personally intellectually stimulating. So it took me a number of years to find my way into crypto. I joined a couple other startups, and that wasn't necessarily the same experience as YouTube, even though they were great startups and also had exits as well. And then in 2013, I began my entrepreneurial journey.
00:02:57.092 - 00:03:37.576, Speaker A: It was about the same time, I think, like maybe like late 2012 or so, where I first bought some bitcoin. I wish I was earlier, even earlier to the mix. There were people smarter than me that were telling me to pick up a bag in 2011, and I didn't quite get it at a time, right? It took me a number of exposures to just decide to start dabbling a little bit, and then I actually forgot about it, right? And so that was kind of like the first happy accident of like, okay, sure, I'll put some money in bitcoin and then just not look at it for a few years. And then 2014 was another happy accident. Someone smarter than me was like, hey, there's going to be this new thing called Ethereum. Maybe it'll be the next bitcoin. I was like, that sounds cool.
00:03:37.576 - 00:04:13.376, Speaker A: And I didn't do much research at all. And I was like, yep, I'll put some money in the Ethereum ICO crowd sale, like whatever you want to call it. I don't think they called it icos because it's the first one. And I forgot about it again. And I continued on my path trying to be an entrepreneur in different industries, pivoted around a couple times, did manage to build a couple different businesses that ended up doing well. And yeah, they were generating revenue and I was just operating them. But then 2016, I guess the next accident was just like Ethereum Dow hack, right? And that started making some news in tech circles.
00:04:13.376 - 00:04:37.254, Speaker A: I was like, oh, this sounds familiar. I think I have this Ethereum thing. Let me try to figure it out. But I wasn't entirely sure if I had had even invested. But it sounded familiar. That's like the weird serendipity that happened. And then I go through a bunch of old emails like, yeah, I did invest in this thing, tried to access my wallet, but at the time, like, everything was so immature, right? No one was even using metamask.
00:04:37.254 - 00:05:12.822, Speaker A: It was the desktop client called Mist, and it was really buggy. My password didn't work. It took me a good week and a half to figure out how to get into my account using command line tools to directly interface with the wallet. And I was like, oh, wow, okay, I do have Ethereum. It's worth a lot of money now. What the hell is going on? And then I got really, really hooked. So that's when I started digging deeper into the community, trying to understand what the potential ramifications of smart contract technology could do and understanding the ethos of all the early Ethereum developers as well.
00:05:12.822 - 00:05:40.268, Speaker A: And I was like, hey, this could be hugely transformative. I need to go all in. And so that's when Josh and Ryan decided to go all in into crypto. First year or so, 2016, we were largely trading again. The infrastructure was just very, very nascent. We built our own portfolio management tools. We built some bots that alerted us to price changes that informed trading.
00:05:40.268 - 00:06:23.592, Speaker A: We had some automated DCA bots just buy bitcoin, ethereum, every single day, identify triangle arbitrage opportunities. And we were essentially trading for a year. And that's when we finally were like, hey, do we want to be traders and just try to make money, or do we want to deliver real value entrepreneurs at heart? This has kind of been an interesting detour, but let's actually go after a more long term perspective here. And what do we want to build using this enabling technology? And, yeah, after a while we decided we're going to go build Origin together 2017, and the rest is kind of history. We've been in the space since 2017. I've been working really hard. I've been through a couple different market cycles now.
00:06:23.592 - 00:06:28.500, Speaker A: Have had to do a number of product pivots and end up at where we're at today.
00:06:29.160 - 00:07:02.540, Speaker B: Amazing. Well, on kind of maybe a great place to start from that kind of jumping off point would kind of be through the different market cycles. I think now some people were either not as comfortable or just earlier in their careers and miss some of the earlier cycles. What would your advice be to founders today? Kind of going through crypto and building in the crypto winter, so to speak, kind of being on their first cycle.
00:07:03.520 - 00:07:31.410, Speaker A: Yeah, I have a lot of thoughts here, actually. So I think the first thing is the market is actually king. Right. So macro conditions, not just within crypto, but just like global macro does dictate how global equity markets work. Derivative markets work, bonds markets work. Right. And you see that there are these signals that can make markets go up and down pretty dramatically, right.
00:07:31.410 - 00:08:19.990, Speaker A: And one of them is interest rates. Right. When interest rates go up, people are risk off, and risk assets such as crypto tend to go down. This was accelerated very much so last year, because not only were people buying crypto when interest rates were low in 2020 and 2021, but people started getting overconfident and rationally exuberant, and they really leveraged up. Right? And so that's why we saw these dramatic washouts last year, where people were liquidated and margin called, and some people that made tons of money lost pretty much everything. We saw three AC crash. We obviously saw the Luna Terra thing, which is based on questionable technical principles in the first place.
00:08:19.990 - 00:09:07.056, Speaker A: And then we saw the contagion thereafter. So genesis, DCG, we saw certain centralized lending products like blockfi and Celsius all go down. And what's more fascinating in this last week is we see traditional finance haven't been affected by these interest rates as well. Without going into too many details, I think hopefully people are observant that SVB had a big challenge. And some of these other banks also have challenges. Like when interest rates were low, they bought a lot of long term, ten year, 30 year treasuries and mortgage backed securities for a short yield. And then now that interest rates have been jacked up tremendously in the last twelve to 18 months, those assets are underwater.
00:09:07.056 - 00:09:39.994, Speaker A: That's created a bit of a liquidity issue and caused the bank run on Silicon Valley bank. So I guess the first thing is market is king. Market has been bad. Market has caused a lot of contagion and a lot of businesses to fold and a lot of projects to go underwater. But we're kind of, I would say at a point where it can't get too much worse, even though it can. But I think it's at a point where a lot of the people that were over leveraged in crypto have been reset. And now the capital going in is a little bit more measured.
00:09:39.994 - 00:10:17.270, Speaker A: It's not overly leveraged. And also, on a global macro perspective, I don't know exactly what will happen, but it's clear that the various government treasuries will have to start thinking about how do you actually prevent additional bank runs. Doesn't mean we actually cut interest rates sooner, et cetera. And so I think there is a light at the end of the tunnel where I think in the next twelve months, maybe 18 months, I think there will be a correction, more back to the upside. And so that's something to look forward to. So, global macro markets improving. The second thing I would say is focus on building.
00:10:17.270 - 00:10:46.240, Speaker A: There have been many cycles before, and the people that are building during the bear market that are delivering real value, that are focusing on the people that are still in the space tend to do really well when the markets do warm up. A great example of this is Opensea. They were building in the bear market. They almost thought about shutting down the company. No one was using their product, but they stayed in the game. They built the right features. And then as the NFT market started burgeoning, they became the big winners, at least in this last cycle.
00:10:46.240 - 00:11:29.394, Speaker A: The same thing with Defi Summer 1.0 in late 2019 and 2020, people didn't really understand what companies like compound or Synthetix were really up to. Even myself as being someone in crypto was like, I don't quite get it. The user experience for this stuff is so much higher. I believe in the concept of Defi in general, but will these products actually work? Or are people just going to use centralized exchanges and lenders for the foreseeable future? Thankfully, I was wrong. The people that are building, that are dealing with adversity in the bear markets, those are the entrepreneurs and the companies that stand to have tremendous upside when things hurt. And it's always a nonlinear thing.
00:11:29.394 - 00:11:54.318, Speaker A: People expect, hey, input, output, input, output. The more input I put in, I'm going to see this easy line up. That's not how crypto works. That's not how traditional startups work. It's usually grind, grind, grind. You're on an exponential path, but the numbers are so small in the beginning that you can't even tell that you're getting any traction, right? But exponential things look really small in the beginning. And then once they hit that inflection point, they go really high, really fast.
00:11:54.318 - 00:12:47.972, Speaker A: So you have to survive long enough to hit that inflection point and be able to turn into rocket ship when the next cycle comes around. In terms of how to operate the company, I would say survival is the name of the game. So cut your burn. If you need to make layoffs, make those hard decisions sooner than later. But also think about how are you spending your money? Do you need to be spending so much money with marketing community where you're paying all these different influencers, or these agencies? Or should you be taking that in house, building your community from people that actually care and doing it in a more capital efficient manner? How do you hire ten X engineers? It's not about the total headcount you have. It's about the output of your team. And so I've seen some other companies in the space where they're like, pride themselves on like, hey, we have like 60 employees, or we have 120 employees, or we have like 5000 employees.
00:12:47.972 - 00:13:17.690, Speaker A: It's like, that's a terrible metric. That's the vanity metric of, like, the founders just kind of wanting an empire. And it's like, a lot of the best companies in the space, like, have, like, you know, a couple dozen, right? You look at, like, curve, or you look at, like, uniswap, or you look at some of these, like, amazing companies. Like, they have pretty lean teams. So stay lean, stay hungry, focus on the long term, keep building, and then hope that we can get the, we can survive long enough for the macro conditions to improve, and then everyone wins.
00:13:19.830 - 00:13:51.786, Speaker B: I love that great kind of separated answers. I think it is very challenging, and I think obviously conditions are not super favorable at the moment, but just from somebody that has gone through the experience, built a successful protocol, stuck with it throughout the bear market, and then kind of saw the fruits of your labor and the bull market. Definitely lots of wisdom and lessons learned throughout that. So definitely appreciate that.
00:13:51.978 - 00:13:52.830, Speaker A: Thank you.
00:13:53.170 - 00:14:12.460, Speaker B: On the origin side, I mean, ultimately, you did emerge, even though starting in kind of the 2017 timeframe. What was the main vision for origin? You also said in the beginning that you pivoted a couple times. And how has that, if any, kind of changed from what origin is today?
00:14:13.200 - 00:15:08.890, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. So the original vision was we wanted to build a marketplace protocol that allows anyone to buy and sell anything on chain. And so we are firm believers in this concept of decentralized commerce. There's all these companies that are kind of like in the middle middlemen that take fees from the suppliers and or the buyers. And how can we abstract some of that away with permissionless, smart contracts and create more efficient ways for people to trade back and forth? Original product was this end all, be all marketplace where people could use their metamask to buy or sell anything, whether it was a listing that you would find on Craigslist or Etsy or even a home rental or something like that. It was way too broad, and it was also way too early. People weren't using metamask even yet.
00:15:08.890 - 00:15:50.988, Speaker A: Ethereum is still is slow and expensive, but it was even worse conditions back in the day, and the user experiences were just pretty terrible. So we pivoted a couple times, launched some products that didn't really work, and eventually found our footing with two products that are still within this decentralized commerce realm, but looks slightly different. Right? Even though there's kind of like a similar underlying theme. So the first of which is origin story. And so this is our NFT platform. It started out a little bit as an NFT launchpad where celebrities and influencers could launch nfts. We did Blau's $11.7
00:15:50.988 - 00:16:23.342, Speaker A: million sale that really kind of set headlines for the entertainment industry. Paris Hilton is an advisor, investor. She's done a job with us. We've worked with a lot of really cool celebrities and influencers, as well as NFT artists like Trevor Jones or a lot of money and also some brands. We did a really interesting drop with SpaceX and inspiration four, which was their civilian space flight. First time civilians were able to go into space without a actual government astronaut. That was really, really interesting.
00:16:23.342 - 00:17:13.110, Speaker A: But what we realized is, hey, this is actually our way to go back to the original vision in a full circle way. What we were missing in 2007 was like, how do you represent all these goods and services on chain? Well, it's really hard to represent them. But with NFTs taking off, we realize that NFTs are actually the perfect digital representation of both other digital goods as well as services as well as real world assets. And so we're really excited about how NFTs can be this primitive, fundamental building block that allows this type of decentralized commerce and this period of commerce. And so today, what we've seen already is like, people are able to buy and sell digital art as nfts. And that was kind of the first phase in 2021. And now there's these digital collectible products.
00:17:13.110 - 00:18:03.130, Speaker A: Whether it's from NBA top shots or the PFP and Avatar projects, these are largely digital only concepts. For now, however, we believe that NFTs are also going to be breaking into gaming. That's digital only as well. But Google Play, Apple App Store, they both generate tens of billions of dollars in, in app purchases today from people playing games. And that's a huge market opportunity. We're also seeing that NFTs are breaking into real world assets. One of our partners, Roofstock, they're a real estate company that's achieved unicorn status, and they're actually thinking about, hey, how do we disrupt our own business or web two business with web3? And so we've helped them launch a NFT marketplace where these nfts actually represent ownership in physical pieces of real estate.
00:18:03.130 - 00:18:48.814, Speaker A: And so we sold a number of homes where the buyer is essentially buying an NFT, and the NFT actually gives ownership to an LLC that owns houses. Right? And so that's this brand new concept. We believe that there are other physical assets like handbags or Rolexes or cars, or maybe it's like commercial real estate next, even commodities, right? Like gold, oil, that can be represented as nfts and then sold on chain in this very efficient, interoperable manner. And so we're really, really excited about that. And that is really where things can really come full circle with their original vision of allow anyone to buy or sell anything on chain. And now it's like, hey, let's create the marketplace. These marketplaces are selling NFTs, but those NFTs can represent all this different type of stuff.
00:18:48.814 - 00:19:42.228, Speaker A: That's really, really exciting. So that's our origin story product. We're very focused on allowing these creators to really go deep with their businesses. And so we have stuff like primary mints right now, we're really pushing forward on our branded marketplace product. And so imagine it's like an open sea, but it's like creator centric royalties are enforced. The creator controls the branding, the official collections. There's data analytics on this marketplace, and then we're gonna go really deep, right? So how do we add engagement features and gamification and social features and also incentives to get these creators to be really, really successful, whether they're selling PFPs or they're actually trying to wrap NFTs into other assets, like gaming assets, physical goods or tickets, et cetera, et cetera.
00:19:42.228 - 00:20:12.390, Speaker A: So yeah, that's kind of what we're doing. On the origin story side, we actually have a completely separate business called Origin dollar. That's a yield earnings stable coin. It's Defi made simple. How do we get the masses onto DeFi without requiring them to use their own bots and spreadsheets to figure out risk, reward and measure complex yield and impermanent loss and all that type of stuff. And so that's a product we're also very excited about. It came through various experiments when we went through that pivot phase.
00:20:12.390 - 00:20:29.070, Speaker A: And it's really exciting because we think that a lot of corporate treasuries and daos and eventually web3 retail people that aren't as savvy as DGen, so to speak, can start earning really strong yields without having to go through the hassle and the security risks.
00:20:29.830 - 00:21:15.780, Speaker B: Very interesting, lots of different products, and interesting to see how the product has morphed over time on that front. I think personally, NFTs caught me by surprise after Defi summer and how big they got. But in the first iteration, being the PFP kind of eradic now, I mean, as you kind of were speaking to, are you in the team kind of viewing NFTs more as like the digital primitive that unlocks kind of digital ownership and then building the marketplace just to be able to kind of encapsulate and support digital transfers or digital collectibles.
00:21:17.160 - 00:21:56.308, Speaker A: It's a little bit of both, right? So I see NFTs as this fundamental primitive as we're talking about, right? Maybe you feel giving me the luxury to go on in the side for like another two minutes. I think of NFT technology as some of which are like HTML. In the early days of the Internet, in the beginning, people didn't really fully understand it. They're like, why do I need an HTML webpage? Other than the early adopters, people were kind of like, this is stupid. I can watch tv to get my content or read a physical newspaper to get my daily news updates, and I can call my friends on the phone. This email thing is stupid. Fast forward a few years and everyone is using email.
00:21:56.308 - 00:22:48.454, Speaker A: Social networks is a brand new industry. There's blogging, there's user generated content, there's video streaming. And eventually that plays out further and further and further. And then there's the mobile movement. I think NFTs are this fundamental building block where in the beginning there are slightly more limited use cases as the first use cases, but they're going to start branching out into these disparate verticals and very specialized use cases. Our perspective is how do you build for a future where NFT technology serves as the backbone for all different types of creators and businesses, but build a platform or protocol that's flexible enough to serve multiple use cases and not just digital art or pfps. Our product serves PFP projects very well right now because that's where there's a lot of heat and activity.
00:22:48.454 - 00:23:23.880, Speaker A: That's where there's a lot of trading volume. That's where people are focusing in this current bear market. But really our dream is like, how do we allow the creation of unique ecosystems for different NFT projects? And so I kind of liken to past history again in the web two world. Well, web one and web two world. There's the concept of aggregators versus platforms. An aggregator is like an Amazon. Let's aggregate the supply side.
00:23:23.880 - 00:23:46.028, Speaker A: All the sellers sell on Amazon, and Amazon aggregates demand for consumers that are buying on the buy side. Great model. Everyone uses Amazon. I love Amazon. But there are some shortcomings. These aggregators tend to commoditize their supplier base over time. So Amazon makes all these sellers have a one size fits all UI.
00:23:46.028 - 00:24:41.980, Speaker A: They charge listing fees and marketplace fees. And these suppliers are very dependent on Amazon for revenue, but also at the same time kind of annoyed, right? And I kind of see that as like the opensea or blur model. These aggregators that drive a lot of liquidity, that drive a lot of transactions, but then they also, in a way, are hurting some of the projects. They're doing things like, hey, no creative royalties now, or minimum creative royalties. Or let's actually reduce the focus on the art end, make the profile images really small and try to treat them more just like speculative assets. This is commoditization on the supplier side. On the other side, there are other companies in the web, two worlds like Shopify or Squarespace or woocommerce that allowed these direct to consumer experiences where the buyer's experience was much more custom and branded and the seller had more control.
00:24:41.980 - 00:25:19.318, Speaker A: There's third party applications that can be added onto the Shopify platform to create richer experiences, et cetera, et cetera. And so I think that's going to happen with MC's as well. And we want to position ourselves to almost pursue more of the Shopify model where we provide the infrastructure and tooling. Initially, yes. A lot of these digital artists, celebrities and PFP projects to allow them to have successful businesses. And that's where we lead with the marketplace because people are buying and selling. We lead with kind of like data analytics around the holder base and how healthy it is and distribution and top holders, et cetera, et cetera.
00:25:19.318 - 00:26:22.662, Speaker A: But we're now leaning into additional features like, hey, how do we actually gamify the experience, create incentives and triggers for the collector base to engage with the projects on a daily basis, have it be a little bit more vertically integrated. And that's kind of our wedge, right? That's where we're focusing on developing a strong tech product. But we very much have aspirations of like, hey, once we continue to solidify or beachhead with the market of today, right, artists, PFP projects, maybe some early entries into real world assets like Rootstock, maybe some gaming partners. We're seeing a lot more activity there. But as we build out our technology suite, how do we make it modularized enough? How do we make it so that in the future, NFT projects and businesses can pick and choose parts of our tech stack just like Shopify. Merchants can choose their own themes and which apps to add on and what features to make their store differentiated and unique and have better utility for their customers versus someone that's like trying to sell on Amazon, right? And the two are not mutually exclusive. They can work very, very hand in hand.
00:26:22.662 - 00:26:51.830, Speaker A: There's people that sell on Shopify that also sell on Amazon, that also sell on eBay and so I think that same thing will play out. NFTs, but the way we think about it is focus on the customer that is today deliver really good value, but then skate where the puck is going, not just focus on that today. And so we are thinking about things on how do we serve real world assets or gaming partners or people that are trying to do access passes or experiences as opposed to only pfps today.
00:26:52.810 - 00:28:19.530, Speaker B: Yeah, I definitely echo the sentiments that kind of the aggregators versus being able to customize your own platform. I initially actually thought this was going to be the more dominant kind of model from the get go, but the aggregators definitely got quite a bit of market share quite early on. I do think, as you mentioned, skating to where the puck is going, this is going to be the dominant model in the future, especially as communities grow larger and want to kind of have their own either royalties or different fees, being able to kind of customize it through different chats or live streaming, all that will be something that is a little bit harder today, but something that you and the team are building at origin to make easier for these communities. So it's very interesting. I do think this is where the world is headed on that front. I mean, if the world is kind of heading towards kind of less verticalization with the aggregator style and kind of more custom, what do you see happening to kind of the aggregators today? Do you think they still kind of remain these large players in the ecosystem, or do you view them more as a competitor or complementary?
00:28:21.400 - 00:29:03.594, Speaker A: They are both competitors and complimentary. That's a weird hedged answer, but I would say that I am actually quite bullish on blur and opensea in that they will continue to generate tons of volumes and have strong user bases. That might be a little bit of a hot take because we're very pro creator and want to build this separate business model and this separate way of serving creators and their collectors. But again, I don't think it's mutually exclusive. Amazon's a giant business and so is the combination of Shopify, squarespace, woocommerce, et cetera. And so I think there is a place for aggregation. It's a little bit more commoditized.
00:29:03.594 - 00:29:39.920, Speaker A: As I was saying, NFTs on OpenSea are one size fits all. It's like, here's what it looks like, here's the metadata, and here are some traits. And you can search and filter and stuff like that, but you can't really do anything with those NFTs on Opensea. You can't stake your NFT if you have a bored ape, you actually have to go to a separate website to stake your NFT. You can't actually engage in any more complex mechanics around, hey, if I burn this NFT, I get something else that's all happening on these creator sites. You can't do things like showcase it in a better way. There aren't any real social features.
00:29:39.920 - 00:30:28.670, Speaker A: There's some analytics features on OpenSea, but in a way their approach is both a blessing and a curse. The blessing is they aggregate everything. They have a lot of liquidity and network effects. There's a ton of buyers. They are the dominant player in terms of number of wallets, although blur is taking market share in terms of transaction volume because they're focusing on the market makers, power traders and dgens. But you can never go super deep on one of these platforms in a world where there are not just a few thousand NFT projects, but there are millions of different NFT projects in a couple of years. How do you build the features to serve all million different projects on a single platform? The aggregators, I think will serve as good products, as clearing houses for just buying and selling.
00:30:28.670 - 00:31:33.774, Speaker A: But it's not going to serve the needs of creators that are trying to build these community centric features. You're not going to have really cool types of social chat or leaderboards is something we're working on to rank members of the community in various different games. Some of our partners are trying to branch into periphery businesses. Along with your NFT, you may get licensing rights or along with your NFT, you may get physical merchandise or a toy or with your NFT, maybe there's a cross promotion between NFT projects where if I hold NFT from Project X, then I get benefits on Project Y, right? And vice versa. That stuff is not stuff that OpenSea is going to be able to tackle. Whereas if you build it in a more like distributed, decentralized way where it's like, hey, here are these apps or modules or APIs, and then we empower creators and businesses to pick and choose and customize and things like that, then these experiences can be created. And so then you end up with like, rather than one large island, you end up with like an archipelago of many smaller islands that have activities that can also be thriving.
00:31:33.774 - 00:32:24.040, Speaker A: And so I think both are going to happen and I think both markets will increase in size because we are still so early. So Opensea should be able to ten x their business in a few years. But that doesn't mean that companies like origin and some other people in the space that are doing this, more bespoke customization model can't also ten x or 100 x. And so they're widely different strategies serving to kind of like the same general market, but different use cases, different target customers and different implementations. But I think overall NFTs are just going to be so dominant and tackle so many industries, they're going to wrap a couple trillion dollars of assets probably in like five or ten years that there's enough room for everyone to play. And so it's like competitive, but also weirdly complimentary as well.
00:32:25.190 - 00:33:21.380, Speaker B: Yeah, I definitely agree. I mean, the total addressable market today is going to be nothing compared to what it will be in the future. Maybe on that front, when we saw DeFi summer kicking off, we saw higher gas prices, and then once NFTs really took off, we saw a little bit higher gas prices. Obviously, you've been in the game for a long time, and Ethereum was kind of the only choice at that point in time. How are you viewing either different L2s for increased scalability? I know the technical side shouldn't matter as much, but I think just the fact that at the end of the day, the end customer does pay some of these gas prices, it can be a little bit of a challenge from an onboarding. So how are you viewing L2s or different ecosystems outside of Ethereum from the product perspective?
00:33:21.960 - 00:34:24.010, Speaker A: Yeah, great question. So if you look at the data, most of the transaction volume by dollar spent is still largely on Ethereum. Right? And so this is not entirely surprising because many of the people that are in NFTs today are the early adopters. And the early adopters are a little bit less priced sensitive because they were probably also early to Ethereum or crypto in the first place. And so there is like this weird market dynamic where a lot of like heavy NFT trading is still with like a small group of, you know, let's just call them whales, right? And so I think that current environment supports that type of behavior quite well. My feel is that, yes, there will be continued activity on L2s and perhaps alternate chains as well. If we were successful as an industry, this should be largely abstracted away from the user.
00:34:24.010 - 00:34:59.926, Speaker A: Like you were saying, people won't necessarily think of them as NFts. They might just think of this as like, hey, this is a cool in app game item that I can use across multiple games. Rather than being siloed to whatever Fortnite or whatever, I can take this new avatar and bring it to the meta VR experience. New Apple AR experience and like five other games or whatever. And so the NFT has to have demonstrated utility. And so I think that part's gonna be really important. What chain it's on is probably going to be less important over time.
00:34:59.926 - 00:35:45.502, Speaker A: And end users may not even fully know, right? They may have custodial wallets before learning how to self custody. Like, we're seeing that with some of these like Fortune 500 brands, like Reddit's NFT program is very successful, but they market them as digital collectibles and they create wallets on behalf of users. And a lot of users don't even know they're nfts yet. That's when we know we're going to be really successful. And so you have to build the right technology rails, I think that means supporting Ethereum mainnet, but also L2s and alternate chains. And particularly with EVM compatible L2s, it's a lot easier. It's a lot easier to say, hey, we can support Ethereum mainnet, polygon, arbitram, optimism, et cetera.
00:35:45.502 - 00:36:26.790, Speaker A: Hey, let's throw in BNB chains. They're an avalanche, right? It's harder to then say, hey, we're also going to support Solana, even though I hold a lot of Solana, or we're going to support the new move ecosystem, chains like aptos or sweet. That requires more development effort and also I think like user education. But I do think it's going to be a multi chain world. I'm not Ethereum, Maxi, even though I'm very bullish on Ethereum. I do think that if you look at the first couple ways of the Internet, a lot of the really cool technology is abstracted away. I don't really know how you and I are talking right now to get this video encoding and streaming and all that stuff.
00:36:26.790 - 00:37:25.878, Speaker A: Most people don't think about TCP IP as the protocol for email or most people don't understand HTTP or HTTPs and HTML and all the programming languages and frameworks and stuff like that. That stuff all needs to be hidden under the covers in the next five or ten years. I do think that in the short term, the people that are involved in space will need to be educated on L2s and alternate chains. And we're actually seeing that, right? We're seeing for a while there's a pretty vibrant ecosystem for nfts on Solana Avalanche, probably a little bit slower, but they're trying to make a bigger push. And then certainly the L2s Polygon is one of the best examples of, hey, everyone's, using Polygon entities right now from Starbucks or some of these other Fortune 500 companies. Their BD team is just executing at a very, very high level. And so, yeah, it's going to be a multi chain world.
00:37:25.878 - 00:37:31.450, Speaker A: Layer ones and L2s. Rising tide raises all ships, right?
00:37:31.950 - 00:38:02.868, Speaker B: For sure. No, I'm excited that there's kind of different tech taking different points of view. And exactly as you said. I mean, today, the industry is still so small. We're looking, when you look at the on chain data, there is lots of volumes, but not very many, like, addresses. And so I'm always super excited to see more addresses or users come into the ecosystem and try things on chain, regardless of which chain it is. But no, happy to.
00:38:02.868 - 00:38:39.430, Speaker B: I appreciate you kind of sharing some clarity on that, on maybe pivoting a little bit back. I mean, initially you said you kind of started out with these creators, kind of more celebrity types, even launching pudgy penguins. Could you talk about kind of some of the early learning lessons of working with either those creators or celebrities? And then, was pudgy penguins kind of the first big splash, or what was the first kind of like, moment where you're like, okay, this is going to be big for origin and the team?
00:38:40.170 - 00:39:10.846, Speaker A: Yeah. I think the first big splash was our actual first drop with Blaux, the musician and producer who's now CEO of Royal. They're using NFTs for royalties, the music royalties, not to confuse with NFT royalties. And so that really caught the world by storm. Right? So that was like, largest sale at the time. It kind of broke records. Now, since then, there have been larger ones, but that broke records.
00:39:10.846 - 00:40:02.240, Speaker A: And so there's a lot of attention, right? Like, oh, all these musicians and celebrities and influencers wanted to get into nfts and, you know, our inboxes were flooded. Right? And so that's when we were able to also do primary mints for a number of these very high profile people that would have never expected to befriend and work with. I mentioned Paris Hilton earlier. I'm also a big, I guess, EDM music fan, so got to work with Kashmir and Don Diablo and bassjackers and BT, and it's like, wow, this is really interesting how my interests in music and tech are kind of converging together. And so that was a super, super cool experience. And then we started working with some brands, and I mentioned the SpaceX inspiration before thing. That was like a really cool drop, right? Helped raise money for St.
00:40:02.240 - 00:40:27.416, Speaker A: Jude's. Totally non profit. We took no fees. We timed the NFT drop when the shuttle took off and it ended when they splashed down. Really unique moment in history and it was really cool to be a part of. So those are kind of like our earlier successes. Then as we started to build, in addition to just like primary mints and go secondaries and engagement features, that's when we started working with more of these PFP projects.
00:40:27.416 - 00:41:09.442, Speaker A: Right? And so Pudgy Penguins is probably our best known partner since they're, you know, one of the blue chip NFT projects. We are in conversation with some of the other blue chips on integrating our technology with them. Can't release too much alpha there just at the moment. But I think one of the things that we saw with Pudgy as well as our other PFP projects is like, community is paramount, right? And without community, then these really are just silly jpegs. But when you have community and then there's utility, then you actually have a real digital asset. It's a real digital product that people care about and there's real value. Subscribe to it.
00:41:09.442 - 00:43:15.274, Speaker A: So how do you actually help these creators deliver the value that they're promising in their roadmaps and things like that? Again, where it ties back to our current roadmap now of like, hey, let's create a home for the pudgy community, as well as dozens of other communities to spend time together so they can buy and sell nfts, which is what they're already doing on open sphere blur. But they can also engage deeper. How do you turn it from a branded marketplace product to an ecosystem product? How do we help pudgy have an entire ecosystem where as they're building the other parts of their business? I can't go into additional details, but there are some components that will tie into the real world, right? And we've done some cool things with pudgies around, like leaderboards and soul bound tokens for their top holders and kind of highlighting members of their community that's like one level deeper than just the marketplace and then the ongoing roadmap, we have a lot of interesting ideas that will come to market in the next few months or so around gamification, right? How do you get people in the community to really, really be engaged? How do you incentivize certain behaviors that are healthy for the projects but also healthy for the collectors? How do we actually get people to care about royalties? Because that's this life lifeblood for a lot of these creators. But companies like Blur and Opensea are taking anti creator stance and going low. Royalties essentially we're thinking about some ways to add in a social features, engagement features, gamification features, ways that preserve royalties and perhaps even grow them. And so, you know, knock on wood. But as these product features come out in the next few months, we're hoping we can make an even bigger splash by showing just how procreator we are and how, hey, it's not just, hey, let's build a branded marketplace to compete against Opensea, but it's like we're actually in an entirely different business about enabling creators and their collectors to engage at a deeper level.
00:43:15.274 - 00:43:23.670, Speaker A: And part of that is the buying and selling as in a marketplace, but part of it is way deeper and it's way more specific.
00:43:24.610 - 00:44:36.850, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm very excited. One on the creator side and then two on social and how those two will kind of ultimately intersect. I think it has been very, very early today and we're just now kind of playing with the early iterations of probably what it will come to be similar to maybe cryptokitties kind of being like one of the earlier NFT side of things before they really got big a couple years later. And so I am very excited to kind of watch how the creator side will ultimately play out because I think right now the market does not really serve creators very well. You really only have like YouTube, maybe TikTok and a couple others. But outside of that, there's kind of some web, two instances, but the first person and first team that cracks the social creator side is going to be rewarded massively. And also, I think, just make a lot of careers that weren't previously possible without the web3 or crypto underpinning.
00:44:37.270 - 00:45:36.758, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, I definitely agree with that. Right. And going back to the earlier part of our conversation where we talked about like these aggregators that, you know, sometimes end up commoditizing the people that they built their business off of. Like, we're seeing that, right, with Instagram and even YouTube where, you know, I started my career at, where in the beginning it was all about the little creator and how to make them successful. And over time it's like, well, it's better ad revenues, how do we get the most viewership and how do we kind of extract value? And so it's an unfortunate thing for creators, but it's also not unpredictable. Just seeing what's been happening in history over time. I do think NFTs present this possibility of finally turning that on its head, this concept of true digital ownership and digital scarcity and provenance.
00:45:36.758 - 00:46:23.738, Speaker A: And everyone knows who the creator is because their smart contract and the creator can do things that interact directly with their collector base. So it's a very powerful paradigm and we haven't seen it fully, I think, develop outside of some of the top NFT artists and some of the top PFP projects like Yuga Labs or Zuki or Pudgy, but it will continue. This doesn't mean that every single creator is going to be making a boatload of money on web3. Just like everything else, I think cream rises to the top and it's going to be a power curve. And so there are going to be some creators. They're going to be way more successful than others. But at least there are new tools and new paradigms that any creator can get started with.
00:46:23.738 - 00:47:12.746, Speaker A: Today. 14 year old digital artists can start selling NFTs in a few minutes with tools that we provide or other players provide, and that's really, really powerful. The ironic thing, and something you alluded to is a lot of these social features around engaging with the community, whether it's discord or Twitter, et cetera, are very web two based. And so I'm curious to see what will happen. There is a growing movement around decentralized social, whether that's with lens protocol or DesO or whatever. But there's companies thinking about how do you actually change social graphs so that they're more open and users own their data, rather than having all this data owned by a Facebook or a TikTok, etcetera. That's still very, very early.
00:47:12.746 - 00:47:35.910, Speaker A: I'm not entirely sure when that's going to be mature enough and NFTs are going this way and DSO is going this way. At some point I think there's going to be more converging in between, and that's going to be pretty intriguing to see. It'll probably take a couple years to play out where we really see massive benefits for the creators.
00:47:36.330 - 00:47:56.130, Speaker B: Definitely. One thing that you said, there was more tools that you're building to empower them. I know you're actively working on them. Can you touch upon like any specific things that you were looking to kind of provide on the tool side for the creators or even like on the gaming front as well?
00:47:56.550 - 00:48:33.200, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, like, maybe I can talk a little bit at a high level. Right? So there's a couple things. So the first of which I mentioned is like this concept of community, and I'll even throw out the word status people like to. It's a basic human instinct to show off a little bit. How do you allow people to show off the things that are worth showing off, whether that's being a very loyal holder within a collection or a top collector. Or it might be like, hey, I'm one of the people that support creators. I'm paying royalties.
00:48:33.200 - 00:49:10.680, Speaker A: If you're paying royalties, you should be given that social credit. So that's kind of like a basic piece of gamification. And the thing that we've seen work pretty well, actually. I'll address one of the aggregators with Blur is they've actually created a strong incentive system to get people to buy and sell. And they're using it specifically to decrease the bid ask spread on their marketplace and essentially allow the market makers to have incentives to market, make and create more liquidity for all these projects. And so that's their strategy. It works very well for them and it's meant that there's a lot of trading volume there.
00:49:10.680 - 00:50:36.258, Speaker A: But we think that there can be similar types of high level incentives, like token incentives that can be applied that incentivize other behaviors. Again, more creator friendly behaviors. And so that's an area of research and experimentation that we're excited to bring to the market. We're thinking through like, hey, are there ways that creators can incentivize the things that they want to incentivize? And how do we build the tools to help them do that? Right? How do we make it easier for creators to track members of the community that are paying royalties or engaging the most are doing daily check ins, maybe like checking into the site and, or chatting with other people in the community. And then how do you reward them? Right? Do you help creators launch additional NFT mints? Or maybe it's like a soul bound NFT airdrop to people that hit certain milestones and even how do we help creators launch ERC 20s? We've seen some projects, such as Ugalabs is probably the best example, like Apecoin has added this whole new element to the community that's partially financial but also very much centered around community governance. And hey, the community owns this can vote on proposals and things like that. Those things were kind of like cobbled together by yuga labs internally and with a couple of external vendors.
00:50:36.258 - 00:51:01.930, Speaker A: But can you actually make that simpler so that any creator can create their own ecosystem where they can launch some of these features without having to hire their own development teams? That's kind of like an area we're thinking about really pushing hard on and taking it beyond, hey, we're just buying and selling nfts and kind of looking at the pictures or videos and it's like hey, create deeper engagement with those nfts and allow the community to really do some cool fun things with it.
00:51:02.870 - 00:51:06.570, Speaker B: Yeah, at the end of the day it's all incentive alignment.
00:51:07.110 - 00:51:56.760, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, I mean, and it's like one of the things is like how do you make it not a zero sum game, right? That's one of the biggest things about crypto versus like actually gambling in a casino. Crypto is not a zero sum game because as the market grows, everyone can win together. And as there's more adoption, everyone can win together. And so how do you make it so that creators can win, collectors can win, the technology providers like us can win, the future, consumers can win and participate as well. There's just so much room for the market to grow. And so I do think some of these zero sum games that some of the aggregator marketplaces are engaging in, right. Like race to the bottom on fees and like cutting creator royalties and kind of like, yeah, just treating them as commodities is a very different strategy than the one we're picking at origin.
00:51:56.760 - 00:52:07.060, Speaker A: Right. Which is like how do we find the win win win for all the participants? And you know, it's a hard problem to solve, but one that we think is a very worthwhile problem to solve.
00:52:07.890 - 00:52:49.730, Speaker B: Definitely. And maybe going back originally, I mean, started out with a kind of more specific point of view, working with kind of the high profile people and then ultimately kind of building out towards today's vision of kind of the marketplace for online nfts, collectibles or whatever kind of facet nfts ultimately take form. Kind of. Are you separating out these different buckets from like gaming to creators to like pfps? Are you trying to just allow empower the individual to kind of build their own marketplaces in that sense?
00:52:50.990 - 00:53:49.844, Speaker A: So yeah, so I think the answer here revolves around timing. Right? So again, I think our dream in the mid to long term is that it shouldn't be like a one size fits all product because NFTs aren't one size fits all and there's going to be different use cases, verticals, different types of customers, et cetera. Now today we have to build for the market that is currently there and that is vibrant. And so that does happen to over index a little bit on kind of like the pfps and collectibles side. But we are working progressively with more and more partners that are doing some of these more forward looking use cases I mentioned. Now in terms of execution, one of the things we need to watch out for is like hey, how do you build in the right sequence, get enough traction, one area before we spread ourselves too thin to new verticals and things like that. And so we still have to figure all the moving parts there.
00:53:49.844 - 00:54:08.530, Speaker A: But our ultimate aspirations are like building something that can serve many different classes of partners and customers. But we can't, you know, we can't try to solve six different verticals at once today. Otherwise we're just going to build products that aren't very useful.
00:54:09.190 - 00:54:55.570, Speaker B: True. I think that goes back to our earlier conversation of make sure you survive to the next kind of bulk cycle. Yeah, totally. Maybe just kind of wrapping it up. I mean, I think it's amazing to hear what you're building, empowering the creators, taking that win win approach, not trying to opting out of the zero sum games that some people are playing and really trying to put the tools into the people that hopefully will build web3 and bring on the masses. On that front, though, now is a challenging time. We kind of touched upon it initially with like the different backdrop.
00:54:55.570 - 00:55:12.290, Speaker B: Would you have any specific words of wisdoms to founders now that are kind of going, maybe haven't found product market fit like you have and are trying to kind of continue to iterate during the next year or two?
00:55:13.910 - 00:56:36.380, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean this is probably going to sound very cliche, but like stick very close to your customers, right. And you know, this is how successful companies were built in web one and web two, which is oftentimes it's more important to find a small group of very passionate customers first and have them really not be able to live without your product. Right. And when you're onto that and you can build kind of like deep and successfully, it's way easier to branch out thereafter versus if you're kind of like a mediocre product that serves a lot of people, but everyone's kind of like lukewarm about how much they need your product. That's kind of a dangerous position to be in because you might have these vanaki metrics around number of customers you have and think that you have a business that is going to work, but if you don't have that deep engagement and customer loyalty and organic customer referrals, then that's something that you should really double back on and make sure you have that. Two, I think we are in a web3 world and incentives are one of the most interesting aspects of web3. How do you give way part of what you're doing to your early users to get them to be even more passionate and to be those referrals and to care? I think tokenomics is something to really think deeply about.
00:56:36.380 - 00:58:05.546, Speaker A: It's not the case where you just want to empty your treasury and give tokens to everyone in a thoughtless way, because then everyone just instant dumps it and you're like, okay, that was a cool one month marketing exercise, but now my engagement is gone. Thinking about, hey, how does a lot of, not all web3 companies, but a lot of web3 companies have tokens? How do you think about how the token fits into your product in a thoughtful way, and that usually means you give it away as token emissions, but you also have to have token stinks. How do you actually lock up supply, whether it's staking or burning or giving other reasons for people to use your token, such as decentralized governance or fee accruals, things like that? That's a unique advantage and tool in web3, and so that should be a core part of your strategy. Another thing I would say is, yeah, again, just basic operational excellence around where do you trim costs? How do you stay alive? We don't know when the next bull market is going to hit, and it'd be a shame if your company dies three months before the next bull market hits. That could have completely changed your trajectory. I've talked to a founder friend of mine, and in the last cycle he actually was first to marketplace before OpenSea. But during the bear market, it ended up just not being a very viable business, and they closed it up, Opensea stuck with it, and they were able to survive in a very lean way.
00:58:05.546 - 00:58:54.686, Speaker A: And then 18 months later, OpenSea became a household name in the crypto world. Again, you can't control global macro dynamics, but you can control your burn rate, you can control how quickly you hire and the quality of your hires. You can control how deeply you care about your customers. And are you tackling a pain point, and is your product a painkiller or is it more kind of like a vitamin? Right? So those are things you can control. And if you can control those, well, it's only a matter of time, right? The business cycles, they're called cycles for a reason. There's ups and downs. It's happened for thousands of years, contractions and expansions, and so stay alive, be a cockroach, work hard, grind, preserve cash, aggregate great talent.
00:58:54.686 - 00:59:11.810, Speaker A: There's a lot of great talent coming into web3. And if you less expensive to hire them right now because of layoffs and salary compressions, things like that. So aggregate great people, sit close to your customers, survive, and then when the next bull market comes, be prepared to harvest.
00:59:12.350 - 00:59:33.310, Speaker B: Very wise words and very true. Last and final question, I kind of end the podcast on spicy questions. My spicy question to you is, what ecosystem or project do you think is doing things uniquely well? And then what do you think ecosystem or project is kind of taking the wrong approach.
00:59:35.050 - 00:59:38.950, Speaker A: Interesting. Specifically within nfts or crypto overall?
00:59:39.770 - 00:59:51.270, Speaker B: Crypto overall, just something that you think they either execute well, whether it's ethereum, a different l two, or other ecosystem or a specific project.
00:59:52.370 - 01:00:43.218, Speaker A: Yeah, a couple come to mind. So I think one of the interesting l two s is arbitrum. They have a lot of volume right now, and they actually haven't launched a token yet. I think this is a pretty interesting tactic where people expect them to at some point, but in anticipation of that, a lot of people are using the network and they're able to refine their products, figure out scalability, figure out the user experiences. Sometimes the timing of when you drop that token is quite beneficial. Also, Blur did a really great job with their token incentive program, kind of getting people to use it in various different phases and seasons. In contrast, I think companies like Looksrare and XCY two with their token launches were a little bit more haphazard, right? Just like very large emissions to the start.
01:00:43.218 - 01:01:16.442, Speaker A: Wasn't that great of a reason to use the token? And so you saw like these pumps and dumps, and then like the token economies are less healthy now. So those are a couple of things to point out, I think. One really interesting project that hasn't launched yet. Hard to say if they're going to do well or not. But I'm quite bullish on what the technology means, and I'm very excited to see them launch and potentially really change the game for Ethereum. Is this company called Eigen Layer? Eigen Layer.
01:01:16.626 - 01:01:18.626, Speaker B: I've done a podcast with Shuram.
01:01:18.818 - 01:02:21.050, Speaker A: Yeah. When I first heard about it, I was like, wow, this could be completely game changing, because rather than having every single individual project, having to get validators and nodes in their ecosystem to secure their networks, you can just borrow the security of Ethereum, which is the most secure smart contract platform by far now. And by creating this infrastructure layer that allows Ethereum, validators are already staking Ethereum to earn even more money through Eigen layer, through these apps that are built on top of Aglaya, that can offer incentives. That's just like an amazing flywheel, right? Ethereum that's already being used is more capital efficient. Validators that are already participating can make more money. Projects that want decentralized security can borrow the security of Ethereum and get bootstrapped faster and launch more quickly and grow their communities. It's just like going back to that phrase earlier, win, win, win.
01:02:21.050 - 01:02:48.660, Speaker A: It could be a win for everyone, win for Ethereum holders, win from validators, win for projects, and win for eigen layers. That's one that I'm definitely excited about and watching very, very closely. And again, it's all about incentive alignment. How do you actually allow people to potentially make more money but add more value with what they're doing? Incentive alignment thing is really, really exciting, on top of the technology that they're building.
01:02:49.720 - 01:03:01.260, Speaker B: Interesting. And so that was the positive. Are there any projects, ecosystems that you think are doing anything uniquely bad or just making the wrong decisions?
01:03:02.040 - 01:03:44.316, Speaker A: I think there are a lot, I probably won't name them specifically, but I think there are a lot of projects that are taking very short term stances. With crypto, it's easy to start a project, launch your token, get some liquidity, and then some of the founders just cash out and then stop caring. Right. And so I've seen a number of projects where the founders were like super passionate and pitching hard and working hard in 2021 saying they're going to change the world. And last year everything started crashing. Yeah. More than a handful or dozen of project founders that I've seen personally or even have known personally where I'm like, what the hell are you doing? You're not working anymore, you're not trying.
01:03:44.316 - 01:04:14.006, Speaker A: I see you attending these conferences, that's cool. You're partying, but you're not working. I don't see any commits to your GitHub, I don't see product traction, I don't see investor updates. Some people are just checked out, they launched your token, made some money, and they're just like, okay, bear markets here, I don't really care. I think that sucks. That's a terrible way for industry to progress. It gives investors a bad taste in their mouths.
01:04:14.006 - 01:04:49.804, Speaker A: It actually perpetuates some of the criticism that we're seeing in the industry around, hey, people are just in it for the money. It's like cash grabs. And those are the actors that really disappoint me. Not going to publicly throw out those names, but don't do that. If you're going to start a project, build for the long term, try to deliver real value for the world and the financial stuff pay off. Right? Like if youre delivering value, there are very rarely companies that dont actually end up with great outcomes if youre actually solving big problems. So yeah, perfect.
01:04:49.892 - 01:04:59.180, Speaker B: Well, well end it there. Thank you so much for coming on the podcast, Matt. Really appreciate everything that youre building at origin and wish you and the team the most success.
