00:00:10.650 - 00:00:40.730, Speaker A: Exactly. Stani, starting with you, first of all, again, congratulations for this brilliant ride the last three years and the path of innovation you've delivered for DeFi, especially this year. Congrats to that. Maybe just again, talk a little bit about who are your DFI users who are actually using the protocol and how decentralized. On a scale from one to ten you would define Ave and the Ave ecosystem.
00:00:43.070 - 00:02:14.242, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. I mean, related to the growth and especially related to the users of the protocol. What we noticed that actually most of the volume and consumption of the liquidity comes from developers that are building different kinds of products and services on top of AAvE. And that's pretty cool because one of the main features on DeFi, and especially in the ethereum ecosystem, is that you have this permissionless compatibility. So whatever is deployed on the main net, you could actually interact with that. And that's pretty awesome in the sense that that doesn't exist in the traditional banking system where you basically have to have permission, obey the different kinds of rules of the financial institutions and their terms and conditions, and then practically you have to build things with two different, three different, many different technology stacks and APIs. So in terms of when we're thinking about open banking, which is now like a popular concept in fintech and in the traditional finance, the open banking isn't that much open because there's so many bottlenecks for developers.
00:02:14.242 - 00:03:23.918, Speaker B: And where we are in the space in DeFi, where you could actually build anything, it literally provides a permissionless access to an ecosystem to build financial products. Nothing like this existed ever before, in the sense that you could deploy something into anywhere from the world, deploy something that anyone can use. This democratizes not just the usage, but actually the development of financial applications. And because everyone can participate, everyone can compete, everyone can innovate, it will be actually an ecosystem where you will see lot of competition and lot of innovation and a lot of progress. Probably the most progressive industry will be for the next years to come. And when we think about the liquidity that comes from AAVE, it's pretty much these developers who are building these products. And in terms of mean by itself, I think there's different ways to look at it.
00:03:23.918 - 00:05:25.470, Speaker B: Typically we like to call this kind of like progressive decentralization, where developers are starting from having the control of the protocol and gradually decreasing the control and giving the control to the token holders. In Ave's case, we basically are progressing in this particular path quite quicker in the sense that we are now doing a token migration from lend to Ave and then the Ave token holders actually were taking the risk of the protocol by staking and securing for different kinds of shortfall events, such as hacks box and so forth. They're making the decisions of the protocol, what kind of assets could be listed and different risk parameters. And we are in the state that we are transitioning now there in scales of one to ten, it's really difficult to actually apply, especially in the sense that you actually don't need the fullest, like decentralization or security, because in essence, what decentralization is security in one sense. So the problem we have now in Ethereum, for example, is that we're applying the very same security for any kind of application that is on the network, and that is not necessary in the sense, and you don't need the same level of security if you're, for example, creating collectibles nfts, something that you might want to use more frequently. That is kind of like where we are. The weird part is that when we designed the protocol, we designed it for scale, that it can hold substantial amount of value within smart contracts.
00:05:25.470 - 00:06:01.886, Speaker B: We never expected this kind of growth at all. Our kind of like estimate will be that there will be 5 million worth of value locked in AAvE. Now there's roughly 1.5 billion words of value locked. And this means actually that we have to transfer the control as soon as possible. It's not a question of actually responsibility in the sense that we don't want to take the responsibility, but we want to ensure that whatever we are building and whatever is consumed, I mean, protocol wise, there's a decision making that is broader than the actual founding team.
00:06:02.068 - 00:06:31.820, Speaker A: Thanks, Danny, coming back to you later on. Also in terms of your maybe future focus also on fintech and looking at the emoney institution license you just received a couple of weeks ago. But now over to you, Paul, in terms of how talk to us about the importance of oracles and obviously decentralized oracles in the space and where you see your users and the importance of it.
00:06:32.430 - 00:07:37.406, Speaker C: Yeah, obviously we believe oracles are important in integral infrastructure. So probably rather Acropolis and Ave to validate that. We consciously try to set up dia on a government as well as on a product level in a decentralized manner. So talking about governance, we are swiss association, so we, I think, have the perfect legal infrastructure to create a decentralized, autonomous organization which has different stakeholders involved from whom these oracles are relevant. So there's basically a bit of a learning from the swiss exchange, for example, is owned primarily by the swiss banks. Why because it's providing integral infrastructure to them. So they need this trading venue, payment rails and so on.
00:07:37.406 - 00:08:37.314, Speaker C: So we believe, okay, as data is integral to decentralized finance applications as well as to traditional regulated products, the people building on top of this infrastructure should have a say. And this is why we are on a governance level, trying to become as decentralized as possible. Obviously, it's not something you can be or it's very easy to be in the beginning. It's a gradual process, but we believe that this structure is needed, as we believe oracles are so relevant to these products. The other one is on the product level itself. So as I said, we don't source the data ourselves. We are relying on contributors, which we basically, it's a community which we, in a grassroots approach, grew over the years, which I think in the past now grew much faster than in the previous years.
00:08:37.314 - 00:09:50.662, Speaker C: But I think this decentralized element of how do you add data and how does your product actually work without the team is something which is also relevant to provide infrastructure that in the long run, as it is so essential to have these reliable pricing points, can maintain without the core team being involved. And this obviously has some product benefits as due to this decentralized element in the product creates transparency on where the data is actually coming from. Because if you ask a third party to connect additional data source, you need to define it, you need to check it, then it's being validated. So up to the end product, you have a trail where actually this data comes from. And this is something coming back. How relevant are oracles? We believe very much because if a product's performance security is based on these data points, again, investors should have a very good idea of where this data actually comes from and the opportunity to validate the soundness of that data. The other one is for sure on the decentralized element that we can scale much faster, we can add more data sources.
00:09:50.662 - 00:10:28.070, Speaker C: So looking into the next wave of products where we basically need more than just an ETH price from a Dex, I think we are well equipped there. So to finish up on the relevance of oracles, I think we are very conscious on our role that we're an integral part and don't take this lightly and would like to facilitate even more collaboration in the space, because I believe more than one oracle is needed, especially for products where there are a relevant amount of assets locked in them to reduce vulnerabilities.
00:10:29.610 - 00:10:36.680, Speaker A: Okay, thanks, Anna. Let's try it again. And Beatles is also on. Anna, can you hear?
00:10:38.430 - 00:10:41.558, Speaker D: Absolutely, yes. So go rid of the echo.
00:10:41.654 - 00:10:59.390, Speaker E: Let's speak about Acropolis. I mean, you guys started off with an on chain pension fund, basically. So tell us about your project, what you're currently delivering, and how you see your users and their decentralization.
00:10:59.970 - 00:12:22.010, Speaker D: Yeah, sure. So yes, our original vision was that of a distributed pension fund, which is essentially a borderless pool of capital that's governed by its users and can deliver source of yield that's broadly uncorrelated with the conventional banking system. That's really become possible only very recently. And clearly, the two projects that showed the extent of what is possible are stanis and obviously Andre with wifey. Right. Because essentially what we're seeing right now is the emergence of a completely parallel stack that enables financial instruments that some are, let's say, kryptonative replicas of what we have in the conventional financial system, but with massive improvements around the speed and transparency. And others are intelli novel approaches.
00:12:22.010 - 00:13:27.770, Speaker D: So when we pivoted away from more institutional approach on client base, what started looking for essentially crypto native sources of yield that are sustainable, that are not driven by purely inflation driven rewards, and also ability to create new hybrid financial instruments that focus purely on yield generation. So this is something that we're focusing on right now. The bat is that the current yield farming rewards are going to substantially compress. What's happening right now is scarily resonant to 2017 icos and then this coming wave. But what we're seeing is the ability to create entirely parallel, broadly uncorrelated streams of income.
00:13:29.010 - 00:13:50.760, Speaker A: Jump over to not only the Ethereum, Defi Hubertus, but let's also talk about what's going on in the Defi decentralized finance applications on Tezos. So you are the chairman of the Tezos foundation, and we are obviously keen to hear what's going on over there as.
00:13:55.370 - 00:15:04.474, Speaker F: I mean, Tezos, in terms of DeFi, is probably not a first mover, but I think we will hopefully grasp the advantage of the second mover, learning from the experiences that the current protocols and the current projects are making and also learning from the issues. I mean, one could argue that Tezos, if you look at it from zooming out a little bit from a higher level, has a lot of DeFi characteristics. Right? It's kind of a DeFi application, quote unquote. Right. It's a decentralized, sensitive, resistant protocol with store of value, has staking, baking included for network validations, and I mean, the main characteristics of Tezos, one of the main characteristics, which is the very high level of smart contract security and the long term upgradability of the projects. That's an ideal basis just from the outset for deep applications. But fact is obviously that the focus in the Tezos ecosystem is more at the moment on creating the foundations and the base layers and kind of the infrastructure for mass adoption and for scaling of DeFi.
00:15:04.474 - 00:16:03.982, Speaker F: So we are working very heavily now on the core protocol. Our teams are focusing on increasing scalability. We recently injected, there was a recent injection of a protocol upgrade proposal for improving the efficiency of gas by four to five times, which will significantly be also value added for future DEFA applications. In the future, we will be proposing changes for privacy, for consensus, et cetera. So I think this is on the base layer, right? And on the infrastructure layer. Obviously, big focus is obviously on improving the UX and the UI for developers to be able to work on the protocol and on the respective infrastructure on top of it. There are a couple of interesting projects going on inditezos ecosystem that have a relation to DeFi, which are privileged building blocks for DeFi, like for instance on chain price oracles.
00:16:03.982 - 00:16:47.550, Speaker F: There is a project called the Harbiger Price feed, which is providing basically important kind of primitives for DeFi as well, which will be a fundamental building block for future applications in DeFi. Another one which I would say is equally as important, even though it's not a DeFi project by itself. It's decentralized id. We have a very strong team, Sprouse, working on enabling basically mainstream Defi products. By using the future, users might even be able to use, for instance.
00:16:49.730 - 00:16:50.094, Speaker D: Their.
00:16:50.132 - 00:17:39.658, Speaker F: Reputation or only their assets or their account information to collateralize assets. So this kind of decentralized IDE is also another building block that we are creating. And apart from that, there are a lot of other elements, a lot of other projects in the pipeline on the decentralized exchange phase. Two projects, Dexter and cripple swap, which are basically amms, that will allow asset exchange chain with Ethereum and other assets. We have decentralized stablecoin projects, asset bridges like TZBDC, which was recently launched in Switzerland. It's basically a rapid bitcoin. So in a nutshell, it's a lot of groundwork that is being done now, and the goal is really to set the basis for mass adoption.
00:17:39.658 - 00:17:57.880, Speaker F: In order to avoid that, we jump into an interesting vertical, since it's defi, something with finance. So we are very responsible about creating a solid foundation before taking probably the third step, before the second, so to speak.
00:17:58.490 - 00:18:10.026, Speaker E: You just mentioned the mass adoption. What we obviously, but looking at the mass adoption, what is needed also in.
00:18:10.048 - 00:18:50.340, Speaker A: Terms of connecting real assets using more stable coins, how much defi, how much decentralized is then the whole digital assets space, or how much are we drifting more and more towards centralized aspects of it? And maybe Stani, I just kind of read, I think it was in CTAM or so you mentioned, you are also looking into more focusing on fintech or so is that kind of also going more regulated, going more centralized also? Or how do you see can the decentralized finance base really.
