00:00:00.520 - 00:00:24.982, Speaker A: Wow. Thank you guys all so much for coming today. I know that because of our incredible events team, there is 1 million other things happening at the same time. So I super appreciate you choosing to spend your time here today. I'm Dana from Solana University. Solana University relations at the Solana foundation. So what is university relations? My first thought when I took this job, I was like, awesome.
00:00:24.982 - 00:00:53.726, Speaker A: We're going to go change curriculum. And that turns out to be an incredibly difficult and more importantly, very slow process. We will do that. It will just take time. So I started by meeting the students where they are. And I've shared the last six months. Do I get it? And I've shared the last six months with hundreds of the brightest students from all over the world, listening to what they want, what they want to learn, what they're missing, and trying to figure out cool ways to get them the tools and resources to.
00:00:53.726 - 00:01:14.990, Speaker A: To build what they're interested in to begin building on Solana. So we currently have 1500 students in our discord actively learning together. And I will say that my definition of student is broad. You do not need to be at some expensive school to be part of this. This is for anyone who wants to learn. Everyone is welcome. So in our short time today, I want to focus on three key things that I've learned so far.
00:01:14.990 - 00:01:44.972, Speaker A: I'm going to start with the history of peruvian cuisine and a little bit about decentralization. And I'm going to end with touching grass. So peruvian food is amazing. And until recently, it was relatively unknown outside of Peru. So family recipes were very, very tightly guarded and rarely shared. Until Gaston Accurio decided to do something extraordinary. He opened a restaurant focused on peruvian food, and he published all of his recipes.
00:01:44.972 - 00:02:17.418, Speaker A: People thought this would be an absolute failure, thinking no one cares about food that you make at home and no one wants to go to a restaurant that has all of the recipes already published. Turns out it had quite the opposite effect. He is now one of the most famous chefs in Peru. And his restaurants always have waiting lists and lines. And peruvian cuisine is now something on the international map. I share this as a metaphor for the power and importance of open source. The recipe is like a framework that everyone can add their own features to and personalize.
00:02:17.418 - 00:02:47.350, Speaker A: And right now, we need those recipes. So at Solana U, we have accelerators where we work with groups of students and help them build some of them. Right now, we have blockchain at Michigan trying to create an open source NFT marketplace, and Aleni blockchain working on decentralized eBay. Which brings me to the second lesson the students have taught me. It's about decentralization. We all know that decentralization is important, probably why many of us are here. It's a word we hear so often in this space.
00:02:47.350 - 00:03:25.626, Speaker A: But I started to think about it a little bit differently. After meeting so many students, I started to think about how important it was that we decentralize the amazing opportunity that learning about Solana provides. It would be really easy to go out and activate the iv's, basically pick the top schools and the top students and go after them. But that kind of goes against the ethos of what blockchain can and should do. So with Solana U, there's a focus on making sure those opportunities are spread widely. Just look around at this event. Well, actually, our first hackathon was in Kathmandu that we sponsored, and then I was going to say, look around at this event.
00:03:25.626 - 00:04:05.258, Speaker A: We have 160 students invited to this conference. It could have actually been more if it wasn't for visas and logistics. And I just want to shout out the many scholars in India who were really heartbroken to not be here today. And I want you to know that we missed you, but we did get 160 of you here from Brazil, Colombia, Singapore, Korea, South Africa, Venezuela, Canada, the US, UK, Belgrade, Germany, New Zealand, New Delhi, France, Istanbul. And more than I'm probably actually forgetting. Seeing all of these students together last night at the student mixer was mind blowing. The gigabrain energy was high.
00:04:05.258 - 00:04:39.798, Speaker A: But the opportunity for these unicorns to meet each other was amazing. I call them unicorns because each and every one of them is a self starter and a badass risk taker. These kids did not find the curriculum that they wanted at school, so they taught themselves and each other. They are brave and thinking about the cutting edge of new technology, and it is amazing to see. So what do you call a group of unicorns? It's a blessing. A group of unicorns is called a blessing. And seeing them all together last night absolutely was one.
00:04:39.798 - 00:05:02.006, Speaker A: Which brings me to my last point. We've chewed glass. Now it's time to touch grass. The importance of IRL events and getting away from our screens. We need to meet each other. I think we're getting better at making and helping great developers, but it's time for us to make great teams. Solana U is all about these international networking opportunities.
00:05:02.006 - 00:06:10.446, Speaker A: I want to see more students at all of our hacker houses, more international presence at these university hackathons and conferences, and we're committed to making that happen. But those are fast and furious events. We want to find ambassadors from schools everywhere and we want to create real life opportunities for them to connect and build together and help the next generation of killer apps on Solana we're doing our first touching grass initiative right after breakpoint, taking a small group of builders into the Joshua tree desert to spend a couple of days together, having a real fireside chat beside a real fire and talking about student ambassadors, daos, student clubs and trying to figure out how we can welcome all of them to Solana. So if you visit Solana U, you can learn more about what we're doing and how you can get involved. And because this was such a big initiative, I want to spend the last little bit of my time with you saying thank you. So there's a lot of people I want to thank and for great reasons, everyone at the Solana foundation for the opportunity. I wake up every day excited to go to work and I can honestly say that I truly love my job.
00:06:10.446 - 00:06:49.686, Speaker A: Chase and Jacob, Collin, the entire Devrel team for all of the support, especially Donnie and Joe, who have been deep in the weeds with me, with all of these wild ideas, and they have mentored and workshopped loads of hackathons and accelerators. You are such awesome humans and you have helped so many young builders. Thank you. None of this is possible without you. Javier, Jwan, Carlos, Marcos, Shereen, Irene, Cindy, Valentin, Gaksu have been so helpful at this event. There's so many of you out there, I can't do it all. A special shout out to Karolina for those of you who have not met the self described 5ft of fury that works with me at Solana U.
00:06:49.686 - 00:07:27.196, Speaker A: She is an absolute beast and although she is only one, one unicorn, she does the work of many. Definitely a blessing. Thank you Carol, for all the help. And also thank you to the heavy duty builders whose bounty program came from the MLH boot camp, was incubated at Solana University, and has been an awesome onboarding and educational tool. We have a couple of breakpoint challenges going on right now if you guys want to get involved. Unfortunately, you're going to have to hit me up for the link for it because we don't have this slide, but we're here. We actually have our first charity challenge, which is for Picetos Altigre in Venezuela.
00:07:27.196 - 00:07:40.324, Speaker A: And thank you to all of the students. You guys truly are the decentralized future. There are thousands of ways to say hello world, and I look forward to you teaching me every single one of them. I'm good.
