00:00:06.010 - 00:01:32.838, Speaker A: What up, coordination? How's it going on the pod? Today we have Venkatesh Rao, who is a writer and consultant, has co authored a paper called The Unreasonable Sufficiency of Protocols with Tim Baco, Danny Ryan, Joss Dark, Trent Bane, Epps and others. Bastion oh, I'm sorry if I'm mispronouncing your name. Bastian. And they have just announced the Summer of Protocols program, which is basically a study that it will be a program primarily virtual, that will run from 18 weeks from May to August, and it'll fund a set of full time researchers and part time affiliate researchers to think broadly and creatively about protocols. And when we're thinking about protocols here, we are talking about things as small and as human as handshakes and eye contact, up to global coordination protocols, public goods funding, climate protocols, nuclear launch protocols, air traffic control, TCP, IP, DNA, RNA. So basically what we're doing here is taking a protocol centric view of the world and studying protocols, producing research about protocols. So basically the goal of the program is to catalyze a conversation and experimentation with all different types of protocols cultural, social, political ones, also technological ones, and get the world thinking in a protocol first way to foster what Venkatesh calls protocol literacy.
00:01:32.838 - 00:02:32.106, Speaker A: So basically the idea here is that protocols are under theorized and under tinkered with, and that they should be first class concepts alongside things like institutions and nations and platforms and structuring how we think about the world. So what would have to be true for us to think about protocols as a way of advancing humanity in a similar way that institutions and nations have. So basically, summer protocol core researchers will be producing long form writing about protocols over the summer. And that's what Summer of Protocols is. There is a link in the show notes to apply to Summer of Protocols to read the paper that Venkatesh has written. And this episode for me was just kind of a mind expanding episode when thinking about human coordination in a protocol centric world. And it just makes me really excited to talk to Venkatesh about this because I feel like this is a core knowledge unlock for how we coordinate in the 21st century.
00:02:32.106 - 00:03:02.594, Speaker A: We're building a coordination. That's why I always address you all as coordination, building a network stake of people who are coordinating. And I think that a protocol centric mindset and studying the protocol centric mindset and figuring out how to create regenerative crypto economic protocols is a really key tool in the tool belt. And if not, this is just a really fascinating episode with someone that I deeply respect and I think is really, really smart. So I think that you're really going to enjoy this episode about summer protocols with Venkatesh route.
00:03:02.642 - 00:03:46.098, Speaker B: Working in web three is awesome, but working outside of the typical W two employee structure is a deal breaker for so many. Opolis is helping the self sovereign worker focus on what they do best their work. Tax time is coming up. Opolis helps professionalize your business by helping you form an entity, generate proof of employment through Pay subs and receive a W two at the end of the tax year. Are you self employed and forced to spend money on expensive healthcare insurance with limited coverage? Opelis leverages group buying power through a community employment coop, helping you save 20% to 50% on high quality, affordable healthcare options through Cigna. And finally, Opelus's member owners share in Opelis's success and profits based on their work token holdings. You must be authorized to work inside the United States in select Canadian provinces to receive Opelis's benefits.
00:03:46.098 - 00:04:24.894, Speaker B: Book a 30 minutes free consultation with Opelis's experts and join Opolis by March 31, 2023. To get 1000 work and 1000 bank tokens, go to connect Opelis Co Bankless to get started. And if you're going to East Denver, make sure to stop by the Opelis booth or attend their Future of Work Summit hosted by Opolis. The Glow Dollar is a new stablecoin with a very special property. As the market cap of Glow goes up, extreme poverty goes down. Glow is a dollar backed non profit stablecoin that creates basic income for people living in extreme poverty. Glow is basically the same business model as USDC, with yield generating Treasuries on one side and a stablecoin on Ethereum on the other.
00:04:24.894 - 00:04:55.130, Speaker B: But instead of being a for profit company, glow is a nonprofit that donates 100% of all yields from the Glow Reserve to GiveDirectly's basic income. Program Give Directly is a charity that gives people money, no strings attached to people living in poverty, and is a charity that Vitalik has previously donated to and supported in the past. With Glow, you can reduce poverty just by holding a stablecoin. Glow is launching in early 2023 and you can join the waitlist@glowdollar.org. Slash greenpill. That's Glodollar.org. Slash greenpill.
00:04:57.230 - 00:04:58.940, Speaker A: What's up, Becca? How are you doing?
00:04:59.470 - 00:05:01.754, Speaker C: I am doing good. How are you doing, Kevin?
00:05:01.882 - 00:05:05.600, Speaker A: Pretty good, recovering from Denver. It was good to meet you. IRL there.
00:05:06.450 - 00:05:11.230, Speaker C: Absolutely. Yeah. A lot of people, I met them for the first time. Awesome.
00:05:11.300 - 00:05:20.690, Speaker A: Well, I've been following your work for a while and I'm really excited to see you getting deeper into the Ethereum community. Maybe we'll start with what is the Summer of Protocols?
00:05:21.830 - 00:06:15.682, Speaker C: Yeah, so the Summer of Protocols, it's a program we are about to kick off. So the application process is now open and applications are due by the 21st. But it'll be bunch of smart people just hanging out together in a discord and on live calls, thinking about protocols in the broadest possible sense and writing about them and tinkering with speculative ideas about protocols. So the way this came about is a few months ago, Tim Baker reached out to me to ask if I just wanted to spend some time thinking about protocols broadly myself. And I gave a talk at DevCon in October, which was well received. And after that we started what we called a pilot study. And the pilot study was all of us love ethereum and tinkering with it.
00:06:15.682 - 00:07:29.206, Speaker C: But we haven't really spent much time thinking about protocols in the abstract and generally how it relates to other kinds of protocols, whether it's like older computer protocols or social and cultural protocols for everything from shaking hands to wedding ceremonies. And also protocols in the sense of the climate protocol, protocols in the sense of diplomacy. And we realized it was a very rich topic and we ourselves had gotten nerd sniped by it. So this is a bunch of us, including Tim, Danny Ryan, Trent, Josh Stark Bastion, a bunch of people from the EF, and I talked to a bunch of others as well. And we realized that anytime you sort of think about protocols in this broad sense, you get nerds tonight because it's a really interesting broad topic and there is such a thing as a protocols first way of viewing the world. And we thought that was really interesting because today when you talk about the world, you tend to do so in nation state first ways or organization first ways, and protocol first ways of thinking about the world we think are really rich. So we did the pilot study and that came out just now, a draft study titled The Unreasonable Sufficiency of Protocols.
00:07:29.206 - 00:07:48.546, Speaker C: And that's kind of the we're using that to prime the pump for the Summer of Protocol. So the hope is a bunch of smart people will read the paper, get excited, get nerd sniped, and put in applications, and we'll collect a bunch of them and have a very nice summer thinking and working around protocols. So that's what the summer protocols is.
00:07:48.728 - 00:08:28.590, Speaker A: Got it. So it sounds like you're interpreting protocols here broadly. So we're not just talking about TCPIP or the ethereum proof of stake protocol, but also social protocols like handshakes and wedding ceremonies and things like that. And sort of the idea is that protocols are critically under theorized and under tinkered with as a first class concept alongside concepts like institutions or platforms or nations. They're maybe as important in the 21st century in how we think and act in the world. And so that's why you've been nerd sniped, which I just had to Google. It's a slang turd term for giving an interesting problem to a person who is usually a nerd.
00:08:28.590 - 00:08:48.806, Speaker A: So the Summer of Protocols, it sounds like, is an 18 week program running from May to audience to August that will fund a set of full time researchers and part time researchers to think broadly and creatively about protocols and sort of advance thinking about protocols as a category. Did I get that?
00:08:48.828 - 00:09:28.340, Speaker C: All right, yes, that's exactly right. That's what we're hoping to do. And if we succeed, then maybe next time, next year, this time when people are talking about something like, say, the Russia, Ukraine, war. They won't just talk about it in terms of, say, two nations at war and other nations getting involved somehow. They might talk in terms of, all right, what are the protocols of war and peace? How might we think better about relations between nations? Can we upgrade the protocol of interactions so that's the kind of broader effect we're hoping to have to change the terms of reference for conversations about everything, not just computing technology?
00:09:30.150 - 00:10:08.080, Speaker A: Wow, that'd be incredible. I can't wait to see what's going to come out of this. Could we maybe go deep on one protocol and just sort of interesting attributes about it? I think that over dinner we were talking about how the handshake protocol evolved during COVID so that people would elbow bump each other and kick each other and stuff like that. And so the mutation of protocols over time and their adoption in certain subsections of community is interesting to me. But I'm wondering if we just go deep on one protocol of your choosing for the audience in order to really kind of stop and smell the roses on protocols and what's interesting about them.
00:10:08.450 - 00:10:34.342, Speaker C: Yeah, let's do that. So there's a bunch of different options, of course. We could talk about computing protocols like Ethereum and TCP IP. We could talk about political protocols like the Kyoto Protocol or the Paris Agreement for Climate. But actually, let's start with the one you just mentioned, which is handshakes, because they're very simple. Everybody has experienced them, but they're deceptively simple because there's a lot more going on under the surface of handshakes. Right.
00:10:34.342 - 00:11:45.902, Speaker C: So, for example, the very fact of why would you have an open handed gesture as like, a greeting, right? And one theory, it might be made up, but one theory I've heard about it is it evolved as a way to show that you're actually unarmed and not reaching for your sword or your gun, right? So that itself tells you something very critical about what the gesture is doing at a functional level as well as a ceremonial level. It's like starting off an interaction on the right foot by saying, I'm here, I come in peace, I'm shaking hands with you. I'm not armed or I'm not reaching for my arms. And you notice this, by the way, with many greeting gestures like the folded hands, that also not only is it a gesture of respect and greeting, it also shows that your hands are folded and not reaching for a sword or gun. Right. So it might be like a just so story, but it relates to the definition we start off with in the paper of normally when you think of coordination problems, we tend to be gloomy about it. We assume that if two strangers meet, it's more likely that they'll fight than just get along as friends and maybe do something interesting together.
00:11:45.902 - 00:12:20.706, Speaker C: And protocols actually bias the initial conditions of, in this case, handshake protocols. They bias towards non conflict over conflict. Right. So I think that's why it's such a great example. And then it jacks up. I think of a handshake as a small P protocol. It's a micro behavior, but then you can think about how does it get composed with other behaviors, more complex handshakes greetings and things you actually say like, hello, how are you? Then how it might segue into introductions, how it might lead to ceremonial parties and so forth.
00:12:20.706 - 00:12:47.918, Speaker C: So it's like you stack it up and then you get big P protocols. Like what is a party? A party, at one level is a bunch of people shaking hands and saying hello and then having conversations. But at higher levels, it's more and more layers of protocol like behavior. So I think it's actually if people are starting to think about protocols, I actually recommend starting with something very simple and familiar like this and then asking what are the fundamental insights? And then thinking about more complex things like blockchains or climate treaties.
00:12:48.094 - 00:14:00.220, Speaker A: Yeah, one of the things I like with starting about handshakes is they're so relatable, especially when I was just at ETH Denver and probably shook the hands of so many different people. But I like this idea that protocols can be composed into larger protocols, like a party as a protocol or a governance. If you think about nation state level governance, there's probably a lot of handshakes as a protocol that are composing that. And it's interesting to think of what you said about handshakes as basically an alternative to violence. If violence was the way that human tribes used to coordinate with each other, and now we've invented handshakes as an advance that helps move to more nonviolent diplomatic based coordination, then it makes me wonder what are the bottoms up protocols that have allowed us to move from just like warring nation states to democratic institutions with each other? If Ethereum has ERC 20 and ERC 721, what are the most basic primitives of protocols that the audience that is composed of nation state diplomacy, for example?
00:14:01.070 - 00:14:51.718, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a great question, and I think it's one of the most politically charged questions. And I think it's actually interesting to start with David Graber, the author of Debt, who died recently. And he had like a revisionist history that was at ODS with a lot of political science theorizing about how interactions between communities and nation states actually began. And in his book Debt, which I have mixed feelings about, but he has this origin story of commerce, and his theory is that currency based exchange for commerce is actually a later development. And commerce actually began with credit relations within tight communities. And the way it happened was within a community, everybody knows each other like a small village. Everybody's part of families that know each other from childhood.
00:14:51.718 - 00:15:44.170, Speaker C: So if you think about such a community, you don't even need things like handshakes because everybody knows each other so intimately, you're almost like before you're aware of it, you know everybody from the small child to the grandfathers. Right. So handshakes are a way to greet people from the outside. And at the commerce level, barter is something you might do with people who are passing through the village as opposed to people who live in the village all the time, with whom you might have more like a credit account system. Right. And things like token currencies issued by sovereigns who are in the capital city far away from the village, that's like yet another trusted third party. And if you think about how relations happen within villages, between villages, between villagers and a stranger passing through, and then between distant villages that might want to trade commodities that they don't produce and use the king's currency as an intermediary.
00:15:44.170 - 00:16:25.206, Speaker C: You've got trade and commerce as one very important pillar of the set of protocols that govern relations between political entities at all levels from, say, villages to nations. Right. So you've got commerce and trade relations, you've got friendship and hostility. And that leads to military protocols and things related to that. Right. If soldiers are marching through your village, do they get to eat your food for free and sleep in your houses? Right. So there's lots and lots of things that layer up to what it means for two political aggregates to relate to each other.
00:16:25.206 - 00:16:50.270, Speaker C: It's very simple. If it's two families next door to each other and it's family to family protocols, village to village gets more complex. And by the time you get to US to Russia or Russia to Ukraine, you're talking about basically the history of the world in a microcosm. So all of that is protocols, I think. And it all starts with the building blocks as simple as handshakes.
00:16:52.370 - 00:17:03.220, Speaker A: Yeah. It's really incredible to hear the history of human coordination sort of reframed in this way that makes protocols a first class citizen of how humans coordinate with each other.
00:17:04.390 - 00:17:38.522, Speaker C: Yeah. And it's not that it's not necessarily an unfamiliar way of thinking about these things. It's just not a primary way. Like, we are so used to making agent like entities the first class elements in our thinking. So whether it's individual humans and you're talking about sovereign rights or you're talking about a village as a political entity, even when I just did my description, I was using those as the building blocks. Right. And I think the thing about protocols is they make relationships the first time first class entity.
00:17:38.522 - 00:18:07.026, Speaker C: So intersubjectivity rather than the individual subjectivity. Right. So you talk about, like, let's talk about, say, nation states. You can talk about two nations as the individual units, or you can talk about pairwise relationships. And there are protocols for that. So there's this thing called the most favored nation status, which is countries give to each other, and that's like preferred trading partnerships and so forth. So why not think of the entire world as a set of pairwise relationships.
00:18:07.026 - 00:18:26.270, Speaker C: And then you ask yourselves, which of those relations are good? Which ones are bad? How are those relations changing? How are they mediated? How are they formalized versus kept informal? All those are protocol questions that I think you could spend, like a lifetime thinking about them in these terms without even spending too much on the individual entities.
00:18:26.930 - 00:19:29.540, Speaker A: Yeah, well, it's interesting to hear what you said about agent based actors in these systems being thought as the first class citizens. But I think I was saying over dinner when we chatted at, you know, what you said about reframing from a protocol centric view of the world. Reminds me of when I read Botany of Desire and Michael Pollan's whole point in that book was that you can look at humans as planting crops, whether they're I think it was apples and marijuana and maybe potatoes were the examples from Botany of Desire. And if you think about it from one perspective, the humans are cultivating the apples and the potatoes and the marijuana so they can feed themselves. But if you look at it from the plant based view of the world, it's almost like those plants have co opted humans in order to reproduce themselves a little bit more. And I wonder if you could have the same sort of take about protocols, where protocols are sort of leveraging the agents entering into a symbiotic relationship with the agents in order to replicate themselves. What do you think of that take?
00:19:30.070 - 00:20:41.910, Speaker C: I think it's actually a lovely take. And it gets very interesting if you start to develop philosophy from the basis of it's, these relational entities that are the units of selection and evolution, and they make the joke about a chicken is just an egg's way of making more eggs. You could think of things like agents are just protocols, ways of making more protocols or more advanced protocols. And I love that way of thinking because you can frame the history of human civilization as generations of these individual agents, whether at human level or nation level, sort of feeding into generation after generation of different protocols going from the Hobesian state of war, which some political theorists think was the original state, where it's everybody fighting everybody all the way to what Francis Fukuyama calls the end of history, where democracy is the pattern of relationships that's evolved as the mature form. Right. And there's a lot of good thinkers who've thought a lot about this from various angles. So two I want to reference immediately is Hannah Arwind, the philosopher.
00:20:41.910 - 00:21:32.650, Speaker C: She bases her whole political philosophy on the idea of mutualism and how really, humans by themselves off on desert islands, are not fully human. They can call themselves sovereign individuals or whatever, but you're not fully human until you're actually in entangled relationships with other humans. And it's that entanglement that actually constitutes who we are. And other authors in this vein. Donna Haraway is one, and Ursula Ligands science fiction sort of explores these themes a lot. And it's kind of interesting that a lot of the best thinkers on these topics are women because they tell very different stories about history and civilization and mutualism than men tend to. And that bias, I think, shows up in our thinking.
00:21:32.650 - 00:21:57.700, Speaker C: So in many ways, when I say think in protocol first ways as opposed to agent first ways, I'm kind of saying try and think from more of a feminine perspective. And this is kind of challenging for a lot of people. But these questions often yield very different and interesting insights. If you start from that premise that mutualism and entanglement is the foundational basis of everything.
00:22:00.790 - 00:23:02.262, Speaker A: It'S really interesting to sort of consider. The next place my mind jumps is to the intersection between this work and your talk at DevCon. And I'd love to just tee that up with this quote that I see on the Summer of Protocols website, which will be linked in the show notes. It goes like this protocols are the very embodiment of an Whitehead's observation. Civilizational advances happen by extending the number of important operations we can perform without thinking about them. So basically, when the handshake went into circulation, as a protocol, it allowed us to not have to think about, oh, is this person attacking me or not? Do they have a weapon in their hands? Similarly, TCP IP, as a protocol, allows us to transfer information with each other, an important operation without having to think about it. There's no newspaper boy or newspaper girl who has to deliver it.
00:23:02.262 - 00:23:52.120, Speaker A: And Ethereum allows us to coordinate financial interactions. I think the smart contracts that like Gitcoin grants and optimism and everyone is building allow us to do more important operations without thinking about them, which is how civilization advances. And so to me, this is how I connect your work to the theme of this podcast, which is, how do we regenerate the world with crypto? With the idea that the more hyper complexity in the world, the more important operations we can perform without thinking of them. By loading more protocols into our brain is a way that we build civilizational advance, which to me feels like it has some sort of parity with regenerative crypto economics. So yeah. What's your response to that prompt? I'd love to also, if you could just give us a TLDR of your DevCon talk. I just really found your DevCon talk very incredible as well.
00:23:52.120 - 00:23:53.974, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:23:54.012 - 00:25:01.594, Speaker C: So let me start there. The DevCon talk, I think is called civilizational hyper complexity or something like that. And I was very deliberately choosing the prefix hyper because people use the word complexity a lot and hyper often gets attached to things like there's hyper objects. And that's a term in philosophy for talking about what is climate change or climate action? It's a Hyper Object in the Sense of this Multifaceted Big emergent thing that it's really hard to think, cohesively about and hold in your head all at once. So it's these objects that are far too complex for any individual to hold in their head which means you kind of have to act from within them and deal with them as a complex system. And that's a very different regime of behaviors and there's lots of good frameworks for thinking about them. I happen to like the Kinmphin framework from Ed Snowden which I used in the talk to talk about regimes of complexity and how they behave and how in simple regimes you might think about the system, understand it, build.
00:25:01.594 - 00:25:46.746, Speaker C: Yourself a little model. Make a rational plan from A to B and then do the actions the plan indicates. And then you get to your destination. That's what simple things are like. In more complex regimes, you might have to do trial and error. In even more complex regimes you might just have to disturb the system a little bit and see how it responds and kind of get in tune with it. And the theme there along this evolutionary trajectory to hypercomplexity is the more complex a large system gets, the more dealing with it effectively becomes a sort of like being in tune with it, vibing with it and sort of internalizing its harmonies in your own mind and becoming an organic part of it.
00:25:46.746 - 00:26:43.822, Speaker C: And this relates back to what we were just talking about which is how do you sort of almost let your individuality dissolve in this larger system and be an effective part? And it scares some people because that's like a Borg like, hive mind way of thinking about it. But how does that relate to the quote which I used in the talk and also we cited in the paper? Civilization advances by the number of things you can do without thinking about them. Think of that as just like at an individual level. When you're learning to drive a car initially you're extremely conscious of everything because everything is in your awareness. You have to pay attention to driving, braking, accelerating. But as it becomes muscle memory, it recedes and it becomes part of the automatic parts of your brain, right? And that's like as you grow older and learn more skills your brain starts to fill up and at some point you become slower at learning. But until then, that's how you, as an individual evolve and grow.
00:26:43.822 - 00:27:24.730, Speaker C: You learn more and more behaviors. There's a lovely Japanese phrase for this, by the way. It's called SHUHARI, which is, I think it goes conscious incompetence sorry, unconscious incompetence where you don't know you're incompetent. Then conscious incompetence where you're aware that you don't know how to do a thing. Then conscious competence, where you master a skill but you're still aware that you're employing that skill. And then finally, when you're, the Zen like, master it's unconscious competence where it's completely receded into the background of your brain now apply this kind of like individual learning curve concept to civilizations as a whole. Whether it's from village scale aggregates to the entire world trying to do climate action, it's the same thing.
00:27:24.730 - 00:28:16.586, Speaker C: There are some things we are really bad at. Like right now we are really bad and fumbling at creating electricity in sort of clean ways and using it to power our lives. So that's in the conscious incompetence bucket now and hopefully as we complete the energy transition and away from fossil fuels, it'll become part of the unconscious competence part of our civilization where you won't have to think about it just like today. What's a good example? Walking on the street is an act of unconscious competence. Today, if you're in a particularly particular country for a while, you know, you walk on the right or left side of the street, you know how traffic behaves even without thinking about it, you kind of do the right thing at intersections. And even though, yes, there are accidents and fatalities and so forth, it's surprisingly low given the number of people and vehicles moving around in a very close packed environment. Right.
00:28:16.586 - 00:28:48.870, Speaker C: So those are like the civilizational equivalence of behaviors that have become unconscious. And I think the Whitehead quote gets it exactly right. Like each time you develop a protocol and everybody learns it and internalizes it and makes it an unconscious part of the behavior, everything improves. We get more abundance and serendipity and peace and we get less scarcity and doom and war. So this is how I think civilization progresses by putting these good behaviors into collective unconscious competence.
00:28:49.450 - 00:29:31.458, Speaker A: Right. Are all sort of protocols that are moved into muscle memory good things? I'm just thinking of crypto people who have learned to launch Ponzi schemes or the movie producer who was harassing all those women and using his position of power. He probably over the course of his 30 years created some sort of muscle memory of doing that, I guess. Is there some sort of evolutionary selection mechanism where the more regenerative or mutualistic protocols will get selected for over time? How do we root out bad habits that also become muscle memory is kind of what I'm aiming for there.
00:29:31.624 - 00:30:18.738, Speaker C: Yeah, this is, I think, the important question. And in the paper we actually posed that as one of our main hypotheses which is that good protocols outevolve bad ones because you're exactly right. There are entrenched bad protocols which have maybe even no redeeming qualities at all and only negative impacts and they are only in place because somebody in power has the ability to keep them in place. And apart from maybe the one or two selfish kinds of actors at the center who are benefiting, it's like a net negative. And the hypothesis is that eventually good protocols overwhelmingly out evolve bad protocols. And the sort of premise behind that, it can be cashed out in multiple different ways. But just as.
00:30:18.738 - 00:31:25.826, Speaker C: A reference point. For example, Francis Fukuyama's theory of the end of history, I think is an example of that kind of evolutionary hypothesis, where his hypothesis is the end of history happens when the final kind of government, which is liberal democracy, starts to become the dominant universal form of government. Now, there's problems with the theory, and people have called it into question and so forth, but I happen to believe that it's roughly right and it's actually an approximately correct description of history that all the possible governance systems of evil, dictatorships, theocracies, and blah, blah, blah have eventually slowly been supplanted by liberal democracy. And even though we've had what's known as a democratic recession since about 2009, in the long span of history, counting from, like, say, 10,000 BC. To today, that's like minor little dip. Overall, the progress, the arc of history has bent towards democracy. And I use that phrasing specifically because I think this is a kind of hypothesis that's, similar to Martin Luther King's, the arc of moral history bends towards progress, I believe is the phrase.
00:31:25.826 - 00:31:59.518, Speaker C: I think something like that is true of the evolutionary dynamic of protocols. And I think the mechanism that drives it is actually technology. So anytime a new technology gets invented, it can be used to disrupt some sort of bad equilibrium protocol and challenge it. Right. Like, talk about the Weinstein affair that you just mentioned. Like, this guy was going around Hollywood abusing women for a couple of decades. What made the Too movement happen when it did? And yes, there was like, general cultural factors making it the right moment and so forth.
00:31:59.518 - 00:32:40.494, Speaker C: But I think one of the biggest factors was the culture created by phones and sharing personal, valid testimony in the form of videos and so forth. It's like over the ten years after the iPhone was introduced, we all got very used to a culture where bad behavior was much harder to do in secret. Like, if you're being an ass on social media and the direct messages with somebody, you could be like, screenshot revealed for who you were. Right. And I think that culture played a big part in shifting away from that particular bad equilibrium where the technology helped shift towards better protocols. Maybe not perfect, but better. So evolutionary sense better.
00:32:40.692 - 00:32:47.540, Speaker A: Yeah. It feels like moving from protocols that are hierarchy and power based to network based was maybe part of that as well.
00:32:48.070 - 00:33:39.906, Speaker C: Yeah. And there's another, I think, good hypothesis we state in the paper, and all these, by the way, they're more questions than answers. And our point with both the program and the paper is to encourage people to come up with both better questions than we have and better answers than the ones we kind of like straw man propose. But in this particular case, yeah. One of our other hypotheses is that protocols as a first class citizen naturally lend themselves to becoming more P to P rule of law decentralized over time fundamentally because of the way they interact with technology. And this is not to say there aren't like centrally controlled, highly centralized protocols. Like if you go to the Royal court of the Monarchs of England, which I think most people in the crypto world would have a distaste for, there is such a thing as a protocol for appearing in court and bowing to the monarch or something like that.
00:33:39.906 - 00:34:25.314, Speaker C: So that's a centralized protocol around a monarch. Right. Or to take a less socially loaded example, I like thinking of the Hubble Space Telescope and the James Webb Space Telescope. These are hugely expensive, multibillion dollar centralized resources sitting out there in space and all the astronomers who are eager to use them to do their research and conduct observations at a fundamental physical level. You can't turn this into a decentralized P to P thing. You might do it at outer layers where you say, everybody put in your proposals and bids and maybe we can vote on them and treat the telescopes the commons good that we then decide how to use together. But the resource itself, being centralized, forces a certain centralization of the protocols that get designed around it.
00:34:25.314 - 00:34:41.510, Speaker C: Right. But overall, yeah, I think you're exactly right. I think it's a strong and credible hypothesis to say that protocols tend to be more P to P and interact with technology in a way that makes them more rule of law friendly than other kinds of entities.
00:34:43.930 - 00:35:08.030, Speaker A: How big is this rabbit hole? Like, if you were to put protocols into an n dimensional space like mutable to immutable technological to social I'm not even sure what vectors there are out there, but it feels like there's just a lot there. And just coming up with a taxonomy of different types of protocols and placing them on a map, it feels like a really interesting exercise to me.
00:35:08.100 - 00:35:32.710, Speaker C: Absolutely. And that's one of the exercises that we hope somebody takes on through the summer. And as a starting point, what we've done on the structuring side, there's actually a two by two as it happens in the paper. And that one, they might not be the best dimensions, but we just picked them. So the X axis is from soft to hard and the Y axis is from atomic to systemic. And that's one two dimensional way of classifying protocols. Right.
00:35:32.710 - 00:36:12.578, Speaker C: You can think of carbon emissions treaties as like systemic and hard because they're about hard measurable numbers. You can talk about cryptographic signing as hard and atomic because it's a low level behavior. You can talk about soft and systemic things like the culture. Like Christmas is a soft and systemic protocol where, yes, there's small hardened things like Christmas. Trees have ritual expectations, but overall, it's not like TCPIP. When you say Christmas is a celebration that is prescribed in certain ways, it's not prescribed in the same sense as TCPIP. So those are the two dimensions we used.
00:36:12.578 - 00:36:58.302, Speaker C: But you're right when in our discussions leading up in the study, we talked about dozens and dozens of potential variables that affect it, and we started collecting a very rich set of examples of what we think could be reasonably called protocols. And this is one of the pages in the summerofproteocols.com site. It's just an index of protocols. And I think one of the things we are hoping people will do is just look at this rich set of examples, start thinking about the various ways you could classify them and come up with perhaps the most elegant and I'll be nerdy here, like the most elegant eigen structure of protocol space. Like maybe the obvious ones, like hard versus soft or atomic versus systemic. They're just the cosmetic superficial variables.
00:36:58.302 - 00:37:15.480, Speaker C: And maybe somebody can do some deep thinking and come up with, these are the 15 dimensions of protocols, and these four subtle ones are the ones that really carry most of the information, and those are maybe the eigenvectors of protocol space. So I would love for that to be a project somebody takes on.
00:37:15.850 - 00:37:36.906, Speaker A: Yeah. What are the most interesting prompts that you want to put to the audience? And the audience is 7000 people who are crypto native. If you're crypto native, you're building your life's work on top of protocol. So what are the most interesting prompts that you want to put out there? Maybe we could just go through those one by one for the remainder of the episode.
00:37:37.098 - 00:38:24.394, Speaker C: Yeah, let's do that. So we've tried not to be too heavy handed in suggesting particular questions. Actually, we started that one of the initial discussions we had was, hey, maybe we should do the DARPA Grand Challenge, guys. Do it. Just list a bunch of moonshot things and then a bunch of little problems and so forth. But the more we talked about it and the more we realized how rich and complex this is, the more we realized we want, actually people to come up with their own ideas of what's worth researching. And we want to take a step back and try and give them fodder for thought in the form of just stimulating ideas to think about some provocations one both from ourselves, but more importantly, from other people.
00:38:24.394 - 00:39:27.538, Speaker C: So there's a whole reading section in the site with, like, I think, 100 readings at this point, and I want to call out maybe a couple of them that I think are particularly interesting. So the first one, Robin Sloan, he's one of my favorite bloggers. He wrote this great little piece called Specifying Spring 83. So it's actually literally a little toy proposal for a protocol to do something in the realm of what Twitter and RSS and email subscriptions do. Now, Spring 83 that Robin Sloan has proposed is a protocol to allow websites to connect to each other in sort of a public published, subscribe way, but in a much more how do I put it? Artisan Bespoke Way, where it's literally I have a little site, I have a little Widget like thing there. Maybe I update it saying, hey, I'm working on this new novel maybe, and then I have a bunch of friends who are subscribed to it and they have a little box on their site and it kind of shows up on that. So that's roughly the idea of Spring 83.
00:39:27.538 - 00:40:45.062, Speaker C: So I strongly recommend people read that, for example, and think about, all right, what other kinds of cute little protocols can I just make up? Why do protocols have to be these heavy things that people at Google or the IETF or whatever come up with, where it's like you have to think of them as this huge planet spanning, has to run all of the world's infrastructure type thing. Why can't we tinker with protocols the way we tinker with Legos, for example? So just make up protocols. So that's my first prompt, especially to the technically inclined listeners here. And I particularly want to encourage listeners to forget about crypto when you start out thinking, because protocols, I think, are so fundamental, if you get anchored too quickly to a relatively sophisticated class of protocols like Blockchains, your thinking will be too narrow. So start with something like Handshakes, or start with something know, familiar protocols we're used to like SMTP that email runs on and ask, does it really have to work that way? We all have computers connected to the Internet and that can talk to each other through packets. What other things can happen, right? So for the engineers in particular, I think that's a good place to start. So, Robin Sloans, another article I want to reference, which is also in our list of references, is an article by Matt Webb.
00:40:45.062 - 00:41:35.206, Speaker C: It's called who could write protocol fiction? And this is a lovely little piece that is basically a provocation and challenge to fiction writers. It's like, write good science fiction or regular fiction stories about protocols. Why do we like, we were talking about this at dinner, right? Why is it that we still don't have more than a bare handful of good stories about the Internet? When you go over to the movies or watch TV, it's really, really bad. It's like people might Google something briefly. That's the extent of the Internet's appearance. Or you might get some very lurid, unrealistic annoying way of doing the Internet. I like the last installment of the Diehard franchise where I think Timothy Oliphant plays this super hacker who captures and ransomwares the Social Security systems database.
00:41:35.206 - 00:42:20.146, Speaker C: It's like, yes, the idea of the Internet and the idea of holding data ransom is at the heart of the plot. But fundamentally, it's not a story about that. It's a story about Bruce Willis and that other guy going and beating up a bunch of bad guys. And protocols on the Internet play a little side role there. And Matt webb's article is basically a challenge to go write stories where protocols are a first class citizen in the plot itself and how it works. And I think he mentions this example, or maybe it's in some other thing, but it's Pandemic the movie that came out in 2013. That's a lovely example of a proper protocol type fiction because it was about like in a pandemic response protocols.
00:42:20.146 - 00:43:00.898, Speaker C: It didn't do the stupid thing of making a maverick outsider the hero. And all the bureaucrats are idiots who don't know what to do. It shows you how health response protocols actually work and the serious, educated experts who spent a lifetime studying diseases actually do know what they're talking about and do things to stop the spread of the pandemic. And of course, COVID since then has given us a more realistic version of that. But yeah, pandemic the movie. And related to that, a couple of other references I want to cite is David Brin, the science fiction writer, wrote a lovely essay. This was around 2013, I think, which he's called something like our favorite trope a World full of Idiots.
00:43:00.898 - 00:43:53.174, Speaker C: And that's kind of true. Like since about the 1970s, our style of fiction has been, the world is irredeemably broken, nobody knows what they're doing, all the systems are corrupt, and the only hope is these radical individualist maverick mel Gibson or Bruce Willis diehard types who single handedly take on and force the system to do the right thing. And I think that's trained us in the exact opposite of protocol first thinking. It's trained us in maverick genius who takes on the world thinking, which is just like fantasy life. Right? So, yeah, I would say first, I know I kind of wandered off, but to your question, I think my first prompt is go look at all the readings that we've linked to in our list of readings. Pick a handful. Of course, read our pilot study too.
00:43:53.174 - 00:44:05.178, Speaker C: But yeah, look, expand your sources, read a bunch and sort of start thinking. Let the juices start flowing and think about protocols in a very rich way. So that would be my first prompt, right?
00:44:05.344 - 00:44:39.960, Speaker A: Amazing. Yeah, I mean, I'm just looking at the diversity of protocols on the paper. Nuclear launch protocols, voting, Robert's Rules of order, TCP IP climate protocols, training and Lom weddings, handshakes pinging, public key cryptography handshakes. This is one of those papers that have just blown my mind. Venka so we'll link the papers and the summer of protocol in the show notes here. Is there anything I didn't ask about the paper or the summer of protocols program that you want to say?
00:44:41.130 - 00:45:15.150, Speaker C: Let's see. Yeah, so I do want to say a little bit more about the summer of protocols itself. So we are looking for two kinds of researchers. So the main application is for coal researchers and affiliate researchers. So coal researchers, you'll be funded full time for 18 weeks to basically write a long form think piece about protocols that's for a broad audience doesn't have to be about technology or crypto. It can be about purely cultural protocols or so forth. So we want you to write a challenging piece, but we also want you to kind of like build something.
00:45:15.150 - 00:46:08.674, Speaker C: So if the written piece is something like a think piece or a short story, fiction, whatever, you kind of long form you want to do the other piece. I think of it as a tinker piece, so something composable an artifact that other people can build with. So of course, if you're an engineer and good at programming, you could do things like make up a speculative protocol and release, like a reference implementation like Robin Sloan Spring 83 is a good model to follow there. But for example, if you're a fiction writer and what you want to do is do a protocol like thing, so you could write a short story and you could produce like a world building set of elements as a set of characters and places or something, that could be your storytelling kit. That would be a good thing to try. So that's for core researchers, and the other application is for affiliate researchers. These will be part time and mainly in the second half of the program.
00:46:08.674 - 00:46:47.214, Speaker C: And what we are trying to do here is we think the true test of a protocol is whether or not you can get other people to use it. So we want to give our core researchers a chance to persuade an audience of willing and ready affiliate researchers to work on their protocol. So if somebody comes up with a speculative protocol, convince some of the affiliates to join you and build on it. So if you want to be an affiliate, if you want to be in this group of people who work with the core research projects, apply for the affiliate program. But we also have two other roles we're looking for people for. One is simply residents experts on various protocols. So of course, ethereum is easy.
00:46:47.214 - 00:47:27.418, Speaker C: We already have Tim Baco and Trent Vaneps who are co authors on the paper. They'll serve as the resident experts on ethereum. We have your old partner Scott Moore serving as the resident for Gitcoin and Public Goods. But we want other resident experts for international relations healthcare protocols. So if you are an expert on a protocol and would like to be a resident, just reach out to me. We'd love to have you just join the community and support our researchers and maybe do a guest talk on some protocol people don't think of as protocols. We've been casually chatting about handshakes as amateurs in the handshake world.
00:47:27.418 - 00:47:48.820, Speaker C: Maybe there's an anthropologist out there who's actually studied handshakes in depth. If you're out there and listening, please come on board and give us a guest lecture on handshakes. So those are the four roles. You can be core researcher, affiliate researcher, resident expert and guest speaker. So any of those interest you go to the site and reach out.
00:47:49.270 - 00:48:02.070, Speaker A: Amazing. Well, maybe whoever's doing research on handshake protocols can save me from offering someone a handshake when they're offering me a fist bump and vice versa, which is my most awkward nerd interaction at East Denver.
00:48:02.970 - 00:48:30.682, Speaker C: When we talked about that at dinner, so we talked about that as, like, a protocol miss where you initiate a handshake and the other person responds with the fist bump response, and it's like a moment of confusion. It stuck in my head. And the following day, I posted on Farcaster. I'm hanging out in my hotel lobby. Anybody want to come hang out? A couple of guys came out and then they met each other. They did exactly that protocol miss thing. One guy reaches out for the handshake and the other did the fist bump.
00:48:30.682 - 00:48:51.160, Speaker C: So it's kind of funny once you start seeing the world in protocol, first ways you can't unsee the world. It's like everywhere you look, everything looks like a protocol. And that's why I think people get nerd sniped by this. It's not that we did, like, an exceptional job writing this paper. I think the topic itself is like a nerd snipe type topic. Once you see the world this way, you can't stop.
00:48:51.610 - 00:48:56.360, Speaker A: Great. Well, all I heard was that I'm not awkward. It's a protocol miss when that happens.
00:48:56.730 - 00:48:58.614, Speaker C: Like a cash miss. Yeah.
00:48:58.812 - 00:49:26.130, Speaker A: Well, as we're wrapping up, I just got to wonder, in a world in which you're maximally successful, what does that look like? So take us through summer protocols 2023. It's August. It's September. There's been a dozen, let's call it papers or research reports written on protocols. What's the advancement? What does it look like? In which you're maximally successful coming out of the summer of protocols.
00:49:26.550 - 00:50:00.714, Speaker C: Yeah. So we're still trying to, of course, design the mechanisms to make this kind of maximally successful outcome happen. Yes. Let's say it's August and we've had a very successful summer, and, like, a dozen people have written great papers and produced great artifacts that a whole bunch of people are excited about working on. They've started building on it. Maybe they've started building a couple of actual projects and startups or planning longer research projects with other sources of support. So a lot of low level, ground level activity has started off.
00:50:00.714 - 00:50:50.662, Speaker C: But broader than that, what we'd like to see is the discussions that have happened along the way have ceded a much larger community. We'll have a discord open, and it'll be relatively open to anybody who wants to just hang out with the researchers and just talk protocols. And we hope that even outside the purview of this program, just with us working in public to a certain extent and writing and tweeting and forecasting about these things as we work, that it'll create, like, a larger conversation and other people feel free to join us. permissionlessly take the Summer of Protocols as like a hashtag or just a banner where you can just do your own thing without being formally part of the program. If you don't want to apply because you're busy with other stuff but you want to write an essay and tag it, some of protocols on your blog, do that. Drop us a line. We'll share it on our discord.
00:50:50.662 - 00:52:08.742, Speaker C: And we kind of want to have this kind of, like, open participatory permissionless kind of thing going. And I think that's like six months from now, but I'm really more interested in what happens like a year from now or 18 months from now where we hope in some ways all the really smart thinking that goes on in the crypto community around protocols, it's sort of like been jailbroken out of that narrow context. And this thinking gets situated in a much broader context where we can actually, I don't know, rejoin humanity because at some level, I feel I have two personalities. I have my crypto personality when I talk to other crypto people, and then there's the other side of me that's like a regular human and that code switching is both annoying and gets in the way of the whitehead advance that's on offer here. If we can broaden the conversation, bring other people into it, whether or not they're interested in cryptocurrencies, we want them to be interested in protocols. And hopefully in 18 months from now, maybe memes that have grown out of this program, we'll start hearing them in newscasts, maybe politicians will start referencing memes that our researchers come up with in talking about international relationships. Maybe there will be like, major feature stories and magazines that take a protocol first view of important issues.
00:52:08.742 - 00:52:42.190, Speaker C: So we want to have that kind of impact and that's why we need the strongest possible applications here. So please, if you yourself think you can do great work here, please apply. And even more importantly, since I'm talking to a crypto audience, if you know people who are outside the crypto bubble or echo chamber, who you think are already doing really smart thinking about protocols or protocol first ways of thinking about the world, point them to the program. We'd love to have them and both broadening our minds and then broadening their own and each other's.
00:52:42.850 - 00:52:54.930, Speaker A: Yeah, well, it feels like this is a public good for humanity, so I'm really excited to see what comes out of it. I'm going to be following along closely. So anything else you want to say before we wrap?
00:52:56.390 - 00:53:03.026, Speaker C: That's it? I think so. Yeah. Check out summerfprocols.com and hoping to hear from a lot of you. Yep.
00:53:03.058 - 00:53:16.054, Speaker A: So we'll have links in the show notes to the paper, to your Twitter, and to Summer of protocols. So click that link in the show note and apply the summer of protocols. Can't wait to see how this turns out. Venka, thank you so much for joining me.
00:53:16.172 - 00:53:20.620, Speaker C: Thank you for having me. One.
