00:00:00.440 - 00:00:29.270, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 17 March 2021. Right, everyone, let's get into it. Actually, before I get into it, I did want to point out something quickly to all of you. So obviously a lot of you would have donated on Gitcoin grants at this stage. I've been talking about it for, you know, a few days now. But what some of you might not know is that your matching can get boosted if you do what's called, what's called a trust bonus.
00:00:29.270 - 00:01:07.534, Speaker A: If there's a few different things in here that boost your trust on the platform, which boost your kind of like matching amounts, which I think is very important to do because if you want your kind of like dollar to go, you know, the longest way it can, then getting kind of verified here is what you need to do. So basically all you need to do to do this is go to your profile page here. You can see my profile page is here. Go down and you'll see these menu items. Just click trust bonus and then it'll come up with all these things you can do. Now my camera is probably blocking a few of them here, but basically, you know, you can verify with bright id, which is like a decentralized identity system. Verify with Idina, which is a proof of person blockchain.
00:01:07.534 - 00:01:31.854, Speaker A: I haven't done that yet. I plan to do that. Verify with, with power apps. So if you have some power apps, you can, you can use that with Twitter, with Google and with SMS. Now, you know, the more, I guess, kind of like decentralized and I guess like, you know, web3 oriented. These, these kind of things are, the more they'll count towards the match bonus. So obviously you get the highest match bonus from bright id and Idina.
00:01:31.854 - 00:01:55.246, Speaker A: And then with power you'll get, you know, the second highest. And then there's like just a, you know, a 5%, 2% and 2% with these three down here. They've got other ones coming soon and they've got like, you know, a roadmap here as well. But in general, I would do at least, you know, the bright id and the Po app. This is kind of like more involved. You have to kind of install some software and verify your account and stuff. That's why I haven't done it yet.
00:01:55.246 - 00:02:38.380, Speaker A: I just haven't gotten around to it. But bright id is, I mean, I guess, like it's not too hard to do. There's like these kind of like things where you can get verified, your identity can get verified by groups of people. It doesn't take too long to do, but obviously with the pop it's, it's a lot simpler because you just connect your kind of wallet here and then it'll read your wallet, see if you got some pops in there and then you can kind of like get this match bonus. But yeah, definitely go do this because if you don't, you'll be losing out on these kind of bonuses here. And I don't know if Gitcoin makes this obvious to people because like, I've already done it, so maybe they aren't notifying me of it. But yeah, just in case you didn't know, you just basically go to your profile, click trust bonus, and then follow the steps because there'll be a connect button next to, next to all of these.
00:02:38.380 - 00:03:14.480, Speaker A: Then you'll get verified and you'll get that match bonus. Quick plug here for ETH Global. So they're currently looking for four different positions here. So if you are interested in working in marketing or growth partnerships, developer relations, or front end engineer, then definitely reach out to ETH global here. All you need to do is follow these steps here. Send an email to hello Co, a document such as a CV, right, or a portfolio and a description of yourself. ETH Global, for those who don't know, is basically an organization that runs ETH events.
00:03:14.480 - 00:03:51.764, Speaker A: So whether those be like virtual events or in person events, you know, I've spoken about them before. They did like the hack money event. You know, they're going to do this scaling event soon and it's a really awesome team to work for. So definitely if you are looking for a job and you fit, you know, any four of these kind of roles, or if this is what you want to do, then definitely reach out here and you can click through to get more information about the roles. Like, I'll click through to the marketing growth lead here and it'll give you all the information that you need, what kind of experience they're looking for, you know, the whole shebang there. So definitely go, go check that out. So I spoke about yesterday about how Elon Musk was selling an NFT here or saying he was going to sell this NFT.
00:03:51.764 - 00:04:15.920, Speaker A: And it was funny because this tweet actually ended up getting bid on. It's the tweet itself and I think it was up to like $1.2 million or something like that. But then, you know, Elon replied today and he basically said, this doesn't feel quite right. Selling this will pass. So he basically, rug pulled us right on this stuff. But I don't think that really matters because, you know, as I said yesterday, the fact that he's even talking about nfts is.
00:04:15.920 - 00:04:38.208, Speaker A: Is really bullish right now. You know, I said, like, how nfts have, like, mass appeal as opposed to defi. They're gonna bring a lot more people in, and they're pretty much gone mainstream at this stage. But, yeah, I just thought it was funny that Elon kind of rug pulled us here with this, but, you know, maybe that makes people want it even more. I mean, it makes me want it even more, even though I couldn't afford it. As I said yesterday, I'm sure the bidding would be. Would be quite large here.
00:04:38.208 - 00:05:04.876, Speaker A: But, yeah, pretty, pretty funny kind of result there. So nurses safe put out a tweet today, basically saying that they've introduced something called safe snap. Now, what? This is it. They're calling it the first in a decentralized governance tool suite for the gnosis safe. Basically what it does is combines the gnosis safe with snapshot. You may have used snapshot before. It's kind of like a kind of voting kind of tool for different governance mechanisms.
00:05:04.876 - 00:05:43.576, Speaker A: You go on there, you just sign, you know, with your tokens, and you can vote in different protocols. So this basically combines the two, and safe snap basically enables decentralized execution of crypto governance proposals. So they've got a bunch of different launch projects here, like Synthetix, yearn, mstable, balancer, Sushiswap, and there's a bunch of others there, too. And you can obviously click through the blog post and read more about it. For those who don't know, actually, gnosis safe is a multisig wallet that a lot of teams use. Like, I use it with, you know, Eric, for ETH Hub, we use Nosafe. It's got billion, billions, I think 15 billion plus, you know, worth of Ethan tokens in there, being secured there.
00:05:43.576 - 00:06:11.102, Speaker A: And it's. It's. It's. It's essentially regarded as like the standard multisig wallet on Ethereum. And it's not just a multi sig. They have something called gnosis Safe apps, which allows you to basically directly integrate with popular apps on Ethereum and basically do transactions through your multi seq, like that, which is obviously, you know, solely needed. And now with the safe snap kind of feature, they're basically expanding that out and letting you participate in governance through multi Sig, which obviously is.
00:06:11.102 - 00:06:35.984, Speaker A: Has been highly requested, I think, for a while now. And obviously something that people want to do. I mean, there's plenty of multi Sig wallets that hold a bunch of governance tokens that, you know, even if they wanted to vote, they couldn't or they might not be able to for various other reasons. So I guess this is what safe snap tries to, tries to address here. And basically, I mean, they've got a pretty diagram here, how it works. You can go check this out. It'll be in the YouTube description.
00:06:35.984 - 00:07:16.784, Speaker A: But yeah, pretty cool to see more innovation on the governance side here, especially from gnosis, who have been doing a lot of this stuff for four years now. I mean, they've been in the etherium ecosystem since pretty much like, you know, they did their ICO, I think, in early 2017, but even before that, so great to see them bring out more products. So loopring posted this meme today, and actually, I just want to pause here for a second. Just quickly say that loopring's Twitter game is amazing. I love it. I mean, you know, as someone who did Twitter as part of his marketing role at set for quite a while, I know how, I guess, like, hard it can be to come up with creative tweets that don't feel boring to people, but loopring is just kind of hitting it out of the park here. So kudos to them for this.
00:07:16.784 - 00:08:01.410, Speaker A: But I thought this meme was hilarious because basically there's this, I guess, debate in the Ethereum community right now that L2 scaling solutions, particularly rollups, is going to break composability between, you know, different defi apps if they're not on the same roll up. And this is going to lead to, you know, some, I guess, like some negative consequences. And this meme, you know, the bell curve meme where it says the lowest IQ will, will basically say roll up, solve everything. The ones in the middle who are kind of overthinking it and thinking to you, you know, thinking too much about it, they're saying, you know, roll ups aren't true. Ethereum scaling, it breaks composability. You must have a scalable l one, not l two s, and then you've got like the end of the bell curve here that the smartest people, the end of the IQ bell curve saying roll up, solve everything. And, you know, you've probably seen this meme a million times.
00:08:01.410 - 00:08:31.948, Speaker A: I don't have to basically explain it, but this is exactly what I think. I think if you, if you're sitting in the middle of the bell curve and you're thinking way too much about this. You're going to get bearish, right? You're going to, you're going to probably say things like, you know, breaks composability. It's, it's going to change how ethereum is. It's going to change how ethereum kind of scales. And yes it does in some respects, but I wouldn't say that it breaks composability and that's it, right? I wouldn't say that, you know, yes, okay. It breaks composability between layer one and L2 for the time being.
00:08:31.948 - 00:09:01.544, Speaker A: I don't think it's going to basically break composability forever. And I do think that we can do composability between the different apps, you know, in an, in a, in a synchronous way, right. Rather than a. Sorry. In an asynchronous way. Rather than a synchronous way. What that means is basically that, you know, you know how things like flash loans work, how you can do everything in one transaction on Ethereum and, you know, you could do basically as much as you want as long as you don't take up all the gas of the block, you know, in one Ethereum block using kind of these flash, flash loans.
00:09:01.544 - 00:09:41.598, Speaker A: So, you know, what people say is that with L2 you'll, you'll break that composability between layer one and L2 and different L2s. And, and yes, that will break. But there is going to be ways to do that composability in a kind of like asynchronous way where you, I mean, this is how the web essentially works, where you basically send requests, you know, I mean, I guess like I'm getting a bit technical here, but the way the web works is that you kind of send requests and then you wait for like a, like an accept, like a, like an ack back or an acknowledgement of that request, right. And then, you know, you can't kind of send through the next request acknowledgement. I mean, that's kind of like how TCP ip works. And maybe I'm butchering an explanation there. I'm not an expert on these things.
00:09:41.598 - 00:10:20.496, Speaker A: But generally, you know, I think that's going to happen with kind of like the l one's and the l two s. You could have an l one that sends a request to l two, right? It's not going to be instant, it's not going to be done on the same ethereum block, but it'll hold that state, right? Hold that position and it'll send that request and then l two will kind of acknowledge that and send, you know, something back, right. Or acknowledge it. And then l one sends their next part of their transaction to, to l two, right. And there'll be this kind of like communication that's going on. And even between the l two s that doesn't necessarily require that, you know, synchronous communication. And I don't think it's like a death knell for ethereum or scalability or composability or anything like that.
00:10:20.496 - 00:11:25.078, Speaker A: Anyone telling you otherwise is just, you know, either trying to sell you one of these kind of other blockchains, right, or they just don't understand how, how the future is going to play out or how the future mean. I wouldn't even say how the future is gonna play out because we already know how it played out in the web world. Like scaling things, you know, whether they be blockchains or kind of like the web to stuff or the Internet in general. I mean, a lot of it comes from the same principles of synchronous versus asynchronous communication. You know, basically with blockchains we have other things to consider, like state growth and stuff like that because we obviously want to be able to have everyone be able to run their own node and that, you know, I guess, like that's not really a concern for centralized systems because as long as they can run the software and run and run everything on their own hardware and data centers, it doesn't really matter. But at the same time, serving those requests to a worldwide audience, right, is hard because, you know, I'm sure like all the gamers, you know, watching this have felt it before. If you're connecting to an overseas server for a game, like an online game, your ping will be like really high compared to locally.
00:11:25.078 - 00:12:03.770, Speaker A: I mean, I used to play a lot of World of Warcraft and they actually didn't have australian based servers for years. So I started playing on the US servers and my ping was something like 400 milliseconds, which is 0.4 of a second. And in a video game that you feel that, right? That, you know, on the web you don't really feel that because, you know, pages loading and you are happy to wait a couple seconds for a page to load. But with, with a game, you know, even that 0.4 seconds, you, you feel that as you're playing it, you feel the delay and, and it's a crappy experience. So now I get like 20 milliseconds, 20 ms or ping, which obviously you hardly feel.
00:12:03.770 - 00:12:56.310, Speaker A: So from that respect, I mean the kind of like having a distributed kind of like set of nodes or set of kind of data that you want to deliver to people. I mean, has to be done in a way. And the way they do it with websites and with video games and stuff is that they just centralize everything, right? It's all centralized. It's in massive data centers. You know, you don't have to worry about, you know, Joe, Joe blow with his, with his hardware running a node or whatever, right? You can just run these in massive data centers and pay as much as you want for it. And that's what a lot of these other blockchains actually do. That claim to be more scalable is they just throw more hardware at it essentially, right? But, but by doing that they have to centralize and you get what's called super nodes, right? Which is, you know, I guess a term that was created to basically describe nodes that only, you know, I guess people that, I mean, have a lot of money can run because it's just too expensive for, for the everyday person to run.
00:12:56.310 - 00:13:49.492, Speaker A: And that just kind of defeats the whole purpose of a blockchain, right? You want people to be able to verify that everything is running as expected because if they can't, you can have what's called a cartel form where the people were actually running the, the blockchain. The ones running the super nodes can just lie to you and you have no way to kind of detect that. So yeah, that's, that's, I mean, I know I got off a little bit of a tangent there from, from this meme, but generally that's why we want to maintain the decentralization and the cost of that is basically not being scalable at layer one. That's why bitcoin hasn't increased its block size because it wants to keep you to be able to run your nodes, everyone to be able to run a node and verify the network. Ethereum lives by that kind of principle and ideology, but it bends it a bit more. Obviously, Ethereum nodes are harder to run than bitcoin nodes. You can still run it on consumer hardware, but it's not, not as easy.
00:13:49.492 - 00:14:21.992, Speaker A: And that's just a trade off of having a kind of like fully expressive base layer, you know, smart contracts and things like that at the base layer. But again, you know, l one is never going to scale to meet needs of, you know, the world. And I don't, you know, l two s as well. If we're talking about scaling in general, l two s are not a panacea. They're not going to fix absolutely everything and they're not going to scale us, you know, in, I guess, like the short term to kind of where we want to be. They are, they do have their own limitations. There is still active research and getting them scaled out more and doing it in different ways.
00:14:21.992 - 00:15:30.624, Speaker A: But there's going to be multiple l two s just because of that, because you can't have everything on one l two. It's just, it's not going to work from, from a scalability perspective because I can imagine there's going to be so much demand for these networks and it's going to be like sometime in the future, maybe decades into the future. You know, mind you, probably not anytime soon. We're gonna get to a point where the, the, there's gonna be so much hunger to use these kind of technologies in these networks. We might get to a point where it's like trillions of transactions per second on the network, right? And, you know, that might sound like a lot now, because right now ethereum does like 15 transactions per second, and these l two s can scale up to a few thousand transactions per second using ethereum. So if we're talking about trillions of transactions per second, well, then we get into like a multi l two world and what people like to call like the multi chain world. And, you know, not everything needs to be on a blockchain either, right? A lot of things don't need to settle to Ethereum, right? But, you know, if you've got like, high, you know, sorry, applications that require high security and high decentralization, which is pretty much a lot of the finance applications, if not all of them, then you will obviously want to settle to Ethereum.
00:15:30.624 - 00:16:10.740, Speaker A: You want to be on an l two, which inherits ethereum security. But if you're, if you're just trying to have like some decentralization, right, or at least like as much as you can get, but you don't really care about having like the most decentralized thing in the world, then you will go to maybe another blockchain, right, that is in Ethereum. Or maybe you'll go to, you know, I guess a quote unquote side chain or something like that. But I mean, it's the same thing, really, but you still get like some level of decentralization. But, you know, you kind of like, won't be inheriting ethereum security, which I think is fine. I mean, I think you can do like a hybrid approach where, say, you have a token, your tokens on Ethereum, but your actual app is on something else. Right.
00:16:10.740 - 00:16:51.264, Speaker A: And you still kind of talk to a theorem, you can still bridge into it. But because your app requires like a lot of kind of like bandwidth, right. A lot of, a lot of scalability, more, maybe more so than l two s can give you, then you might just go to like a more centralized thing. And, you know, I'm kind of warming up to that. I kind of think that that's an inevitability because, you know, I mean, I saw, I think it was a project called odious do this where they're on Solana, their actual platform is on Solana, which, I mean, I'm not going to bash Solani here or anything like that, but like, they have a system which I don't consider to be very decentralized, but, you know, because of that, they're pretty scalable. Right. But their token is on Ethereum.
00:16:51.264 - 00:17:11.936, Speaker A: So, you know, the token secured by Ethereum and the Audi's platform, which is a music streaming platform, is on Solana. And obviously that works there because music streaming is very data heavy. Right? Like very heavy. You can't run that on Ethereum. You probably couldn't run that on l two either. So, yeah, in that case, it kind of makes sense. And we're going to see much more of that come to, come to market.
00:17:11.936 - 00:17:47.563, Speaker A: But, you know, maybe one day in, in maybe a couple of decades, because a lot of this stuff is, is very new, we may get to a point where l two s can scale like that as well, using some fancy cryptography that's beyond what I know about, you know, the cryptography involved. But I mean, I wouldn't kind of like, call it, you know, impossible, right. Because we've, we've seen a lot of the quote unquote impossible done in the past. So. Yeah. Anyway, I've gone on a kind of tangent there, but I think it's very important to consider all of the different things and different trade offs. And there's just so much to think about and talk about that it's actually really exciting at the end of the day.
00:17:47.563 - 00:18:15.500, Speaker A: So Hayden Adams put out a tweet today where uniswap is still dominating centralized exchange volume. So they're doing 60% of the decentralized exchange volume, which you can see here on this chart. This second closest or second place is sushiswap. Third is curve, fourth is zero x fifties bangkok, and then sixties balancer. And there's a, there's a bunch of other ones underneath it. The interesting thing about Uniswap is that they don't actually do liquidity mining. Right.
00:18:15.500 - 00:18:43.462, Speaker A: Sushi swap still does liquidity mining where they pay out sushi reward, sushi rewards and curve still does it with crv rewards. Zero X, I don't believe does it. But they've only got 5.7% market share. You know, Uniswap almost has 60% here. But on that note, and not to go against what Hayden said here, but on that note, to be fair, a lot of projects, right, do liquidity mining for their own tokens on Uniswap. Now, I don't think that's like something.
00:18:43.462 - 00:19:04.426, Speaker A: I mean, that's just something to keep in mind, but I don't think that's. That accounts for most of the volume on Uniswap. The top pools are basically those that, you know, bitcoin and Ethereum, the DPI, which does have liquidity mining on it, but it's like 8% APY or something like that. It's nothing, nothing too crazy. And there's a bunch of other. Other kind of things there. But, yeah, I think that would still account for, like, a healthy chunk.
00:19:04.426 - 00:19:26.330, Speaker A: But it's still good to see that Uniswap is dominating even though they don't have any of their own liquidity mining. Right. Which is. Which can't be said for, you know, a lot of the other ones, like pretty much all of these except zero X and except Khyber, I think, have liquidity money. I'm just looking through the list. Yeah, I think pretty much most of these, at least the ones that have decent volume. So, yeah, really, really cool to see that.
00:19:26.330 - 00:19:46.928, Speaker A: I made a joke here saying, you know, Hayden, where's v three? Because, like, I mean, Hayden's been tweeting a lot more lately. Maybe he's kind of like, waiting for audits to come back for v three. I don't know, you know. You know, it's what, 17 march today? You know, I think a lot of teams tease that they'd be coming out in March. You know, optimism. Right. V three is rumored.
00:19:46.928 - 00:20:09.224, Speaker A: You know, they never really teased it for March, but it's rumored to be coming out in March. You know, I think there's a bunch of other kind of scalability solutions as well, kind of coming out there. But, yeah, maybe we'll see. We'll see what happens there. But great to see uniswap still kind of, like, dominating here as they're pretty amazing kind of exchange. Right. You know, the first kind of decentralized exchange using the AMm model maybe not the first.
00:20:09.224 - 00:20:41.362, Speaker A: Actually, I had some people saying that Bancor was first, and I'm not going to get into Bancor because Bancor is a funny project from 2017. I mean, I know they've, they've been building through the bear market and have, they have products out there that they've been releasing to market. But for those of you who are around in 2017, Bancor wasn't really a community favorite. They did their ICO, which was one of the biggest icos on Ethereum. And what they did, actually, I remember this because I was participating in this mid ICO. They kind of raised the cap, I think, if I remember correctly, on how much they were raising. And this kind of, like, altered the terms of the deal, so to speak.
00:20:41.362 - 00:20:59.940, Speaker A: Right. And no one really liked that. And then in 2018, I'm pretty sure they expanded to eos, and people were like, what the hell are you expanding to eos for? This is. This is stupid. So they kind of, like, got a lot of community flack over the years, but I do believe they were the first amm on. On Ethereum. Uniswap just went ahead and popularized it because of, I think, during a bear market.
00:20:59.940 - 00:21:19.984, Speaker A: You know, alienating the people that were around by going to Eos and stuff like that was. Was not what. Was not a great thing to do. And more people were interested in providing liquidity to Uniswap because they felt Uniswap was very aligned with Ethereum. Now, I think the narratives have kind of changed here. Know, I know I don't like, dislike bank or anything like that. You know, they're doing a lot of great work.
00:21:19.984 - 00:22:03.920, Speaker A: Their products sound, from what I've seen, they have some smart investors on board, right? So, yeah, nothing against them there, but, yeah, I mean, they're growing, too, right there. They're 5.3% of the volumes here. And another tweet that Hayden put out was about the Uni grants program. So this, I spoke about this grants program before, and I've spoken about how Uniswap has, I think, 1 billion plus dollars worth of uni in their treasury right now. And the grants program is one way that they're dispersing this. So they put out kind of like, update here, saying that they had paid out the first $750,000 worth of grants to 23 different teams across, like, event sponsorships, community grants, usability grants, tooling grants, requests for product and challenge grants as well.
00:22:03.920 - 00:22:26.286, Speaker A: Cool to see that in the event sponsorships they sponsoring. Bitcoin grants, round nine. Really awesome. They're sponsoring it at the 8th global NFT event. Community grants. There's a bunch of things here like uni development course, they've given $25,000 to, usability grants, APY vision, which is a very popular website they've given $82,000 to. I mean, there's a bunch of other things here.
00:22:26.286 - 00:22:55.612, Speaker A: And I wrote about more of this in the deliberate newsletter today, so you can go check that out for more details here. But really great to see that the uni, I guess, treasury is giving back to the ecosystem here. And on the grant side, compound has announced that they've opened applications for their compound grants initiative here. So if you want to go apply to this, you can. I'll leave a link in the description below. So the first spec for the first ETH two hard fork is out. And this is called Stargazer.
00:22:55.612 - 00:23:32.930, Speaker A: Now, I spoke about this before, how Easter is going to have its first hard fork mid year, to add a bunch of different kind of like, features to fix a few things with the beacon chain here. So, yeah, I mean, this is really, really cool, right? Because we're getting like, parallel kind of things here where ETH one is chugging along. Berlin's coming out next month. We've got London coming in July, hopefully. And in the meantime, we have all the development happening on ETH two with the first hard fork here, the sharding work going on, merge work going on. I mean, and then on top of all of that, we have, like, L2 work going on. We have defi, we have nfts, we have daos, we have social tokens, you know, human coordination stuff.
00:23:32.930 - 00:23:52.154, Speaker A: So much stuff going on right now, it's hard to keep up. But on the protocol side of things, it's. It's quite amazing to see, like, how, you know, how quickly this stuff is moving on, both ETH one and e two. So really awesome there. If you want to go check this out, you can. It's got, you know, more details about what's going to be included in this hard fork. So, Zappa.
00:23:52.154 - 00:24:30.940, Speaker A: So, actually, I should say, sorry, full disclosure here, I am an investor in Zappa. I am an advisor to Polygon. But I. I'm talking about them today because Seb from Zappa has teased that they're going to have basically cross chain and l two integration right in the Zappa dashboard. So you can see here that they've got Polygon selected as the network to swap from, like, ETH to die, which is really, really cool. And then they kind of like, tease down here that they're going to be supporting optimism as well. So this is, as I was saying before, there's going to be like, cross l two, you know, l two to l one cross chain, right? All this sort of stuff happening, like l two to other chains, you know, l two to l one to other chains.
00:24:30.940 - 00:25:09.066, Speaker A: There's gonna be so much of this stuff happening, it's gonna be crazy. So it's great to see Zappa getting on, on board with this, you know, early on. And that's why I kind of, like, did the eyes thing here and, like here as well, for optimism. And I'm sure they're gonna add other l two s, like when they come out like arbitrum and immutable X and star Quest and star quest things as well and everything else. I mean, supporting l two is is and other, kind of like, I guess, like other chains is how a theorem kind of like wins as well, I think, and how your app wins. Because, you know, a lot of people kind of like, I guess, think I'm an 8th maximalist or an Ethereum maximalist. I mean, I wouldn't consider myself that.
00:25:09.066 - 00:25:31.846, Speaker A: For me, Ethereum obviously has the bet. It has the most network effects, has the, you know, the greatest market share in terms of smart contract platform, and has all that good stuff. I'm not going to go through it all and keeping up with a theorem. I mean, I do this, refuel, right? I do my daily newsletter. I spent all day in this ecosystem, and I still miss things, like in Ethereum, I just don't have time to keep up with other chains. It's as simple as that. So if that makes me a maximalist, then so be it.
00:25:31.846 - 00:26:04.280, Speaker A: I don't really care. But I don't think that's the meaning of a maximalist. I think a maximalist is someone who thinks everything else is a scam and that their chosen kind of like network or coin is, is it, right. And it's usually like bitcoin is that, that do this. I'm not like that at all. Right? I mean, I'm an advisor to Polygon and Polygon right now, you know, with their current implementations, it's not, I mean, it's a hybrid between like a, I guess, a sidechain and a L2, but it's not like a true L2, so to speak, yet, right. They will be releasing true L2s in the future, and that's one of the reasons I jumped on board as an advisor.
00:26:04.280 - 00:26:38.464, Speaker A: But again, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm happy to kind of like, see these other ecosystems blooming and feeding back into Ethereum. Because I don't believe it's a zero sum game. I do believe it's a winner takes most market in terms of value. I do believe ETH is going to capture a lot of his value in the long run. And I do believe that Ethereum will remain the most secure and decentralized network in existence, even more secure than bitcoin once we go to proof of stake. I not afraid to say that, but still, we're going to have these other networks and zappify supporting them, or Zappa supporting them is the right move, in my opinion. So, yeah, really great to see this.
00:26:38.464 - 00:27:49.444, Speaker A: So, Danielle, this is a guy on Twitter posted this funny picture today where he got a message from one of his friends that said, bro, I've been scratching the surface with research on defi, and I feel like I just got pranked for the last four years of studying finance and aspiring to traditional finance careers. What, what more perfect way to put this? He just got pranked. Right? Because you do, like, imagine studying traditional finance and then coming into Defi and being like, uh, what? Like, this is about to disrupt absolutely everything, and what the hell am I doing with my life? I need to go into defi. Um, you know, I see a lot of people feeling like this right now, and I've heard a lot of people feeling like they feeling, you know, exactly like this. And it's so true. Right? Imagine, you know, seeing and learning about how kind of, like, slow and, and kind of crappy the old system and the traditional system is, and then coming into defi and seeing that we've basically built this amazing ecosystem, which is a thousand times better than the existing financial system or the traditional financial system, and, you know, not feel. And how can you not feel like you got pranked or trolled into, into believing that that was the future? It's like, imagine if you went to, like, you know, school in the, in the early two thousands, and they were kind of like, you know, showing you how to use a fax machine.
00:27:49.444 - 00:28:29.774, Speaker A: And then it's like, and then you discover email and you're like, what the hell? Why am I learning how to use a fax machine? So it's kind of like that. But I just thought this was, this was a pretty funny tweet here, and I expect to see so many more people, you know, kind of clueing into this and realizing that the traditional finance system, I mean, it's not a scam. It's not, you know, particularly, I guess, bad for what it does. But I mean, it's so much worse than Defi, right? If you're just comparing the traditional system to itself, then sure, it's, it's okay. I mean, it gets the job done in some way, even though it's slow, clunky, expensive, crappy, right? And then you see Defi and you're like, holy shit. Like, yes, it's expensive. The gas fees are high.
00:28:29.774 - 00:28:39.978, Speaker A: I know. Don't, don't, don't. You don't have to remind me. I get reminded about it every day. Please. But it doesn't matter. What matters is that Defi is very, very, very early.
00:28:39.978 - 00:29:09.088, Speaker A: Right? Extremely early. And the fact that we're already a thousand times better than the traditional system is a testament to just how much, you know, how much better DeFi is for building on open source, decentralized, all that sort of good stuff there. So, yeah, pretty interesting tweet today that. Yeah, it's pretty funny. So a new project called Rollups Wallet kind of announced themselves today and they're on the App Store. You can basically download this wallet. I've downloaded it, but haven't checked it out yet.
00:29:09.088 - 00:29:46.714, Speaker A: They claim to be using Zksync as a wallet. So basically the wallet is using Zksync's L2 technology. And you can do instant ERC 20 transfers because it's L2 and kind of ETH transfers as well. And it's obviously way cheaper on fees here. Now, just word of caution, I haven't checked this project out for myself and it is brand new. I'm not going to say it's a scam or anything like that, to be cautious about putting too much value into these things yet, because I'd like to see more people do research on this and, and kind of like, you know, give it the, the tick, so to speak. Because it is a brand new project and it is using a brand new kind of thing with, with L2.
00:29:46.714 - 00:30:06.954, Speaker A: So, yeah, just, just caution there. But if you want to go play with it, maybe put like $10 in it or something like that, or $50 or whatever and have a look because this, this is very interesting and I'm definitely going to can check it out myself. And actually, I wonder why they have this kangaroo kind of logo here. Is it because they're Australia based? I mean, they say global here. Yeah. I don't know. Maybe they aren't Australia based.
00:30:06.954 - 00:30:41.874, Speaker A: I don't know. That's just a funny little thing I just, I just noticed then. So Ethereum cat herders put out update number 40 here. For those who don't know, the cat herders are basically a bunch of people who follow ETH one protocol developments very closely and kind of put updates out about, about it and keep you up to speed with it. So the TRDR was that the Berlin upgrade was announced. Obviously the Rops then testnet forked to Berlin. Girly will be forking today, actually updates on 1559, which was approved for London ETH two stuff as well, which is cool to see, and every cap of the community call and stuff like that.
00:30:41.874 - 00:31:15.202, Speaker A: So if you're interested in keeping up with all the stuff happening in ETH one and ETH two on the protocol side of things, go check out this post. It'll be linked in the description. So Scott Lewis tweeted out about nfTX today. So NFTx is a, is an NFT kind of like index protocol and disclosure. I hold some of the tokens, but what I thought was interesting about this tweet is that they have an index called punk dash basic. And what this is, it basically wraps a bunch of quote unquote floor crypto punks. So I guess essentially the cheapest crypto punks you can buy and puts them into an amm liquidity pool against ETH.
00:31:15.202 - 00:31:52.482, Speaker A: And it brings liquidity to these things. So basically you can actually now buy or sell one of these punks using kind of ETH on this amm. And the slippage is just 1.6, kind of like 3%, as he says here. So basically gives you instant liquidity to buy one of these floor pumps or to sell one of them. So kind of the market here, which is really, really cool. I actually think that NFTX, I mean, the reason why I hold the tokens is because turning nfts into like index funds and wrapping them and doing this sort of stuff is, is an obvious killer use case because nfts by their nature are not liquid because they're non fungible.
00:31:52.482 - 00:32:17.504, Speaker A: So you have to wrap them into like a liquid instrument that you can get trading on. So yeah, definitely. Very interesting to see this here because, you know, obviously crypto punks have blown up. They've become like a staple in the NFT ecosystem. You know that technically they're not the first NFT anymore because there's been people doing like some chain archaeology and finding earlier nfts. But I would consider them to be the first kind of like NFT that actually kind of took off. Right.
00:32:17.504 - 00:32:32.730, Speaker A: And actually people actually valued and kind of like there's a story and community behind it. So very interesting to see. See that. But, yeah, cool to see that there's more liquidity for the punk basic fund here. All right, that's it for today, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to give that video a thumbs up.
00:32:32.730 - 00:32:38.154, Speaker A: Subscribe to the channel, join the Discord server, subscribe to the newsletter, and I will catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
