00:00:00.480 - 00:00:25.558, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 12 January 2021. Alright, everyone, let's get into the news from the day. So another day, another day that ETH is not at all time high. And I'm still banned from posting on Twitter while I guess a self imposed ban. But I am really, really loving all the memes, that's for sure. It's what's.
00:00:25.558 - 00:00:51.902, Speaker A: So it's kind of like keeping it this very entertaining for me. So as you can see on my screen here, there's a meme put out by Scoopy trooples here, which is quite funny. There's a bunch of other ones that I've seen around, and I wake up in the morning, I check my phone, there's a bunch of new ones. So, yeah, I mean, keep them coming. It definitely makes it fun for me just to observe. Obviously, I can't reply to anything, but I can like and retweet. That's kind of a loophole that I, that I have right now.
00:00:51.902 - 00:01:11.050, Speaker A: But yeah, yeah, I think, you know, I don't know how long this is gonna go on for. And maybe eventually people will just tell me, you know, you can come back, it's okay. But I will stick to it. I will stick by my word. Cause I do think that if I, if I don't, I'll never hear the end of it, that's for sure. I'll. People keep, keep coming back at me about it.
00:01:11.050 - 00:01:41.758, Speaker A: So, yeah, keep the memes coming. And yeah, if you want to chat, you can just dm me on Twitter or like discord or whatever, I'm there as well. But yeah, I guess it's been kind of nice to take a little bit of a break from Twitter as well, you know, as I guess we're getting into this bull market now. Good to have a break before we, like, really get into it and like, just gets, gets really noisy from there. So, yeah, definitely not the worst thing that could happen, that's for sure. All right, so, synthetics. So there's actually two updates from Synthetix today.
00:01:41.758 - 00:02:11.036, Speaker A: I have this one here from Kane. I'll go through this one first. So, basically, just a few hours ago, Kane published this blog post called Synthetix 2021, which is basically, I guess, a roadmap and a overview of what Synthetix is going to be doing in 2021. And they've got a big year ahead of them, definitely. So basically, he runs through it in this tweet thread, which I'll actually go over. You can read the full blog post, but it's quite long. So I'll link that for you guys in the YouTube description to kind of have a read through.
00:02:11.036 - 00:02:36.304, Speaker A: But basically what they're doing is they're going to be focused a lot on scaling. Right. So I've spoken about this a few times now on the refuel, about how they're going to be scaling using optimistic Ethereum from the optimism team. So they've been, you know, big proponents of that. They've been doing test nets with that last few months. So that's definitely coming. They're going to be releasing Synthetix V three, which is basically a complete rewrite of their entire contract suite that is not backwards compatible.
00:02:36.304 - 00:03:16.086, Speaker A: So basically it's going to be, everyone needs to upgrade to this v three because there's so much tech debt in v one and v two that I think the Synthetix team would rather just go with v three and. And not have to maintain the old kind of versions. Which makes sense. Another area of focus in 2021 is going to be governance improvements, especially around their spartan council, which, for those who don't know, is basically, I guess you could call it a bunch of multi SiG holders essentially acting as like, governance delegates for the synthetix protocol. So I think they're going to kind of expand that out and kind of improve upon that model. It seems to be working for them. They got synthetic futures coming.
00:03:16.086 - 00:03:53.192, Speaker A: They have more assets coming to the network, basically, I guess, include more crypto assets, commodities and foreign exchange. But most importantly, he believes the spartan council is likely to request chainlink provide equities feeds as soon as they take control of the synthetics improvement proposal process. That's going to be cool, right? Synthetic equities, you know, that's something I would, I would use, for sure. I hate using the old clunky traditional financial system to get exposure to different stocks and things like that. So I would love to use synthetix for that. Definitely. There's a bunch of other stuff here, like binary options he lists here.
00:03:53.192 - 00:04:21.500, Speaker A: Basically, there's going to be, you know, for stakers is going to be continuous staking rewards instead of a weekly snapshot. There's going to be continuous vesting instead of a, you know, a year long vesting thing. And there's a bunch of different things here, like silo debt pool. There's some, I mean, there's so much coming to synthetix and, I mean, full disclosure here. I'm an SNX holder. I have been for quite a while and there's a big reason for that. They're just one of the best projects in ethereum right now and within defi they just keep executing on the products that they're building.
00:04:21.500 - 00:04:58.154, Speaker A: They have a lot in the pipeline. They're trying to do like a few different things at once. They're trying to push the envelope for, especially with scaling. Right? And you know, I think, you know, Cain especially is definitely, I mean, I guess all in on aetherium. I don't like to call people ethereum maximalists, but Kane is definitely all in on aetherium and he understands that we can make this work, right? We can scale via L2, we can get to I guess like the decentralized world that we want to get to. So I really respect Kane and, and the way he structured synthetics and the team and everything like that. So that's why I'm a, I'm a very loyal SNX holder and I love, I love watching this project evolve.
00:04:58.154 - 00:05:39.918, Speaker A: So yeah, go read the full post if you want to get more context around everything they're doing. As Kane says, it's a 2500 word post. So definitely not a short read, but something that I think, you know, if you're an SNX holder or if you're interested in the synthetix project, it's worth your time to read it. And on the note with synthetix they've also got a new liquidity mining incentive for, for on curve. So you can, there's basically 8000 SNX per week up for grabs to provide s or synthetic euros liquidity to curve finances. Euro liquidity pool which is pooled with eurs, which is from stasis, I think. Yes, stasis is another stable coin issuer obviously there.
00:05:39.918 - 00:06:14.470, Speaker A: And I thought this was interesting because one of my predictions for 2021 was that non USD stable coins would gain a lot of traction. And I mean, I made that prediction kind of because I saw this stuff happening. So there was already an EUR pool on curve. It wasn't incentivized, but it was there and I figured, okay, you know, this makes sense. You know, personally I would love to have a very liquid AUD stable coin. It's incredibly annoying for me to have to sit in USD and then have to take into account the price movement between USD and AUD for tax reasons. This is really, really annoying.
00:06:14.470 - 00:06:53.146, Speaker A: So I would love to see a liquid AUD market on DeFi where I could just cash into AUD instead of having to go into USD and then, you know, have all that tax headache, so. And I'm sure I'm not alone here. You know, obviously, people living in Europe would probably prefer to go into euros rather than USD for the same reasons. There's a bunch of other currencies, like the Singapore dollar, you know, basically. Where else? I guess, like, you have Singapore dollar, you have New Zealand. New Zealand's pretty, pretty active in crypto, the australian dollar, I mean, there's so many, right? There's so many different fiat currencies. I do think the biggest ones are going to be, you know, first.
00:06:53.146 - 00:07:33.194, Speaker A: Like, euro is obviously one of the biggest ones, surprisingly, you know, for. For Australia, we're a small country, 25 million people, but the AUd is one of the most traded currencies on. On. On foreign exchange kind of exchanges, um, and along with the japanese yen, too. So I do think we're going to see those top ones come to market first. Just, uh, you know, that's just a consequence of them being basically the most popular on the forex, forex markets already and the most popular to trade as well. So, yeah, I'm looking forward to more of that coming, but great to see synthetix incentivizing this pool to get that, to bootstrap that liquidity, because we definitely need that going forward for sure.
00:07:33.194 - 00:08:14.894, Speaker A: So Dark Forest announced on Twitter just a few hours ago, I think, that they had passed 1 million transactions on the Xdai sidechain in only two weeks. So this is for their v 0.15, sorry, 0.5 that they brought out a couple of weeks ago that I remember mentioning on the refuel. But for those who don't know, Dark Forest is basically a decentralized strategy game built on Ethereum using ZK snarks. But due to, obviously, Ethereum scalability limitations, they're using the XDAi side chain, and they've done 1 million transactions on there, which I thought was really, really cool. That's probably more transactions than any of the, quote, unquote ghost chains or other layer one blockchains do.
00:08:14.894 - 00:08:41.284, Speaker A: So, which is, which is quite funny as well. So this plugs directly into Ethereum and bridges across to Ethereum, the XdAi chain. But, yeah, congrats to dark forest on this. And I've actually seen a bunch of people on. On Twitter. You're getting really addicted to this game. Basically, the objective is to capture planets, you know, grow your army of, I guess, like, planets and your, your, your kind of, like, fleet, I guess, and then take over other planets and take over other players.
00:08:41.284 - 00:09:29.360, Speaker A: And some people are getting really into this, like really, really into this. But yeah, I think that in general, we're going to see more of these blockchain games kind of get more and more popular, go onto these side chains and basically, you know, take advantage of the scalability that they offer because, yeah, you can't do this on Ethereum's main chain and you never will be able to. It just, it's not going to work. This is why we need L2 and side chains. And I think a couple of days ago I explained the difference between the two, where L2 is normally secured by Ethereum, the Ethereum mainnet, whereas side chains are secured by their own validator set and they basically bridge into Ethereum. Yeah. So I expect to see more of these kind of games come to Ethereum and use side chains and things like that for those kind of, I guess, low value use cases.
00:09:29.360 - 00:10:03.192, Speaker A: I. Not sure, not totally sure on this, but I think maybe Dark Forest saves your progress to the Ethereum main chain. If it doesn't already do that, maybe it will in the future. Because that's a good way to basically make sure that even if for some reason the, the data on XDAi is corrupted or like the network goes down, you could still access your account and port it over to a new side chain or something, something like that. So yeah, we might see that happening as well. But I'll keep, I'll keep an eye on that and keep you guys updated on everything. So Matt Solomon today on Twitter basically released this tool he's calling Supersaurus.
00:10:03.192 - 00:11:03.518, Speaker A: And what this tool does is it may, it makes it easy to sweep all your Ethan ERC 20 tokens to a brand new address. Now the reason why you would do this is, as I think I've explained before, but basically, if you want to remove all of the token approvals that you've done over, you know, the course, I guess, of like months or years on a certain address, it's actually usually cheaper just to move all your Ethan ERC 20 tokens to a new address rather than removing them all because the gas fees are so high, removing all those approvals. So that's what this would be good for. It's definitely not good for like privacy or anything like that because obviously, you know, you send your Ethan ERC 20 tokens to a new address, it's, it's linked to your old address. So don't, don't think of this as a privacy solution, but definitely think of it as a cost saver and something to clean up, basically, you know, from your old address. Maybe there's a bunch of coins in an old address that you have that are really annoying you that are like airdrops and you can't get rid of them and you just want to start fresh. Right? And you can do this with this, with this tool, which I think was really cool.
00:11:03.518 - 00:11:41.554, Speaker A: So yeah, shout out to Matt there for building this. I haven't used it myself yet, but I do plan to because I have like a couple of addresses that I have tokens on and I want to remove some approvals on, but I just don't want to spend that, all that gas to do that. So I'm going to try this out and see how it goes. So, loopring, put out this tweet, basically of their block sizes on their loop ring ZK roll up. Now they, I explained here, and I'll quote, not every chart that drops off a cliff is a bad thing. Our ZK roll up is pumping out larger blocks today. A sign of greater continuous demand.
00:11:41.554 - 00:12:10.890, Speaker A: More transactions compressed into each for more efficiency. When ethereum l two season really hits, we're going all dark green. So for those who are watching the video, you can see the chart here. The block sizes, I think maybe they're measured in kilobytes, maybe. I'm not sure if they're measured in kilobytes or megabytes here. I don't think it actually indicates that. But basically you can see that the, you know, I guess during December they had smaller blocks, so they had the blues there, 16 and 64, and then a little bit of green.
00:12:10.890 - 00:12:43.800, Speaker A: And now it's the majority green. Right. And this is because loop ring has been growing, or their ZK roll up exchange has been growing so fast lately. I mean, as I mentioned a couple days ago, they've got like, I think almost 100 million total value locked at this point, or more than that. And this is because they're actually innovating here and doing liquidity mining to get people to move to L2. And they're the front runner or one of the front runners because they have a working L2 exchange that is relatively liquid. So it's really great to see it getting more usage and a lot of people making more use of the, the blocks that are there.
00:12:43.800 - 00:13:14.760, Speaker A: Because I remember seeing, I think Matt Feinstein from loop ring saying, come use our exchange. You know, the blocks are basically empty. You know, come fill these blocks up with your transactions. We've got liquidity for you. And people are finally doing that, you know, and I always beat this drum like so much. Is that the reason people are finally doing this is because they're sick of the high gas fees and they want the easiest and smoothest kind of, you know, process to move to somewhere cheaper. Now, you could, of course, move to another chain, right? But there's no liquidity there.
00:13:14.760 - 00:13:47.238, Speaker A: There's no ecosystem there. When you move into loop ring and to a ZK roll up, you still retain all the network effects from Ethereum, and you can bridge back very easily. You still use your metamask, you know, you still, like, have like, a similar transaction flow and things like that. And, you know, you still have the security guarantees of the Ethereum main net. So, yeah, I think that's why we're seeing this kind of explosion in growth for loop ring. And I think that, I mean, I've said it so many times, you know, when uniswap L2 hits, we're going to see growth there. Synthetix is going live in three days.
00:13:47.238 - 00:14:33.126, Speaker A: I think January 15, there's a soft main net or a launch of optimism with synthetix that's going to be big. I'm really looking forward to seeing what they have installed there. And I think after that, we're just going to see, you know, uniswap rollout, Chainlink, maybe some other things, like Ave, as I spoke about yesterday, I think they are moving to optimism, too. And then as time goes on, we have, I guess, like, a lot of solutions around cross l two composability, like, you know, l two s talking to each other and things like that. So, yeah, I mean, it's l two season for sure. I mean, they say here when a theorem, l two season really hits, I believe we're in, like, the early innings of it, and we're gonna go into, like, a really kind of, like, golden age of l two. And, you know, it might get to a point where so many people are using l two that the main network fees come down a lot because of it.
00:14:33.126 - 00:15:20.514, Speaker A: And then people move back to the main net, and we have, like, this load balancing effect where when the main nets relatively cheap, maybe there's more liquidity there, you do some stuff there, but then when it's expensive, again, you have your l two solution as well. So there might be a bit of fragmentation there for a little while until it balances itself out. But I do think that it's going to be great for end users, of course, and we're going to have people kind of thinking, wow, like, we didn't know this was possible on Ethereum, because I see a lot of people that obviously don't pay attention to the ethereum ecosystem as closely as I do. And a lot of you watching this do that kind of think that this is it, right? This is the way Ethereum is going to be forever. And that's not true at all. Ethereum is not just sitting here on its, you know, on its hands waiting for scaling to happen. This is not, I mean, this is not bitcoin with lightning network.
00:15:20.514 - 00:16:06.844, Speaker A: I know there's development going on there, but at this point, the lightning network has failed to gain traction, whereas a theorem L2s are getting so much traction. And that's simply because it's easier to build a L2 on ethereum than it is on bitcoin, to be fair. But we're going to see this happen, and I think people are underestimating how quickly it's going to happen. So really looking forward to that. And you're probably going to hear me talk about L2 all the time going forward because it's incredibly important and it's an incredibly exciting space going forward, I think. So, last thing to talk about today was a new stablecoin project that was announced called Fay Protocol. So basically, I guess, where this falls into the world of stable coins in terms of like categorizing it, it's sort of like an algorithmic stable coin, but not the ones that you were used to.
00:16:06.844 - 00:16:55.774, Speaker A: So I've wrote about this in the Daily Grey newsletter today, a little bit more about it if you want to go check that out. But basically what Faye protocol is trying to do is it's trying to create, I guess like an under collateralized stablecoin that's safe and fully decentralized. So if you look at here and look through the blog post here, you can read it for kind of like the full detail here. But basically they want to have a system where it only uses decentralized collateral. So ETH, right, for example, tokens on Ethereum that are really liquid, that don't have any admin keys or backdoors, like link, for example. They don't want to use raft, bitcoin or USDC or things like that because they want to remain as decentralized as possible. Now, obviously, we had Dai previously that was, you know, obviously the first decentralized stable coin.
00:16:55.774 - 00:17:30.744, Speaker A: But at this point, because of the fact that it's backed by so much, USDC has WBTC in there, even has tether, I think in there, it's not fully decentralized anymore. So, you know, incomes fay protocol. But that's not the only thing that they're innovating on. As I said, they're an algorithmic stable coin. So they're basically trying to, you know, contract and increase the supply based on a bunch of different market mechanisms. I mean it's detailed here. I'm not going to try and TLDR on, on the, on the refuel because it does require you to read through this because it's, it's a relatively new mechanism here.
00:17:30.744 - 00:18:10.808, Speaker A: But, and it's also trying to be governance minimized. So there is a governance token, but it's supposed to be governance minimized so that there's not like the governance doesn't need to do much to maintain this sort of thing. And most of the time the kind of like coded in algorithms and logic should take care of the stability of the, of Faye, the stable coin on its own. It shouldn't require human intervention. So very, very very, I guess you could call it ambitious project here, I think. And I think that it's solely needed because we already have very popular centralized stable coins and they're easy to do. Right.
00:18:10.808 - 00:18:40.668, Speaker A: You issue a token on Ethereum that's backed by the US dollars in a bank account. Done. Makerdao is a kind of an amazing attempt at this. It has issues now with decentralization, right. Because of the decentralized assets in there. It sometimes has issues with its peg, but I wouldn't count the peg issues as like a make or break. I'd say the, the fact that major, like 40% of Dais backed by USDC is more of a make or break for me than I guess the fact that it's, it's not stable all the time.
00:18:40.668 - 00:19:17.726, Speaker A: But you know, that's a different model as well. It's, it's, it's collateralized with people that want to basically, you know, draw, die against it to do whatever, you know, do whatever they want, whether that's going leverage long or using it as a, as a stable coin in its own right, whereas Fay protocol is trying to do something different here. So still, very early stage here was just announced. I think their Twitter accounts only been out for a few weeks. So definitely go check out the full blog post and give it a read if you want to learn more about it. I think this is solely needed because we can't have a defi ecosystem or a decentralized finance ecosystem that runs on centralized assets. Right.
00:19:17.726 - 00:20:11.002, Speaker A: We can't just have the entire kind of thing running on tether and USDC because then they're choke points, essential points of failure, because stable coins are some of the most used assets on Ethereum, if not the most used assets on Ethereum and within deFi. So if the kind of us government could just go to Coinbase and say, hey, we want you to freeze all of the USDC in makerdao, right? Well, there goes 40% of the collateral that's backing Dai, like instantly. So that's just, you know, that's not great. That could lead to some very, very bad onflow effects for DeFi, considering that Dai should, logically, after that gets frozen, should trade at $0.60, which means that people are going to get liquidated, right? People, the kind of like amms will go all go out of whack. You know, arbitrage bots are going to make a ton of money, probably. If they're set up to take advantage of this, a lot of funky stuff would happen.
00:20:11.002 - 00:20:44.646, Speaker A: So I definitely think that we need something like Fae protocol. Don't know if it's going to work or not. Maybe it doesn't work at scale, but interesting to see, I'm very interested to see if it does. And I'm interested to see more experimentation here with actual kind of algorithmic stable coins that don't look like Ponzi's. Now, I'm gonna get in trouble for this, but the, the ones that we currently have definitely look like Ponzi's, right? Maybe they're not, maybe they're not meant to be. And maybe they're not meant to be scams at all. And I'm not calling them scams or fraudulent, but a lot of them rely on new capital coming in to maintain their stability.
00:20:44.646 - 00:21:31.278, Speaker A: And basically, the game kind of only works if the, the coin is below or above a dollar to encourage people to put more money in the system. If it stays at a dollar forever, then it can't grow because no one is incentivized to put more money in the system. At least that's the current crop of them. So I'm sure there's going to be projects that keep experimenting, and I, and I welcome this experimentation, but until they're actually stable, I think calling them stable coins is a bit, is a bit misleading. I guess you could call them pre stable coins or, you know, attempting to be stable coins, but the current iteration of many of the algorithmic stable coins are not stable at all, and they probably never will be in their current designs. I don't know if a protocols or FaE, the token itself is going to be stable in the long run. We have to just test these things out and experiment.
00:21:31.278 - 00:21:58.710, Speaker A: So, yeah, looking forward to Fae protocol going live. I think they're aiming for an end of Q one launch, so pretty soon, basically march. So we'll definitely see how that goes over the next couple of months. All right, that's it for today's refill, everyone. Thank you for listening and watching. If you haven't subscribed yet, definitely do so on the YouTube channel. Give the video a thumbs up, join the Discord channel and subscribe to the Daily Grey newsletter, and I will catch you all tomorrow.
00:21:58.710 - 00:21:59.134, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
