00:00:03.160 - 00:00:39.325, Speaker A: Hi everyone, how's it going? I'm Anna, founder of Corona. Super nice to be back at another breakpoint. Today I'm going to talk about infrastructure for money. Follow us on crypto Twitter for more updates. So imagine if banks have to go sign on merchants one by one around the world. We would all be stuck in Singapore because we would have no food to eat and nowhere to go. The way Visa revolutionized payments is how I see stablecoins would be able to revolutionize the way money exists and moves.
00:00:39.325 - 00:01:29.435, Speaker A: With over a dozen of stablecoins slotted to launch on Solana in the near future, the need for a unified frictionless stablecoin layer becomes all the more apparent. During my time as a stablecoin lead at Solana Foundation, I saw a critical missing piece of our infrastructure. So if we don't do anything with many, many stable coins coming, we'll have fragmented growth. With Perenna, I aim to build scalable networks. So we're building systems that enable money movement and financial operations. How I see stablecoins is they're like digital dollars in your PayPal or Grab account, except with universal acceptance and whoever wants to accept it can do that. So it's a much better version of previous digital dollars.
00:01:29.435 - 00:02:05.617, Speaker A: Let me introduce you to our first product, Numerair. Numerair is a bounded extensible multi asset stable swap with configurable equilibrium. Now that's a mouthful. What that means when I say bounded is you don't need to actively manage liquidity. It's multi asset using the star model. Credit to our CTO Ben somewhere around here who spent nights and weekends writing this up to launch a breakpoint. It is also configurable equilibrium.
00:02:05.617 - 00:02:53.565, Speaker A: So this is one of the first of its kind. We used a custom curve, built this all ourselves for Solana. So why this is super important is because instead of pairing stable coins for every single stable coin that's launching at the moment, you have to pair with at least half of the incumbent stablecoin on Solana, which is usdc. And now you're getting a bunch of disjointed pools with fragmented super idle liquidity. With Perenna, all liquidity is available to trade against all the other liquidity on the protocol. Just like Visa, Perenna lets you spend your assets anywhere that accepts its underlying. And instead of getting a Visa or card from a bank, you can acquire or mint Perna stablecoins and use to pay, trade or store value on chain.
00:02:53.565 - 00:03:37.011, Speaker A: So the stablecoin landscape is evolving and we see two trends. The first trend is regulated stablecoins are going to change the way payments work in the next five to 10 years. Second, synthetic money, which is isolated and completely independent from the traditional financial system, will change the way money exists in the coming decades. We anticipate a proliferation of fiat stablecoins and synthetic dollars to coexist due to geography and regulatory regimes, each serving distinct purposes and without infrastructure. Like Numerair, we risk fragmented growth where simple transactions become costly. So this is what current fintechs look like. It's relatively isolated.
00:03:37.011 - 00:04:17.485, Speaker A: We do not want to reinvent the wheel and end up in an isolated fragmented system again. Numerair is just the first step. We'll continue enhancing the product and next we'll support stablecoin issuer diversification and launch a tranched synthetic dollar with isolated risk profiles. Think of us as sanctum for stablecoins. We're not here to outcompete other stablecoins and be the only one out there. We're here to empower different stablecoins with liquidity and utility. Having a unified single point of entry for projects to integrate stablecoins with will grow the pie together.
00:04:17.485 - 00:05:17.767, Speaker A: Our long term vision is to create entirely new forms of money from diverse assets, to merge money's two purposes of store of value and medium of exchange, and to challenge the very definition of money by decoupling the unit of measure from the point of trust. A decentralized organization at its core. I put quotation marks on hiring because we're not really hiring for traditional employees. Like a company, we're collaborating with many defi projects and payment projects to create a monetary stack with liquid underlying rails for borderless money movement. So we're looking for coders, philosophers and artists who are passionate about this cause. You can join us on Drip House, Crypto, Twitter or Telegram and I look forward to welcoming you all to our community. Please let me know if you're interested in contributing.
00:05:17.767 - 00:05:19.735, Speaker A: Come find me afterwards. Thank you all.
