00:00:05.690 - 00:00:38.760, Speaker A: Hey, good day everyone. Thanks Mark for that. Good day to everyone in the audience and thanks for tuning in. It is amazing. It is really amazing to have been able to witness the growth of Chainlink over the past four years and even better to have participated in the ecosystem for the last year. So really it's a pleasure to be here shoulder to shoulder next to these influencers and these people with high influence within the industry and whom I look up to, but without further delays. My name is Yvonne and I'm part of the team that are working on and expanding reputation link.
00:00:38.760 - 00:01:42.086, Speaker A: Reputation is a critical function for thrustless environments. The ability to apply a scoring system to Oracles will provide a sustainable and consistent data set to inform business intelligence and commercial decisions. Reputation link occupies a unique market position to inform community node operators and smart contract developers to illuminate important quality, reliability and performance indicators that ultimately serve a more robust ecosystem of decentralized applications and protocols. Through the creation and maintenance of the open source transparent data visualization platform, we provide insight in the performance of oracles and data feed contracts within the Chainlink space. And for anybody who knows reputation, who knows reputation link, you might share an opinion with us. We need an uptake. It is to be said, however, that when we entered the market, we were solving for a niche set of the problem with Chainlink at the time, and Chainlink has evolved so from run log aggregation to flux aggregations and recently OCR, and we grew to support that as well.
00:01:42.086 - 00:02:21.740, Speaker A: We were solving for a problem that was needed back in that day. The addressable market for ChainLink, however, has grown exponentially and now it's our job to visualize all of this. So we decided to do something about it, the platform we built. So one of the big news is our new user experience that is in beta. So please check it out by going to our website reputation link and clicking on the little beta platform link. Otherwise, just go to beta reputation link and check it out. We're going to get more into this later, but I just wanted to let you know, get a quick sneak peek at this product as we continue evolving into the future.
00:02:21.740 - 00:03:24.506, Speaker A: Now engineered over the last many months is a streaming pipeline that we're confident will scale us well into the future, as shown as a show of like a small show of the scaling that we've done so far. We now support a number of different number of networks and we will be readily adding to it in the coming weeks, in most cases as soon as Shanlink is on them. So please check it out at beta Reputation link. Well, we all know how reputation started bartering markets the news, essentially word of mouth. It's a peer to peer means of information transportation that has served us throughout the ages, back in the medieval times, all the way up to now. There are caveats to it, however, which is there's no centralized database and typically categorical and subjective in nature. Moving forward into modern times, however, we have new means of social communication dynamics, and still reputation scores influence a great deal of our everyday life through the means of central aggregation of opinions.
00:03:24.506 - 00:03:58.710, Speaker A: Reputation has a quantifiable value that can more widely create economic incentives. There are still few caveats to that, however. It's still categorical and subjective in nature, and there are very few threes. If you've ever used an eBay like entity, ratings are usually quite reactionary and present bias. Reputation is an extremely important problem space to solve and needs to continue to evolve into the trustless future we envision. That is the reason we exist. That's our debt.
00:03:58.710 - 00:04:43.320, Speaker A: Let's have a quick overview of use cases of reputation within the Chainlink ecosystem for anyone that has gone through the process of becoming a chainlink node operator. Sorry about that. For anyone that has gone through the process of becoming a chain link node operator, you would have had to experience a ten to twelve step process. If you had seen the PowerPoint right now. You'd see the little dots over there that's representing the difficulty, but it's something that's labor intensive, time, inefficient, and we can solve for that too. We believe reputation can solve for that too. We can go from a ten step process to something that's more akin to two let your performance do the talking.
00:04:43.320 - 00:05:59.774, Speaker A: This will lead directly to don's decentralized groups of oracles who can use reputation to determine which oracles may participate in them, reward, distribution, and as well as many other aspects in the network. Next was the chain link nodes keeper agents and other onchain entities that derive on chain income completely and consequently they can leverage their onchain transparent revenues and perform Bayes reputation values. Not only do they have this data, but historical performance can be quantified in these lending agreements. As the number of solutions grow, whether it be protocol, market or blockchain level, the number of applications and ecosystem will continue to expand with a higher demand and new entities in the market. Success should be meritocratically awarded and we shift away from this brand based trust and reputation into something more deterministic in nature. Reputation plays a key role in the adoption of these new entities that they enter the market, providing a means of faster, more transparent and easier means of adoption. Now that we've had a quick overview of reputation over the times into the.com
00:05:59.774 - 00:07:13.142, Speaker A: era and how it can be applied within a DeFi chainlink ecosystem type of entity, let's overview the current features that we have to offer. Our platform visualizes transaction aggregation at a reference data contract level and allows for oracles to be compared to their peers. For all Chainlink data feeds, you are able to determine the aggregation logic for the reference data contract and reveal the final answer and the accuracy as well as deviation of the oracle's response for each individual round. You can also see whether the contract has missed a round or not. So we made it pretty clear for if anyone uses multiple contracts in a dawn in the future and they need to lean out to remove them or we don't like to use that word, but we made it easy for you to utilize these resources. Each oracle has a historical performance of all of their past behaviors of transactions executed on chain reputation enables these historical performance metrics to be visualized thoroughly for each individual oracle and leveraged in whatever way the user likes. So we will also allow for users to parse an oracle's live transaction and overall feed the response for individual oracles from their analytics page on reputation link.
00:07:13.142 - 00:07:44.730, Speaker A: You can check that out on our beta on an Oracle profile. Finally, this over here is something that has been requested for quite a while. We're providing a service data visualization. After all, you're able to visualize this within our UI as well as within your own. We're committed to transparency and reputation. After all, we want anyone and everyone to have access and have the ability to create reputation algorithms and be able to aggregate and display the various on chain metrics that we collect. For that reason, we'll be releasing the beta of our free API.
00:07:44.730 - 00:08:40.690, Speaker A: So please head to our website and get a free API key today. It's on the little top bar at the top and you too can create the next project that powers the ecosystem that we reside in. Now that you know what to expect from us, let's look a little bit into the future of reputation. Currently we are hard at work building a premium monitoring and alerting service that will allow users to perform a variety of different actions, as well as be able to be notified of these actions within multiple platforms. So sms, discord, email, slack what you utilize. So things like being able to get alerted on successful and unsuccessful transactions. Your ethnode balance the response change frequency as well as the gas utilization fees at the time, as well as many other actions will be able to be utilized within this feature that will help node operators and developers in their pursuit to become the ideal oracle.
00:08:40.690 - 00:09:42.370, Speaker A: We want you to know who is the best, and we want you to know who is improving the fastest. With the added benefit of informing node operators of how to improve, we then are able to utilize our regression analysis in the near future to create a commercially optimized feedback loop. Our aggregate data empowers both node operators as well as developers to improve their platforms. Node operators will be able to target areas to improve that have shown to increase their payout or contract serve over time, and developers will be able to select not only the best oracles to serve their needs, but also oracles who have shown consistent improvement over time. Statistics can be viewed for the performance of each contract type, so users can select from OCR flux as well as really any future implementation that comes along the way. And the user is able to select based upon really whatever best suits them. We'll be able to provide a payment update very soon that will include profit estimations and weekly breakdowns of weekly oracle revenues and performance, as well as profit.
00:09:42.370 - 00:11:06.914, Speaker A: In addition to ranking oracles across each network, we'll also rank them across all networks within each contract, allowing users to select the best oracles overall across the entire ecosystem, as well as giving information to how each oracle is performing within a contract level. This will give users the information they need to adjust transmitters to maximize their contract's performance. Finally, visualize your protocol security as we aim to provide transparency and holistic visualization of the data flow within the Chainlink network as well as within DeFi, we are working on a visualize your protocol security feature that aims to illuminate oracles and Oracle feeds to highlight their security and reliability and allow users to visualize the flow from API to network to protocol, as well as within oracles themselves, including contract reads and any traces within each different level of connection. And the protocols and nodes may also want to show that their market and their product is secured and powered by Chainlink as they expand their user base. This is really exciting, and we're really happy to announce that in 2021 we will finally be bringing reputation to the Chainlink ecosystem. We envision a world where users and protocols alike can make an informed decision about the oracles which they do business with, and reputations. Relative performance ranking will truly enable this.
00:11:06.914 - 00:12:24.182, Speaker A: We've created a model that is flexible and robust that allows for any sort of quantitative data to be used as an input. So that's really exciting. We don't want to be the grand arbiters, after all of what a valuable characteristic is or isn't. We want to be able to enable users to have the option to choose these inputs based upon what their needs are and hence offer bespoke reputation calculations based upon those requirements. And the reason why we do this is because different entities as well as different end users have different goals, and these different goals will fulfill various markets and industry use cases. It will really be a community contributed and ever evolving model that satisfies the growing market needs. Through these free market mechanisms that we've employed, certain nodes will be able to specialize really in specific niches and our reputation score will reward the nodes who fulfill niches as the market demands it until the white paper has been released, I'm sure everyone's really excited to white paper when until that happens in the coming months, we urge you to go to our website's blog, illumination or accessnews reputation link, and read our primer on Oracle reputation and engage with the community through discord or twitter.
00:12:24.182 - 00:13:17.722, Speaker A: This piece, the primer on Oracle reputation, truly describes our views on Oracle performance within the Chainlink network, as well as outlining what comprises the ideal Oracle. In our eyes, we're constantly evolving in an ever growing market. Reputation is and will be a critical pillar to further adoption and setting transparency as well as user specific standards for both Oracle as well as DeFi and protocol level agreements. These are the building blocks, guys to expand both what and why certain data is provided, how users are able to best interact with it, and how those who contribute to the network and the network expansion should be rewarded and benefit from the variety of use cases. So it's something that's really important, something that will pave the future of the platform and the ecosystem. For that reason, we really have one ask for everybody watching. Please scan the QR code.
00:13:17.722 - 00:13:40.220, Speaker A: Please join our discord. Please participate in the construction of this reputation layer of the DeFi protocol. Details are on our website, so please access beta reputation link for more. You too can shape the future of reputation. Thank you for tuning in and it's been a pleasure to be here. Well, thank you so much, Ivan. Really appreciate it.
