00:00:13.960 - 00:00:26.720, Speaker A: Welcome to Unlayered. Today we are joined with Solana Legend, managing partner at Frixionlist, co founder of Monkeydao, and of course, a Solana og. Mister Legend, thank you for joining us today. How's everything going?
00:00:26.822 - 00:00:28.804, Speaker B: It's going great. Thanks for having me on, guys.
00:00:28.964 - 00:00:35.308, Speaker A: Absolutely curious. What's new in your world? What is taken up your mind? Share. What are you focused on these days?
00:00:35.436 - 00:01:08.896, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, full time, early stage investing in next generation blockchains. So Logan Jestremsky, who has a notable technical podcast in the space, he used to work at Tesla. I used to work at FTX. We started a first check crypto investment fund, venture firm. We are investing in what we call next generation blockchains. And these are chains, as you guys know, with high throughput, low latency, minimal fees, and the ability to have shared state and bring that to hundreds of.
00:01:08.920 - 00:01:26.952, Speaker A: Millions of people, hopefully 100% on that point, actually, you bring up next generation blockchains, and that's obviously a main area of focus for this show. Has there been any, I guess, ecosystems that have piqued your interest? Obviously, we're all big Solana fans, but certainly the design space has expanded a lot since Solana came out.
00:01:27.048 - 00:02:18.924, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's a great question. There's kind of a tweet I've put out recently saying that there's a reason why new blockchains look more like Solana than Ethereum. I think the narrative is squarely moving in that direction. But I think for better or for worse, the jump from Ethereum to Solana was monumental. It was like a true 100 X and UX technology, and a lot of the low hanging fruit around distributed systems, whether that was like the data propagation or the continuous block production and asynchronous execution, like all this stuff that was kind of all taken by Solana in one fell swoop. So there's a little bit, I'd say, smaller optimizations being made, but the adoption remains limited on all these blockchains. Right? So I'd say the race is not over, not even close.
00:02:18.924 - 00:02:39.766, Speaker B: And one of the core areas where these blockchains are going to differentiate themselves is going to be along the lines of community and developer and user activity, as opposed to just pure tech optimizations, because there's not that many ten to 100 xs laying out there in plain sight.
00:02:39.910 - 00:03:00.552, Speaker C: How do you feel about building a community now on these newer l one s? Because I think Ethereum certainly, and also Solana really benefited from having an initial low valuation, which has been able to enrich a lot of the early investors, whereas it doesn't feel like that opportunity remains anymore. So how do you feel about building a community on these new chains?
00:03:00.648 - 00:03:33.644, Speaker B: Yeah, it's definitely more challenging. The effect of making early people a lot of money is the most powerful, singular, most powerful thing company or a blockchain can do. You truly kind of attract and retain these true fans that will rep your product or your chain until the grave. Like, they will show it on Twitter without you having to pay them anything. They will provide liquidity to defi protocols. They will tell their friends about it. They'll create content free of charge.
00:03:33.644 - 00:04:36.912, Speaker B: It's an amazing network effect and community effect. But as you mentioned, with these chains opening at multibillion dollar ftvs from the jump, it really complicates the process of making those early people wealthy. And it's going to be a core hurdle for these blockchains to solve, how they can incentivize the right behavior and reward people in a different way. And I think the formula is not solved, but certainly there are some learning lessons of what worked for Solana and other chains and what didn't. And I think a strong focus on product and community and hacker house events are going to be a mainstay and kind of the gold standard. But that's the beauty of blockchain, is that it marries so many different fields, from distributed systems to economics, to social consensus and culture, to in real life activities and organizing a fleet of validators and devices. It's just like a very varied field.
00:04:36.912 - 00:04:39.256, Speaker B: And that's what makes it so interesting, in my opinion.
00:04:39.400 - 00:05:00.442, Speaker A: Totally. You actually brought up something important, which is how crucial timing is for launching these chains in terms of guaranteeing some degree of success and bootstrapping a community. I would love to actually dive a bit deeper into that from, from your perspective. You obviously mentioned you worked at FTX and you were pretty early in Solana. Tell us about those early days.
00:05:00.578 - 00:05:29.092, Speaker B: Yeah, those early days were something special. I mean, there was basically nothing on the chain. There was one wallet, open source wallet called solid. There was a Dex. I think iridium was the only one. There was almost no tooling like Armani had built anchor, which is now used for, like 95% of smart contracts on Solana, which was amazing. But apart from that, there were no NFT marketplaces.
00:05:29.092 - 00:06:00.522, Speaker B: Everything was OTC. There was no token standard, no metaplex. There was most of the tooling in infra, just wasn't there. And it was a very different time. I mean, there was a break Solana game where every keystroke was like a transaction you'd like, stress test the network. Definitely different squad of people, kind of more similar to the bear market now. It was a lot of true believers, people that had a background in distributed systems or hardware, or maybe just stumbled across Solana and thought it was cool.
00:06:00.522 - 00:06:40.822, Speaker B: And I think the thing that united everyone is the vision of anatoly, right, of kind of a global state machine, synchronized at the speed of light through fiber. And I think the, the people that have seen that North Star and that have used the chain a little bit are the ones that are still around today, whether those are Defi builders. And a lot of people ask me, like, why didn't all of the Defi teams leave when FTX happened and all that stuff? And I think it's because there's people that are so bought into that vision and they understand from an engineering perspective why this is such a no brainer, that they know that eventually things will get better and that it's going to be bigger than ever.
00:06:40.958 - 00:07:32.764, Speaker C: Yeah, I've got a lot of admiration for people that got in early, because I think to really understand what Solana offered, you sort of had to be right of the bell curve, really, to get in that early. Whereas I got in once the NFT stuff was starting to take off, and that was a much more sort of left of the bell curve gut feeling of, well, this is inevitably the way that NFT trading has to go. It's not going to happen on Ethereum. L1, we know those fees are only going to keep on going up if it continues to be popular, whereas on Solana, suddenly you can have these subsent transactions, and it happens very quickly. So there's a real sort of left of the bell curve attraction to Solana, whereas people who were there before there was any of that infrastructure built out. You really have to look into the docs, I assume, and understand what he's actually trying to create and also what the issues are with Ethereum at that time and other competitors.
00:07:32.884 - 00:08:01.526, Speaker B: Absolutely. And I think just the usability was the biggest thing for me. I'm not a technical person, I'm not a developer or a coder, but I was working in banking, and I came at the space from a very different angle than most people. I was looking at usability above all. And I guess I had an advantage in the sense that I wasn't extremely early to Ethereum, so I didn't have the bag bias or bitcoin, for that matter. Right. I didn't have big bags of either of them.
00:08:01.526 - 00:08:37.514, Speaker B: And I wasn't kind of like in the cult of like, Satoshi's vision or, you know, on the Vitalik train to death. You know, I was more like looking at these chains for what they were and what they could be used for. And when I used Solana for the first time, it felt like fiber optic. And I said, look, this is a vastly superior ux. I don't care what anyone says if they want to fud this chain or whatever. I think this user experience speaks for itself. And that light bulb moment of using Solana for the first time, I think is what continues to this day to attract a lot of people.
00:08:37.514 - 00:09:05.484, Speaker B: And in the bear market, sometimes we forget Gui falls and gas fees are more affordable on Ethereum, but they're still fundamentally not dealing with state contention. And that's a problem that the EVM, one of its flaws and in my opinion, one of its fatal flaws, which will allow Solana, when activity picks up, to just get a ton of adoption again. Whenever gas fees pump Solana every single day, is gaining users in a major way.
00:09:09.944 - 00:10:21.938, Speaker A: One question I have on that point, which I think is a salient one, is this idea of kind of a sentiment around layer ones changing depending on bear market vibes versus bull market vibes and cost to transact. And it just reminds me a lot of when I was at Shapeshift peak bear market 2018 2019, there were multiple vocal people that were basically saying, ethereum is dead, it's over, there's no developers are leaving the ecosystem, so on and so forth. It was such a similar vibe to what I'm seeing with Solana today. Uncanny. Obviously, we know how that narrative arc played out, and I think the idea here is that Solana might follow that arc, so to speak, that Ethereum charted. But the question I'm getting at is, when you think about whenever adoption does pick up, maybe it's in one year or two years, to what extent do you think the new inflow of users will have had no relationship with Ethereum, or bitcoin, for that matter? My view is that a lot of new people won't even touch bitcoin, maybe unless they're just buying it DC for, like, their portfolio. But that's kind of like the dynamic we started to see in the last bull.
00:10:21.938 - 00:10:38.424, Speaker A: People just jumped right into, like, nfts or even defi, you know, onboarded directly to eth. I suspect a similar dynamic might occur with Solana, and in fact, it probably needs to occur for Solana to have adoption. But, like, what's your view thematically on how new users will engage with layer ones.
00:10:38.544 - 00:11:39.648, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a great question, and I think it kind of the way I would approach it is talking about like, the waves of adoption and the phases of adoption of any technology. You have your early adopters and early innovators, and then you have your, like, early majority and then your late majority and then your laggards. And I think, you know, and I tweeted about this last night profile of the person that was using crypto and certainly doing things on chain signing transactions with their private keys early on was a very specific type of person. Right. It was someone that probably had multiple degrees. Computer scientists cypherpunk into kind of the self sovereignty Internet money movement. But I seriously question, first of all, how many more people in the world are like that? And second of all, what does the face of mass adoption look like? And in my opinion, it's a much more pragmatic web two crowd, folks, that centralization is the only thing they've known.
00:11:39.648 - 00:12:38.574, Speaker B: Not to say that Solana centralized because it is objectively decentralized, but I think the trade offs and what people value is shifting as adoption occurs. Right. The same preferences of the early adopters and the early innovators are not going to be the same preferences as the early majority or the late majority. So I think blockchains ultimately, and Logan, my co founder, always talks about this, everything will kind of work. But what differentiates a blockchain from being kind of an expensive science project or something that actually gets used by developers and users is what you optimize for. And I think optimizing for the correct thing continues to be the most important thing that blockchains, designers can do. And I think in that sense, Solana is just way ahead of the curve in terms of making things cheaper faster, not fragmenting liquidity, not fragmenting the user experience.
00:12:39.514 - 00:13:10.700, Speaker C: Yeah, I completely agree with that. And just what you're saying, if you speak to your friends and you try and describe crypto normies, try and describe crypto. As soon as you start talking about decentralization and you actually own your assets, they don't care. They just don't care because for the majority of them, that's never really been an issue and they can't really see what the value prop is. So it really does feel that if crypto is going to break out, it's going to start bringing in normal people. It really has to offer something. What's in it for me, basically.
00:13:10.700 - 00:13:26.098, Speaker C: And I feel like this bear market is trying to answer that question. Is that how you're feeling? And I suppose, what do you think is going to start bringing more people outside of the current tiny circles that exist within crypto?
00:13:26.226 - 00:13:30.634, Speaker B: Yeah, it's kind of like, what are the themes and narratives that will dominate next cycle?
00:13:30.674 - 00:13:30.898, Speaker C: Right.
00:13:30.946 - 00:14:26.694, Speaker B: And right now, we're in a transitionary period, clearly, where the themes and narratives of 2021 and 2022 are completely exhausted. And companies that are trying to raise off those ideas are not successful. And even existing companies, a lot of them, are struggling. But I think, to answer your question directly, there's a number of standout, I think, breakaway sectors, a lot of them, coincidentally, are only possible on Solana, including Deepin and then some other clever primitives around compressed nfts that have mainstream ready unit economics and that can enable a new paradigm of distribution and community building. And I think some amalgamation of those sectors or primitives will be paramount. And also, of course, tokenized nfts ex nfts, I think, are massive. That's like a sleeping giant in terms of an innovation.
00:14:26.694 - 00:15:13.862, Speaker B: Some amalgamation of these primitives and sectors will probably turn into an apple, an application, probably mobile based, that dominates. Right? And I think the hard thing will be deciding what's a product and what's a feature. And I think a lot of people, for example, perfect example being nfts, they thought nfts were products. When nfts, in the vast majority of cases, unless you're talking about a bevel and good, that's extremely expensive and high status, high prestige, there are really more features than they are products. And I think they're an amazing lightning rod to catalyze a community and to give a sense of ownership, endowment effect. All these kind of subconscious things are powerful, but people often think of things as products when they're actually features.
00:15:13.998 - 00:16:06.576, Speaker A: I think, like, for example, DPin, let's take that and run with it. I saw an announcement recently. Helium is going to be testing like, a dollar five a month phone plan in the Miami area with unlimited talk text data, which could be big, because the obvious kind of benefit to consumers is they just save a lot of money. And it just so happens to be powered by crypto rails for, especially for like, the incentivization, the rewards programs, where they might be getting a token, which I think they are getting one in exchange for, like, staying with the service and assuming it kind of works out. Granted, I don't really know like, the full economic side, whether that's actually profitable or sustainable long run, but to me, that feels like it's a clear benefit to the end user, that doesn't necessarily rely too much on speculation, and it leverages blockchains to do this new thing which is somehow make cell service cheaper for people.
00:16:06.720 - 00:16:53.588, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. And I think Deepin as a category is going to be a very, very strong one to look to next cycle. And even right now, there's tons of projects coming out, I think, that are super promising. The sub area within deepen that is most interesting to us at frictionless is around digital resources. So as opposed to kind of mobilizing a fleet of physical devices or even humans in real life, I think that's interesting. And you can definitely build a business around that. It doesn't scale as hard as, for example, if you're helping optimize compute or storage or block space or some other digital resource or commodity that can scale much more rapidly.
00:16:53.588 - 00:17:55.940, Speaker B: Because in the case of helium specifically, they were plagued by supply chain issues during COVID and they couldn't get enough hotspots out to people, and that stunted the growth of the network and the geographies and the territory over which they could operate. And I think if that was purely a software issue where you can just expand supply with a stroke of a key, that would have been a different outcome. And I think both areas of deepen are interesting. But I think especially right now, with the news that Nvidia GPU clusters are sold out till end of next year, it's obviously like 100 x in compute demand that's been happening with AI and like, large language models, and no industry in the world can react to that demand increase on the supply side instantaneously. So it's those transitionary periods where there's a big mismatch, where the biggest companies and fortunes are made and lost.
00:17:56.092 - 00:18:38.198, Speaker C: Yeah. Yeah, because as you say, you can instantly set it up. And I do agree, one of the blockers that I have for some of these deep end projects is you have to invest your own money. $300, $500 for people in America, maybe it's not very much, but if you're trying to incentivize the whole world to get involved, it's probably too much. Whereas, as you say, incentivizing people to basically donate their gpu resources, something like your Apple Mac or even iPhone, probably in the future, you can literally just put the settings so that it will just do it overnight while it's charging. So there's no issues about draining a battery, there's no issues about it getting too hot or whatever. And no one has to buy anything to do that.
00:18:38.198 - 00:19:09.656, Speaker C: So the supply is ready to go and as you say, it's just a single click of the button and it's instant. I mean, my past life, I was building data centers and I know the pain to try and do those. And then obviously if you're trying to also create the chips and all this, it's just so long, the lag. So I completely agree. I am super bullish. Maybe just turning it to gaming, I feel like is something which you didn't mention. There does seem to be this prospering area on Solana.
00:19:09.656 - 00:19:20.764, Speaker C: I'm still slightly unsure about the value prop, but just wondering what your views are on it. And do you think something like that would flourish on Solana or do you think it's going to be app chains?
00:19:21.384 - 00:20:02.550, Speaker B: I definitely think having the shared state and the logically centralized integrated model is superior. We're writing an article about this right now, but we have our strong preferences there. Just because without going into too much detail, because I could talk about this for like 5 hours, there is a high premium to be placed and to be had on all, to all communication. So the sense that if there's an in game economy similar to financial market, everyone is quoted the same price instantaneously. And that's there's proof of that on chain. I think that's much more powerful than one to many, which is what app chains offer between one chain to another. Markets don't really work.
00:20:02.550 - 00:21:04.198, Speaker B: When I'm quoted $25 and you're quoted 22, there's just a lot of inefficiency and arbitrage, and it's just a bad ux, frankly. So I think to answer your question, if gaming were to pop off, it would be on a Solana of the world. But I also think that space is still relatively immature and there's a huge amount of game risk on top of getting the crypto tokenomics side right as well. And I think the fundamental bottleneck is not the tokenomics aspect, it's actually building games that people will want to sit down in a chair and play for nine or 10 hours and then go to sleep at night and watch YouTube videos of other people playing the game after they've been playing it for 10 hours. Which is if you look at the best titles in the world, Counter Strike, League of Legends, whatever, Apex Legends, Valorant. These are all games that have achieved that echelon of fun and replayability. Whereas there has never been a crypto game that's been that much fun.
00:21:04.198 - 00:21:54.140, Speaker B: It's been a kind of a parade of unsustainable tokenomics, where you get paid $1,000 to walk your dog like I was getting paid by Stepn. But that's obviously not sustainable, right? So it's kind of like we're not there quite yet. But I am bullish on the category of kind of like builder games. So if you look throughout history, and I say this because I was a huge gamer myself for like 1520 years, many of the most popular games in the world, including League of Legends, were built off of mods of existing games. So in the case of Dota, it was a game mode of Warcraft, right, like defense of the Ancients. And then it was eventually turned into a league of Legends, which has more daily active users than all blockchains combined. And if you look at other games like Minecraft, even Fortnite, now they have a game builder, even the new Zelda game has it as well.
00:21:54.140 - 00:22:33.904, Speaker B: The kind of the sense is that the game risk of execution for the devs is much lower if you can create an open framework where maybe this game is not 100% what the players want, but the players can turn it into what exactly what they want over time, and you give them the tools to actually do that themselves. And I think that as a category is a much lower risk for us and for me investing wise, than just saying, hey, I'm going to find the needle in the haystack, I'm going to back the next League of Legends with crypto tokenomics and that basically it's all or nothing at that point. It's either a hit or a miss, and the numbers are stacked against you in terms of finding a winner there.
00:22:41.714 - 00:23:22.364, Speaker A: I did a long thread on like web3 and gaming back in September, and I had the kind of the same conclusions that you're describing now, which is it is unbelievably hard to make a hit game. You know, even like these companies like Activision Blizzard will spend billions of dollars and half of their games are kind of not duds, but they just don't necessarily justify the capital. And so it's not that I'm bearish a crypto native team can ship a game. I think it'll happen at some point. But I'm also just very bullish existing games with strong ip like Fortnite just deciding to add crypto. I don't think it's a very big lift for them, to be honest. And I know there's rumors like Sony's already working on an NFT wallet or crypto wallet for the consoles.
00:23:22.364 - 00:24:04.736, Speaker A: And I think your point is very salient, and I kind of said differently, which is this idea of metagames, where you build a game on top of an existing game. The simplest example of this is actually fantasy sports, where you have football games. Everyone watches the NFL, and then built on top of that is this really simple page where you can draft players and they have a score. Now you have a whole game in and of itself with your own friends. And coincidentally, Sorare has had some really good adoption numbers because they focus on that. I'm very bullish on metagames in traditional video games like Fortnite, where there's already creators now that are making money from people playing their versions of Fortnite, and that seems like such a natural fit for crypto. So it'll be very interesting to watch that trend.
00:24:04.736 - 00:24:29.232, Speaker A: One other question I had, and you kind of mentioned it before, which is areas of focus that are interesting for you guys. What else are you seeing in terms of the investment side? What's been most interesting in terms of what teams are working on? I know we had an interview with Kyle Simone a couple of weeks back, and he mentioned a lot of the deals are still pretty heavy infra. Are you seeing similar things? What's what you've been noticing these days?
00:24:29.368 - 00:25:41.132, Speaker B: Yeah, pretty heavy infra. There's obviously, like still an infra build out phase that needs to happen, because people always ask me, like, why aren't there more crypto killer apps? And the answer is, because people have been building on Ethereum, where you have twelve second block time, five to ten minute confirmation for a transaction, and gas fees from five to $300. And I ask them, if we had $30 million and a team of cracked engineers, could you build a killer app on that tech stack? And they always tell me, probably not. So the infra needs to happen. But I think on our end, we're seeing some interesting deep end projects and also on the financial infrastructure side, both on chain like order books and also on the centralized exchange front. I think this is unironically the best time to start a centralized exchange since 2020. And I know we're having a bit of an on chain summer, but the addressable market of a regulated, centralized exchange that actually connects to people's bank accounts and is a fiat on ramp and off ramp is like orders, multiple orders of magnitude larger than any on chain trading activity.
00:25:41.132 - 00:25:50.064, Speaker B: So we're looking very intently at that space, and I think there's going to be some winners emerging from the bear market on the centralized exchange front.
00:25:50.484 - 00:26:11.340, Speaker A: What about. Because I noticed you tweeted recently a bit about x.com quote s direction they're taking where almost following that WeChat blueprint where obviously they have social primitives but want to financialize a bit more and they're doing payouts now for creators. Do you have views on how social media will shake out over the next 510 years and if crypto has a major role to play in that?
00:26:11.492 - 00:26:55.428, Speaker B: Yeah, I think generally social media and people spend their time where the noteworthy content is like, you message your friends on Instagram because you can send them memes, and there's things to talk about on Instagram. You don't message them on WhatsApp typically, or at least I don't. I know it's the same for a lot of people, but I think what's going to happen is social and content are kind of the anchor draws for people, and they provide those like community and network effects on that flywheel. Get that flywheel spinning. But what's going to happen is there's going to be layers of value and layers of product around that. So there's going to be payments. Elon Musk is a payments guy at heart, so he knows that better than most people.
00:26:55.428 - 00:27:32.312, Speaker B: There's going to be commerce, there's going to be live streaming, but all these other adjacent things around people that are terminally online. As my friend Ansem says, people that are addicted to the Internet and just spend vast majority of their time there. Things like food delivery apps, ride sharing. In a world where people just spend more and more time online, there's just layers of value that you can construct around social. And putting all of those things in one place in a town square like WeChat, like X.com, with crypto payments and monetization, seems like a no brainer.
00:27:32.408 - 00:27:52.854, Speaker C: So would you say that you're less bullish on a completely web3 native social experience? I suppose related to that, it would be essentially the rise of friendtech recently on base, which seemed to be a regurgitation, maybe of previous social experiments. What would be your view on web3 social?
00:27:53.014 - 00:28:43.364, Speaker B: I'm pretty bearish on those web3 social wrappers. There's been ten of them and they always do the same. People get in early, make a few eth, and then take it out, and then they teleport to zero. No disrespect, but I think more generally, like, not everything needs to be decentralized and on crypto rails, right? Like theoretically with fire dancer doing like several hundred thousand transactions per core, you could run Twitter on chain. But really, like, if there's some. Unless there's a very compelling reason to do that and you actually want to, like, tokenize every tweet and I don't know, have like a tweet marketplace or something crazy like that, I don't think there's a super strong reason to not use just like a web two database. For example, I think Instagram does millions of transactions per second.
00:28:43.364 - 00:29:21.064, Speaker B: Every time you like something, it updates something in the database. There has to be a very strong reason for people to switch. But I think what's more exciting is getting a core web two kind of social media that people know and trust and already has a large amount of adoption, and then having the crypto piece be kind of like a trojan horse enabling new experiences. Kind of similar to CS go. Right. They have weapons, cases, sales that are doing hundreds of millions of dollars per month. They're not tokenized or not on chain, but I think having, like a crypto wrapper or a little bit of a crypto piece on top makes a lot of sense.
00:29:21.064 - 00:29:35.458, Speaker B: But again, it has to be uniquely enabled by crypto. Like, these are things that you can do in web two. If it's just another version of a web two, then it's like a robotic horse. It's just going to be another similar thing, but it's worse, right?
00:29:35.546 - 00:30:37.086, Speaker A: I guess one kind of idea on that front was, and I think X has already tried doing this a little bit with verified checks, but the idea that economic value can be a deterrent to spam, for instance, and that feels like a very low kind of bar to cross, that crypto can do way better than fiat just because it's a lot easier when it's just money in a wallet versus having them do some sort of flow for, like, a credit card payment, and then they forget to cancel it or something like that. So I do kind of agree on that front, that we'll start to see those primitives play out. The only thing, though, is like, it seems like a lot of these networks, like meta, for instance, try to do crypto way back until they hit all that regulatory kind of those hurdles. It seems like there might be some resistance for these giants to embrace it. I think X is kind of the only one that we know for sure is going to do something on the front of crypto. Unclear exactly what that will be, but I don't know. I mean, do you have any other kind of thoughts on that front, how this could actually shake out?
00:30:37.270 - 00:31:06.904, Speaker B: Yeah, I think Elon understands, like, what the best form of money is. He's like, said it before, it's like the one that's most accepted and it's the lowest latency. So he understands cryptocurrencies. And I think crypto is going to play a central part in X.com dot. I don't know exactly what, but there are some hints as to, like, where he's tracking and where he's heading. I think the Twitter blue subscription is obviously like with a credit card or debit card.
00:31:06.904 - 00:32:09.232, Speaker B: So that's like a primitive form of KYC. So you're going to see money transmitter licenses between states. You're going to be able to send your friends money on Twitter or pay them for a thread. And this is stuff he's talked about in interviews before, but I think just more generally, what kind of new and incremental experiences can you enable when there's crypto payments, rails, or even trading enabled on the app? And I think it's that emergent behavior that people need to focus on. If it's, like I said, a similar version of web two just with crypto, then you're not solving a new problem or you're not creating a new field. You're kind of just solving an existing problem in a new way that helps your bags, which is not that interesting. But if you can enable a new experience where it's like that iPhone moment, where this is a new take on what a mobile phone can be, much more than just a phone, I think that's when larger corporations will look at it and they'll be like, look, this is real.
00:32:09.232 - 00:32:15.048, Speaker B: There's something here. And this is the invention of a new product category that we should be looking at.
00:32:15.176 - 00:32:58.136, Speaker C: I suppose we're already seeing crypto and trading being integrated with social in the form of unibot taking over telegram and allowing people to trade directly from there. And also, I think there's now other ones which are going to be doing it on discord as well. So it really does feel that that momentum has started. And as you say, I think something like Twitter would be likely to be next. Just pivoting slightly at the moment, it feels like all of the mind sharing crypto is focused largely on base, probably, but largely on things which aren't very. They don't make a huge amount of sense, I'll put it like that. There's the hamster racing, there's the bald meme coin, which got rugged.
00:32:58.136 - 00:33:08.400, Speaker C: There's pepe, which has gone up to, I don't know, billions, I'm not sure. And then there's the sonic ten, Harry Potter all that good stuff.
00:33:08.472 - 00:33:09.320, Speaker A: Bitcoin ticker.
00:33:09.352 - 00:33:10.124, Speaker B: Bitcoin.
00:33:12.464 - 00:33:32.970, Speaker C: It is kind of funny putting bitcoin as the ticker, but what do you put down to this? Why is all of the focus now on silly memes? And also, is this noise, or is there actually some signal going on here about what product market fit is and what the direction of travel is? Or crypto apps?
00:33:33.162 - 00:34:06.242, Speaker B: I think we're just in between cycles, to be completely honest. People don't have those killer products and applications to hold on to. And in the absence of a clear theme or signal, crypto defaults to its kind of most natural form, which is just gambling. And it happened on bitcoin. There was Satoshi dice, which literally kept the network going pretty much. But there's just a hot ball of money that if there's not, like new inflows, there's a hot ball of money that gets passed around and there's a game of hot potato. If you're early, you can make life changing money.
00:34:06.242 - 00:34:19.954, Speaker B: If you're late, your exit liquidity. And it's kind of like it is what it is. I don't think it's either good or bad. It's just kind of like a state of nature. It's always going to exist. It's better than no on chain activity. I will definitely say that.
00:34:19.954 - 00:34:48.672, Speaker B: But is this like a killer sustainable use case? The answer is no. Like, this is just people degenering extremely hard. And I think it's hilarious. You've got Harry Potter, Obama, ten sonic inu doing numbers. I'm all for people having fun, but I think it's important to not get caught up, especially as a VC. You have to pay attention to this stuff and certainly be plugged in on the ground floor of an ecosystem. But you have to see the force from the trees.
00:34:48.672 - 00:34:53.794, Speaker B: Is this something that's investable, or is this something that's like a flash in the pan?
00:34:54.174 - 00:34:57.302, Speaker C: And why do you think it hasn't moved over to Solana as much?
00:34:57.438 - 00:35:53.376, Speaker B: There's a few reasons. One is just the fact that Solana hasn't had the years in the market and the pump that Ethereum has had, where there's quite an elevated amount of liquidity and old ICO money in the system, where people haven't taken money off chain. Maybe it can't enter the banking system, maybe they don't want it to enter the banking system, but for whatever reason, it stays on chain and it rotates in this hot ball of money effect. Maybe it goes into yield farming and then into a shitcoin and then into jpegs, it kind of bounces around. But again, I don't think that's necessarily something that Solana is precluded from. I think Solana needs a few more years. They need more wealth effects and more defi protocols, dropping tokens and those tokens performing strongly, and then strong inflows, a strong narrative for Solana to lead a bull market.
00:35:53.376 - 00:36:27.004, Speaker B: And at that point, there's no reason why Solana can't have a comparable amount of liquidity or more than Ethereum has today. I think people's memory is short. I think Ethereum TVL in 2018 was like 250 million or something like less than Solana has today. And Defi was just starting back then, so you can make that argument. But I think very clearly there's a path for Solana to have a large amount of TVL. And once Solana does have that liquidity, it will arguably be able to do everything that Ethereum can, plus all the things that are only possible in Solana.
00:36:31.744 - 00:37:08.016, Speaker A: There's something I wanted to get your take on, actually, which has been an interesting story. Arc, basically, D guides, has historically been one of the biggest, most successful collections on Solana. And, you know, six months ago or so, they made the decision, Frank did the creator, to bring that over to ETH and to bring ute's over to Polygon in exchange for a $3 million grant. Recently, it looks like they're going to return that money and move ute's also over to ETH, but would love to just get your thoughts on, like, that whole saga. Why are a lot of people on Solana salty about it? And I guess, did he make the right decision?
00:37:08.190 - 00:38:02.622, Speaker B: Oh, man, I'm in the hot seat now. I've been a vocal critic of D gods. You know, a lot of d gods don't like me, but at the end of the day, I'll continue to speak my truth and say what I think is, is the truth. So ultimately, I think people are chasing liquidity. And there's no doubt that moving to Ethereum has allowed them to get probably a higher floor than they would have gotten on Solana. But for me, it's much more about where do you want to go? Do you want to skate, where the puck is or where it's going? And I think in many ways it's kind of a fallacy to chase liquidity on Ethereum at this point. If it was 2018, 2019, sure, the golden era of Ethereum hasn't passed, but in my opinion at this point, Ethereum is very mature ecosystem, which is great, but the technology is also hard, capped by the EVM, by the lack of state contention, by the scalability and the legacy architecture which they've chosen.
00:38:02.622 - 00:38:54.502, Speaker B: So ultimately, I think the scope and kind of the sandbox of what you're able to offer as an NFT collection on Ethereum is much more limited to the big sandbox that you can play in on Solana. You can do compressed nfTs, you can do loans for a dollar and repay them and get two cent of interest, and you can claim that it's a completely different environment where assets can be used much more productively. And I think without being too opinionated on their exact decisions, they had good reasons to leave. I think the only grievance that myself had, me and other people had was just the way in which they left. Announcing on Christmas Day and kind of gaslighting the whole ecosystem when Solana is at its lowest is like, not okay. I don't think that was classy from them in the least. And at the end of the day, I have my strong opinions.
00:38:54.502 - 00:39:16.092, Speaker B: I think it was a mistake in the long run, but over a shorter timeframe, many people could say it was the right move. I just have a much longer timeframe than most, and I think Solana is going to do what it's going to do. And giving up the number one spot on Solana to chase a higher floor price will go down as either a very savvy move or one of the worst mistakes of all time.
00:39:16.268 - 00:40:05.692, Speaker A: Totally, totally. I remember when he made that decision, it just, the thing that was puzzling was not even the east stuff, it was the polygon stuff, because I even just tried testing, buying one, and it took me four and a half hours to turn eth into the actual. I bought a Reddit NFT to finish the all the multiple bridges and it was just like, bro, why? Why are you subjecting people to this terrible user experience? And obviously they reversed course. But yeah, I think the point stands. It's like they wanted to be in a bigger pond, so to speak, instead of a big fish in a small pond. But our view, and I think what you just articulated is that Solana's quote unquote pond is going to grow at a pretty rapid clip once there's more adoption. And it seems like kind of a bear market dynamic that they over optimize.
00:40:05.748 - 00:40:38.974, Speaker B: And over indexed for 100%. And honestly, there's so much information asymmetry in this space. This is truly one of the most inefficient liquid markets in the world. Like you talk to even top vc's who don't have a view on blockchain or tech or anything. They don't know anything about virtual machines or consensus algorithms or data propagation or storage. They're just kind of throwing darts in the space, which means there's a huge amount of misallocation. Like, people spin these narratives with giant marketing machines and people misallocate to the wrong projects because they heard it was something good to invest in.
00:40:38.974 - 00:41:22.966, Speaker B: And frankly, my point to that is kind of like, what kind of investor are you? Are you just kind of like chasing the shiny new thing? But I honestly don't think you should be managing other people's money, if that's your approach. That's my personal opinion. But I think just more generally, you have these big moments where the music stops, where people realize, okay, this chain actually doesn't have good tech at all. It's never going to have good tech. And then the house of cards comes down and it happens again and again. But it's one of the reasons why it's so exciting to be a vc in this space, because the infrastructure build out phase is not complete. You can legitimately back a blockchain or a product or an application before anybody realizes crypto has potential or anything else.
00:41:22.966 - 00:41:55.868, Speaker B: Like Crypto hasn't had its chat GPT moment, and the day crypto has a chat GPT moment, then it's going to be like an overnight success, years in the making, similar to machine learning. Imagine how many decades of research had to go into AI before you had one secular, standout product where people are like, even non technical people could point at chat DPT and say, that's awesome. And they got hundreds of millions of users rapidly. It's kind of like we're investing in crypto, in the pre chat GPT era of crypto. And for me, that's incredibly exciting.
00:41:55.996 - 00:42:26.596, Speaker C: Just interested, what you think the direction of Ethereum is. You did a tweet where you said that basically the narratives, the constantly changing narratives of Ethereum, it started as the world computer computer. Then it was all about banking the unbanked, and now maybe it's the global settlement layer, or ultrasound money. How do you see this progression of narratives going? Do you think they have now found their niche? And will it prove to be a successful chain in the end, despite the shortcomings of the EVM, as you put them?
00:42:26.780 - 00:43:23.078, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's a great question, and I want to start off by saying I have immense respect for the Ethereum developer ecosystem. And if Ethereum didn't exist, I may not even be at this podcast right now. So I have a lot of respect for them. But ultimately the vision, it keeps getting smaller and smaller, right? They're renouncing on the vision like it gets smaller from the world computer to banking the unbanked, and then from banking then banked to kind of like a hardish commodity with yield and kind of like ultrasound money. And I think what's happening is people want to spin a larger narrative for Ethereum, but they're getting hard capped by the tech and the scalability and the performance. And I think that is a core reason why Ethereum and the addressable market of Ethereum and its usability will be a huge blocker in its adoption, and I think in its value, appreciation and accrual as well. It's just the fact that Ethereum is an old blockchain.
00:43:23.078 - 00:44:33.550, Speaker B: It's a legacy architecture that suffers from an immense amount of tech debt. There are certain kind of unsurmountable flaws in its design, which some argue are also what help it a lot, right? Like the forced higher gas fees they cause people to diamond hand their shit coins and their jpegs. More means there's better, like lotteries and Ponzi's, whatever you want to argue. There's no question that the tech is not as performant and the addressable market is much smaller of an ethereum of the world than a Solana or a high, highly scalable, high throughput blockchain. So I think unfortunately, they've had to renounce their vision and their narratives, and they're even renouncing their values at this point, with the L2s being highly centralized, and they're saying, hey, we know the sequencers are centralized with a single sequencer, but don't worry, there's a plan to decentralize them over time. And I think it's such a level of desperation at this point where people are willing to renounce on their own values that they want anything that can make the number go up at any cost. And I think that's a very dangerous dynamic to get into, because you ultimately alienate where the project came from.
00:44:33.550 - 00:44:51.698, Speaker B: And at that point you're just desperate for anything to make the price go up, which it's not the right way to think about product, you shouldn't be thinking about price, you should be thinking about enabling delightful on chain experiences that make billions of people's lives 10% easier. That's where the mass adoption really comes from.
00:44:51.866 - 00:45:32.466, Speaker A: That's well said, I think it'll be interesting to just watch how some of these experiments play out, whether it's base or even. I saw today in my email, dbank is going to do an op stack l two, and obviously what's happening in the cosmos world with Dy DX and so on and so forth. But I think we all kind of share the same view, the same skepticism almost of how that will play out for users. At the end of the day. It's so kind of like closing out here because we covered a lot of topics, which is super interesting, by the way. Give us, I guess, one narrative or theme that you think is kind of being slept on or underappreciated in crypto, and it can be specific to Solana or just general that you think will kind of gain a lot of traction over the next year or so.
00:45:32.570 - 00:46:03.764, Speaker B: Yeah, for me, it's compute, and it's going to be two sides of compute. First of all, from the scalability angle, multicore performance is accelerating at a rate that people don't realize. Bandwidth is ultimately what bottlenecks blockchains. But the faster bandwidth and compute get, I think these next generation blockchains are going to scale at a rate that people are not prepared for. It's kind of similar to the telephone. The first telephone call was 1 mile distance, and people said that's, that's a cool toy, but it's dumb. It's never going to get adopted.
00:46:03.764 - 00:46:53.218, Speaker B: And then not even ten years later, there was like 50% of the world was covered by telephone wire. So I think that the rate at which these technologies get adopted and the scale is slept on. But then on the other side, the fact that demand for compute has gone parabolic and there's not enough to match means there's going to be definitely some crypto economics applied here, and AI adjacent crypto deep end projects are going to be absolutely on fire next cycle for the next year without a shadow of doubt. I think that's an area that's going to go crazy, and we have not seen how crazy this pump is going to be, in my opinion. I think it's very slept on. And in general, deepin as a category is still one of the best uses for tokenization and kind of tokenomics outside of the gas fees themselves.
00:46:53.386 - 00:47:04.926, Speaker A: Awesome. I appreciate the roundup of themes. I totally agree. These are all things that I think are going to ramp up pretty rapidly over the next year. Solana legend, thanks for joining us today and for an amazing conversation.
00:47:05.050 - 00:47:06.254, Speaker B: Thanks guys. Thanks for having me on.
