00:00:00.320 - 00:00:20.342, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delhi Way refuel, where we cap the latest news in the theorem ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sino. It's the 23 February 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode, everyone. Another rug fuel yesterday. But you're in luck because I did record a new drive thru episode with Eric today that is 90 minutes long.
00:00:20.342 - 00:00:42.406, Speaker A: So you'll get to have that, you know, in your feed tomorrow. I'll be putting that live tomorrow, the same time that the refuel usually goes live. It was a wide ranging conversation, guys, like 90 minutes. We could have gone for hours, but I felt like, you know, I would. I didn't want to kind of go on too long because it was getting late for Eric. But, you know, I think we're going to try and do it more often going forward. And we're also open to taking questions from the community.
00:00:42.406 - 00:01:11.918, Speaker A: We answered some on the podcast, but we're open to taking more. We didn't get to all of them, unfortunately, because we just ran out of time. But each episode we're going to be taking questions and like, focusing on topics that the community wants us to focus on, I think. Cause it's just really good to answer questions that have been asked to us and answer them from our perspective because we've both been around for quite a while. I mean, Eric's been around longer than I have, but I think we offer kind of a perspective that not many people have in this ecosystem, given how long we've both been around for collectively. Right. Uh, so, yeah, it was just a great, uh, great, uh, time to have with Eric.
00:01:11.918 - 00:01:43.534, Speaker A: Great conversation with Eric, and that'll be live tomorrow. But for today, you've got me and the refuel, and this is probably going to be an extra long one. Cause there is a lot to get through and there's a few heated topics here, actually, that, uh, that I want to get through today. I say heated, but it's probably just going to be me going on a little bit of my mini rants and kind of giving my opinion on things. But yeah, we'll get to that. But let's start off with a tweet that I put out today, uh, where I basically gave my wish list for the SEC in America. We all know the SEC has been incredibly hostile towards crypto and has not been a good regulator at all in the US, and it's just not doing its job.
00:01:43.534 - 00:02:07.786, Speaker A: So I put together this wish list. It's only three points here. It's like a mini wish list. I said, 1st, first of all, I want Gary Gensler to either be fired or step down and is, and gets replaced by Hester Pears, who's been very, who's on, you know, he's part of the SEC, is on the commission, but has been very pro crypto. Right. Whereas Gary Gensler has been very, uh, negative towards crypto. Second, I want the SEC to withdraw their lawsuits against Coinbase, binance and Kraken.
00:02:07.786 - 00:02:36.568, Speaker A: As I've said countless times on the refuel, I think these lawsuits are very baseless and I think that they should withdraw them immediately. I really think that they are going to lose these cases. Um, and, you know, it's going to take years, but I do think they're going to lose these cases. Uh, and finally, the SEC begins advocating to Congress for sound and fair crypto guidance regulation. And I said at the end, this would be the best timeline. Now, of course, the reason why this is called a wish list is because they are basically wish items. Like, I don't expect any of this to really happen anytime soon.
00:02:36.568 - 00:03:09.240, Speaker A: Unfortunately. If I had to put odds on each of these things, I think that Gary Gensler stepping down or getting fired. Well, sorry, sorry, getting fired while biden or the Democrats hold the president's office, hold the executive branch story, I should say I don't see that happening because Gary Gensler is a Democrat appointee. You know, firing him would look really bad on the Democrats. So they're not going to do that. Him stepping down, I give more a chance to because he could step down in that he goes and joins like a private firm or something. Maybe he goes and joins Blackrock or something like that.
00:03:09.240 - 00:03:35.420, Speaker A: Right. But I do know that he wants to end up at the treasury department, but maybe that is not a viable path for him anymore, given all of the losses he's taken at the SEC. I'm not sure. I'm not an expert on how DC works or how politics works in the US and all the kind of intricacies there. But yeah, if he stepped down, I imagine he would just go to one of those big private companies. Sorry, not, not private companies. You know what I mean? Like, there's be a big non government companies and get a job there and do whatever.
00:03:35.420 - 00:04:04.760, Speaker A: They're really, it's kind of that revolving door that people always talk about with Congress in the US. So, yeah, I mean, as I said, like pretty much 0% chance of him getting fired unless the Republicans win the presidency this year. But stepping down, I give a bit more of a chance to. I don't know what percentage I put on that, but, like, it's not zero. Right. And secondly, this, the SEC withdrawing their lawsuits against Coinbase, binance and Kraken, I actually give that a pretty decent chance. And I have to, like, maybe qualify this by saying I give it a pretty decent chance with Coinbase and Kraken.
00:04:04.760 - 00:04:27.496, Speaker A: Most probably more so, Coinbase. So Coinbase probably has the best chance of getting their suit withdrawn. But the thing is, is that all the suits are very similar. So if they were to withdraw the one against Coinbase, and they would have a very tough time fighting the ones against Binance and Kraken, because then the. I don't know, the judge would basically ask, why did you dismiss the one against Coinbase, but you kept the ones against Binance and Kraken? Like, they're basically the same thing. I mean, there. There are some differences.
00:04:27.496 - 00:04:48.824, Speaker A: Binance got hit with other things, and I give Binance the lowest chance here because of the fact that they don't have a good reputation within the US. Right. And they're also not a US based company, whereas Coinbase and Kraken are. But, yeah, I give that a pretty decent chance. Honestly, like, I could see it happening. I wouldn't be surprised if it happened. I mean, obviously, it's a really bad look for the SEC, but probably an even worse look would be them losing again in court on these cases.
00:04:48.824 - 00:05:19.996, Speaker A: Right. And the third thing, the SEC, you know, beginning advocating Congress for sound and fair crypto guidance or regulation, I mean, that's pretty much a 0% chance as well. I mean, I really feel like unless Gary Gensler is removed and we have, like, a pro crypto person at the head of the SEC, then we're not going to get any of that. So, just something of a wish list that I'd like to see in the US. I know the US isn't the world, but obviously it's still a huge part of crypto. You know, a lot of the money comes out of the US. A lot of the crypto market is centered around the US.
00:05:19.996 - 00:05:49.164, Speaker A: So getting, you know, something off this wishlist would be nice. I honestly think that the other two things would fall into place immediately after Hester Pierce became commissioner. I think that she would signal to withdraw the lawsuits against Coinbase, Binance and Kraken, and she would definitely advocate for more for sound and fairer crypto regulation in Congress. It really only takes that. But the. The thing is, is that, like, if Gary Gensler steps down, there's no guarantee that Hester becomes the, you know, the fills in for Gary Gensler. Right.
00:05:49.164 - 00:06:12.546, Speaker A: There's, there's four other commissioners that could fill in. I will throw, sorry, three other commissioners that could fill in. Two of them, I believe, are aligned with, with get, yeah, with Gensler and Hester and the other one are against Gens line. Gensler is like, normally the kind of tiebreaker here, but, yeah, we'll have to see. As I said, this is a wish list. Nothing can be taken too seriously. But that's kind of what I would like to see.
00:06:12.546 - 00:06:36.626, Speaker A: All right, so some big news out of Reddit today. So for those of you who missed that, Reddit announced that they're going to be going public soon. I don't know when they're going to be doing it, but, yeah, they're going to be IP, IPo ing soon. Honestly, not a shock. I felt like this was coming for quite a while, but there, that's not the most interesting announcement out of Reddit. Now, as you guys know, Reddit has been involved with crypto and like the web3 space for quite a while now. They've actually been pretty heavily involved with that.
00:06:36.626 - 00:07:05.946, Speaker A: I remember back in, I think, 2021, they had the community points thing that they did, and they were looking for which l two to build on, and there was like a l two competition. So they've been very involved with crypto. But today we found out that they invested their ex, their xx excess cash. Right. Reddit's excess cash was invested into BTC and ETH, and they may continue to do so in the future. So, yeah, they have BTC and ETH on the balance sheet, which is awesome. I mean, other company that has crypto assets on the balance sheet, this is a really big narrative.
00:07:05.946 - 00:07:43.848, Speaker A: In 2020 slash 2021, it didn't materialize that much like a few companies put BTC on their balance sheet. Most notably was Tesla and, of course, sailor through microstrategy. But it and a few others here and there, but it wasn't really kind of like a big thing. So I'm hoping with the advent of Blackrock and others, you know, getting bit BTC ETF's and, and hopefully by May, ETH ETF's, it just further legitimizes the asset class and makes it so these companies feel comfortable putting these things on their balance sheet. Right. And I don't know when Reddit bought this BTC and ETH, but, you know, if they bought it anytime in the last, like, 1218 months, they'd be up on their investment. Right.
00:07:43.848 - 00:08:09.666, Speaker A: Maybe not 18 months, but like twelve. Yeah, I guess you could say around twelve months. If they bought it anytime within the last twelve months, they're up on their investments because both BTC and ETH are at their highest price points, uh, in the last twelve months. Right. So kind of when you, when you look at it like that, it could, it could have been a good return on investment for them. But I guess we'll probably get more details about that once they, uh, IPo. Uh, but then I think I also saw that they had, uh, invested in or bought some matic as well.
00:08:09.666 - 00:08:48.538, Speaker A: I think I saw that somewhere. And that makes sense because, uh, Reddit had been working with Polygon on a few different things from memory. But, yeah, I don't know the numbers on these things and I don't think we have numbers for them yet, but I'm going to be keeping an eye out for that. But I really do hope this starts to trend because to say, you know, they invested their excess cash into BTC and ETH is basically them saying, well, we had a bunch of cash sitting here. We could have gone into treasuries, you know, we could have just left in a bank account or we could have bought something else with it, like some other assets with it. Uh, or we could have, I don't know, reinvested it within Reddit or whatever it is. But instead they decided to buy BTC and ETH, which historically have been considered extremely risky assets to put money into.
00:08:48.538 - 00:09:35.614, Speaker A: Right. Like, even though we in the crypto ecosystem consider BTC and ETH to be very safe assets relative to all the other crypto assets, the normie world, so to speak, does not. They think that BTC and ETH are incredibly risky because they can go down a lot, which is true. But I think that if you look at what happened in 2022 to the stock market, I mean, stocks, maybe not the top stocks, maybe not the s and P 500, but like, a lot of individual stocks got destroyed. They actually went down more than BTC and ETH did in a lot of cases. So I think that this narrative of crypto like BTC and ETH being like riskier than stocks or something like that, or being like super risky investments, I think that's going to fade over the next couple of years, especially because we have the ETf's and I think the BTC and ETH are just going to be staples as part of people's portfolio now. Yes, it'll be still be a small part of their portfolio.
00:09:35.614 - 00:10:31.084, Speaker A: Maybe it's only like 1% or something like that. But that's 1% more than we had before, which is, which is a lot, because as I, as I've articulated on the refuel before, the amount of money that sits in the tradfi ecosystem that hasn't touched crypto yet is in the trillions of dollars, and 1% of trillions of dollars is still a lot of money. And I think that when you internalize that and you realize the impact that that has and the fact that with an ETF, it's a passive flow vehicle, which means that there's pretty much like, you know, ongoing inflows and maybe, well, hopefully they're less sensitive to crypto cycles than crypto natives are. I think that it just bodes well for the value of BTC and ETH. But, yeah, I'll keep you guys updated on that. Hopefully we get some numbers out of Reddit to see exactly how much BTC and Ethan, they hold on the balance sheet. All right, so speaking of spot ETH ETF's, and I guess, like, I've talked about this a lot on the refuel before, so I'm not going to spend too much on this coinbase, actually.
00:10:31.084 - 00:11:18.144, Speaker A: I guess they put out a campaign today, or at least are campaigning for spot ETH approvals, and they kind of sent this, I believe, to the SEC today, where they. The summary here is given by Nate where they're basically saying that they believe ETH is a commodity. The SEC approved spot BTC ETF's and also approved ETH futures ETF's. ETH is not susceptible to fraud and manipulation tech wise. There's deep spot ETH markets and Cme ETH futures market as the sharing agreement. So essentially what this is, is just Coinbase advocating for a spot ETH ETF, basically saying we think that they should be approved because it's basically, for all intents and purposes, the same as a spot BtC ETF. And why I'm bringing this up is because I think it's a huge deal that Coinbase is going to, you know, going to.
00:11:18.144 - 00:11:44.964, Speaker A: To fight for Ethiopia. Because I know there's still a lot of doubt around if these ETH ETF's are going to get approved, not only by May 23, but like this year at all. And there are good reasons to doubt this. As I've discussed before, I'm not going to rehash all those reasons. Like, it's not something that I say is, uh, you know, that these reasons are like Fud or anything like that. There are actually legitimately good reasons here. And probably the best reason is that the SEC, Gary and Gary Gensler, still seem to really, really hate crypto.
00:11:44.964 - 00:12:20.584, Speaker A: So, you know, people say, well, are they actually going to approve the spot ETH ETF after saying, you know, after approving the spot BTC ETF's, but then basically trashing them. You know, they, they approved them because they were forced to and then they were trashing them. So, and so I get that argument. But I do think that they're still going to be forced to approve the ETH spot ETF's, ETF's as well, because of the same reasons that they were forced to approve the spot BTC ones. Now, in saying that maybe they deny them because they won't care if they get sued or something, maybe they're like, okay, well, we'll get sued again, it's fine, maybe we'll lose. But like, hey, let's deny them because, you know, screw the crypto bros. Whatever.
00:12:20.584 - 00:13:00.864, Speaker A: I just don't know if that's going to happen. Like, I just feel like that that's such an own goal. I feel like approving these things is just much better for the SEC and it would even be better for, like I've said before how Elizabeth Warren is kind of like the puppet master of Gary Gensler. Right. It would even be better for her because like, if you're, I know the crypto voter base isn't a huge, like the, as a single issue voter isn't huge in the US, but like, if, like, how many people are going to be angry at the SEC for approving this product, right? Like, think about it. Think about how many people are paying attention to this, how many people are going to be angry at the SEC for approving the spot ETH ETF. How are you going to change their vote on the Democrats for approving these ETF's? I mean, it's not zero, of course.
00:13:00.864 - 00:13:28.800, Speaker A: There's always a few loonies out there, but, you know, it's not a large portion at all. Like, it's basically immaterial. And the same is true for, like, how many people are going to vote for democrats just because they approve this, but the reason why I feel like that they should approve it instead of denying it, even, even if they, you know, they hate crypto and even if they think it's not going to be, you know, it's going to be better for them. I think it's going to, sorry. Not going to be good for them. I think it's going to be better for them. To just approve it, because then they don't have to deal with more lawsuits, which are in the headlines.
00:13:28.800 - 00:14:07.656, Speaker A: Right, which are, which are in the media, which actually do affect sentiment around these things and actually do change votes and actually do kind of materially affect things. So it remains to be seen. We're still three months out, guys. Like, it's still a little while away here. As I said before, we should, over the next few weeks, see some more movement here. But generally, I just, I understand the reasons why people think this is going to get denied. But I think if, like anyone within the orbit of the SEC, you know, Elizabeth Warren and Gary Gensler and whoever else have even half a brain cell, they would come to the same conclusion as me that just approving these things and getting this off their kind of, like, table to worry about is the best course of action.
00:14:07.656 - 00:14:38.158, Speaker A: Especially because there's not going to be any other ETF filings for crypto assets for quite a while now. Because as I've mentioned before, they're not going to get approved if they don't have a CME futures market. And no other crypto asset has a CME futures market right now. Maybe it will in the future, but right now it doesn't, which means that these, these issuers like BlackRock and so on and so forth, that are going to bother with the other assets right now. So it's just going to be Ethan, BTC. So they say you can get this off their plate and then they don't have to worry about anymore. I just feel like that's the best course of action.
00:14:38.158 - 00:15:04.490, Speaker A: But anyway, enough on the ETF's moving on to the ETH investors club. So I think I announced this maybe a few weeks ago, actually, probably a couple of months now. A couple of months ago now. So the ETH Investors club is an on chain kind of report that's being put together each quarter, all about Ethereum as a network and ETH as an asset. Now, I had an advanced kind of copy of the report sent to me for the last quarter. Guys, it's like a hundred page report. This is so comprehensive.
00:15:04.490 - 00:15:30.202, Speaker A: And it's not supposed to be just for crypto natives. It's supposed to be for basically everyone. I'm so excited for this report to be published. I think it is an absolutely amazing breakdown of what's happening in Ethereum, not just, you know, on the financial side of things, but also on the social side of things, the gaming side of things. There's so much in this report that I even think a lot of crypto natives are going to get a lot of value out of. But the report is also meant for people outside of crypto. And that's brings me to my next kind of announcement here.
00:15:30.202 - 00:16:06.938, Speaker A: And that's why I have joined as an advisor for the ETH Investors club. They asked me, and I was like, you know what? This is something that I've wanted someone to put together for a very long time now. This kind of report that can be sent out to people who aren't in the ecosystem, for them to understand what's happening in the ethereum ecosystem and with ETH as an asset. So I have joined as an advisor, and this is a bit different to my other advisorships. I have actually foregone my advisor share, which was offered to me and said to them, hey, just donate it to the protocol guild instead. Like, I don't want to take any money from this. This is something that I've wanted to see, you know, go live for ages, and I feel like it falls into the education remit that I like to, like to do.
00:16:06.938 - 00:16:34.326, Speaker A: So I want to do it for free. So I'll be helping them technically for free, but, you know, my shares are being redirected to the protocol guild. And on top of that, the ETH investors club have also have also announced that they're going to be pledging a total of 2% of all of the revenue that they generate to the protocol guild. Now, you may be wondering, you know, what is actually going to the protocol guild? Well, it's actual revenue. So this report is not free. This, it's a paid report. You know, you can pay for it on chain and all that, obviously, because it's very comprehensive and people have put a lot of work into this.
00:16:34.326 - 00:17:01.742, Speaker A: So it's just your classic, you know, pay for the report, get the report sort of thing, and then that revenue is 2% of it is going to the protocol guild, including my share that I have kind of given up here. So there's no token or anything like that. It's a real kind of like, I don't know if I call it a business, but it's like a real kind of product that you can buy and get value out of. And as I said, I saw, I've seen the report. I went through it. I mean, I haven't read it all. I kind of, like, skimmed through it and looked at all the sections and kind of, like, read the summaries for them.
00:17:01.742 - 00:17:43.230, Speaker A: But, guys, this is an amazing report, so I can't wait for it to come out. But yeah, I just wanted to announce that I became an advisor for them today and that, and it's because I just think what they're doing is really, really cool. All right, so look, I could spend like hours on this and I feel like I shouldn't because like if I spend hours on this, I'm going to end up kind of ranting for a long time. And what I mean by this, I mean, I should tell you the topic. So for a while now, I guess like probably a few months, I think I've talked about on the refill before, there's been this discussion around reducing the issuance that goes to Ethereum stake, which goes to ETH stakers. Right. So basically lowering the overall new ETH that is being issued.
00:17:43.230 - 00:18:27.762, Speaker A: And obviously this goes to people that are staking their, their ETH here. Now, this discussion isn't anything new. As I said, it's been a hot topic of discussion over the last few months, but there was even discussions around this quite a while ago around things like capping the active validator set on the, on the network for network stability reasons. But the conversation has been getting heated over the last maybe month or so because the Ethereum foundation researchers have put out their research and put out their kind of thoughts on this. And basically the latest, I guess, proposal, which is not going to go into Electra, they say kind of like here, this is a proposal for Electra. I guarantee you it's not going to go into Electra because I will literally veto it if, you know, if it's, even, if there's even a hint of it going into Electra. And the reason, no, I mean, I won't be able to veto it.
00:18:27.762 - 00:18:56.766, Speaker A: But like, what I mean is I'll go and like be very loud about it and say like this, I think this is a really bad decision to put this into Electra. And the reason is not because I think it's a bad proposal. The reason is because this is a proposal that drastically alters Ethereum's monetary policy. And anything got to do with the monetary policy should not be rushed in. That's my, that's one of my most hardcore beliefs about, about Ethereum. Is there anything got to do with the monetary policy should not be rushed in. There should be extensive research done on this, which there has been.
00:18:56.766 - 00:19:25.450, Speaker A: Right. But then there has to be extensive community discussion. There has to be feedback on this and so on and so forth. So the actual proposal here has, has good intentions. I firmly believe that. I think the people working on this have good intentions and really what they're trying to do is that they're trying to prevent an LST, such as Steth or CbEth or Reth displacing ETH as the money within the ethereum ecosystem. So how they would get displaced is, let's just say that there's too much ETH stake.
00:19:25.450 - 00:19:54.036, Speaker A: Let's just say we get to, like, 80% of all ETH staked, and most of that is through an lst like Steve. So, and then the logic flows. Does Ste become the de facto money of the ethereum ecosystem instead of ETH, the vanilla ETH as an asset? Right. Because if so much of it is being staked, that means that that's locked in the beacon chain. It's not being used as. As money, but what's being used as the money is Steth, right. Is the actual kind of like, I guess you, the receipt token, as we like to call it.
00:19:54.036 - 00:20:15.480, Speaker A: Right. So I understand that argument. I actually agree with that, that it could be something that, you know, it could be a kind of, like, negative outcome that ends up happening at some point in the future. But the current proposal, as it stands, I don't actually think it does that much to address that issue, because. And go and read the proposal for yourself. And I'm not an expert on this. I'm just giving my kind of, like, take on this.
00:20:15.480 - 00:20:46.592, Speaker A: After thinking about it, uh, pretty much today. Uh, I was thinking about it a lot. I went on a walk, and I was just thinking about this the whole time. The reason why I think this proposal doesn't address it is because what the proposal wants to do is basically cap the amount of ETH that's going to be staked, uh, by lowering the issuance curve, and then potentially making the issuance curve go negative, which would basically act as a way to get people to stop staking their ETH. Because if the issuance is negative, then you kick out the, quote, unquote, I guess, like, weak stakers, or the ones who don't want to stake anymore, because they're obviously, you know, not making any money. Uh, and then it would rebalance itself. Right.
00:20:46.592 - 00:22:03.552, Speaker A: And it would reach an equilibrium here. The reason why I think that this doesn't actually address the issue of an LST displacing ETH as a money in the ecosystem is because who do you think's gonna leave if the issuance is negative? Like, people? And this is the main point of discussion here, and this is actually probably the heart of the debate here. It's like, okay, who leaves in that scenario, if issuance is negative, if, if, you know, you lose, you're basically losing money. Being an ETH validator, who is going to leave? Is it going to be the solo stakers or home stakers generally? Is it going to be the people staking with large staking pools? Is it going to be the people staking with centralized exchanges, so on and so forth? And there's good arguments on either side of the aisle here, but I actually fall more on the side of, I think that this would kick off the home stakers before it kicked off the biggest takers. And the reason is because the bigger stakers, such as Lido and Coinbase and so on and so forth, they can do one of many things to actually cover that negative issuance for their customers. They can socialize it across their entire validator set or that, sorry, across all the validators that they control, they can supplement the, that with other kind of revenue. So Coinbase, for example, could just be like, okay, well, we'll take some revenue from here, we'll supplement it here, and then we'll be fine for a while.
00:22:03.552 - 00:22:44.644, Speaker A: Right. And then if they're able to do that, like, they're going to start squeezing out the smaller players, and it's not just solo and homestake is, it's smaller players in the other kind of staking pools that may not be able to do this. They may not, they not be able to afford to socialize the kind of negative issuance. They may not be able to afford to juice the rewards to make up for the negative issuance. Right. So I actually think that this proposal would result in more centralization of stake and would result in an even worse outcome than what we kind of envision would happen without the, this, this proposal going live. In saying that, I think that the logic from what I've read from these researchers is, is that if we can cap it, that means that we basically stop it from getting worse.
00:22:44.644 - 00:23:24.080, Speaker A: So maybe it's bad today and then we can stop, we kind of like give a limit to how bad it can get and then we stop it from getting worse. But again, it falls back to my kind of, I guess, like thinking around, if issuance goes negative, I feel like solo and homestake is going to be the first ones to get to exit because they can't eat the losses, so to speak. Right. And at the same time, when we're in an environment where solo and homestake is already a minority, and your goal is to try and, you know, basically keep who you have, I don't know if this proposal addresses that. So I think that's the heart of the debate here. But the reason why I bring this up is because I want the community to be discussing this. There's actually a lot of great discussions already happening about this.
00:23:24.080 - 00:24:12.374, Speaker A: But I want the community to be discussing this, not so much about the actual proposal itself, but more, more so around monetary policy changes generally. Because I do think eventually there will be something that goes in to alter the issuance curve, to alter the monetary policy, but it cannot be rushed in. It cannot be something that gets slated for, you know, inclusion within, you know, twelve months from when it's proposed. I don't think that that should be a thing at all. I think that it needs to take quite a while for us to get there. But at the same time, I understand why people want this to be speedy. Because if you, you know, let's say we wait like two years to put this in, what's the staking ecosystem going to look like in two years? Are we going to be at like 60, 70% of all eats stake? Is it going to be majority through LST and LRts? And then are those the de facto money of the ethereum network instead of ETH? So I get the, the worries here.
00:24:12.374 - 00:24:37.398, Speaker A: But, but I mean, I feel like you, like both. It's what I mean by, like me continuing to rant on about this. I feel like, like right now, both kind of like choices are not great. The first choice is putting this proposal on the network. Right. And hoping for the best and changing Ethereum's monetary policy too quickly, which it alters Ethereum's credible neutrality and affects that. And it's not something that I want to see at all.
00:24:37.398 - 00:25:17.700, Speaker A: But then the second option is, well, if we wait too long, then do we just lose our opportunity to potentially, you know, to fix this potential issue? So we got to be this, we have to be discussing this. And this is maybe an issue that is very esoteric to a lot of people, and it's something that is not immediately obvious. Like, it has a lot of second order effects and third order effects that aren't immediately obvious. But anything got to, as I said, I want to reiterate this stance here. Anything got to do with Ethereum's monetary policy needs to be rigorously reviewed by the entire community and discussed by the entire community. There is no way in hell that I would want to see this go live in electra. I have not seen anywhere near enough discussion on this, and I don't even think most people in the ecosystem are aware that this is even an issue or a potential issue.
00:25:17.700 - 00:25:50.854, Speaker A: And, but as I said, I understand that the researchers, the core researchers have put a lot of work into this and they've been working on this for quite a while. And now they're basically going to the community for feedback and they've done a really good job on this. It's not like I'm not trying to discredit their work or anything like this. They've done a fantastic job of outlining everything, of explaining themselves here, but it's really up to the community to give them feedback, to basically check their work, so to speak, and see whether there's holes that can be plugged. But that's going to take a while. And yeah, this is not going to go into electro like, I mean, I said I'll veto it before. Like I control Ethereum.
00:25:50.854 - 00:26:26.320, Speaker A: I even sound like in my head I was like, that sounds stupid, Anthony, recorrect yourself. But like, what I meant was that if, like, if this was actually slated for inclusion in Electra, I would try my hardest to get it removed from it because it's too soon. If electric goes live in November of this year and this was proposed, you know, in February, that's, I know it seems like a far, like it's, it's relatively far away, but that's way too soon, guys. It doesn't give enough time for discussions, for, for actual analysis to be done on it, for the community to digest it and come to consensus on it. It's too quick. And as I said, like Ethereum's credible neutrality is, it's, it would be affected by this. And that's one of its most powerful traits.
00:26:26.320 - 00:26:38.684, Speaker A: So. Yeah, but anyway, you can go read the proposal for yourself. I'll link it in YouTube description below. It is very, very well argued. It's very articulate. It's not too long of a post. And I really, really appreciate the researchers for putting this together.
00:26:38.684 - 00:27:22.262, Speaker A: As I said, it's not an issue that people really think about too often, but it is something that could become a potential big issue for the ethereum ecosystem if something isn't done. All right, so on to some more, I guess, like non ranty news. Julian here, who works at, who works as a core developer with Geth, has tweeted out saying, slow and painful in the making a shadow for converting the whole ski state to Verkle has finally occurred. Guys, the verge is coming faster than you think. Vocal trees are coming faster than you think. I know we've been talking about it for quite a while now, but I don't think people realize that this stuff's coming next year. And these shadow forks are already happening, these test nets are already happening of converting the existing test nets to, to vocal from, from their existing kind of merkel Patricia trees here.
00:27:22.262 - 00:27:40.518, Speaker A: So just wanted to highlight that this has been done. This is, I think, the first shadow fork that's been done on the new hole, while the relatively new whole sky testnet here. There's a little thread from Julianne that you can read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this is great. It's just great to see movement here. It's great to see that these things are actually being developed in parallel.
00:27:40.518 - 00:28:11.964, Speaker A: Like, as I've said before, essentially, people criticized Ethereum's roadmap, saying, oh, look how, you know, look at that roadmap. Like, why is it all happening kind of sequentially, when in reality it was never happening sequentially, it was always happening in parallel. And different parts of the roadmap are being worked on by different people. That's exactly what we're seeing here. So, yeah, I just wanted to give that shout out there to the people working on all the relevant verge stuff and all the vocal stuff. You guys are doing a kick ass job and keep going, basically. All right, moving on to a massive announcement out of Eigen layer.
00:28:11.964 - 00:28:33.360, Speaker A: So they announced that they have raised $100 million from a 16 z crypto. Now, a 16 z was the only investor in this round. I kind of joked with some people in the Delaware discord channel. Uh, well, I didn't come up with this. Um, someone else came up with it, but they said that it was the series a 160 a 16 z round. Right. Instead of a series a, it's a series a 16 z round.
00:28:33.360 - 00:28:54.366, Speaker A: And that was quite funny. I like that play on words there, but it really was. I mean, they, they basically carved out a round for them, it seems. Um, and let them invest $100 million. Not sure what the valuation was of this, but the last time Eigen layer raised money was the round that I invested in. And the valuation was, I believe, $500 million, fully diluted, uh, value. So I.
00:28:54.366 - 00:29:18.126, Speaker A: And I think they. I don't remember how much they raised at the time. I think it was like $60 million or something, something like that. So, yeah, I'm not sure what the actual kind of valuation here is here, but it's definitely in the billions at this point. And, I mean, it makes sense. Eigen layer, I would say, is by far the hottest project in the crypto ecosystem right now. I mean, even beyond, like, ethereum, like, just in all of crypto, Eigen layer is definitely the most hyped up project right now.
00:29:18.126 - 00:29:51.774, Speaker A: I mean, it's a brand new primitive with restaking. It's attracted, I think, $10 billion or almost $10 billion worth of TVL so far. Uh, brand new, um, you know, ecosystem forming where people can kind of like, build upon there that, you know, there's a potential airdrop because people have been farming points, right? And all the advent of liquid restaking tokens, all that sorts of stuff, right? So there's a lot of hype here. And obviously a 16 z have seen that. And we're just basically like, hey, we'll give you a bunch of money because we really want to invest in you. And I don't know what percentage of, like, Eigen layer they own now or anything like that, but this is a huge race. So I guess congrats to Eigen layer on this.
00:29:51.774 - 00:30:23.464, Speaker A: Uh, and kudos to a 16 z, I guess, as well, because you guys are killing it because they've invested in so many different things in crypto, and they're. They're probably the biggest investor in crypto, I think, in terms of, like, how much money they have to throw around as a vc, because they're not just a vc. Um, uh, um. A 16 z has existed for a long time now, and they've been investing in tech for a long time now, but they've got their whole crypto arm as well. But I do want to make one last comment on this. Besides congratulating Eigen layer, that, like, I know some people looked at this and were just like, hmm, a 16 z getting like a massive kind of allocation of eigen layer. That just seems like very.
00:30:23.464 - 00:30:48.996, Speaker A: I don't know if I call it icky or kind of like dirty sort of thing. I saw some comments about that, and I get it. I get it. Like, I totally get it. Like, the regular people, I guess, everyday people haven't had an opportunity to invest in Eigen layer. The opportunity that you have is basically farming points. And I get that it can make you feel like, you know, that you're not worth much and that you're like cattle or something and just like, the working class and all these other kind of, like, rich people get to invest in early stage things.
00:30:48.996 - 00:31:29.108, Speaker A: That frustrates me as much as it frustrates you. Even as someone who is an angel investor in these things. Like, I get super frustrated by it because I would much rather these things do icos like, think about it for a sec. I mean, an Ico is like, what? Much better, I think, than a private investing round because it opens participation up to basically everyone. And yes, there are a lot of scam icos, but they're actually like a fair bit of scammy, kind of like VC raises two guys. Like, it's not like they don't exist. And I think that the trade off of letting people, anyone, invest in what you're doing is better than, I guess, like, oh, sorry, is worth the scams that come along with it.
00:31:29.108 - 00:32:10.998, Speaker A: So, yeah, while I do kind of agree to an extent that it's like shitty, I think that with a 16 z, you have to take more of a long term view on them. I think they're a net positive for crypto, even though I disagree with a lot of their investments that they make. And they're also a VC as well. So they're also obviously in it to be profit maximizing. But the reason why I think that they're good for the long game is because the money that they make actually does get reinvested into things like fighting on the regulatory side for crypto, right. Funding those super PACs that I highlighted to basically fund crypto friendly kind of politicians and basically would fund donate to crypto friendly politicians, right. And to basically make real change in the US, which downflows to basically everyone.
00:32:10.998 - 00:32:34.030, Speaker A: It affects everyone, right. Everyone. I mean, even if you don't live in the US, it still affects you in some kind of way because it means that the culture is set that, okay, you can't do icos because the ACC will screw you over or you can't, you know, you can't do air jobs to us people. Like, it's not, it's not a great outcome. So I think that a 16 Z do give back. I mean, I'm not trying to simp for them or anything, but they do give back in that way. And that's the more longer game there.
00:32:34.030 - 00:33:05.184, Speaker A: And they do a lot of other stuff in the background as well. So that's not me trying to justify that. They should have been, you know, them putting $100 million into Eigen layer is. Is fair or anything. I think that a lot of these things are typically unfair to the everyday person, but you have to blame the regulators for that. You can't blame the teams because it's literally illegal for the teams to. Well, actually, I shouldn't say it's literally illegal because, I mean, I don't actually think it's illegal for the teams to do this, but if you tried to do a token sale, and it was a big token sale, especially the SEC would almost get.
00:33:05.184 - 00:33:36.012, Speaker A: I almost guarantee the SEC would sue you. Right. So teams just opt to avoid all that altogether, which is unfortunate, but that's just the way it is. So hopefully we, you know, we get more positive kind of crypto regulation that basically lets people do icos again. But it's probably not going to happen anytime soon, guys. That's just the reality of it. And I'm just very lucky that I get to invest in these things as an angel investor, and I wish I could open that opportunity up to other people, but I kind of looked into it and the amount of responsibility I would take on creating a fund on my own would be.
00:33:36.012 - 00:34:08.800, Speaker A: Yeah, no, it would actually, like, I thought about it and just thinking about it stressed me out and gave me anxiety because, like, I wouldn't be able to live with myself if I made a bad investment and it lost people money or, you know, as part of like an angel kind of fund or something like that. I wouldn't be able to live with myself. It's just the way I am. And, you know, when I'm putting money into these, as an angel investor, it's all my own money. And as I've described before, I write this stuff down to zero, of course, because in my head, because it's all my own money. But I can't, you know, you can't do that as like a fund or as like a VC. Like, I have a obligation and a responsibility to not do that.
00:34:08.800 - 00:34:43.837, Speaker A: So, yeah, there's not going to be any kind of like daily grave fund or anything like that, guys. But I am a big advocate for bringing back icos. I'm a really big advocate for just like any kind of thing that allows people to publicly. Sorry. Allows the public to invest in these things, and especially at like an earlier stage, because there are some where people can invest when it's like the really late stages of these projects. And I don't think that's, I mean, I think it's okay, but it's not as good as we can do. I think the best way, the best thing we can do is offer these investment opportunities at the earliest possible stages like we did with icos, and then people can, you know, invest at the way they want.
00:34:43.837 - 00:35:12.394, Speaker A: And the perfect example of the greatest success of Ice and ICO ever is still Ethereum, right? Ethereum was an open ICO, obviously, different times back in 2014, but it wasn't open ICO. Anyone could buy in and those who did, bought in at. If you held to today, well, you're a very, very happy camper. Right? So that's obviously the success story. There's many failures, but that's just the reality, guys. Like most businesses fail. Like, I think as long as investors understand that and they should be able to invest in whatever they want.
00:35:12.394 - 00:35:46.200, Speaker A: And don't even get me started on accredited investor laws, which are just complete horseshit and completely. It's basically class warfare, in my opinion. But anyway, I'm going to digress on that point because I've ranted again and there's so much more left to get through. So moving on to something more positive, Starkware has put out an update today that they have revised the vesting schedule for their investors. Now, you remember that the investor tokens were due to unlock on April 15 and it was going to unlock 1.34 billion tokens, or 13.4% of the total stock supply directly to investors.
00:35:46.200 - 00:36:23.056, Speaker A: Well, the schedule has now been changed, whereas only 0.64% or 64 million tokens will unlock on April 15, and then there will be a monthly unlock of that same amount until March 15, 2025. And then it will change to 1.27% or 127 million tokens monthly for the next 24 months until March 15, 2027. So this is really positive, obviously. And obviously, and you guys know, I called out Starkware pretty harshly on this, saying it was very egregious that the investors were getting their tokens through some loophole. So obviously they've gone to their investors and said, hey, you know, we think that this needs to change.
00:36:23.056 - 00:36:58.566, Speaker A: And the investors have agreed, I think, because I think that they'd have to probably sign something to agree to this. I'm not sure in the exact mechanisms in the background here, but they've obviously agreed to it. And it's very, very positive. I think, for, for Starkware, I think this is just like a really great thing for them to do. And I think it also signals that they're listening back to the community feedback, because not only did they do this, but they also updated their solo staker list based on community feedback to cover more solo stakers. And I believe they're working with the rocker pool team as well in order to, you know, help Rockapool stakers out. So, yeah, I mean, I've been pretty harsh on stockware in the past, and that's because I believe that what they were doing was, you know, not.
00:36:58.566 - 00:37:23.198, Speaker A: Not fair. But they've taken that feedback on board and yes, they've had some stumbles here and there. I know that they're, you know, some people have said some things they may have regretted on Twitter, but they're taking the feedback seriously and they've, and they've kind of done this, which I think is just a huge vote of, of confidence for me in, in, you know, in the team. And kudos to the investors to agreeing for the. Sorry for agreeing to this as well. I think that's a really great thing that they did. But yeah, just wanted to highlight that.
00:37:23.198 - 00:37:40.234, Speaker A: I am very impressed by this. Kudos to Starkware. Kudos to the team. I know you guys are genuine builders. I know it's been a tough week or week and a half now or whatever it's been, but you know, just keep building. Your tech will live or die based on, on your building at the end of the day. Like starkware is going to live or die based on what they build in the ecosystem that they create.
00:37:40.234 - 00:38:06.922, Speaker A: And the token will reflect that over, over the long term, I think. All right, so optimism has announced today that they've launched something called span batches on Mainnet. So the fixed on chain overhead costs for chain operators to run a standard roll up op chain will be reduced by over 90%. So this is a pretty big reduction. I don't know what the actual reduction will be for end user fees here. I think I saw something like maybe a 10% reduction. Maybe it's more than that.
00:38:06.922 - 00:38:40.786, Speaker A: I'm not, I'm not sure. Don't, don't quote me on that. But regardless of what it is, this is just another example of the l two s being able to reduce fees of their own accord so they don't have to wait for mainnet Ethereum, right to reduce fees. They can do it of their own accord. But on top of this as well, optimism announced today that on day one all op stack chains will be able to take advantage of ERP 4844 or blobs like Day 1, March 13 when it goes live here. And I believe Jesse Pollack announced that base will be doing it on day one as well. So Op Mainnet and basic confirmed to be taking advantage of 48, 44.
00:38:40.786 - 00:39:17.144, Speaker A: So couple that with this new span batches thing that they're doing, you're going to see a pretty substantial reduction come March 13 for op mainet base. And I think arbitrary is going to be day one as well and a few others out there. And I'm super excited to see like what those fees look like. It's been a long time coming. I've been talking about proto dank sharding or 48 44 for years at this point. And as I've said, it's pure speculation about what the fees are actually going to go down to based on a number of different factors. We'll get like a month or two's worth of data to get a really clear picture here, but I'm very much looking forward to seeing it all go live, and I'm very glad that the major l two s are going to be ready on day one.
00:39:17.144 - 00:40:05.438, Speaker A: Speaking of l two s, fuel has a big announcement today. So you guys may know. Fuel, it's one of the first l two s that was basically built on ethereum, and they've been around for quite a while now, but they announced today that they something called the roll up os, which is a modular vision for roll up technology that will reshape the future of blockchain development. So basically, they say here, fuel is an operating system purpose built for Ethereum rollups. Unlike existing l two architectures, most of which were designed for either arbitrary execution or layer ones, fuel has been built with unique, a unique architecture optimized to supercharge Ethereum roll ups. So basically it's a kit with all the fuels technology in it that different kind of like projects and teams can use to make their own roll ups. So.
00:40:05.438 - 00:40:39.416, Speaker A: And basically make them with optimized, kind of with optimized fuel VM. As you can see here, it's at its core and also a bunch of other features relating to performance, sustainability, interoperability and so on and so forth. So if you want to read the full details about this, you can check this out. It's in a blog post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But it's great to see just another player, another big name player that's been around for a while getting involved in this stuff. Because guys, like, even if 90% of all this stuff, like fails to gain traction or doesn't become something, anything big, it doesn't matter because everything's open source.
00:40:39.416 - 00:41:26.560, Speaker A: So the good ideas get absorbed by the ecosystems that survive and then they go on to basically improve their own ecosystems and then everyone benefits from it. So even if, as I said, 90 plus percent of all these l two s fail to gain any traction, the technology is still there. And it doesn't, you know, a lot of the time they fail to gain traction based on reasons other than tech, right? I mean, no one will ever call the EVM the best tech, but it is the most dominant by far in crypto. And that's because network effects rule everything around us when it comes to tech. Right. So from that perspective, I'm just really glad to see that fuel has jumped into this with a new take on roll ups that other teams can tap into, that other teams can learn from. And it just definitely just improves the ecosystem overall instead of kind of keeping us limited to what, you know, to just a couple of teams.
00:41:26.560 - 00:42:02.648, Speaker A: And this is what I like the most about the l two ecosystem, as you guys know, the experimentation, the cambrian explosion that's happening, it's all really, really exciting. But yeah, you can go read the full details about fuels announcement. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Uniswap has announced today that you can now get your uni ETH username. So your Uni ETH is a readable username that makes it easy to receive crypto and build your web3 portfolio. And you can claim your Uni ETH for free in the Uniswap mobile app. So basically, you can kind of put your own name at the start, so you can have like sassle dot uni dot ETH.
00:42:02.648 - 00:42:39.764, Speaker A: And then you'll have your union, your unique uni name here. And this is obviously a subdomain of the uni ETH ens name here. But the reason why this is cool is because this is one of the superpowers of ens, is it basically allows for this expressivity and this kind of branding from the different products out there that they can tie to usernames. Because I guarantee you there's going to be a large cohort of people that their only experience with on chain kind of crypto will be using Uniswap. Like, Uniswap will be their thing. Like they'll use the Uniswap wallet, they'll have their assets there, they'll trade on Uniswap, and then they'll have like a uniswap name and they'll trade with their friends right on there. And they'll say, hey, man, you know, send me the.
00:42:39.764 - 00:43:06.628, Speaker A: And it's not just arc 20 tokens and other assets, right? It's. It's nfts as well. It's like, hey, man, like, you know, what's your uni address sort of thing, right? It's like, oh, it's sassle uni ETH. And you can send it to them without having to get, obviously, the long hexadecimal address, which I think is really cool. But there's definitely going to be a massive cohort of people that just use Uniswap for all their on chain needs and there's nothing wrong with that. And it's a really proud, powerful branding tool for Uniswap to basically be able to do this. So kudos to them for, for doing this.
00:43:06.628 - 00:43:46.130, Speaker A: And yeah, as I said, you can claim this on the Uniswap mobile app and you have to be on the latest version and I believe the claim is free. I don't think there's any gas fees to claim this but, but yeah, you can go claim that if you haven't already. And I'll link this in the YouTube description below so you can check out the full details there. Alright, last up here was just a couple of things on Farcaster. So I had a King Theodore here reply to one of my refuels wanting me to cover something related to solo stakers. So this thread basically describes how Raider.net work's list of solo stakers doesn't include blocks stakers, because block stakers don't fit into rated or network's definition of what a solo staker is.
00:43:46.130 - 00:44:58.270, Speaker A: And the reason is, is because the way it works in blocks is that you don't operate your own execution layer and consensus layer clients, but you, you only, you operate your own validator client with um, and it's all decentralized, you know, you control your own keys and all that, uh, at you, but you don't control your own kind of full node, so to speak, and rated on network basically says, well we don't consider that to be a kind of like true solo or true home staker. I'm gonna like be honest here, I actually understand their argument and I actually don't know where I sit here because I agree with King Theodore, who obviously advocates saying that these people using blocks are solo stakers. Even if they're not running the full node, they still are solo stakers. But then I kind of, I get rated the network's point as well, because normally when you think of like a solo staker, you think of like the full kind of suite, right? The full stack. They're running a full node, they're running validators, right? They're doing it all in house. Because if you're outsourcing the full node to blocks here, then technically by I guess the definition of what we call a node operator, you're not a node operator, right? And as I said before, I feel like that, I mean, by definition you're not a node operator because you're not running a full node. You're running a validator, but you're not running a full node.
00:44:58.270 - 00:45:21.258, Speaker A: Right. So I actually see both sides of the argument. And I've been thinking about this over the last couple of days, and I actually don't know where I sit here. Like, I don't want to, I don't want to just like agree with King Theodore, and I don't want to just agree with the blocks staking community because it'd be something nice to do. I'm just trying to give my honest opinion on this. Yeah. Because like whenever I've talked about node operators, I've always talked about it as if it's the full stack.
00:45:21.258 - 00:45:47.514, Speaker A: You have to run a full node, which consists of an execution layer client and a consensus layer client, as well as validators, either locally, on your own hardware, or in the cloud. It's fine if it's either, but like, as long as you retain control over it. Right? And I, and then, but then I get King Theodore's point here where he says that block stakers still retain control over their validators. They just don't run their own full notes. So I'm not sure where I sit here. That's my honest answer right now. Um, I, I haven't really decided on where I sit.
00:45:47.514 - 00:46:38.452, Speaker A: And, and because of that, like, I, I don't know if that the stakers should be included in rated.net works, um, uh, kind of list here. Uh, but you know what? I think that if we're just kind of looking at it from the perspective of wanting to encourage more people to get involved with the kind of like weeds of the ethereum ecosystem, understanding how, you know, the ethereum proof of stake works, understanding how full nodes and validators communicate with each other, you know, running the validator on their own using blocks. I would say that if that was the goal, which I think it should be the goal, then I would err a little bit on the side of, well, maybe block stakers should be included in this list as, as solo stakers, as home stakers, because it's kind of a thing that we haven't really thought about too much before. But they're still validating from home here. They're still controlling everything on their own. They've got remote signing, there's no blocks, doesn't hold the private keys or withdrawal keys or anything like that.
00:46:38.452 - 00:47:09.614, Speaker A: So it's, so it's fully non custodial. They're just running the infrastructure for people who may not be able to run it on their own because there's that thing as well remember how I said to you guys that there's a cost associated with this, but there's not just a cost. You have to have the 24/7 power, 24/7 Internet, you have to have it running at home. Maybe you're a nomad and you can't do that, or maybe you don't want to set it up in, you know, in the cloud yourself. Maybe you want to use someone else's infrastructure. So I think that from that perspective, maybe they should be on that list. And as I said, I'm still undecided about this because I don't want to give an answer just because I want to be nice to people.
00:47:09.614 - 00:47:37.186, Speaker A: I'm just giving my honest thoughts. So, yeah, hopefully that kind of addresses what you wanted me to address King Theodore. And I'd be open to being convinced either way. But, but yeah, at this stage, I'm like, I'm so like, I'm indifferent right now. I don't know where I sit right now. And it's kind of, it's kind of frustrating for me because, as I said, I see both sides of the argument here, and I want there to be a right answer, but I don't think there's a right answer. I think there's just, like an answer that makes more sense than the other one.
00:47:37.186 - 00:47:55.222, Speaker A: And right now, I'm not really seeing that. So we'll see. We'll see what happens. I think more conversations around this should be prudent because it's not just blocks. There's going to be other services that offer this, this as well. So I think that more conversations around this is definitely needed here. All right, last up, I had rob here in the daily way.
00:47:55.222 - 00:48:28.158, Speaker A: Farcaster Channel asked me to expand on one of my comments from, from my refill the other day where I said that I don't consider delegated proof of stake to be fa, to be real staking or to be real proof of stake. So I think I've talked about this on the refill before, and we're coming up on 50 minutes here. I think this is one of the longest refuels ever that I've done. But I told you I had a lot to cover and I'm making up for yesterday. But anyway, the reason why I say this is because, I mean, there's two main reasons. One, typically most, if not all of these delegated proof of stake networks, they do not have slashing. Right.
00:48:28.158 - 00:48:58.780, Speaker A: There's no form of slashing at all, really, from what I know, from pretty much most of them, if not all, of them. If you guys know any delegated proof of statement networks that have slashing, please let me know. But as far as I know, pretty much like most of them do not have that. And if you don't have slashing, I just don't believe that you have any kind of like economic disincentive to not attack the chain, right. To not kind of mess with the chain or to not do something bad. And in that environment, I don't think you could resist, like nation states, for example. So I just, I don't, that's one reason why I don't consider it to be kind of real staking here.
00:48:58.780 - 00:50:06.280, Speaker A: But the second one, which is actually probably a bigger consideration, is that in a lot of these delegated proof of stake networks, they only have a small handful of, of these validators, right? These valid, and it depends on which network you're looking at. But for example, in, I believe this applies to Solana, I think they have like 20 or 21 validators that make up the, the super majority of validators, so that if those validators were to go offline or collude or whatever, they can bring the network offline, because it favors safety, safety over liveness, instead of favoring liveness over liveness. Like, like a theorem does. Right? Like, sorry, like a theorem proof of stake does. So what I'm, and why I bring that up is because it means that if there's not that many validators that you can delegate to because it works in a power law effect, what ends up happening is that you have less node operators and the smaller stakers get completely priced out because they're not getting as much of a share as these delegated proof, these, these big stakers. And at the same time, they're also beefier networks too. So these solo stakers aren't prioritized.
00:50:06.280 - 00:50:40.528, Speaker A: Right. There's no culture there of this, which means that the net result is that you have less node operators on the network. So again, like, I feel like you need more node operators on the network. It's always a good thing to have that. And I feel like the more note operators, the better. But if you've only got like a handful of them, if you, if you've only got like less than 100 or something like that, uh, then I mean, can you really consider yourself to be like a real proof of stake network? Because that to me just looks like a proof of authority network, where essentially you've got like a bunch of known parties that are signing off on blocks with no staking involved. And it's just like, trust me, bro, you know, that's, that's kind of those, those are the two main reasons why, why I say this.
00:50:40.528 - 00:51:23.034, Speaker A: Now I do want to be fair here and say, though, that within a theorem we have, we don't have delegated proof of stake, but we do have delegation of stake, where essentially Coinbase, for example, is one node operator. They have 14 15% of all validators on the network. And people delegate their ETH to Coinbase, but Coinbase has to spin up a validator for every 32 ETH they get. They can't add this ETH onto their existing validators, and they have to spin up new validators for this. They're still subject to slashing on all of those validators, right. And it's not a delegation in that you, you just kind of like point your, your funds there and, and the funds get delegated on chain. It's an actual kind of like real deposit, you know, into the beacon chain.
00:51:23.034 - 00:51:49.788, Speaker A: And then it's, it's at risk. It's at basically, you know, it's, it's staked, right. It's staked at risk and then it's subject to, to slashing, which is a disincentive to do anything bad on the network. And then you obviously have bigger, bigger kind of entities like Lido, which is like 32%, 33% of the network. But then that's broken up into node operators. So that's where my node operator argument comes in, where there's like 36 node operators there, right, which are all separate from each other. So we do have delegation of stake within Ethereum.
00:51:49.788 - 00:52:46.366, Speaker A: But Ethereum is not a delegated proof of stake network. But I think if I had to pick my strongest argument, it would be the fact that typically you see within delegated proof of stake networks, they are optimized for lower validator sets, which means less node operators, which means more possibility of collusion as well, and more cartelization as well, and more economies of scale, which means more centralization because of that. And that means that like the smaller players, the home stakers and the home node operators aren't prioritized at all, aren't taken care of, aren't respected, and you get a weaker network. So maybe calling it like fake staking wasn't the 100% right term, but like, I don't consider it to be secure staking, I should say, or secure proof of stake. I consider it to be unsecured proof of stake. And you just be, you would actually be more secure just running a proof of authority network. And for those of you don't know what a proof of authority network is, it really is just like a set of known entities running nodes that sign off on blocks.
00:52:46.366 - 00:53:08.760, Speaker A: And it's basically just like, trust me, bro, chain essentially. Like you'd be better off running that than having something without, um, without slashing on it. At least that's my opinion there. But anyway, I've gone on long enough for today's episode, and I also recorded a 90 minutes episode with Eric today for the drive through. I've spoken about so much stuff today, I'm surprised I still have a voice. But I'm going to end that one there for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching.
00:53:08.760 - 00:53:14.784, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
