00:00:01.050 - 00:00:43.498, Speaker A: Hello. I'm going to present the work Elaine and I did in the context of the FRP last year. MEB in fixed gas price blockchains Terra Classic as a case of study, MEB has been extensively studied from theoretical mathematical model to data analyst application. In most studies, researchers have worked with Ethereum blockchain almost exclusively, so extending the study to other blockchain could help us to understand what happened with MEV in other means. This is important because Ethereum has a particular future that can lead searchers to take some policies over others from all futures. One of the most relevant aspects of MEB is gas bid. In Ethereum, block builders include transactions from the mempool and propose a block with a subset of transaction in an arbitrary order.
00:00:43.498 - 00:01:12.530, Speaker A: However, this arbitrary order is not run. Many block builders use gas to search transactions and create new blocks since this strategy maximize their rewards. This particular aspect is not present in all blockchains. This incentive leads searchers to find policies to increase profit. However, this incentive is not present in all blockchains. Blockchains that use tendermit don't take the dynamic gas price into account to prioritize transactions. They use a fixed gas price and process transaction in the same order they receive.
00:01:12.530 - 00:01:46.522, Speaker A: Therefore, we believe blockchains that don't use gas to prioritize transaction present MEV opportunities with their own dynamics. In this work, we propose the main objectives. To understand these dynamics, we address this by defining three specific objects. Number one, study the characteristic of arbitrage in terra classic. Number two, understanding which strategies searchers perform to improve profit. Number three, understanding the time related characteristic of arbitrage. To address these objectives, we designed the following experiment.
00:01:46.522 - 00:02:30.010, Speaker A: We create a data set with blocks from terra classic before the DPEG event. To do that, we set up a node using a snapshot from chain layer and start synchronizing after we got all the data we wanted. Finally, we got 2.8 million blocks and 117,000,000 transaction, of which 37 million were execute contract transaction types. After getting this data set, we decided to study arbitrage opportunities that were performed by using back running transactions. We define a transaction performed an arbitrage when it execute a success token swaps that follow these three constraints. Successive tokens match, generate profit and starts and ends with the same token.
00:02:30.010 - 00:03:31.114, Speaker A: For example, this transaction starts swapping UST and perform four swap ending with UST and accelerating 5.2 UST pro. After we define which transaction, we considered that we were performing arbitrage. We found that the data set contained more than 188K arbitrage 4% of the blocks contain at least one arbitrage and 73% of the blocks with arbitrage print set only one, but we have some blocks with an enormous number of successful arbitrage as well. In the data set, we also found that 87% of the arbitrage started and ended with USD. The amount used to perform arbitrage has a median of 998 USD and 80% of the arbitrage have only two or three swaps. In the 188K arbitrage we identified, we found 517 different sender address wallets and 167 different smart contracts.
00:03:31.114 - 00:04:06.570, Speaker A: We wonder if we could understand what a searcher is. Maybe they were using different address and contracts to perform their work. For that, we define an algorithm to infer which wallets and contracts belong to the same searcher. We create a graph where each node was a sender address or a contract. Then we define an edge between two nodes if there was a transaction signed by the sender address that used the contract diagnose represented. After that, we run a connected component algorithm and we defined each component as a searcher. We use arbitrary color for the ten largest connected component.
00:04:06.570 - 00:04:53.462, Speaker A: This allow us to address our second specific objective, understanding which strategy performs searchers to improve profit. We found 56 connected components of searchers or searchers. 50% of them use only one smart contract and 57% only one address to sync transactions. We found that the three most profitable researchers covered more than 75% of the MeV. Why did they systematically perform better? Translate this we investigate different variables and found something interesting. When we analyzed failed arbitrage rates, we define an algorithm to infer which rewards transactions try to perform an arbitrage. We found that 3.5
00:04:53.462 - 00:05:35.666, Speaker A: failed arbitrage per successful arbitrage in the entire data set. So given this, we defined the success rate for searchers and found that these values negatively correlate with the profit. Searchers with lower success rate obtain more profit. That means searchers that fail more arbitrage obtain more profit. This confused us at the beginning, but we investigate this and we understood why this happened. To explain this effect, we defined the rate repetitive transaction index. This rate measured the time that a searcher has repeat an equivalent transaction that mean the same execute message, the same contract in the same block on average, we found a positive correlation between the rate of repeated transaction and the profit.
00:05:35.666 - 00:06:14.030, Speaker A: Searchers that send different transaction in the same block to execute the same arbitrage obtain higher profit. Why this searcher with a higher repeated transaction index perform better. Searchers cannot use gas to define the transaction order in the block because this is a fixed gas price blockchain. According to the first in first out policy that tendermint implements, they need to send the arbitrage transaction just immediately after the original transaction. To win an arbitrage opportunity, searchers need to arrive first, so they probably are sending different transactions from different places. But this is a hypothesis so we ran another experiment. We decided to measure the importance of the time lag in terra.
00:06:14.030 - 00:06:57.326, Speaker A: We run 84 modified terra nodes in 14 different AWS regions around the world and we recorded when every instance received every transaction. We received more than 400k transaction for this experiment as this create 34 million timestamps. So for every transaction we annotate which region was the first to see it. Taking this as a time serial, we measured the latency for the other instances. We found that the expected clustering behavior in the instances. We also measured this by analyzing the correlation between the mean time latency we register and the distance of the region in kilometers. We found a positive correlation.
00:06:57.326 - 00:08:05.010, Speaker A: We have already established that the time to receive a transaction is related to the hierarchical distance and these values range from 30 to 100 millisecond. In most cases, the characteristics imply that the time in which a bot could see a transaction if it was not in the same region where it originated was relevant and probably up to an order of magnitude larger than what it may take to compute a solution for a possible arbitration. Therefore, if another searcher has had a bot in the same region where the transaction that generate the arbitrage opportunity originated, it has an advantage of at least 30 milliseconds. This difference suggests that it was relevant for searcher to have many instances running in different region of the world so they were always close to the know that the first received transaction. That created the opportunity. In our work, we proposed evidence that suggests that studying different blockchain with different properties could help us better understand MeV as an emerging phenomenon. We understood that changing some properties could alter the searchers behavior.
00:08:05.010 - 00:08:29.980, Speaker A: We also found that in particular blockchain with fixed gas price reducing physical distance is probably the most important thing for searchers. In some other academic work, the author proposed that MeV on blockchain like Ethereum is a cryptogas war because bots play a game of finding the right gas price. We believe that in this case of blockchain with fixed gas price, bots are competing in a different type of world. The bot latest world thank you.
