00:00:00.240 - 00:00:15.670, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deliberate refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, and this is. I know it is the 6 February 2024. Hi everyone. Let's get into it. So sorry for not mentioning this earlier, but I think there's going to be a rug fuel tomorrow, so I'm giving you advance notice here.
00:00:15.670 - 00:00:38.286, Speaker A: And that's because I'm attending a meetup in Melbourne that goes from 05:30 p.m. To 08:30 p.m. As you can see here. So if you are in Melbourne, you can basically go sign up to this meetup. I'll link it in the YouTube description below and hopefully I'll see you there. But yeah, sorry for not giving more notice here, but definitely looks like I won't be able to do a refill tomorrow. But of course I'll be back on Thursday to make up for it and Friday as well.
00:00:38.286 - 00:01:11.228, Speaker A: Like, those episodes should be, should be fine and should be done as per normal. So just giving you guys a heads up there, but as I said, you can find the link to that in the YouTube description below if you want to attend. I mean, I'm not sure how many of you are based in Melbourne or how many of you are actually in Melbourne right now, but if you are come down, you know, I'd love to meet you. I love, I always love meeting people who listen and watch the refuel. So, yeah, definitely go check that out. All right, so you'll notice that I have a few far caster tabs open today, actually. So today was actually, I think, the first day that I've used Farcaster more than Twitter.
00:01:11.228 - 00:01:35.676, Speaker A: So I wasn't monitoring it. Like, literally, I wasn't kind of looking and going, okay, how long have I been on Farcast? How long have I been on Twitter? But I think just from kind of the vibe that I spent much more time on Farcaster than Twitter today. And it's the first time that's happened for me. Obviously, Twitter has been a huge part of my life for a long time now. It's where I go to get all my updates. And you guys know that the refuel has been predominantly Twitter. And there are still a bunch of Twitter links here, of course, because, you know, most of the stuff still happens on Twitter.
00:01:35.676 - 00:01:57.164, Speaker A: But I do feel a big shift to Farcaster recently, as I discussed yesterday. So that's why you're going to be seeing more and more far cost the tabs up here, because I'm just naturally spending more time on there and as you guys know there's a daily wave channel that you can go check out as well. I'm going to be spending more time in there. I'm thinking about doing an AMA in there soon. We can. Ask me any question you want about Ethereum and I'll do my best to answer it. Obviously I'm not going to be able to answer everything.
00:01:57.164 - 00:02:13.836, Speaker A: I'm not the smartest guy in the room when it comes to Ethereum stuff, but I will, you know, potentially tag people in there. Maybe they want to answer the question. You know, people always happy to help you. So that'll probably happen sometime soon in the future. But. But yeah. The first thing that I've got here from Farcaster is an update from Tim Bico today.
00:02:13.836 - 00:02:58.660, Speaker A: So he's updated the Prague slash electra planning diagram that I've highlighted for you guys before. So this is the Petra upgrade that is probably coming at the end of the year here. And he's also moved all the verkle tree related stuff to the next fork, which is Osaka, which is happening next year. So not in the Petra upgrade, but in the fork after Petra, which is currently named Osaka, which should happen next year. This diagram is a bit hard to see on my screen, but essentially we've got confirmation about which eips are going to be going into Prague Electra. So there's one on the execution layer so far, which is the BLS precompile stuff. There's two on the execution and consensus layers that's being supply validated deposits on chain and execution layer triggerable exits.
00:02:58.660 - 00:03:50.412, Speaker A: I think, you know, ERP 7002. The execution layer, triggerable exits is the one that I'm most excited for out of those. And then on the consensus layout there is AIP 7549, which is the committee index outside attestation. I think as I said, it's a bit hard to read this, it's a bit blurry on my screen, but in terms of what's, I guess, user facing, I believe AIP 7002 because as a user you'd be able to exit your stake trustlessly via the execution layer rather than having to go through the consensus layer and go through the validators to basically process your withdrawal there. Then there's a long list below it of basically all the proposed EIP still. So these aips are still in flux. As I've discussed before, there's two here that I believe are the major eips that are kind of currently being, or maybe three, I should say, that are being worked on the one for inclusion lists, the one for increasing the max effective balance and peer Das.
00:03:50.412 - 00:04:21.834, Speaker A: As I've said before, I do think the max effective balance increase will or AIP will get pushed out to next year if we prioritize the census chip resistant stuff with inclusion list and peer Das. But it's still in flux. And there is also confirmed aips for Osaka already, which is the vocal tree related aips there. But because this diagram is blurry on my screen, I'm going to link this in the YouTube description below. You can go check this out for yourself. But it's becoming clearer and clearer what's going to be included in Petra here. Now, in saying all of that, the ones that have already been included can be removed.
00:04:21.834 - 00:04:48.120, Speaker A: Guys like aips can be removed right up until even like a couple of months before it goes live on. I would say maybe three months or so before it goes live on Mainnet. And in the worst case scenario, if the EIP, if the core devs aren't comfortable with it going forward, it can be removed, you know, even sooner than that, even closer to the mainnet date than that as well. But yeah, a lot of stuff is still in flux for Petra. We know that Den kuni set in stone. There's no more changes happening there. They've got the last testnet fork happening this week.
00:04:48.120 - 00:05:19.714, Speaker A: I mean that's tomorrow seven that's already creeped up on me. So yeah, it's tomorrow actually that the, that Holski is forking and then we're gonna get a main net date, the date after. So Denkun is basically here already. And that's why Petra is kind of in focus as well as Osaka. Because Petro and Osaka, like they're kind of, I guess like not working on them together but it's like they're bouncing stuff off. Like obviously the Verkle tree stuff was originally slated to maybe be included in Petra, but then they said hey, you know, it's too much work, let's just punt that to Osaka because we want to get these other things into Petra. So you're going to see that happening here.
00:05:19.714 - 00:05:52.118, Speaker A: But yeah, there are a lot of EIP still proposed to you guys and it looks like the EOF set of EIps will probably be included as well. But other than that, yeah, the rest of the stuff is in flux and we'll have to just see how that shakes out. But of course I'll keep you guys updated. But as I said, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so Eigenlayer has reopened deposits today. So from now until February 9, you can dive back into the world of LST restaking. All pools are fully uncapped, featuring both the existing pools and welcoming new partners such as Frax, liquid Collective, and mantle here.
00:05:52.118 - 00:06:26.214, Speaker A: So if you do have lsts from any of those ecosystems, you can now participate, as well as participating using normal lsts that are already supported, such as Steve and Reth. Yeah. And there is actually a cap per LST. I believe that if the LST has over 33% of the total kind of market share, it actually stops accruing points, or at least kind of. Maybe it doesn't stop accruing points, but it accrues points at a lower rate than other lsts do. And obviously, that's to encourage a distribution and kind of, you know, a smoother distribution of lsts on the platform. And as I said, it is uncapped fully until February.
00:06:26.214 - 00:06:44.586, Speaker A: They're not doing a TVL cap right now. They're doing a time cap, and it's only three or four days here, so not very long. But, yeah, if you're interested in that, you can go. Go check that one out. Now, I do want to clarify something about. About puffer finance, because I saw a little bit of criticism today on. On Reddit, actually, and in the Discord channel.
00:06:44.586 - 00:07:14.590, Speaker A: So Puffer launched a few days ago. You guys know, I'm an advisor to Puffer here. And I said, I did explain to you guys how you could deposit Ste into the puffer platform, and then that. Then that ST, it is going to get vampired, and then it's going to be running on the puffer system, and then it'll be restaked as kind of native ETH as part of the Puffer system with. With Eigen Layer. Now, of course, today the STE that was deposited into puffer was actually restaked with Eigen Layer to basically, I guess, like, farm the points. Right? Because that's.
00:07:14.590 - 00:07:35.254, Speaker A: That's essentially what these things do. And people said, well, this. This seems. This seems wrong, because the marketing for puffer has basically been explaining that if you deposit your Steth with Puffer, it will be withdrawn from Lido and Vampire, and you'll be helping the decentralization of Ethereum. And, look, to be honest, guys, like, I don't just necessarily disagree with that. I think that the messaging has definitely been that. And, you know, there's no.
00:07:35.254 - 00:08:02.678, Speaker A: There's no, I guess, like, sugar coating it. It was. It can be construed as being misleading there. But what I wanted to clarify is that the puffer system is going to be live relatively soon. I don't know exactly what it's going to be live, but I, obviously, being an advisor, I've been talking, and I know that it's going to be going to be live relatively soon. I can't give any hard dates on this. And I also suggested to the team that they should put some, some kind of communications out there, explaining to people, hey, you know, this is, this is actually how it's going to go.
00:08:02.678 - 00:08:24.896, Speaker A: You know, and basically putting the st ETH into lido for now, sorry, into. Into eigen layer for now, in order to farm points for the people that deposited so that they don't feel slighted. So I believe it's a miscommunication error. I take it from me, like, I'm vouching for the team here. I am an advisor to them. So obviously I'm, you know, you could, you could say I'm a bit biased here, but, but I know the team, they're very genuine. They're not trying to, like, do anything dodgy or anything like that.
00:08:24.896 - 00:08:44.112, Speaker A: But obviously, the, the messaging could have been better there. So, yeah, I mean, it's up to you guys whether you want to, you know, keep staking with them or not. Like, no one's forcing you to. And I believe I told you guys that there's no obligation to go with them or any of these, these kind of protocols here. You go with who you want. Don't just go with it, because, you know, someone recommends you to put. To put money in there.
00:08:44.112 - 00:09:04.518, Speaker A: I will never recommend you to put money into anything. Like, I will suggest, hey, this is an opportunity, but I won't say, hey, you need to put money into this instead of that. That's just something I'll never do. And I've also been very clear about the risks as well with these things. There's always risks involved here, guys, so make sure you understand that. But, yeah, I will agree that the messaging with, with hover finance could have been better. And I've kind of passed that feedback onto the team.
00:09:04.518 - 00:09:21.260, Speaker A: So I'm curious to see what, what they kind of, like, put out, and hopefully they can, they can quell those. Those worries that people have here, because I know for a fact that, yes, it is going to be vampired, and it is going to be so the st. It is going to be vampire. Vampire. He's going to be withdrawn from light. Oh. And then restaked as part of the puffer system.
00:09:21.260 - 00:09:49.984, Speaker A: Which will then obviously be part of Eigen Lair as well, because they'll restake it similar to what eat the fire and swell are already doing, basically. So, yeah, it's just that they launched without that other stuff being ready because obviously the race is very hot right now to get. And as a project, you know, you look at that and you're like, okay, well, you know, let's do it. Let's do a launch. And I don't. And I don't think they expected it to get as big as it did. I think the last time I checked, they were at, what, 450 million tvl, like, what, almost 2% of all sta for something crazy.
00:09:49.984 - 00:10:28.424, Speaker A: And no team expects that. Guys like, you know, when you work on something, you don't realize that, you know, these things can get really crazy, because, and this isn't just, I guess, purtuent to puff fights, it's every project out there. I've been part of many projects over the years, and every single time, it's been the same thing where the team vastly underestimates the demand. And the reason why they do this is one, you know, when you're making the sausage, you know how the sausage is made. You know, you become bearish on the sausage. And I'm not going to say that you're bearish on your project, but you're in the wage, you're working on it constantly, and you kind of think to yourself, wow, okay, there's so much going on here. You know, I've been working on it for so long.
00:10:28.424 - 00:10:45.008, Speaker A: You know, I'm excited about it, but, like, why would anyone else be excited about it? If you ever been, if you've ever been part of a startup, especially as a founder, you know exactly what this feeling is. You're constantly doubting yourself. You're constantly doubting what you're doing. That's just the nature of things. So much stress and anxiety about it. That's just the nature of things. So it happens with every project.
00:10:45.008 - 00:11:31.670, Speaker A: And as I said, I've been through multiple project launches, and every single time, the, the team and, and the founders, they've always been surprised by the growth of these things because it can happen very, very quickly, especially in crypto. With the nature of the way crypto works and the nature of the fact that there's a lot of money involved, these things can happen extremely quickly and catch you, catch you off guard here. But what really matters is how the team responds to that, how the team kind of aligns their long term vision on things and how they play, play things out and what, and basically communicating with their. With their community and learning from potential mistakes that they've made and things like that. That's what separates the good teams from the bad teams, in my opinion. So, yeah, that's just a little clarity that I wanted to give there. But as I said, as usual, if you're depositing funds into any of this stuff, please, please, please just realize that it is risky.
00:11:31.670 - 00:12:11.762, Speaker A: Guys, no matter what project you're depositing funds into, it is always risky, especially new ones, because there is a risk of smart contract bugs. So don't put in funds that you expect to, like, 100% not lose, because there is that small chance that you could lose it due to a bug or an exploit or anything like that. And I just want to put that out there, and it's not to try and scare anyone. But guys, like, there are so many ways to lose money in crypto. Uh, like, it's actually crazy. Like, outside of the, um, the scams and the fishes and that kind of, like, the hacks and things like that, there are just so many other ways to lose money in crypto, uh, you know, investing in the wrong thing and then get in the liquidity, getting pulled, and you're getting rud, stuff like that. And at the end of the day, you need to be aware of that.
00:12:11.762 - 00:12:46.186, Speaker A: You really need to be critically aware of that, because it's so easy. I mean, just a few months ago, you guys know the story. I got fished. I mean, me, the person who is always hyper aware of everything, I got fished in the absolute dumbest way possible. And that's simply because I loved myself into a false sense of security, because I thought I hadn't been fished in a while. I'm okay, you know, I don't have to worry about this, when in reality, you always have to be vigilant about these things, and there are better and better tools coming online. Like, I've been suggesting the rabbi wallet over metamask to basically everyone because, you know, pretty much every time that I've seen someone get scammed or fished, Rabbi would have caught it.
00:12:46.186 - 00:13:20.834, Speaker A: And, you know, Rabbi gives you so many warnings about these things, and it has, like, an evolving system where it basically monitors, contracts, and says, hey, this contract is actually not the same one that it's claiming to be, like, stuff like that. That's how we basically solve the security issues for people, or at least for the most part. But the weakest link is always the human. So removing the human element as much as possible is obviously the goal here, but there's always going to be that human element involved there. So just keep that in mind. Stay vigilant, guys, and just, you know, have fun, make some money, you know, or lose some money, no matter, you know, depending on how you play it here. But just make sure that you're staying safe while doing so.
00:13:20.834 - 00:14:32.946, Speaker A: All right? So Oblabs has a major announcement today. So oblivious clusters in the Lido simple DVT testnet on whole scale have met performance requirements to move forward with the Ethereum main net deployment, which means that herbal's DBT tech will be integrated into lido quite soon, which is exciting, obviously, because Lido is still the biggest staking service provider by far. And they've explained to you guys all the benefits of DVT in the past from increasing efficiency and effectiveness of validators, while also increasing redundancy and increasing decentralization, which is obviously the, you know, the holy grail here. So you can read this kind of full report of all the testing that they've been doing and essentially what that, what they've been monitoring and how it's all been playing around with Lido, their key learnings and recommendations and so on and so forth. And then what's next? So basically, I think the next round is expected to commence in the next one to two months. And feel free to fill out this form if you're interested in participating. This is, there's, there's more test nets happening, obviously, but given that it's already met that kind of main net kind of criteria that they were looking for, you know, the test nets are probably just kind of iron out some stuff, cross some t's, dot some is, as we like to see, obviously.
00:14:32.946 - 00:14:55.350, Speaker A: You know, you can never have enough test nets, honestly, guys. I mean, I remember the amount of test nets and devnets and shadow forks that we had for the merge. I mean, I think we got to the point where we were like, okay, that's, that's probably enough. Let's just do this thing on main net because we had just tested it so much. But that's the thing. You have to do that, like, especially when you're dealing with, you know, billions, tens of billions of dollars worth of value. You have to test it as much as possible and make sure and nothing's going to go wrong when you do a main net deployment here.
00:14:55.350 - 00:15:15.958, Speaker A: But yeah, very, very exciting times for both Oval and light. Oh, should disclose here I'm an early investor in Oval. I mean, that's a, that's one of my earliest investments, actually. It must be a very long time since I invested in them. I actually remember kind of investing in them and I'm just checking kind of my sheet here. So, yeah, it was the 10th of, sorry, the 3 October 2021. So it's been quite a while.
00:15:15.958 - 00:15:30.420, Speaker A: They've been building this stuff for ages. Like, a lot of these projects have been building for years. And, you know, just now, just recently, they started to get more and more traction. So. And you guys know, I've been part of one of the first Obel DVT clusters on Mainnet. Still part of that. It's on my solo staking box.
00:15:30.420 - 00:15:52.460, Speaker A: It's been working fine. I've been, you know, been loving all the communication that I've had with the team there. They're always happy to help and stuff like that. So, yeah, anyway, you can go give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. So for those of you who don't know, there is currently an animation being developed in conjunction with the team from Nouns, Dow and Line studio, which actually making the animation.
00:15:52.460 - 00:16:27.088, Speaker A: So this is a 1 minute animation all about Ethereum, Altoos and EIP 4844. Now, the reason I'm bringing this up today is because Trent Van Epps shared on Farcaster an update on some of the characters that are going to be featured in the, the animation. So you can see here some characters, you know, Starknet, Polygon and I believe scroll and CK sync here. So the animation, as I said, is a celebration of all these things, all these Ethereum things. And the short is also going to be released as an NFT at the Denkun upgrade, with all proceeds going to the protocol guild. So this is one of the things that I'm really, really excited about, because it's something different, guys. Like, it's something different.
00:16:27.088 - 00:16:48.738, Speaker A: It's using a professional animation studio to get this done. It's funded by. By Nounsdale, which is really cool. And it's. And it's basically spreading the word about Ethereum Altoos and, you know, and donating the proceeds from the NFT mint here to the protocol guild, which, I mean, like, what can I say? You guys know my, my opinions on public goods and especially the protocol guild. So it's all positive here. But Trent also has a.
00:16:48.738 - 00:17:31.177, Speaker A: A thread here basically going through some of the other characters that have already been showcased, such as arbitrary and optimism. So if you want to see all of that, you can go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, I've got some goodies for you guys. So a few things that were all posted on the same day, funny enough. So basically there's been a lot of talk obviously over the last few months around liquidity fragmentation with L2 specifically. Now, I've talked a lot about this in the past and my general kind of feeling on this is that it's a, it's, it's a very overblown issue in the short term and very kind of like misunderstood in the long term because there are lots of solutions to these issues and I believe that, that those solutions are going to be live, you know, over the longer term.
00:17:31.177 - 00:17:56.534, Speaker A: So people kind of look at the short term and it's like, oh, how we ever going to fix this? Well, as I said, I've got some goodies for you. So Justin Drake did a podcast today with bankless that you should definitely go check out. I'll get in the YouTube description below. But he talks all about fragmentation within the l two s and how we can actually solve this and all the different ways we can do that. And he's also linked to a Google Doc here with all of his notes as well. So you can go check that out. So that's the first thing.
00:17:56.534 - 00:18:53.476, Speaker A: Then we have a blog post from Brendan Farmer, who is the co founder at Polygon, talking about how Polygon is actually tackling this fragmentation. And I think that he doesn't necessarily disagree with Justin Drake, but he offers a, I guess some, an alternative solution here in aggregation rather than like shared sequencing and maybe like based sequencing and stuff like that. So you definitely go give that one a read. And then finally, also a post from Tim Robinson here, who is the head of crypto research at Blue Yard, which is a crypto vc, talking about this, this kind of issue of liquidity fragmentation as well. So I know I said that there's going to be no refuel tomorrow, but hey, you can refuel yourself by listening to that podcast from Justin Drake and reading these two blog posts from Brendan and Tim. They're going to give you probably the most up to date overview of how this issue is going to get solved. Like obviously I really kind of talk about it at a high level and I do say that hey, these are the solutions that are coming, but these actually go into detail about how these solutions are going to solve these issues.
00:18:53.476 - 00:19:28.488, Speaker A: So if you're at all interested in that, go check this out. Because I do think it's something that is going to be, I guess like a FUd vehicle, so to speak. For a little while. But the thing is, is that like, it really is a short term issue, guys. And honestly, even in the short term, I don't consider it to be a huge issue for the reasons I've discussed before, such as the fact that we already say that liquidity kind of tends to pool in, in one, one or two ecosystems. And like as a power law effect, as you can see from arbitrary and optimism being the top two here on the polygon Pos chain, which isn't technically at a L2, but still has a lot of liquidity there. So there's that aspect to it.
00:19:28.488 - 00:20:01.744, Speaker A: But there's also the aspect of like, solutions come when problems arise and the problems are kind of like bad enough that people want there to be solutions and they're willing to pay for those solutions in some way or another. And that's exactly what's happening here. So as I said, I'll link all of these in the YouTube description below for you to go check out. Highly recommend reading and watching all of it to get up to speed. And honestly, if you want to discuss any of this stuff, Tim is very active in the deli Gray Discord channel, so you can just ping him in there. He'll be happy to discuss that stuff with you. But, but yeah, the other, I guess Justin Drake's very hard man to get a hold of.
00:20:01.744 - 00:20:48.798, Speaker A: And Brendan, I'm not sure where he's active, but generally you can get a lot of great conversations in the Delaware Discord channel around this, but also on Twitter and Farcaster, of course, I'm sure you can, can kind of talk to people there. But yeah, these blog posts and that podcast definitely highly recommend going and viewing and kind of reading it. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Interesting chart that I came across on Farcaster today, tweeted out or cast it out by JG here, who says, wow, crazy chart. Displaying base dominance the last few weeks for total transactions by chain, Farcaster users are now conducting two out of every three transactions using base. And I did mention to you guys that basically base has become essentially the, you know, the chain of choice, obviously for, for social related things.
00:20:48.798 - 00:21:25.670, Speaker A: It was first for friend tech, but now for far Caster. And it's really carved out a nice little, nice little niche for now, but hopefully growing beyond the niche of, for it, for itself there. Because, you know, I think that base is behind in terms of like defi activity. I think arbitram one and op main that have a lot of that activity right now, base will keep growing there. That's not to say that they won't keep growing, they will, but they definitely have more of the kind of, like, social side of things than those other, other chains do. And obviously, base is built on, on optimism's tech. But like, I'm specifically talking about the op mainnet here, which is also built on optimisms tech, the op stack, but is a separate network, obviously a separate, separate kind of roll up there, separate layer, two there.
00:21:25.670 - 00:22:18.174, Speaker A: And, you know, I know I said before that these metrics are imperfect, but at the same time, this is a good kind of place where you can actually see the metrics match the actual activity. Because as I said, like a lot of the stuff happening on forecast, those happening on base, like the frame stuff, it's all happening on base where you kind of do those interactions and that will reflect on the, on the base chain, and that will reflect as transactions by chain, and you'll see that the fact that it's just skyrocketed, I mean, it's in, it's in basically purple here at the bottom of this chart to do an analytics chart here or graphic here that you can see that's displaying this and what this looks like. It's usually kind of uniform across all of the L2s here. And this goes back to, I think, August of last year. So a good six months worth of data here, or a little bit more than that. But you can see that the base base has been the same, but then it just spiked up of all the farcaster stuff recently. So just great to see, I guess, some visualized data put to, I guess, the vibes that we've all been feeling.
00:22:18.174 - 00:22:35.902, Speaker A: You guys know, my view on. On looking at different chains, it's all about the vibes and if the vibes are good or bad and. And what's kind of happening there. And it seems like the vibes are immaculate on base right now, honestly. And by extension, the vibes in Ethereum are amazing right now. There's so much happening. I'm so glad far Caster is getting a lot of attraction.
00:22:35.902 - 00:23:03.346, Speaker A: I know that a good chunk of it is speculative because people want to get involved with this frame stuff and some of the token stuff, and maybe they want to farm a potential future airdrop. But as I've said before, inherently, far coster is not a speculative app. Inherently, it is a social network. It is a social app, and it is something that I believe has a lot of staying power. It is not a flash in the pan. It's not something that's just going to be around as a fad. I do strongly believe that it will replace crypto Twitter for a lot of people.
00:23:03.346 - 00:24:18.084, Speaker A: And then maybe it even goes on to replace or even rival Twitter for, you know, in its end. Stake is still very early days, but Twitter as it exists today is not that, you know, it's x now, right? It's not the Twitter of, of yesterday, yesteryear, so to speak. And also, if you actually care about, you know, free speech on Twitter, whatever people kind of like, say on Twitter and whatever people were happy about when Musk took, took over, well, then you should be a really big supporter of farcaster because forecaster, as a protocol is being built so that it can't censor anything. Yes, the clients themselves can hide certain content or censor certain content, but you get to choose your client. So really, you should be embracing farcaster if that's the type of person that you are that wants to be able to get exposed to everything without anyone moderating what you're exposed to farcaster is that because you can just tap into the protocol yourself using, you know, a client that doesn't do any content moderation or anything like that, or that doesn't do any censorship or anything like that, or doesn't remove certain content for whatever reason, or you can run your own client, build your own client for it, and maybe you can send it to other people and say, hey, use this. So that's the way kind of far cost three is being built. And I think that once those people kind of discover this and latch onto it, it definitely can be, it can be a massive growth driver for non crypto people because obviously, right now it's heavily dominated by crypto people, which is just the first set of users.
00:24:18.084 - 00:24:33.444, Speaker A: But I do think that it can rival Twitter because Twitter doesn't really have any competition. Right. Like, if you think about other social networks out there, they're not like Twitter. Like, Reddit is very different. Facebook is extremely different. Right? It's called, it's called Boomer book for a reason. Um, Instagram, very different.
00:24:33.444 - 00:25:07.810, Speaker A: Like, every social network has its, has its differences here, and it's normally very, very hard to compete because of the network effects, because of the social graph. But forecaster is doing a really great job of tapping into the crypto native people first who are very active on social media, especially Twitter, and getting them to come over. And then obviously, the plan would be to branch out from there. So I strongly believe that five Caster can be a nice competitor to Twitter, but but it's going to take time from here. But anyway, enough ranting about, about forecaster. Their last thing to get through was just a huge announcement. Actually, I saved the best for last, I think, huge announcement from Ens today.
00:25:07.810 - 00:25:31.362, Speaker A: So they have partnered with GoDaddy. Now for those of you who don't know who godaddy is, they are the biggest domain name registrar in the world. Like biggest. Like it's, you know, I know their name might be silly, but they are absolutely massive. And I think that, you know, if you've ever developed a website before or ever needed to register a domain name, you may have used GoDaddy at one point or another. That's how big they are. Just even if it's not your main registrar here.
00:25:31.362 - 00:26:08.888, Speaker A: So yeah, as I said, they've today announced the partnership with, with ENS and they have a new section in their domain management interface called crypto Wallet. So essentially what you can do is set your own domain name that you own to, to your ENS using DNS sec, as I discussed, I believe, on last week's refuel. So essentially you can say, see here. Thanks to gasless DNS Sec users can now easily associate an ethereum address with their DNS domain name.com, XYZ, etcetera, allowing seamless integration with all applications that properly support ENS. This is a huge unlock, guys. This basically marries the web two ecosystem with the web3 ecosystem.
00:26:08.888 - 00:26:33.668, Speaker A: And this is all Ethereum. Like ANS is all ethereum. It literally stands for the Ethereum name service. This is one of the biggest things that has happened in Ethereum in a really long time. I don't see, I haven't seen enough people talk about this because we always talk about bringing on more and more people, you know, bringing on the mainstream, getting mass adoption. This is one of those things that brings that. The fact that they have a whole kind of section dedicated to it in their domain management interface here is absolutely massive.
00:26:33.668 - 00:27:14.636, Speaker A: And you're going to see a lot of brands that maybe aren't able to own their own ensnare because it's squatted on, such as Amazon ETH, for example, or Google ETH. They can just use their DNS names now, their domain names of google.com or Amazon.com and link that to their Ethereum address and voila. You have, they have something on chain that they can now use for whatever purpose they would like to. So as I said, absolutely massive announcement. If you want to learn more about this and go into detail about it, I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but yeah, I mean, ens, honestly, like one of my favorite projects still in the Ethereum ecosystem, just kicking goals and continuing to be the continuing to represent Ethereum as the very best of what Ethereum has to offer here.
00:27:14.636 - 00:27:31.480, Speaker A: But anyway, I think I've gushed over enough today. That's going to be it. You know, it's funny, halfway through recording today's episode, my computer crashed. So hopefully everything's all good when I'm editing it. But if, I mean, if the episodes live then, and you're hearing this, then it was all good. But yeah, I think that's gonna be it for today. Just a reminder that there will be no refuel tomorrow.
00:27:31.480 - 00:27:41.944, Speaker A: Be back on Thursday. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Please be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all on Thursday. Thanks everyone.
