00:00:02.080 - 00:00:04.350, Speaker A: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Blockcrunch.
00:00:04.382 - 00:00:07.006, Speaker B: Podcast, the go to podcast for investors.
00:00:07.070 - 00:00:08.754, Speaker A: And builders in crypto.
00:00:17.534 - 00:00:56.864, Speaker B: Before we get started with today's episode, I've got some great news for our listeners. For those of you looking for an extra edge in crypto, we created Blockcrench VIP just for you. Every week, our team at Blockcrunch prepares an in depth research memo with a sector analysis, project explanation, competitor breakdown, and our own in house investment outlook for every project brought onto the show, delivered straight to your inbox. We'll do the work so you don't have to. We'll scour discord, Twitter, forums and blogs and help you highlight potential catalysts and provide actionable insights for every project we interview. In addition, we'll also host exclusive AMA's with myself to answer any of your questions. And all of that is only available to Blockcrunch VIP subscribers.
00:00:56.864 - 00:01:06.484, Speaker B: But the good news is that it costs less than a coffee a week. So head on over to theBlockcrunch.com VIP or click the link in the show notes below to sign up.
00:01:08.104 - 00:01:08.784, Speaker C: Hey, everybody.
00:01:08.824 - 00:01:57.094, Speaker A: Welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. Now, this week, I'm very honored to interview Kevin Zhou, the hedge fund manager who has made headlines recently by being one of the very, very few people in the world to vocally call out the impending collapse of Terra Luna during its peak at $40 billion. And that was not at all a popular stance to take, let alone publicly. But Kevin stuck to his guns, and just this past week, the short thesis finally played out as Luna's entire market cap effectively evaporated over the course of a few days. So we're not gonna do a play by play about exactly what happened with Terra Luna. We're gonna save that in written form for our VIP subscribers. But instead, we're gonna dive into Kevin's process, how he identified some of the unsustainable economics in the project, and lessons we can learn from that, as well as how we can move forward as a space.
00:01:57.094 - 00:02:00.954, Speaker A: So, first of all, super excited to have you on the show for the first time, Kevin.
00:02:01.814 - 00:02:18.974, Speaker C: Yeah, super excited to be here. And, yeah, it's been a really momentous past week, I think, for me, I'm running on a little bit of low sleep right now, so apologize to the viewers if I'm a little bit groggy, but, yeah, happy to chat about what happened. Yeah.
00:02:20.834 - 00:02:38.134, Speaker A: And super appreciative of you. I know it's early morning, your time as well, and it's probably a pretty crazy past seven, eight days. So I guess, like, first, just how do you feel about things? Like, do you feel almost vindicated that the things you warned about finally came true, or do you feel kind of shocked that they played out in such a massive magnitude?
00:02:39.234 - 00:03:12.586, Speaker C: Yeah, you know, definitely a bit vindicated. You know, I was pretty vocal about this stuff, along with a few others on crypto, Twitter. And, you know, for the most part, initially, we were met with a lot of severe backlash. You know, the lunatics, they were in all of our threads and tweet threads and just slamming us and calling us all manner of names. So, you know, I do feel a bit of vindication there now. You know, since then, I think, you know, in terms of how it exactly played out, you know, I think it's a little, it's always a little bit hard to call the timing. I mean, this could have happened a little bit later.
00:03:12.586 - 00:03:52.904, Speaker C: I mean, it could have taken months for this to play out, you know, rather than immediately where it did very recently. So, you know, I think that's always hard to call. But I think in terms of how it played out once it started, I think it really was in line with a lot of what we are predicting, and in many ways, it actually collapsed faster. I thought this whole thing was, there is always that kind of bank run risk, but there's also just bank walk risk, even if it happened in slow mo. I also thought that that was a pretty possible kind of situation. So it definitely happened quicker and more suddenly than expected, but otherwise in line with our expectations.
00:03:53.674 - 00:04:21.414, Speaker A: Yeah. And internally, we've been talking about some of our skepticism about kind of under collateralized or algorithmic stablecoins for a while as well, but we just didn't have that conviction to really put a directional bet on it. So I guess for those who may not be aware of how you formulated your thesis, what was it about the mechanism in Luna's design that made you kind of realize that, hey, this might collapse one day? Was there a specific part of the design that made you think that way, or.
00:04:22.673 - 00:05:10.228, Speaker C: Yeah, I think a lot of it is just that we've seen a lot of these different algo stablecoins before in the past, ever since. There was the basis design, and then there was a whole bunch of others. There was yams basis cache based, ampleforth, ESD, DSD, time, ohm, all of these different variations of basically a very similar concept. Now, on the surface, you might look at the mechanisms and you might say they're all kind of different from each other. But I think when you really dig deep. I mean, at the end of the day, these feedback cycles all try to govern this idea that when you have a stable coin which is above peg, you want to inflate supply. And when you have a stable coin which is below peg, you want to contract supply.
00:05:10.228 - 00:06:15.584, Speaker C: Like, it doesn't matter how many steps you go through, through this giant contraption, this Rube Goldberg machine, to get to that final result. But ultimately, there is that kind of final piece of it that causes the stability of the coin. So in my opinion, after having seen a lot of these, I think pretty much they're all kind of equivalent. So that's kind of where we got this idea that this Luna ust mechanism is basically the exact same thing as all these other coins in the past that have not done super well in terms of having solvency and maintaining stability. Now, I think I want to maybe point out one particular coin, which we analyzed very carefully, and we actually, he did make a very fairly profitable play on, which was very instructive in teaching us about how to even trade these kinds of things. And that was Faye and tribe. And then when Faye first came out, it was like this coin, which tons of people invested into, was supposed to be stable.
00:06:15.584 - 00:06:57.154, Speaker C: In effect, it wasn't actually a stable coin. It was kind of like a. It was sort of like a structured product on ETH, right? Because you had, like, all of this, like, ETH collateral, which was backing this stable coin. And if ETH went up a lot, the stable coin doesn't benefit to the upside, right? It's just kind of capped at one. All the excess value is just like excess value. But if ETH goes down and the backing to this coin is insufficient, then the coin would depend on the downside. So, you know, what is this like? Well, it's kind of like a put option on ETH, right? You get downside, but you don't get the upside.
00:06:57.154 - 00:07:45.554, Speaker C: Maybe there's some kind of, like, hidden premium in the middle, but effectively, you can kind of map the payout to basically a put, like, kind of payout. So when we were trading this thing, and this was during a time where, you know, they're severely gating the exit, right? As it trades below peg, you get penalized more and more. So it's very, very hard to fully deviate from the peg, even though everybody wanted out of this thing and there was, like, tons of capital stuck in this. All the investors were trying to get out, and, you know, it was very severely gated, so it couldn't. So in trading this basically, we were some of the only buyers of this coin of Faye below peg. Eighty five cents to the dollar and below. And the reason that we were able to buy it is because we realized that we could always just delta hedge an ETH put on the other side.
00:07:45.554 - 00:08:25.624, Speaker C: In doing so, even if Faye ended up trading at zero, we'd make everything back on the ETH leg of it, and it would be fine to even hold this coin to zero, which is why we're very comfortable buying it when it started depegging. So that kind of was instructive on how to trade some of these kinds of structured products. Like at the end of the day, all these things are basically with some obfuscation structured products on something or other, on some kind of underlying or other. So I think all of that was very instructive. And then also examining the mechanisms of previous algo stablecoins, that's really, really interesting.
00:08:25.664 - 00:08:59.580, Speaker A: Because when Luna first went, when the UST stablecoin first deepak, I did cite Fei as a potential example of how maybe they could fix this. There is potentially a way out of this, but obviously it happened for Faye, but not for Luna. So I guess, going off of that vein, do you think Luna's failure is a condemnation of all algo stablecoins, or are there models that could work? Because even for Faye, Faye right now is technically a collateralized stable coin. Already they're no longer fully algorithmic. In other words, are there designs that maybe could actually work? Yeah.
00:08:59.612 - 00:09:56.810, Speaker C: Well, maybe I'll just say one last thing about Faye, which is the primary difference between Faye and Luna, in my opinion, when you abstract away all the small little bells and whistles and contraptions, is the idea that with Faye, it's ether that was backing the stablecoin. With UST, it was mostly Luna itself that was backing its stability. So in many ways, like Luna and UST are just much more circular, with the collateral being endogenous, while Faye was more direct and having external and exogenous collateral. But basically, the idea is the same, which is that you have some kind of volatile asset, which is backing some kind of stable asset. Right. So that, I think concept still holds. But in terms of, like, how much reflexivity each one has, well, you're going to have a lot more reflexivity when you have something circularly kind of backing itself.
00:09:56.810 - 00:10:07.962, Speaker C: Right. So that's sort of my first thought. And then maybe, to return to your question, could you remind me again of what that was again?
00:10:08.098 - 00:10:14.904, Speaker A: Yeah. So I guess, does Luna's failure imply that there's no algorithmic stablecoin design out there that could possibly work.
00:10:16.084 - 00:11:10.214, Speaker C: I'm pretty pessimistic about pure algo stablecoins. I think let's leave the class of over collateralized algo stablecoins alone. But I think for the pure skyhook type algo stable coins, I'm very pessimistic because I think at the end of the day, you're really trying to alchemize something from nothing. And you're basically like functioning like the central bank, right? Like maybe you have some control over something that's similar to interest rates, that, you know, help contract or expand the money supply, maybe have some control over something that looks like open market operations, that has some control of supply and demand. So, you know, that's, that's sort of my thought. I think. I think there's just some kind of analogy to a central bank function, but without the advantages that most central banks have.
00:11:10.214 - 00:12:02.880, Speaker C: In the sense that if you look at the Fed, for example, the Fed has the advantage of the base currency of the US is what people must pay their taxes in for dollars. There's a deal with OPEC that they have to trade oil in us dollars. I feel like with these algo stablecoins, you're basically replicating that you don't have those advantages. And then on top of that, I would say that even fiat money itself, under standard central banking systems and regimes, in the long run, doesn't seem to work either. So that's what my thought is, and that's kind of my analogy for pure algo stablecoins. Ultimately, I think they all boil down to the same idea. I would say that all of these mechanisms are basically isomorphic to each other.
00:12:02.880 - 00:12:07.504, Speaker C: When you really kind of dig deep into, like, what's going on with supply and contraction.
00:12:08.084 - 00:12:42.004, Speaker A: And on that point about using a volatile asset to offset the volatility of the stablecoin, in this case using Luna to absorb the volatility, I think a lot of people also had issues with that design. But then when they announced, when Luna announced that they were going to use bitcoin as part of the collateral as well, I think some people's minds kind of, you know, began to soften up to the idea of, hey, ust might actually be pretty stable, but obviously that didn't work out. So what exactly went wrong there? Because they did introduce a significant amount of BTC as collateral, which is supposed to be more stable, but that didn't really play out.
00:12:43.024 - 00:13:12.758, Speaker C: Yeah, I think the idea was good, adding more exogenous collateral was a good idea. It's just, in my opinion, that it wasn't enough. In the end, they ended up with about 3 billion worth of bitcoin. I think if they got it up to around ten or 11 billion, I think it would have been okay. It just wasn't enough. And I think they were just really running out of time. Their goal was to get to about 10 billion, but there's just not enough time to actually get that done.
00:13:12.758 - 00:14:24.584, Speaker C: And the collapse happened before that. The other thing, too, is that where do they get this money from anyway? A lot of it is basically coming from selling Luna itself to willing investors on some kind of lockup schedule in return for hard assets, which they can then use to buy bitcoin or other types of exogenous collateral. At some point, there's always this fear even within the investors that they're courting, that maybe this thing doesn't work, and maybe they don't actually want this thing that's locked for a year with one year linear vesting at some kind of discount, because maybe this thing will just that spiral. Even if they were to hedge it using the perps, maybe the cost of doing that would just be too high in the later stages. Even if they think that there's a reasonable chance or a small chance of hyperinflation happening, the funding during that period could be so astronomical that it's totally not worth whatever discount that they're getting. So if they pull expectations forward, there's going to be at least some investors that are not willing to take that deal. And what my guess is that they were just not able to sell enough, another seven to 8 billion worth of Luna to get this exogenous backing.
00:14:24.584 - 00:15:34.254, Speaker C: And I would also say that this kind of exogenous collateral, the choice of it was also really important. Why was it bitcoin rather than just USDC? Or why was it bitcoin instead of an inverse position in bitcoin or an inverse position in us equities, for example, an inverse index. Because if you think about it, if you have bitcoin, then you have these kinds of nasty compression effects, where it's as Luna is going down, so the endogenous collateral is evaporating. There's also all these correlated effects with the external collateral, this exogenous collateral, bitcoin, in that it's highly correlated. The beta is highly correlated to Luna itself under normal market situations. So you're getting contraction of both types of collateral at the same time, rather than something that's anticyclical, where, like a short bitcoin position. As Luna is tanking bitcoins, the short position is going up.
00:15:34.254 - 00:16:10.446, Speaker C: So then you maintain a lot more stability that way. Now, I think they wouldn't do something like that because it kind of violates narrative, even though it's more sound. How do you even maintain, let's say, a decentralized, short, like bitcoin position or even short luna position? I mean, you can't really. Right. So, you know, of violates like this concept of decentralization. Now, how much of the decentralization was just like dog and pony show? I mean, how much really was there in the first place? I mean, that, I don't know, but it certainly violates narrative to start moving in that direction. I think that's maybe why they didn't do it.
00:16:10.446 - 00:16:32.864, Speaker C: Like, I know that Harrison Xerox Hams, he suggested to them to do some kind of inverse bitcoin position. So they didn't. I mean, this is an idea that they already had from way back when. I mean, he's in their war room. He's already told them about this stuff a while ago. And I think they just never listened. So that's sort of my thought.
00:16:32.864 - 00:16:44.484, Speaker C: I think the choice of the collateral was wrong. And then second, I think it just wasn't enough. 3 billion versus ten or 11 billion. I mean, there was just a really big shortfall there.
00:16:45.044 - 00:16:57.424, Speaker A: That makes a lot of sense. And when it comes to the tactical element of the actual short itself, was the play to short ust or short Luna? Was there like a preference between the two or were both kind of on the table?
00:16:57.924 - 00:17:51.708, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that's a great question because it really depends on the gating mechanism that they have. Right. So initially what they had is that you could mint or redeem Luna to UST or UST to Luna at what is it, like $200 million worth per day? Something like that. Right. So if the demand for Luna, because UST is unwinding, exceeds that per day, then you're going to see like a deep heg event, right. Because then people are just going to dump it on the open market rather than go through this nicer path of just doing the arbitrage, going through Luna, getting dollars worth, close to a dollar's worth of Luna for all Ust that is burned. So it really depends on the capacity of that avenue, on whether or not you think that it's, you know, Luna itself is going to go down more or USt itself is going to deep on the opposite side.
00:17:51.708 - 00:18:31.024, Speaker C: Let's say there was no gating mechanism. Well, then it's just much more likely that UST holds its peg for a lot longer. But it's Luna that itself starts spiraling out of control much earlier. Right. So I think, you know, TfL had a very important decision to make all along the way because I think near the end, they were allowing the minting of like what, maybe 1 million luna units per minute or something like that. And then afterwards, I think they just even removed that cap entirely. And then just like, you know, at that point, supply was doubling every 18 minutes or something like that for Luna, I think they had a very important decision to make, which is whether to favor, at least temporarily, the UST holders or to favor the Luna holders.
00:18:31.024 - 00:19:20.340, Speaker C: Different times along the way, there were different folks that were favored. I would say generally they tended to favor the UST holders given that they kept relaxing these constraints to try and hold the peg together as best as they could. I mean, the peg was already gone by that time, but I mean, certainly it could have broke down even further if there were gating mechanisms in place to prevent that kind of redemption of UST to Luna. So I think there's definitely some considerations there. And then the other consideration, too, is that there's something to be said about the risk that you want to take. If you short UsT, you're basically making a one way bet because it's not like UST is just going to pop and rip up to like $2, right? Like it's kind of capped there. If you're shorting at it from like, you know, pretty much the top, you know, you can only basically only win.
00:19:20.340 - 00:19:49.774, Speaker C: And then, you know, if you lose, you break even. So in that way, a lot safer. But maybe you have to wait some time, you know, for the peg to really fully break down. Right. So it's maybe a little bit of a slower process. And then the last consideration is how do you actually go about shorting it? And what are the costs? Generally throughout this entire thing, the cost of shorting UST wasn't that expensive. What you pay on the perp funding wasn't really that bad.
00:19:49.774 - 00:20:36.024, Speaker C: But when you shorted Luna, it got to a point where the perp funding was so bad, it was like, what is it, like five digits, four digits or five digits, or maybe even beyond that at some point because it's basically compensating people for the opportunity cost of getting their money hyperinflated away with the price halving every 18 minutes and supply doubling every 18 minutes. That's all reflected on the perp funding rate. Those are some of the considerations. It's like, what are the costs of doing the short? Is it a one way bet or is it bi directional? Because with Luna, if you short luna, it can rip in your face. And then what the gating mechanism is. I would say that those are probably the three most important considerations there.
00:20:36.604 - 00:20:44.500, Speaker A: Hey guys, I'm really excited to tell you more about one of my favorite products in crypto right now, DyDx. This is a team I've known since 2018, and they've built one of the.
00:20:44.532 - 00:20:46.332, Speaker B: Best exchange venues out there that also.
00:20:46.388 - 00:20:50.412, Speaker A: Happens to be decentralized and mobile friendly. Now listen until the end, because there's.
00:20:50.428 - 00:20:56.728, Speaker B: An opportunity for savvy traders out there as well. And here are just a few reasons reasons why I like Dydx over other exchanges.
00:20:56.856 - 00:20:58.168, Speaker A: First, it's very liquid.
00:20:58.256 - 00:21:30.356, Speaker B: It processes two to $3 billion every day in volume and has 35 perpetual swaps as of this recording. Which means you can trade things like Ethereum, bitcoin, doge Solana, and most of the most popular assets with up to 20 x leverage in the venue today. Second, it's also extremely cheap. And if you're down bad from the bear market, you don't have to worry about gas fees at all, because there is no gas fee on starkware L2, where DYDX is built on. Now that brings me to my next point as well. It's incredibly fast. Unlike other L2 and high speed Dexs, you don't actually have to wait to withdraw your assets anymore.
00:21:30.356 - 00:22:16.644, Speaker B: And as an additional point, by using Starkware, DYDX also provides users with increased security and privacy. And my personal favorite feature is the cross margin feature, which means I can seed one account with USDC and trade across multiple markets from there without needing to stir subaccounts because I really hate managing so many different subaccounts. And their iOS mobile app is also live right now. And it's amazing because it's compatible with metamask, Coinbase Wallet, Coin 98, Huawei Wallet, and a lot of the most popular mobile wallets out there. And it's available for people outside of the US or sanctioned countries today. And one last thing, one exciting opportunity is their competitions, the most recent tier in the $10,000 equity tier, have won over 95% $1,000 in rewards. And you can get started with as low as $500 in equity to compete for prizes.
00:22:16.644 - 00:22:27.664, Speaker B: So if you're already trading, might as well get paid to do it. So if any of that sounds interesting to you, I highly recommend that you head on over to DyDX exchange to learn more. And I thank them for sponsoring this episode.
00:22:29.444 - 00:23:08.160, Speaker A: That makes sense, and it's almost a perfect storm in that maybe perfect storm is an insensitive way to put it, but the speed with which it played out, I guess benefited the shorts. Because you're not paying funding for a very long time, your thesis basically pays out within a week. And I guess on that note, you actually publicly called the Luna project out, I think, earlier this year already. But you also probably said on multiple occasions that you didn't really pull the trigger on the short until much later. So I guess that's probably part of the challenge of shorting in crypto, is that speculative frenzy can last for a very long time. It can be unpredictable. So I'm curious about your process.
00:23:08.160 - 00:23:15.484, Speaker A: What were maybe a list of things that you were looking out for to make you decide to pull the trigger on executing the actual trade?
00:23:16.904 - 00:23:57.464, Speaker C: Yeah, definitely. So I think when it comes to shorting, I think it's particularly difficult because being early is sometimes as good as being wrong. So the timing component is really important. And then on top of that, there's other considerations, which is that because you're short, even if you're one x short, you can still get blown up on margin. So if the path to get to you being right is very unfavorable to you, you could still get wiped out on your liquidity and on your margin. So those are all considerations. And then on top of that, there's borrow costs on the short side, whether it be manifested as per funding or you actually take physical borrows to go short this stuff, overall, it's just more difficult.
00:23:57.464 - 00:24:12.684, Speaker C: So for all those reasons, I would say that shorting is more difficult. And then lastly, on the upside for shorting, the upside to shorting is very capped, too. If you buy an asset, it can go up 100 x. If you short something, the best you can do is double your money. Right. Unlevered at least. Unlevered at least.
00:24:12.684 - 00:24:51.384, Speaker C: So I think with all these considerations, I think getting the timing right was very important. So the way that we thought it through wasn't through any kind of like super complicated quant model or anything like that. A lot of it was just kind of, you know, intuition and kind of finger in the air guesswork and back of the napkin kind of math. And basically what we figured is that, you know, this thing is probably going to implode for sure. Right. But we just don't know when. And we want to basically be able to farm anchor until the very last moment to get all the free money and the juice there, and then finally, when it's time to short get out before everybody else.
00:24:51.384 - 00:25:48.614, Speaker C: So is that prudent? Is that safe? Well, I figured that just even reading through Twitter and talking to these lunatics that are interacting with me on my threads, that there is enough true believers in this project that in the moment of distress, we will be being the cynical people that we are. We're going to be able to get out of this a lot quicker than people who are kind of in denial still have hope, you know, high on hopium, these, you know, the true believers and probably a lot of their own, you know, backers and them themselves. So, you know, I didn't see that as particularly worrying. We were basically monitoring very closely all the exit liquidity that was immediately available on curve, for example, you know, in the order books. And when USD started to deep just a little bit and liquidity dried up a little bit, we started to see the imbalance in those curve pools. Then we were like, maybe it's happening, but it's maybe fine, too. We don't know for sure at this point.
00:25:48.614 - 00:26:41.124, Speaker C: It's not clear if it's really happening now, but why don't we just be safe? Why don't we just pull it all out and then see where things go? So we started pulling out, and I figured that other people that were similar to us, which are more on the fence about whether this is happening now, generally, who are a bit pessimistic about this whole system, they also pulled. And that generally started to cause maybe like a cascade. I know there were people before us, but I know there were also people after us. And this started to cascade out. The liquidity and the liquids basically dried up on the curve pools and overall in the markets. And then finally, when it was really dry and we started to see some serious peg deviations, then we thought about, okay, so now that we're out of this thing, maybe it is a good time to start putting on some kind of short plays, which we did. But I don't want to get too much into details yet, because some of it is still ongoing.
00:26:41.124 - 00:26:46.504, Speaker C: But we did end up putting on some shorts around that time. I think this was Monday.
00:26:47.164 - 00:27:30.598, Speaker A: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I distinctly remember there was a small deep to maybe ninety eight cents. And then it's briefly returned almost to PEC. And then there was an $85 million trade from UST to USDC or USDT on the curve pool almost immediately afterwards. And then things just spiraled out of there. So it does seem like maybe there were large parties that were kind of thinking like you guys, or maybe it was you guys, I don't know, that kind of saw the initial deep and then just exited. So I guess did any point, did you kind of doubt that thesis at any point? Because I guess before the de pack, obviously, UST and Luna commanded a really high valuation, and there's a lot of really smart people in this space, back in the projects as well.
00:27:30.598 - 00:27:36.454, Speaker A: Did you at any point kind of doubt that? Hey, maybe our thesis is wrong. Maybe this is a sustainable way of building a stablecoin.
00:27:37.514 - 00:28:24.040, Speaker C: I didn't have much doubts about the thesis being wrong. I did have some doubts about the timing of it. Just after the first epeg, after the peg closed back up, I thought, okay, maybe this was just a false alarm, maybe this thing is not unwinding now. We did have some doubts about that in the intermediate, about the tactical plays that we made in this particular event. But I think in the long term, I didn't really have much doubt about that. I think if it didn't collapse this week, this past week, it would have collapsed like a month later, or two months later, maybe even six, three quarters later, maybe even nine months later, possibly even longer. I think on that timing, we weren't very sure, but we did think that for sure at some point this thing would unwind, because it's like gravity.
00:28:24.040 - 00:29:09.694, Speaker C: It's just that we're just doing back in the napkin math, assumptions were wrong by two or three x or even greater than that. This thing was so insolvent, it was insolvent by, I think, seven, 8 billion. That was a healthy margin. These are yards at stake then, in terms of their backers. One of the particular reasons I actually really liked shorting this is because there was a consensus trade on which, literally, it's a who's who of crypto investors, and they're all backing this thing, right? So this is, I think, exactly where, you know, being a contrarian can be really profitable. It's where everybody believes something to be true and they're wrong. And I think most of the time that's not the case.
00:29:09.694 - 00:29:42.768, Speaker C: I think most of the time when there's consensus, people are right. So I think to find something where that is the case, I think is particularly nice. And that's also kind of reflected in our style of trading. Historically, we've only made a few relatively big plays. I would say about once a year or a little bit like once every year, and a quarter in 2018. We were flat for the entire year, and then we went long bitcoin in December at a blended price of $37.50. And that was the anti consensus trade.
00:29:42.768 - 00:30:05.464, Speaker C: Everything was super bleak. Everybody thought that it was just terrible. There was despair. There was apathy in the market. There's no reason for bitcoin to go up. And basically the idea is that everybody is so maximally pessimistic, there are no new pessimists to sell the price further down. Everybody currently holding bitcoin will literally never sell it at any price.
00:30:05.464 - 00:30:31.144, Speaker C: And then whoever sold has already sold. So it's just like, it's hard to see this thing going down even further. It's so bleak already. It's hard to get worse than this, right? The trade that we made in 2019 was buying FTT, and that was also not a consensus trade. People forget. But there was a lot of hair on that deal, on that ten cent round in the very beginning. A lot of people passed on it.
00:30:31.144 - 00:31:10.152, Speaker C: So there was a lot of things. It was sort of like the stars aligned because there was a lot of data points that were particularly good about that deal. First is that you didn't have all the big name VC's in it, because Sam, at the time, and Alameda, they were still kind of like outsiders, right? Coming into the space. They were not very well known. We had done a lot of OTC trading with them already and having some background in understanding where they come from. Having a lot of Jane street folks, having folks from math camp and stuff like that, having met Sam in person, knowing the guy was very smart, I knew that the space was kind of undervaluing this guy. And on top of that, there was hair on the deal.
00:31:10.152 - 00:31:54.834, Speaker C: Like, I think sue called out earlier, which is that they were offering 21 22% guaranteed loans, which tarnished their reputation in their name. They really shouldn't have done that. That was bad marketing. But in some ways, that kind of helped isolate the deal from other pools of capital that might be coming into it. And I think, lastly, I think there was always the timing effect where they rushed the deal so quickly for FTX that there wasn't enough time for people to really get on board and do the due diligence. So that also kind of constrains the amount of capital flowing into this stuff. So all of those put together makes this look like a highly undesirable deal, but that's exactly what made it much more desirable.
00:31:54.834 - 00:32:41.476, Speaker C: And then maybe, I don't mean to just continue toot our own horn but maybe just as a final example, there was the WiFi trade that we did in 2020. And basically that also was not a consensus trade until maybe three days into it. But the whole thing was farmed out, if I remember, in a week, right? So we were the first big whale that was farming Wi Fi. And the only reason that we were able to do that is because when everybody was farming compound in June and July, right, and we were too, right. We actually started studying curve because we're thinking about, like, what other pools exist? What other things are farmable? And we started studying curve very heavily. And this is before curve was very popular. And then on top of that, there was a very unique pool which had all these, like, y assets.
00:32:41.476 - 00:33:09.006, Speaker C: And we're like, what the hell are these y assets? So we started studying this, and, you know, we go into a website where the documentation is really sparse. Everything looks very shoddy. There was a certificate error on the website. I mean, everything looked terrible. Like, I thought this thing could have been a scam, right? But after studying it very carefully, what we could, we realized, oh, that's not a bad idea at all. It's like an interest bearing version of these underlying coins, but that they bounce around between these different pools to maximize the yield. Like a robo advisor.
00:33:09.006 - 00:33:35.566, Speaker C: This has never been done before. This is actually a pretty cool idea. So then we're like, okay. By the time the wifi token got announced, then we were already familiar with that protocol. So it's like a lot of it was just a preparation of being in the right place at the right time, because we had studied curve and Wi Fi and the wifi, the wire and protocol before these tokens were launched. The wifi token was launched. That's the idea.
00:33:35.566 - 00:34:10.484, Speaker C: Because right afterwards, two or three days into it, then all these big whales started coming in and farming this stuff. But in the beginning, we just got a one to two day head start, and that accounted for more than anybody else got, basically, because it was just so juicy and so isolated. So that's kind of what we look for. We particularly really like these kind of contrarian plays where you have tons of big money and very smart people on the other side, and every once in a while, very rarely, but every once in a while, they're just completely off base, and it makes it particularly juicy there.
00:34:10.904 - 00:34:50.268, Speaker A: Yeah, thank you for that very clear breakdown of the process. And that's a philosophy that I abide by as well, is you kind of do the preparation, because by the time that the play comes, it's too late. To start doing your dd. And in crypto, you know, one or two days difference can really be all that matters. And of those plays you mentioned, I think the only one I got right was Wifi, because I was very publicly about missing out on FTT precisely because of those three reasons you mentioned, which is one of the biggest regrets in my career so far. But a lesson learned there. And I guess, going back to Luna, would you characterize the way that this played out as a black swan event? Because it did require a lot of things aligning.
00:34:50.268 - 00:35:04.884, Speaker A: Luna was transitioning to the four pool at that time. And, you know, there were some massive sellers. Did it require this, like, specific mixture of events to be happening at the same time, or would have, would have happened under any other circumstances eventually anyway?
00:35:05.944 - 00:35:47.970, Speaker C: Yeah. You know, it was funny because I was in the chat with e girl capital, right? And they were like, yeah, what kind of sigma event do you guys think this is? And everybody's given their opinion, and I almost facetiously said, oh, this is a zero sigma event. Like, it was bound to happen, I think, over a long enough time horizon. This is basically zero sigma event. I think it was fated to be this way, but I think in the short term, tactically, I would say probably something like two sigma event. I don't think too outlandish, but I think fairly rare there was, at least tactically in the short term, a lot of things that had to happen at the same time, like this three pool to four pool migration end. And you know what's funny is that definitely exacerbated the problem.
00:35:47.970 - 00:36:35.990, Speaker C: But it is possible that even without the three pool, four pool migration, that this thing would have collapsed. Maybe it would have taken half a day longer or a couple hours longer, but it could have still just collapsed. I mean, there wasn't that much liquidity in three pool that TfL pulled when they were migrating over to four pool. And what I would say is that, what would be really ironic is that it was the, let's say that 85 mil cell into that curve pool into three pool after the liquidity got pulled. That could have just been somebody doing it by accident, because maybe there was just some large whale that was also thinking the same thing that we were thinking, which is that we're going to wait to see once if liquidity starts to come down, and then we're going to take the last clip of it to exit our anchor position. And they just didn't know that the migration was happening. Maybe communication wires got crossed one day.
00:36:35.990 - 00:37:03.706, Speaker C: They just see, oh, shit, somebody pulled up. Pulled out tons of liquidity at a three pool. Okay, guys, it's time. We got to pull out. Right? So it could have, like, it could have just been an accident of not knowing that the migration was happening that caused this guy to panic, which caused further guys to panic, and then the stampede happens, and everybody tramples each other to death through the small door. Right. So that that would be the most ironic thing, is that maybe it was just them, you know, tfl not having broadly communicated that the migration was happening, or maybe it wasn't even their fault.
00:37:03.706 - 00:37:35.690, Speaker C: Maybe they did, and it was just some random guy who just had no idea and wasn't following things that closely. They were not, like, super into Luna and UsT not following the news on that very closely. They were just some casual whale farmer of anchor, and then they just monitored liquidity, and they got scared, and then they caused the stampede. So all of that is possible. I never want to chalk up to malicious intent what can be easily explained by human stupidity. And I think it's also a funniest story if that was the case, too.
00:37:35.842 - 00:37:42.894, Speaker A: So you're not of the. You're not to believe that maybe Citadel or. I think the rumor was Blackstone or Blackrock was behind this.
00:37:43.754 - 00:38:08.854, Speaker C: No, there's just. I don't think it's even possible. It's more likely that that Citadel could have than Blackrock. I think Blackrock is absolutely impossible. I think for Citadel, very, very unlikely. I think these large tradfi institutions, for them to even get compliance approval to make some kind of weird play like this, I mean, you know, it had to have been brewing for, like, six months, right? And even then, I think compliance would say no. So I think, overall, it's just not.
00:38:08.854 - 00:38:44.236, Speaker C: It's just not really in the wheelhouse. I mean, what was this? I mean, this was like, a four chan post, and then literally, you know, some rando makes a post on four chan and then Blackrock and said, it'll actually have to respond. I mean, what world do we live in? You know, this is kind of wild that they literally have to deny a rumor started by some brando on four chan. You know, what I think is that the market was really just entering the phase of finger pointing. Now that finally all the hope is gone and we realize that this doesn't work. Well, whose fault is it? Right? And TfL is very happy to say, oh, probably not our fault. Somebody who caused this, it was the attacker.
00:38:44.236 - 00:39:13.152, Speaker C: It's the shorts problems. They're the ones that caused this. For all of you guys, don't bring your torches and pitchforks to us. Really, you should take it to these nebulous abstract attackers, whoever they may be, you know, diffuse your anger through them. So I think that's really a lot of it, what was going on, but. But honestly, a lot of it, too, is that the mob themselves want somebody to blame. Right? Like, nobody's gonna just do the self reflection necessary in the heat of the moment, maybe later on.
00:39:13.152 - 00:39:38.010, Speaker C: And I am hopeful, but in the heat of the moment, to say, oh, it was my fault, right? It was like, oh, I was greedy. And that's why this, this happened, right? They're gonna say, oh, no, it's TfL's fault. Oh, no, it's like Blackrock's fault. Oh, no, it's Gatois fault. It's this, this and that. They're going to point the finger everywhere before, you know, they point it at the mirror. And I think maybe after the cool down, I think maybe it's a lot more sobering and there can be some time for self reflection.
00:39:38.010 - 00:39:50.214, Speaker C: But I think that's basically what was going on. And that's why people come up with these wild conspiracy theories. It could have just been an accident. Nobody likes to talk about it. It could literally have just been an accident.
00:39:51.074 - 00:40:28.906, Speaker A: Yeah. I think over time, the public will put the blame on the right people. And I think, especially for a lot of retailers out there, I feel bad for them because they're kind of promised to save savings product, and I know I've heard a lot of anecdotes about people putting in a lot of their savings into it, and they kind of trusted whatever they saw online. And maybe there were endorsements from influencers as well. So over time, I do think there will be hopefully some vindication, and hopefully some of these people will. Some of the retailers, especially the smaller guys, would get, you know, bailed out in some way. I know there are a few plans that are in motion right now, and I'd love to get your thoughts on some of these plans as well.
00:40:28.906 - 00:40:57.024, Speaker A: So if you look back at the past few days, there have been a few proposals. The first proposal to save UsT was, you know, to deploy capital back in the curve pool, and it did restore the peg for a little bit. And you mentioned that for a brief moment, you thought, hey, maybe that would fix it, but obviously that didn't fix the peg. And then the second proposal they put forth was, you know, they're just going to let Luna inflate away all the bet debt. So I'm curious, you know, what was your thought on that when you saw that they're going to just let Luna inflate, like, infinitely?
00:40:58.364 - 00:41:56.776, Speaker C: Yeah. So, well, my thought on that is that I don't have a particular problem with any of the choices that were made. I think really the issue is, is that you need to communicate this stuff properly, and you need to make sure that there's no insider trading of this information. Right? So, like, for example, if in the war room where you have all these investors and all these high up people in the terra ecosystem, if they decide, okay, now we're going to raise the limit of how much can be minted and redeemed from x amount, 250 mil per day now to a million units of Luna per minute. You can imagine that even in the moments that that is being discussed, if there's a big enough population in that group, some people are going to start front running that news, right? Because they're going to know that Luna is going to be hyperinflating. I wouldn't be surprised if people in that war room and their own investors, at some point with the privilege of information, started shorting Luna themselves. And that exacerbates the problem.
00:41:56.776 - 00:42:52.870, Speaker C: And in a way, it's kind of like double dipping. I mean, these guys already got such good deals on the seed round and huge discounts and already such huge appreciation, and now get to double dick and dip and dump on retail with access to privileged information. So I think that's really what the issue is. Regardless of the decisions that they made, as long as it was not publicly broadcast and telegraphed, and there were insiders who had to come to these decisions in the first place, there's always going to be leaks, and there's always going to be some flows in the market that are adverse to retail. So that's really what the issue is now in terms of this idea of defending the peg versus letting the peg break and then hyperinflating Luna, really, they should have already had a prescription, a play by play in place that they follow down to the t. Right now, there is some argument to be said that they need some flexibility. It's like you can't fully advertise exactly what you're going to do because then the market's going to adapt.
00:42:52.870 - 00:43:56.010, Speaker C: But overall, to avoid these kinds of conflicts of interest problems, which I think are very huge, why is it there's definitely going to be investors here where they should have blown up, but they didn't? And one can only wonder why, right? And how did they make certain profits during this collapse that most other people could not have made, especially on their side. So I think there needs to be something of an investigation. We really need to clean out this kind of corruption within the space. I think they need a change of leadership, just even, even symbolically, they need that just to placate all the people and all the lunatics in order for any chance of a recovery plan for not being immediately dumped. Those are some of my thoughts. I think in the end, it does look like the reserves were used to defend the peg. But if people just knew when those clips were pushed into the market, that's huge information.
00:43:56.010 - 00:44:01.644, Speaker C: That's a huge information asymmetry, and that's not particularly fair to the average retail holder.
00:44:02.584 - 00:44:55.528, Speaker A: Yeah, in hindsight, I guess they could have been a bit clearer and a bit prompter with the communication because there was a stretch of time when they were pretty quiet. But I do think that these conflicts of interest will be very hard to avoid just in times of crisis like this. You could open it up for a vote for everybody, but that would probably make it an even slower. So I do empathize with how difficult it is for them to kind of pull this off, but I also kind of understand your point about the transparency. And I guess speaking of their responses, their latest response so far is they announced, I think, earlier today that they have about 84 $85 million in reserves left, if you don't count Ust or Luna, so significantly lower than a lot of people were thinking. They thought maybe they have a billion dollars left. So based on just rough back of the envelope math, it means that if they do bail out all of the circulating UST, that's 90% less value than where it is trading at right now.
00:44:55.528 - 00:45:04.724, Speaker A: So I'm curious about if you were in their shoes with this $80 million in reserves, what can they possibly do to placate as many people as possible?
00:45:06.344 - 00:45:40.820, Speaker C: I think there's nothing they can do, really. It's just too small. 84 mil against overhangs of billions of bad debt. It's not going to move the needle. I think there have been proposals, and I think they're at least now thinking about, I think things a little bit in the spirit of the right way, which is to favor the smaller wallets as much as possible. Now, that being said, I think in terms of legal and fairness kind of claims on this 84 mil, I think it really actually should be pro rada. But the concept of favoring retail, I think is good.
00:45:40.820 - 00:46:05.628, Speaker C: So what my opinion is, is they just do this 84 mil pro rata on the UST, right. But then in the recovery proposal, have a proposal that strongly fevers a retail for the airdrop, because at the end of the day, they do have the right to make any fork. The IP of all this code is owned by TfL. So it's totally up to them. They can literally airdrop to whoever they want. They can airdrop everything to dough if they want to. Right.
00:46:05.628 - 00:46:47.042, Speaker C: There's nothing that prohibits them from assigning any kind of proportion of the new Luna to any group, particular group. But as opposed to with UST in the current state, I do feel like there is already kind of a mandate that the UST holders be treated equally. Right. So even though I agree with the concept of favoring retail, I think here probably best just, I mean, it's so small, the amount might as well just. Unless like, the bigger wallets agree to forfeit their stake, which I think would be better. Right? I think if the bigger wallets voluntarily forfeit their claim to the 84 million, well then maybe it starts to become a little bit more material for the smaller guys. I think that's a clean solution.
00:46:47.042 - 00:47:28.602, Speaker C: But in terms of the recovery plan, I think there's a lot of considerations, and I think their very first proposal was a bit, it was kind of like trying to chop Solomon's baby, you know what I mean? Like nobody, no side is going to be happy. And I'm very sympathetic to that idea. But nevertheless, I think the numbers and the consideration should be worked out fairly carefully and we shouldn't rush this thing. There's a lot of consideration, in my opinion. Here are some of the considerations. The first is that you definitely want to favor retail over institutions, because if you do that, the bear market overall will be shorter and they will come back sooner, and they are the lifeblood of crypto. And then that long term benefits the institutions anyway, at least the ones that survive.
00:47:28.602 - 00:48:37.750, Speaker C: The ones that go belly up, well, they just want as much cash now as possible just to give back to their investors. They're closing down anyway. But for most institutions, they do benefit in the long run by having retail made as whole as possible. The other consideration is that how do you figure out who is most likely to dump the new chain versus hold on to the new chain? Well, you can look at on chain activity in Luna V one and you can see, well, who is somebody that held Luna from before the peg broke till the very end and are still holding it, and the coins never moved from that address. For folks like that, maybe they deserve a greater multiplier on their share of the new Luna tokens, not from an element of fairness, but from an element of making it work and maximizing the value for everybody that has this new token. You can look at, for example, the same thing for ust you can look at even the be Luna itself. You could categorize it as people who held their luna bonded, never unbonded, never even initiated unbonding throughout this entire thing.
00:48:37.750 - 00:49:19.720, Speaker C: And then people who initiated unbonding, but obviously didn't bond, you know, it takes like 24 days to unbond. So they never got their Luna, right. Maybe they're kind of, kind of in the class of, you know, the Luna holders that never moved, or maybe they're in a slightly worse class than Luna holders that didn't move, but at least they were. They're pretty equivalent. But the bonded Luna guys who never even tried to unbond, I would put them as senior to the Luna holders that never moved their Luna. At least you can intuit at least an ordinal ranking to these different groups as to who is most likely to hold the token, the new token, and not dump it. Then there's also questions about what happened to all the people who bought this stuff in the later stages when it was hyperinflating.
00:49:19.720 - 00:49:45.454, Speaker C: Well, one argument is that, oh, these are all speculators. By the time it hits sub sub penny, these people are just looking for like quick pumps. They're just playing the market. They want a lotto ticket, this, this and that. They're not like true believers and they're gonna dump, you know, once they get their lotto ticket and it pays out, which I think is somewhat true. But on the other hand, you also want to incentivize and reward people who are willing to buy something that is hyperinflating. Right.
00:49:45.454 - 00:50:37.714, Speaker C: Like at the end of the day, the last line of defense against all of the UST unwinding was people willing to buy under hyperinflationary periods. So like the service that they provided, should that go unrewarded and what kind of percentage cut should they get? Right. So I think all of these need to be thought through. What happens to all the luna and the airdrop to the people on the exchanges? Well, I figure that maybe one way you can do it is you could just let the exchanges assign it, right? You say, here's the lump sum and you figure out how you want to assign it to all these retail. But maybe, maybe the exchanges don't want to do that because then maybe gives them legal culpability and they don't want to have any of that to even decide. So if they got it, they just do a pro rata to everybody. So there's a lot of these kinds of considerations on what to do.
00:50:37.714 - 00:51:18.424, Speaker C: Should the exchanges get more or should they get less? What about the size of the addresses for these addresses? If they're really huge and it's clearly a whale, maybe there's like a slightly negative multiplier. Maybe we have some kind of log function or some kind of square root or, you know, some kind of, like, raised to the, you know, two thirds power or one three power, you know, kind of scaling function. So you don't, you know, you don't want to penalize them too hard, you know, just to be fair. But at the same time, maybe you want to, you know, favor the smaller wallets a little bit more. So these are, these are all some of these considerations on this reconstruction plan. And I actually offered to help them. And, you know, I said, you know, I'm happy to talk to doe.
00:51:18.424 - 00:51:36.904, Speaker C: I went through multiple avenues. I, you know, I don't want to name names, but I went through multiple avenues to try and reach the guy again, ignored me. You know, I reached out to him once in like January, ignored me. And now I reached out to him again, ignored me. I asked for an invite to the war room. They don't want to have me. I mean, I understand.
00:51:36.904 - 00:52:06.904, Speaker C: I'm very disliked. I'm very hated in that group. Right, I understand. But at this point, how is peace made? Peace happens when we are finally able to make peace with our enemies. That's how we can move on from this whole episode. So even though we're on the different sides of the battlefield, can we try and move on from this? I think our incentives at this point are fairly aligned. I even agreed to close down all of my Luna and ust positions and help facilitate this recovery.
00:52:06.904 - 00:52:35.656, Speaker C: And in the beginning, I asked them, well, because I don't want to do work for free, I think I have some good ideas. I understand the mechanism super well. So I was joking around saying, oh, we should get like, 0.25% of the new tokens on the new Luna chain, but honestly, we're also willing to accept zero. The way that I think it should happen is that basically afterwards, out of the community pool, however much goes there, they can just do a vote and we'll even lower the price. We'll say, like ten basis points. Right.
00:52:35.656 - 00:53:10.036, Speaker C: We'll take 0.1% of the new network for our help in the recovery process and let the community vote. You know, if the community says we don't deserve it or they're just particularly vindictive because of what had happened, well, let that be an outlet for their rage. That's healthier for everybody. They can screw us over, not pay us anything. That's fine. I'll accept zero, right? But I think if they want to reward help and they want to reward good behavior and having, you know, people volunteer to contribute their thoughts that I think would be valuable, then if they want to give us ten basis points of the new circulating supply, then we happily accept.
00:53:10.036 - 00:53:44.108, Speaker C: But I think to just have no communication whatsoever, I think is pretty tough. They sent the community manager to come talk to us. I don't want to talk to the community manager because the community manager is there to placate people and to basically say and do psyops and do shit like that. I want to talk to people who are in charge of designing this new mechanism, right. And the financial team and the leadership team about how to actually do the splits on, you know, these kinds of things. Right. So I'm not just trying to get, you know, appeased to say, oh, we heard you out.
00:53:44.108 - 00:54:03.036, Speaker C: Right? Like, don't. Don't send me the community manager. Like, can I talk to the man himself? You know, like, I think at this point, my incentives with him are much more aligned than with his investors, because my proposal is to protect retail here and give them the bulk of it. Right. The institutions. His investors might be mad, but it is in Do Kwon's interest to favor retail. Right.
00:54:03.036 - 00:54:39.004, Speaker C: Because at this point, the investors, whether you piss him off a little bit more or not, doesn't really matter. But he doesn't want the angry mob coming after him. So me and him were pretty aligned. That's why I wanted to talk to the man himself, but once again, was not able to. And maybe one last thing I want to say, which is that even from a symbolic point, at least, I think TfL is very necessary if you have multiple, multiple forks, but basically none of them are going to accrue value. It's better just to have one shot at something. It may still dump, but we want to minimize the chance of that new coin dumping.
00:54:39.004 - 00:54:54.196, Speaker C: So I think TfL is necessary. They have all the devs that are most familiar with the code, so I think they're necessary. We got to keep that going. But there needs to be a leadership change, even if very. Just symbolically. Right. Because of do Kwon's personality and that kind of stuff.
00:54:54.196 - 00:55:17.282, Speaker C: And I think he might even be happy to step down and have the heat taken off of him. And I think we should just put Nick Plautius in place because Nick, even though he's a little bit of a grifter, Nick is a pussy. And he's not going to do some crazy shit. Right. He's not going to do some wild and crazy shit because he's not as brave as doe. And that's the kind of person that we need in charge of this recovery plan and to be the head of the organization. Right.
00:55:17.282 - 00:55:52.956, Speaker C: Because he's too scared of what might happen if he does something bad. So that's actually great incentive for them not to have anything bad happen. So I think the perfect figurehead or person to put in place would be Nick Plautius. I don't mean to directly cast so many aspersions against Nick, but I think strategically this does make sense. He is one of the least likely to have any kind of weird malfeasance or anything like that, especially with all the public's eyes on him. He's the least bold, you know, out of. Out of a lot of those guys.
00:55:52.956 - 00:55:58.188, Speaker C: So I think the perfect person to put in charge there. So those are just sort of my thoughts there.
00:55:58.316 - 00:56:30.334, Speaker A: Yeah. I don't think I will endorse that characterization of Nick, but I do agree that there needs to be a leadership change. And Nick actually came on the show very, very early on in the Terra Luna project to describe kind of the mechanism. So we gone full circle there. But it sounds like the kind of synthesis of that is with whatever assets they have left, the 80 or so million dollars, they should just reimburse that. And then when it comes to launching Luna as a new chain, they should really take the time to consider how to structure the mechanism and the distribution of that. I think that's something that we can definitely agree with.
00:56:30.334 - 00:56:45.014, Speaker A: I know we're running out of time here, but one of our community members really does want to know, are there any other projects in crypto right now that kind of reminds you of Luna that gives you, say, a higher than 20% chance that something similar could happen to them?
00:56:46.934 - 00:57:10.534, Speaker C: Yeah. And what I would say is that there's tons of garbage projects. I think in crypto, I mean, with every cycle, at least, like 95% of projects are garbage. Right. But it's just not. The revelation of that just doesn't happen until much later. And there's also very strict narratives to not say that because nobody wants to just slam their own portfolio companies and say, well, 95% of you are going to die in big garbage.
00:57:10.534 - 00:57:34.996, Speaker C: Right. So it's just, it's not good for business. I mean, I can say that because we don't have any portfolio companies. So I think there's a lot of projects like that. But the thing is that I'm not that keen on expressing my views on that, because for the most part, if you look at the history of our firm, we've been actually very, very quiet. We haven't really been that outspoken about anything. And then the times that we said some things, it was mostly on long plays, right.
00:57:34.996 - 00:58:04.932, Speaker C: We talked about Wi Fi, we talked about FTT. This is the only time where we've been very vocal about a short, and we have shorted before, but this is the only time we've been very vocal. And the whole reason is because this thing had gone to such a big level that it really affected the entire crypto space. So generally, for things that I don't think affects the rest of the community, I'm just going to play my own longs, play my own shorts, really keep it close to the chest. I'm not that interested in sharing too many of my thoughts there. And I think also for diplomatic reasons. Right.
00:58:04.932 - 00:58:23.412, Speaker C: Like, at the end of the day, you know, you see the same people in crypto. You know, I've been here a while. You see a lot of the same faces. So I don't really want to, you know, ruin relations with people. I just thought that this one in particular, unfortunately, I did have to burn some bridges because unfortunately, you know, this has just gotten too big, and it really affected all of our livelihoods. I mean, it's affecting my bottom line. It's affecting your bottom line.
00:58:23.412 - 00:58:31.408, Speaker C: It's affecting everybody's. It's even affecting their bottom line. They just don't. Didn't even realize it. Right. It's affecting everybody's bottom line. So I thought that was worthwhile.
00:58:31.408 - 00:58:45.200, Speaker C: Just sound the alarm and let people know. But for everything else, I think it's all relatively safe. Like, even as they fail, they won't really contagion to the rest of the space. It'll just implode. Holders will lose money, but not much beyond that. Right. So there's not much systemic risk.
00:58:45.200 - 00:59:22.216, Speaker C: And I think those experiments are good. Like, at the end of the day, if people desire to play money games, then that should kind of exist. No matter how stupid it is, no matter how it always ends up. If there must be an outlet for the demands of the people, and if people really like to gamble and really like to play money games, then they should be allowed to do so. And I think we shouldn't try and constrict that, but we should just make sure that it doesn't get big enough to a point where it really causes systemic damage and contagion across the rest of the space. And even if it got to that point, it's not that we should centrally control and shut it down, but we should be vocal about it in a decentralized way. People should stand up and say, hey, you know, I know this is an unpopular idea.
00:59:22.216 - 01:00:04.836, Speaker C: I know I'm going to take a lot of flack for this from everybody, including a lot of my own friends, who are these investors, right? But, you know, this needs to be said, and you guys are on the wrong side of it here, and we need to unwind this thing as soon as possible before it causes even more damage, you know? And I think, you know, I think if everybody can do that, if everybody can just do a little bit of public service, you know, for most of it, you know, for most of our, you know, you know, existence as galois capital, we really never did much public service. Right? Like, our businesses, we're just here to turn money into more money, right? Like, that's our business, right? Um, and I don't feel bad about that, but every. I think for everybody to just do one thing, this is my one public service. I don't want to do the next crusade. I don't want to take down the next coin. I don't want to, you know, mob is angry. They already got.
01:00:04.836 - 01:00:20.674, Speaker C: They're already out of bed with their torch, pitchforks and torches, right? They're like, oh, let's go fucking burn down something else now. I'm like, no, no, no. Like, that. That was, that was the big one that we need to get rid of. Like, let's not. Why did, why did people start shorting tether? I don't understand, you know? No, everybody's trying to short everything. You know, it's like, no, no, no.
01:00:20.674 - 01:00:50.802, Speaker C: Like, that was the one. That was the one big thing. And then, like, let's all just calm down now. You know, that's not, nothing else is quite as uniquely dangerous as that. But if there is ever another case like that, I really hope someone else will lead the charge and I don't have to go stick my neck out there again because there are very serious personal costs to that, and there are very serious costs to, you know, the firm itself. You know, we, we, we definitely pay some costs as Galois capital to be on that side. So I think about it as public service.
01:00:50.802 - 01:01:12.210, Speaker C: But if we all do a little bit, I'm not asking every firm to just altruistically not run a business and only do things for the space. I'm saying do what makes sense for your bottom line, but just once, just one time. If everybody just does it once, then I think we can survive very well as an industry. Just stick your neck out once. And if everybody did, that were good, basically.
01:01:12.362 - 01:01:52.234, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree with that. And I think we're going to look back and you're kind of the Michael Burry of the crypto version of the big short here, kind of revealing some of the things that no one was paying attention to, or at least no one wanted to talk about. And it's not always easy, but I think in the end, I think you did do the right thing in warning the space. It's really unfortunate that it had to play out this way, and I think it does set the industry back maybe a few years just because of how many people have been hurt by this. So hopefully we'll be able to stick our necks out there and prevent the next thing from happening. But Kevin, really, really appreciate you coming on and sharing with us all your process. I know it's been a really busy few days and you must be super tired, but I'm really excited to share this with the community, man.
01:01:53.174 - 01:02:16.942, Speaker C: Yeah, man. Really appreciate you having me on and, yeah, wishing the best for the space as we pull the pieces back together and move forward. I'm a bit optimistic overall. At least it happened now rather than later because it would have been a lot more devastating. So I'm actually somewhat optimistic that we can come out of this bear cycle a bit quicker than last time. So here's the hoping for that.
01:02:17.038 - 01:02:18.854, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. That's a great note to end this on.
