00:00:03.510 - 00:00:45.960, Speaker A: You. Hello everybody. So great that so many of you are joining already for the boring opening ceremony. I hope I can make it less boring by telling you a bit about how this is all going to work in this online setup, which we certainly didn't expect when we were planning for this conference. And I will also introduce what do we hope to out of the solidity summit, as well as who's on the team and everything you need to know to survive the next two days with us. So I think we are good to go. That means I will share my screen with you now and we can get started.
00:00:45.960 - 00:01:31.214, Speaker A: So the first life hack for everybody who will present after me is that you click share your screen and then you click on your camera again so that you can see both the speaker as well as their slides. All right. Hello everybody. I'm super happy that you are all here. My name is Francisca and I will be your host and moderator for the next two days, except for the open discussion sessions where we will have expert moderators leading you through the sessions. We're super happy to have you all here. This is our very first solidity summit.
00:01:31.214 - 00:03:18.440, Speaker A: It was expected to be an in person event in Berlin, but due to the corona crisis which is happening right now, obviously we are not hosting an in person conference, but we switched everything to be an online conference and yeah, we hope that this will work out fine. This is certainly new to Rome for us to be hosting an online conference, but we are super happy to do this together with the interspace team and we hope that all of you will have a smooth experience. In order to have such a smooth experience, I already sent you some instructions, but I will also walk you through how everything will work again so that everybody knows how to get the best out of this conference. Firstly, welcome to everybody and why are we even hosting this event? So obviously, we want to get people involved and interested in the solidity language together and want them to be able to exchange about the topics that they are interested in. We certainly want to exchange experiences and discuss language design and tooling together because the developers of the solidity language certainly have some questions for you who are using the solidity language on how the language design should be moving forward. We hope that those discussions will actually then result in improvement proposals which will definitely impact the actual implementation of the solidity language and ul. And we don't only want to foster the communication between the solidity team so us and you guys, but we also want to foster the communication between teams that are working on maybe the same or similar topics so that you are aware of each other and maybe you can collaborate moving forward.
00:03:18.440 - 00:03:54.162, Speaker A: And. Yeah, ultimately, also, we want to obviously identify needs for the smart contract ecosystem for Ethereum and derive steps forward together. So, yeah, first of all, meet the solidity team. Those are all the people who are officially working on the solidity language at the moment. But obviously this is an unexhaustive list. We have so many open source contributors that are either contributing by reporting bugs or by requesting features, or by just joining the conversations with us. So this is just the official team that I'm listing here.
00:03:54.162 - 00:04:40.222, Speaker A: And if there are some people from the official team in the jitsu room right now, feel free to turn on your camera really briefly so that people can see you. Also there's the. Yeah, hey guys. Also there's all of the GitHub handles from the team there. So in case you have questions, you can just add them in the GitHub channel and then you can discuss with them over there. So now how to solidity summit? This conference is, as I already mentioned, powered by interspace, which is a new open source initiative to basically bring online conferencing to the blockchain space and maybe even beyond. Let's see, they already produced some great events in the past.
00:04:40.222 - 00:05:22.000, Speaker A: For example, the Noncon, which was, I think, the first conference where interspace was used, and then also a virtual hackathon Easter Turin. And I believe there will be much more events coming up in the future. So what does this mean? This conference is facilitated by a couple of tools, which I hope will make the collaboration and interaction between all of us during the conference smooth and easy, and will almost feel as if we are all in the same room together. It's powered by Jitsi, mostly. Jitsi is this open source conferencing tool and video conferencing tool, which we are using right now. So there's one main conference room. This is a single track event, so everything will happen in this main room.
00:05:22.000 - 00:06:21.280, Speaker A: There's the lobby room, which you can use to hang out, for example, in breaks. If you want to try out Jitsi, if you want to just chat casually with people who are hanging around, you can also create your own breakout rooms. So basically, if you want to take a discussion further, and it's not part of the agenda anymore, you can create your own breakout room, and then you can distribute the link of this breakout room to the people who are interested. For example, using the GitHub chat, we are using YouTube for the live stream. So if you are watching via the live stream right now already you might know that we're using the Ethereum Foundation YouTube account, and you can find the live stream link also on the interspace portal. We will be using the solidity GitHub chat for the Q A sessions and for coordination. So in case you have any question for a speaker during an open discussion session or whatever, feel free to just put your question there and the moderators will relay the questions.
00:06:21.280 - 00:07:23.940, Speaker A: We have agendas in a Google sheet as well as also in a Google calendar. So if you want to create your own individual itinerary, you can do that by going to the Google Calendar entry and just copying the agenda points that you would like to see. In the open discussion sessions. We will use hackMds to take collaborative notes, and those hackMds are also always listed in the agenda points. If you're participating today or tomorrow, or even both days of the event, you are also able to claim a proof of attendance protocol token which will verify that you attended this event and for very ad hoc coordination in case all other technologies that I've just listed above fails us. We also have a telegram group for emergency coordination in case this room breaks down or whatever needs to be coordinated. I will be sure to put it in the telegram group as well as in the GitHub channel.
00:07:23.940 - 00:08:14.598, Speaker A: So that's basically that. And you might ask yourself, but where do I find all of those links? Crazy, right? So don't you worry, just go to Interspace solidity summit, ethereum.org if you aren't there already and there you will really find everything you need in one place. And as I was outlining before, you, for example, find the collaborative notes in the description of the open discussion session if you click on agenda so how does this jitsi thing work? I have made a screenshot when I was doing a conference all on my own. So in case you opened the jitsi room in another browser tab, which I think is the recommended option to do. So. If you are, for example, a speaker, then this might look similar to you.
00:08:14.598 - 00:09:07.910, Speaker A: And Jitsu is very easy to use, actually super straightforward. There's a few features you can share your screen sharing. Your screen is on the left, in the corner, on the bottom you can raise your hand, which might be excite surfer is raising his hand, for example. You can do that in case you want to speak, so that in an open discussion session or whatever a moderator can see you want to say something. You have the microphone settings in the middle where you can also choose which mic you would want to be using. You can quit the meeting in the middle and you can also change your camera settings there and then on the right hand side on the bottom you have other settings, you can change the view and you can click on the I to know which is the room URL. But you can also know that just by seeing your browser tab.
00:09:07.910 - 00:09:25.660, Speaker A: Yeah, and you can also set yourself a name. And as I see, almost everybody who's in the room already did so. So basically by clicking on your video or by clicking on the settings you can give yourself a username. But this sounds everybody already did. So.
00:09:28.750 - 00:09:42.100, Speaker B: Yeah, I wanted to mention that you can click on the help button in the sidebar of the interspace and there's a description of the jitsi interface if you didn't catch everything that Francis said.
00:09:42.550 - 00:10:29.038, Speaker A: Absolutely, exactly. And then what's the recommended setup? So jitsi has this maximum participants of 75 participants per room limit. I don't think that we will reach this limit, but to ensure a smooth experience for everybody in case you don't plan on actively being involved aka speaking or discussing actively in a session, I would always recommend you to go for the live stream because it also saves your CPU. Obviously you can switch between live stream and participating in the jitsu room directly depending on the session. If you just want to listen in, you go watch the live stream. If you want to really actively participate, you join the room. So feel free to jump around and switch around between those two.
00:10:29.038 - 00:11:27.794, Speaker A: Talk to us in GitHub for Q and A. And yeah, just FYI, the live stream by nature has a little delay. So if you really actively want to discuss in such an open discussion session, I would recommend you to join the gypsy meeting because otherwise you will be 1 minute late more or less to the discussion. Yeah, then how do you survive 9 hours online per day? Obviously you don't need to participate in every single session, but I would love you to do so because I think it's all really relevant and interesting content. So yeah, just a few quick reminders which you might already be aware of, but I just wanted to let you know again, please don't forget over all of this cool conferencing to drink something depending on your time of the day, coffee, tea, clubmata, beer, water, whatever you prefer. Don't forget to eat. Also, don't forget to get up and stretch your legs sometimes and also have a screen break for your eyes.
00:11:27.794 - 00:12:01.754, Speaker A: So just watch out of the window or go watch your kids if they are playing around at home at the moment during corona. And yeah, you can also open the YouTube livestream on your phone so in case you need to go somewhere or just want to wander around a little bit, that's also an option. Okay, last but not least, let's have a quick look at what is going to happen today together at the agenda. So this is the agenda. You might be familiar already with it. We are currently here. I'm doing the opening.
00:12:01.754 - 00:12:42.406, Speaker A: Right after that Chris will present us the solidity 2020 roadmap. After this we have a nice talk coming up from Ricard and Shangwe about the K framework and K solidity. After this we will look at a source level formal verification tool together with Akosh. Then we will have a presentation on Satora. Then we will learn something about Dtype and chainlens, which are two tools developed by Loridana. Then we will hear about some thoughts on language design and fragmentation from Alex. And then in the afternoon we start with the open discussion sessions.
00:12:42.406 - 00:13:13.350, Speaker A: They always start in the afternoon because we want to give also the Americas a chance to participate in those. So we will start with the first discussion on Safemath by default, moderated by Chris. Then we will have a break. Then we will have a discussion on libraries 20, moderated by Chris again. Then we will receive a nice introduction on Yule plus from Nick Dotson. And after that we will also have a discussion on new features for Yule moderated by Alex. Then we will learn something about the soil compiler.
00:13:13.350 - 00:13:59.838, Speaker A: Then there will be another open discussion on upgradable contracts, another short break, another discussion on fixed point types, then tracking mapping keys with a truffle debugger by Harry and consecutively also a truffle debugger demo and followed by a debugging data discussion. You might notice that one talk is missing today. Unfortunately one of our speakers fell sick, so we will not hear about curiosities and solidity development from Nick. And that's why the fixed point types discussion has been moved up a little bit. Yeah, and that's almost it from my side. So long. I hope you will have fun and enjoy the upcoming talks and discussions.
00:13:59.838 - 00:14:16.470, Speaker A: And please feel free to ping me with any feedback you might have. I'm underscore Francie high on Twitter and Francie High everywhere else, so have fun and enjoy. And with that, without further ado, I hand the mic over to Chris.
