00:00:03.530 - 00:00:47.180, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap in SEC's settlement, Kraken agrees to shut down its crypto staking services On Thursday, the SEC announced that it had charged Kraken, one of the biggest crypto exchanges in the US. And disclosure a former sponsor of the show, with violating securities laws with its staking as a service program. The exchange announced it was immediately shuttering its crypto staking activities as part of the settlement, which also included a $30 million fine. The implication is that such programs that do not register and offer the disclosures that are required of securities offerings are unregistered securities offerings. Coinbase, the largest and only publicly traded exchange in the US. Offers a similar program.
00:00:47.180 - 00:01:41.222, Speaker A: As might be expected, SEC Commissioner Hester Purse, aka CryptoMom, published a dissent criticizing the SEC for going after staking as a service programs via an enforcement action. She notes that since such programs are all structured differently, it's not clear how this one off action would apply to other exchanges. She wrote, quote A paternalistic and lazy regulator settles on a solution like the one in this settlement do not initiate a public process to develop a workable registration process that provides valuable information to investors. Just shut it down. On Wednesday night, hours before news broke out about the Kraken settlement, Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong expressed concern that the SEC may try to eliminate staking for retail customers in the US. Calling it a terrible path for the country. And there's more in the Crypto regulation roundup.
00:01:41.222 - 00:02:52.046, Speaker A: Just after the news of the SEC's settlement broke, the IRS filed a court document seeking permission to enforce a summons on Kraken for information on who may have tax liabilities for the years 2016 through 2020. CoinDesk reported that the New York Department of Financial Services is investigating paxos which issues the PAX dollar and finance USD. This week, the SEC listed cryptocurrencies and emerging technologies as one of its priorities for the year. The SEC also issued a warning to investors to be cautious of cryptocurrencies in Individual Retirement Accounts, stating that many crypto assets could be unregistered securities trading on unregistered exchanges. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is preparing for a big year of cryptocurrency enforcement actions. According to Chairman Rostin Benham. DCG and Genesis reach an Agreement Digital Currency Group and Genesis, the crypto lending platform that filed for bankruptcy last month, reached a preliminary agreement with the main creditors, including Gemini, which has agreed to contribute $100 million in additional funds to its earned program users.
00:02:52.046 - 00:03:45.150, Speaker A: The creditors had claims totaling $2.4 billion against Genesis. The agreement involves winding down the loan portfolio, selling off assets and refinancing outstanding loans with $500 million in cash and $100 million worth of bitcoin from DCG. It also involves a restructuring of the debt owed by DCG to Genesis and the issuance of a class of convertible preferred stock. Moreover, the Financial Times reported that DCG has begun to dispose of its stake in various investment funds run by its subsidiary Grayscale at a significant discount. Adam Cochrane, partner at Cinemhane Ventures, said DCG is starting to dump EFE and GBTC on their own bag holders to bail out their sketchy lending practice department gross. The last hours at FTX were filled with chaos and confusion.
00:03:45.150 - 00:04:46.838, Speaker A: According to a report by the Financial Times, the final hours at FTX were marked by chaos as customers withdrew their funds and employees fled the company's Bahamas offices as Bankman Fried faced harried messages from Bahamian officials and panicked questions from staff. Top leaders like Caroline Ellison, who ran Bankman Fried's other company, the crypto hedge fund Alameda Research, scrambled to handle the logistics of the company's downfall. In the end, Ellison was reportedly relieved when the chaos came to an end and admitted to feeling trapped by the company, a colleague said. SPF appeals to keep Cosigners names confidential Sam Bingman Fried, former CEO of FTX, has contested the court's decision to make the names of Cosigners of the $250,000,000 bond public. He has submitted an appeal to keep the names confidential, as disclosure could lead to privacy and security concerns for the Co signers. The initial court decision was made after media outlets requested that the names be unsealed. U.
00:04:46.838 - 00:05:51.318, Speaker A: S. Judge has concerns about SBF's communications at a hearing in New York on Thursday, which Sam Bigman, Fried's legal team intended to cancel, Judge Lewis Kaplan indicated that he had concerns about SBF's ability to potentially hide or delete his communications. Judge Kaplan ordered his lawyers to submit a new proposal for modifying his bail conditions, which would include the installation of monitoring software on Bankwin Fried's phone to automatically record and archive all of his communications. This would put an end to the ongoing disagreement between federal prosecutors and Bankman Fried's lawyers over the conditions of his bail. Earlier this week, the legal team for Banquin, Freed and prosecutors had reached a deal to modify the terms of the FTX founders bail regarding electronic communications, but Judge Kaplan rejected it. New FTX related token sparks controversy on Sunday huobi, a cryptocurrency exchange added a new token to its platform called FTX User Debt, or FUD. This derivative token represents 2% of FTX's total debt and is issued by Debt Dow.
00:05:51.318 - 00:06:30.566, Speaker A: It provides creditors with priority in asserting their claims on the debt owed by FTX during the early bird issuance phase. The debt will be sold at a reduced price. The initial release has been set to 20 million FUD tokens. Despite this, there are some concerns about the listing. Wasi lawyer, a bankruptcy expert, called it a violation of securities laws and pointed out that not all debt claims are equal and fungible. However, only hours after the announcement, the FUD tokens experienced a lot of volatility, which resulted in the decision to destroy most of the token supply permanently. 18 million FUD tokens will be burnt to bring its valuation in line with debt.
00:06:30.566 - 00:07:14.262, Speaker A: Dow's fair value of under $1. Politicians should return donations, FTX says. FTX is requesting the return of political donations linked to its former CEO and executives by end of this month as part of its review of $93 million in political contributions made between March 2020 and November 2022. If the money is not voluntarily returned, the FTX debtors have stated that they will reserve their right to reclaim the funds in a bankruptcy court. A recent report from CoinDesk estimated that over one third of the 535 members of Congress received money from FTX executives. In other developments regarding the FTX case, U. S.
00:07:14.262 - 00:08:07.302, Speaker A: Prosecutors requested to postpone the civil fraud cases against Sam Bankman Fried until the completion of the criminal case against him. A Delaware bankruptcy judge decided to let lawyers negotiate a mutually agreed solution instead of ruling on an examiner's appointment in the bankruptcy case. An independent examiner would be more unbiased but would also cost millions of dollars, potentially diminishing the return to creditors. Speaking of costs, the bankruptcy costs of the FTX case are piling up. Even though FTX wants to save money on examiners, it is definitely spending a fair share of creditors money on other bankruptcy related matters. According to court documents, the exchange and its related firms have incurred over $20 million in legal and consulting expenses in the initial stages of its bankruptcy proceedings. Sullivan and Cromwell, a law firm, charged $9.5
00:08:07.302 - 00:08:45.466, Speaker A: million for its services, and John J. Ray II, who was appointed as the replacement CEO, charged the exchange $690,000 for his first few weeks of work. Robinhood to pursue repurchase of seized shares from SBF. And Wang. Robinhood announced plans to buy 55 million shares previously owned by Emergent Fidelity Technologies controlled by former FTX executives Sam Bankman Fried and Gary Wang that were seized by the US. Department of justice. Robinhood's CEO Vlad Tenev stated that the repurchase would be accretive for the company, though the timeline for the purchase is unclear.
00:08:45.466 - 00:10:00.566, Speaker A: Due to the ongoing fraud case against Bankman Fried and disputes over ownership of the stock by various entities, including BlockFi and FTX. Three AC Cofounders establish an Exchange The founders of failed crypto fund Three Arrows Capital, Su Zhu and Kyle Davies, along with the cofounders of CoinFLEX, have created Open Exchange, a platform to trade crypto claims and derivatives. The venture is proposed as a solution to the $20 billion market of claimants, seeking resolution for money lost at bankrupt crypto firms such as FTX, Voyager, Celsius, Genesis, Blockfly, Mount Gox and Three AC. Kyle Davies Disregards Court Mandate Also this week, Kyle Davies did not comply with a court subpoena for the hedge fund's financial records. The current representatives of the bankrupt company, Russell Crumpler and Christopher Farmer have lodged a complaint against Davies for obstructing the investigation and promoting new crypto ventures. According to the complaint, Davies has only provided limited information and has been uncooperative in their efforts to gather the required records. A hearing has been scheduled for March 2 to determine if the court will enforce the subpoena and force Davies to comply.
00:10:00.566 - 00:10:46.330, Speaker A: Crypto Donations Pour into Turkey and Syria After devastating earthquakes in response to the deadly earthquake in Turkey and Syria, the crypto community has rallied together to provide aid and support to those affected by the disaster, raising as much as $3.5 million for Turkey. And still counting, crypto companies such as binance Tether, Bitfinex, and Kucoin pledged over $9 million in aid. Crypto donations have become a wellestablished way of providing relief in times of crisis. After the initial invasion of Ukraine by Russia, crypto was widely used to donate funds and provide much needed support to those affected by the conflict. For those who would like to donate to the relief effort in Turkey and Syria, the addresses are in the show notes. Time for fun bits.
00:10:46.330 - 00:10:59.530, Speaker A: An Extremely Bored Ape The FBI seized a bored ape, which turns out to be a pretty hilarious story. Why don't you listen to it? From Unchained social media manager Jenny Hogan.
00:10:59.690 - 00:11:44.478, Speaker B: So the FBI has seized a board ape, which, now that it's mired in government bureaucracy, is an extremely bored ape. To a recent report, the FBI seized the ape a doodle NFT about 87 ETH and a $40,000 watch, all from an infamous crypto scammer named horror. By far the most shocking part of this story is that when the government seized the assets, the ETH was worth about $116,000, and today it's worth about $144,000. That is a twist for the ages. Of course, the FBI themselves did not actually find horror doing things, achieving goals, helping people that's not really like what the government's all about. Independent blockchain investor Zach XBT to the rescue we don't know the real identity of Zach XBT. He is not, as his name suggests, one of Elon Musk's children.
00:11:44.478 - 00:11:59.794, Speaker B: But get this horror was discovered because of a $40,000 watch that he bragged about on social media. Doesn't he have anything normal to post about, like an avocado? All of which is to say, if you're going to steal a shit ton of crypto, have the decency to use your iPhone to keep track of time.
00:11:59.992 - 00:12:30.730, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Chris and the drama around the governance of Uniswap, check out the show notes for this episode. Want more short bites of crypto content? Unchained has started releasing original videos. Find our latest on whether a 16 z controls Uniswap on our YouTube channel. Unchained is produced by me laura Shin without from Anthony Yoon mark Murdoch matt Pilchard zach Seward Bonavanovich sam Sriram ginny Hogan ben Munster Pama Jimdar Shashank and Salk Transcription thanks for listening. Don't.
