00:00:00.330 - 00:00:35.266, Speaker A: Do you want to get a $500,000 salary according to this job description? That's the salary that you can make as a solidity developer. Is it real, though? How much money can you really make as a solidity developer? And to answer this question, I invited Raman, the creator of cryptojoblist, one of the biggest job bold for blockchain jobs. Raman collected a lot of data about blockchain salaries, and that makes him one of the most qualified person to talk of solidity salaries. So let's start with our first question. What is the highest paid skill in blockchain?
00:00:35.378 - 00:01:18.054, Speaker B: Right? So surprisingly or not, it's definitely solidity, usually followed by kind of the compliance or legal rules. But solidity engineering is still kind of like number one role that is getting paid the most on average. I'm sure you will probably hear some outliers about certain positions, but solidity is still, on average probably the higher skill. Interestingly enough, Rust is probably on average not as highly paid as solidity engineers. And solidity will still be, again, like number one, surprising or not. And I guess it's like reassuring to a lot of people that it's smart contract programming language that's been around for some time, and it's definitely going to stay around for at least as many years as been around, following kind of the Lindy effect.
00:01:18.172 - 00:01:38.774, Speaker A: Okay, so if you want to be as efficient as possible, be laser focused on solidity. That's the skill that will give you the highest ROI. And don't waste too much time on commoditized skills like frontend, HTML or CSS. So my next question for Raman is what is the average salary for solidity developers?
00:01:38.902 - 00:01:52.442, Speaker B: Based on our stats that we're receiving, is like an average salary for solidity dev is anywhere from around one hundred k, one hundred and twenty K. And on the 19th percentile, it's one hundred and fifty six k us pretty much globally.
00:01:52.586 - 00:02:07.906, Speaker A: Okay, so clearly you can be very well paid as a solidity developer, but let's dig deeper, because depending on your senior it, your salary can change a lot. So my next question is, which salary can you get as a junior solidity developer?
00:02:08.018 - 00:02:34.634, Speaker B: So I did look into our stats, and for junior, interestingly, the salary is much lower. And I'll explain why. So far what I looked up, it seems to be $76,000. It seems to be the average. All right, so the nintieth percentile for junior solidity developers is about 130,000. Again, the average is about like 70 to. Yes, 75 is pretty much 50th percentile.
00:02:34.634 - 00:03:42.018, Speaker B: So right in the middle. And so the reason why these salaries for junior solidity developers are so much more, much lower, right. Is that think the responsibility that lies in front of solidity developers are very high, right? So companies are not willing to spend top dollar on someone who is just getting started. And it's very hard because it's a very high risk. If you introduce a bug into a contract that is again, like millions of dollars potentially stolen, you cannot rely on that individual. And most likely than not, if you're getting someone who is junior on your team, they are still in their learning process, right? So I think it's very fair to accept something lower, especially if you're in a solid organization, when you have more senior engineers working beside you. It's a learning opportunity, right? So, like taking that salary card and not trying to chase some stratospheric half a million dollars or even 200K salary is very reasonable because within that first year of working, or even maybe within six months, you will be more confident in your skills, you will understand where you actually stand.
00:03:42.018 - 00:04:10.518, Speaker B: Hopefully you will get feedback from your superiors, from your bosses, and more senior engineers about your skills, right. And you will be able to hopefully be honest with yourself and understand, okay, I'm actually worth much more, or maybe like, oh, no, it's actually much harder than I thought and I should still stay at my current level, which is like, for example, 80K or 90K, which is still a very good salary for a lot of places in the world, even for us. But especially if you work remotely, I think it's a really good salary to accept.
00:04:10.614 - 00:04:44.166, Speaker A: Okay, so according to Rahman, a junior solidity developer, quote unquote, only makes $75,000 per year. So I believe what he said because he has the data. This being said, I often say on my channel that junior solidity developer can make $100,000 per year. This is what I made for myself, and this is what a lot of my student got. And this is also the salary that a lot of my students got as junior. So who is right? 75,000 is the average. But if you're better than the average, you get paid more.
00:04:44.166 - 00:05:04.410, Speaker A: If you work hard enough as a junior, yes, you can make 100,000. In any case, the entry level salary is not the most important. What really matter is what you can make later as a senior solidity developer. So my next question for Raman is, what is the highest salary that you can make as a solidity developer?
00:05:04.490 - 00:06:12.466, Speaker B: So these crazy salaries, they're usually for larger companies that are more established companies, it's usually like director or leadership or lead level. But again, these are probably not that common. And if you're seeing some young startup that is offering a salary like this, I would be cautious and not to be part of some scam or some kind of job where you will work and maybe you'll be getting that on monthly basis for the first few months and then something happens and then company goes bankrupt or founders rob the entire project. So you want to be very careful figuring out who to work with. And also when you're hearing some information about these super crazy high paid positions, again, take them with a grain of salt. But yeah, again, the reality is these positions are out there, usually at large organizations. You think of chain link, Coinbase, those established protocols, established l one companies, their compensation can be for senior or like lead talent, anywhere from half a million to a million.
00:06:12.466 - 00:07:14.982, Speaker B: And that is quite realistic. But again, you really want to look into specifics, which company is offering it, how realistic that compensation is, because again, especially during bull markets, we all see different startups that just raise a lot of money and they are really aggressive at trying to acquire the best talent and they would put out some dramatic salary bans on any job ad platforms, including with us. And quite often it's not necessarily realistic, but you want to be very careful and understand, okay, sometimes it's maybe even better to take something that is slightly lower paid, but if you want that job stability, but if you're confident that the company is going to be around for not just a few months, but more than a year, or if you want to turn it into career, but again, to each their own. If you're willing to take the risk and just to take a very high salary, you still want to do your due diligence on a company.
00:07:15.116 - 00:07:31.702, Speaker A: Okay? So clearly you have a lot of upside as a solidity developer. It can go way above what you can make as a junior. And this leads me to my next question for Raman. Does he have any advice for junior solidity developer who are trying to get a job?
00:07:31.856 - 00:08:41.842, Speaker B: My typical advice for anyone I would say is to solve your own problems and build projects that you yourself is interested in and you want to have something to show, ideally live on main net or on one of those l two s and just build some mini app that you would be excited to use yourself. And I think that put on your passion into it, something that I get you excited about. If you're excited about NFTs, launch some NFT contract that has a spin on technicalities of it, right? Like maybe some advanced SVG computation or maybe some NFT aggregator or maybe some algorithm that does improved, I don't know, NFT trading or with staking, I don't know. Sky's the limit when it comes to imagination. You need to be solving your own problems. Don't try to chase whatever is the latest hype. But again, if it just so happens that the latest trend is what you're genuinely interested in, just do it, right? If you like building, I don't know, like stable coins, right? For example, or some DeFi products and you have some financial background, I think it's an exciting project to work on.
00:08:41.842 - 00:09:36.366, Speaker B: Just pursue what you're already interested in and try to build some project on chain that you would be happy to use yourself and that kind of satisfies your interests. So I think that's one direction to follow. Another one is just to go to your favorite projects and analyze their contracts on GitHub, right? Analyze them, try to understand them, try to maybe replicate them, maybe try to even copy. Don't steal anything, but you copy so that you can learn. Even the greatest painters of Renaissance, they would copy other painters paintings so that they can learn the craft and understand deeper their craft. So I think the next level there is just submit, pull requests, submit some issues, I mean not even issues, but specifically pull requests and be active on GitHub. I think core teams really pay attention to those people who submit a lot of pull requests who are helpful in comments on GitHub.
00:09:36.366 - 00:10:18.222, Speaker B: And I think that's one of probably the best ways to get hired. Know what companies really want is they do not want someone who just aces the job interview. They actually want someone who is kind of already working for the company. And one of the best ways to already start working a company is just start providing value, start contributing on GitHub, start discovering some issues, start thinking, how can it be optimized? Some other ways I would say is to. Again, it still kind of goes like following your own passion and following your interests. Try to build a library, right? Maybe you found something that you find very hard and difficult. Maybe it's hard to pull some data from chain and you want to build some aggregator.
00:10:18.222 - 00:10:54.206, Speaker B: Just build that. It doesn't have to turn into a startup or a company. Don't even worry about it, just solve that problem and put it out there, tweet about it and people will find it useful or not. But one way or another, you will still not going to lose because you will learn a lot in the process of making this every failure is a learning opportunity. It's never a failure. Like for example, a lot of people launch their own libraries, and these libraries are now used in Hungary projects, whether it's math library or some other gas optimization library, like solady from Optimizer. I recently met him.
00:10:54.206 - 00:11:28.278, Speaker B: So it's quite exciting to see all these people getting so much traction and they're advancing their career because they just solved their own problems, packaged them and made them useful to others. So again, these are more like maybe tips for someone who's intermediate to advanced. Maybe. But you never know. Even people who are just getting started. One of the advantages of just being a newbie and just getting started is that you're still fresh, you're not taking things for granted. Right? A lot of people who've been in the industry for many years, they're like, okay, this is the way it's been always done and I'm not going to attempt to change it.
00:11:28.278 - 00:11:59.410, Speaker B: But again, one of the best ways to, some of the best innovations happen from people who didn't know it was hard and they just did it. Just don't wait for permission to build something or to innovate, to contribute, just start contributing. And I think that is the best way to, again, to get more experience, to get noticed and to land your career, to earn more and again, to be successful and actually do what you love doing. Yeah.
00:11:59.480 - 00:12:08.430, Speaker A: So the advice of Raman is to work on your side project and build your portfolio. My next question for Raman is what kind of company needs solidity developers?
00:12:08.590 - 00:12:46.482, Speaker B: Great. So I think there is a range of companies in terms of, again, their scale and their focus that are looking for solidity devs. Again, it's like anywhere from startups all the way to large organizations, which is kind of like obvious. So you need to really understand where you feel most confident in. Usually if you're junior, surprising or not, you're better off going into a slightly larger company, maybe where they can teach you a bit more, or at least at a company where there is at least one more senior person that you are, so you can learn from them. Right. Versus more experienced people.
00:12:46.482 - 00:13:37.486, Speaker B: They would probably prefer going into a startup where the upside is much higher and where they have much more autonomy and autonomy and the way that they can impact the actual project. Right. But in terms of different kind of interest directions. So there are a lot of NFT companies out there where it's just an NFT collection and they're trying to launch some new interesting community elements to them or some spin on their project something could be technical. There are marketplaces, and again, there are different marketplaces. For example, whether it's NFT, Mac plus or not, exchanges, exchanges. Every single time there is a new chain that is launched, there are existing changes that are launching there, like the Uniswap, the one inch, and others just range of dexes that would be launching every single chain.
00:13:37.486 - 00:14:23.922, Speaker B: And quite often if the chain is very different, which is again in the VM space, is not that common. Actually, sometimes there are dedicated Dex projects that are just like starting from a specific chain. What are some other examples? I think there's quite a few wallets that are looking for solidity devs. So to make sure, especially if it's multi Sig wallet and they have some sort of support for account abstraction, for example, I think that's going to be another big trend. I think there is more companies that are supporting account abstraction standard, but I think there will be more and more companies that are building something interesting on top of it. And that does require knowledge and solidity and to be able to ship code and integrate with the rest of the application. What else? Arbitrage, pretty much minor extractable value.
00:14:23.922 - 00:15:12.202, Speaker B: Quite a lot of them are, you still need to have solidity knowledge to be able to interact with exchanges and monitor the chain and then be able to exploit some of the mispriced transactions on chain. Not necessarily. I'm encouraging it and their ethics are questionable sometimes of it, but I think that what brings exploiting arbitrage opportunities, what kind of equalizes the markets so it's a healthy part of the ecosystem. Another good example of an entire category is gaming companies Gamefi. And again, I think there is a wide range from existing gaming companies that are trying to build some on chain interactions, all the way to startups where maybe their idea is questionable. But still, that's like a category that you can kind of try yourself in. But again, with gaming companies, you want to be careful.
00:15:12.202 - 00:15:49.450, Speaker B: I personally seen a lot of scam projects that are kind of covering themselves as a gaming company, and they're looking for a full range of talent. So you want to be careful applying for those and really do your due diligence on what they're about, whether the team is transparent or not, and if it's actually a game and not some rug pool scam. Okay, let's see what else is there in terms of entire category that is applicable for solidity device staking projects. But I'm not sure how big of a category that is. But there's definitely a lot of staking projects out there. What am I missing? What would you add to this list?
00:15:49.520 - 00:15:52.538, Speaker A: Big web two companies that are dipping their toes into web3.
00:15:52.624 - 00:16:54.410, Speaker B: Yeah, I think Visa, Mastercard are the interesting examples. I think they're trying to find ways that they can work together with USDC, with circle and kind of enable USDC payments across or probably other stablecoins as well. They're looking into them, but I guess that work is. I'm not sure how deep and versatile that work is, but it's certainly probably going to be still highly paid and you're probably going to be working on a lot of proofs of concept and seeing how you can add checks and balances, how you can add safety and compliance gateways into kind of having that bridge between ERC 20 contracts and tokens to the Visa and Mastercard network. Yeah. So I think there are some interesting ways there, interesting opportunities there. They're probably kind of like, again, some bridge between Web two, web3, with its own stability perhaps, which is probably upside, but you're probably not going to be like a complete web3 on the forefront.
00:16:54.410 - 00:17:10.162, Speaker B: You never know. Some of these large companies, they are indeed doing interesting things. But to my knowledge, a lot of them that are not in finance space, they are just building on their own private chains. They're in hyperledger and I'm not sure, there's not much interesting stuff going on on those private chains.
00:17:10.226 - 00:17:22.306, Speaker A: Okay, so as you can see, there are many types of companies that need solidity developers. My next question for Raman is in which location can we find the highest paid solidity jobs?
00:17:22.418 - 00:18:08.370, Speaker B: Yeah, so location wise it seems to be remote or like whatever is the top kind of concentration of devs, right. So obviously Silicon Valley is one of the destinations that famous for high salaries, but there are a few of these hubs that attract a lot of talent and they're more or less crypto friendly. Singapore is one of them where there's more and more headquarters and a lot of big exchanges have offices here. They might not necessarily even be operating in Singapore, but they're not offering their services to Singapore market. But they still have an office and it's totally legal and they're able to legitimately pay a very high salary. Quite often they even offer some relocation. Perhaps same thing applies for Dubai.
00:18:08.370 - 00:19:09.574, Speaker B: Dubai is a little bit wild west, so to say, environment to my knowledge, where there is a broader range of wild and maybe some questionable companies. But I wouldn't be surprised if some of them can be paying extra for in person presence. But again, to my knowledge. Some of the best interesting people that I've met and I know they are really based all over the place without any specific geographical attachment. So there is really no correlation. I think the finding really good talent, especially in technology sector overall, not only in crypto, but technology, and in such a niche as solidity, it's even more niche than general tech. Finding the exceptional talent as a company, you can't really pick and choose a specific location, right? Maybe with very rare exceptions, if you're like coinbase, but for great engineers and if the communication is good, companies usually will be willing to hire almost from anywhere, but again, almost anywhere.
00:19:09.574 - 00:19:37.582, Speaker B: But there is again, a lot of catch, kind of like aha moments out there because the world is getting more and more fragmented. There is regulations, there is compliance, there is sanctioned countries. So unfortunately that has an impact on who gets to work where. And sometimes companies, they would choose not to hire someone from certain countries or certain jurisdictions, which is very sad and unfortunate.
00:19:37.726 - 00:19:53.674, Speaker A: Okay, so what Raman said is a lot of jobs are remote and it doesn't matter where you live. But just to make it clear, I ask this follow up question to Raman. Can you still earn a high salary in blockchain even if you don't live in the US?
00:19:53.792 - 00:20:26.142, Speaker B: It's 100% yes, you can earn a high salary while not being in us. But again, the reality is it's probably going to be adjusted. Like usually larger companies, they would have market adjustment. They will adjust your salary band to your location quite often. Again, it really depends on company by company and it really depends on your skill level, right. How desperate the company is for your services and how good you are. If you're internationally well known person, if you really have some unique skills, then kind know sky is limiting.
00:20:26.142 - 00:21:17.258, Speaker B: You don't have to be based in us in certain cases. I've heard this sentiment that some companies would actually prefer not to have any employees based in us or being american, unfortunately or not because of the taxation, because of the long reach of IRS and SEC, and if you're getting compensated in tokens for some jurisdictions, that might be a problem. If you're american, it can be a problem that might even have a toll on the rest of the company, especially if there are some investigation or some other claims on that individual or on where the company is on operations of the company. Yeah. So probably sometimes some people would even consider there are advantages to not being in us and not being american while working in crypto, or while being an engineer and getting you a salary in crypto.
00:21:17.374 - 00:21:28.838, Speaker A: Okay, so as you can see, high salaries are not just for us residents. And for my last question to Rahman, I ask him how strong is the demand for solidity job right now?
00:21:28.924 - 00:22:07.474, Speaker B: Right now? Again, it's middle of November and the excitement is increasingly more and more out there on the market. More people are excited of early signs of bull market, hopefully, but I think the job market hasn't fold up yet. I think the real peak and boom will be happening maybe a few months in, maybe like mid or early next year. We'll see with more projects getting funded, maybe new ideas, some new catalyzer or catalyst for a big bull market. Maybe it's going to be game five. Maybe it's going to be some new NFT trend. Maybe it's going to be, I don't know, account abstraction, tokens or something else or real world assets.
00:22:07.474 - 00:22:59.762, Speaker B: That's one thing that people have been talking about. But so far I'm not seeing the kind of big spikes in demand or absence of demand facility developers I think the demand is kind of stable in terms of serious projects. They always look for quality talent. And having technical talent is like you cannot do anything without having an engineer who will be building your contracts, right? So it's kind of a necessity. Maybe you can get away by not having certain roles, but you cannot build a project just by marketing yourself and not shipping any code, not launching anything on chain. So there's always demand for validity devs and it's not something you can kind of easily get rid of, especially if you found someone who's really good. It's not advisable to just fire someone, but yeah, especially as the market gets hotter, we'll definitely see more opportunities.
00:22:59.762 - 00:23:24.522, Speaker B: A lot of these opportunities will be very maybe potentially short term just to help some project get off the ground or launch some new token or new on chain asset. But opportunities for someone who is permanent, they're pretty abundant. Every company wants to have someone full time, someone who's decently senior and be able to support their project through kind of lows and highs.
00:23:24.586 - 00:24:13.438, Speaker A: So the key takeaway is that there is still a healthy demand for solidity jobs and it's expected that it will explode in the next few months when the bull market returns. So if you are considering a career in solidity, it's a very good career choice in 2023. And for Black Friday, I'm doing a spatial solidity boot camp. This is going to be a one month intensive program to turn you into a solidity pro. We will cover advanced material and you will get feedback on your code, which is something that you cannot get by just passively following a video course. This is really this feedback on your code that will make all the difference and that will help you to stand out from the competitors. And if you want more information about this solidity boot camp, check out the link down below.
00:24:13.438 - 00:24:24.490, Speaker A: The enrollment for this boot camp ends on November 22, so if you are interested, make sure to take action quickly. All right, that's it for this video. Thanks for watching. Bye.
