00:00:00.640 - 00:00:27.842, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 11 February 2021. Alright, everyone, let's get into the news from the last 24 hours. So, bit of a crazy time right now, especially in the markets. I guess it's been like that for a few weeks now, but yeah, it's just feeling even crazier and crazier. And I put this tweet out today and I'll read out what I said. I basically said, quote, just going to put it out there.
00:00:27.842 - 00:00:48.826, Speaker A: Social signals like celebrities shilling Crypto ain't going to work as a top signal this cycle. Crypto is mainstream now. In 2017, we didn't have billion dollar companies putting BTC on their balance sheets. Embrace it. Respect the pump. So obviously respect the pump is a, is a reference to a meme where Ivan on tech was saying this in one of his videos. If you haven't seen that yet, it's quite funny.
00:00:48.826 - 00:01:21.134, Speaker A: But I guess the general gist of this tweet is basically to say, you know, I see people always messaging me and, you know, being like, you know, all these celebrities are shilling everything. Like, is this a top? Like, are we going to crash? Like, this is crazy. And I get that. But, you know, there's a lot of different top signals you can kind of look for. Right? And, and I think celebrity shilling crypto is not one of them at this cycle simply because of the reason I gave. Right. Where I believe crypto is mainstream now, where it's kind of in the mainstream consciousness and a lot of people are paying attention to it now.
00:01:21.134 - 00:02:12.142, Speaker A: We had the Tesla Elon Musk news the other day, right? We've had other companies put BTC on their balance sheets. We have traditional investors, like, talking about ETH and talking about DeFi, and we have, like, all these other celebrities coming in through NFts. So, you know, I think that, you know, and I followed up this tweet saying that I don't think that this means that everything's gonna go up forever and that this time is, quote unquote different or anything like that. But I think trying to pick a kind of cycle top based on celebrity signals is gone. It's just, it's just not gonna be effective, you know, in saying that, like, I, I have my own kind of top signals that I look out for, but I don't, I just don't know. Like, no one knows, right? You don't know it was the top until kind of way after. Because if you actually look at what happens at the end of a cycle, we have like a massive crash, right? And then we have what's called a dead cat bounce.
00:02:12.142 - 00:02:34.026, Speaker A: So what this references is that the price will kind of bounce from there. You know, you get a lot of people buying it up, right? And it'll kind of bounce and it won't go back up to all time high. It'll like just go below it, right. And that'll give people hope that, you know, oh, that wasn't actually like the crash, you know, that wasn't actually the cycle top. We're actually going to keep going up. But. But the reason it's called a dead cat is because it bounces, right? But then it goes back down after that.
00:02:34.026 - 00:02:59.814, Speaker A: And that's when, you know, when it goes back down and every time it tries to bounce, it keeps going down. That's when you kind of know that, you know, that we topped, right? Cause we've seen the crashes, right? We've seen the 30% crashes in a day. Not in a day, but like over a few days, right, in a bull market. And they happen frequently. But you know, there's a bounce there and it's not a dead cap bounce. It continues up but it continues higher. And that's because people are still feeling really bullish, right? There's buy pressure there.
00:02:59.814 - 00:03:36.508, Speaker A: It's, you know, people aren't feeling bearish right now. So there's that side of it for me. You know, a big top signal in 2017 for me was when absolute kind of trash was pumping, right? When these things that are like dead, no one even cares about them and they're just pumping for no reason. And I'm not talking about like the other kind of, I guess, like chains, like the Ethereum competitor chains. I'm literally talking about things that are literally dead, right? They were like old forks of bitcoin and, you know, no one cares about them. They're essentially almost scams. But they pumped at towards the end like really hard because people were like feeling invincible, right? Everyone thought they were going to win, no one thought they could lose.
00:03:36.508 - 00:04:10.074, Speaker A: So you had this kind of, I guess I like to call it like a swan pump where it was like the last pump and that was a clear signal back then. But in saying that the same thing's happening right now and it's happening in a pretty big way too. But I just. I'm not feeling like we at a top yet. I'm still very bullish I think that the reason why it's happening sooner this time is because we have just so much new money and new people coming into this ecosystem right now. It's actually mind boggling, considering that. I actually think in 2017 we had less people, sorry, more people than we, we have right now.
00:04:10.074 - 00:04:35.152, Speaker A: But we're quickly approaching parity, and I think we're going to pass that. And I think the fact that the traditional finance system is, like, more involved this time and bigger money is more involved. Like, I talk to people all the time and they're like, you know, the institutions are actually here outside of BTC now as well. They're interested in ETH, they're interested in defi. They want to know how to get exposure. So that from that angle, like, it's very hard for me to be bearish, like on the kind of macro scale. Cause the way I look at it is like a scale.
00:04:35.152 - 00:05:18.270, Speaker A: On the one scale you have, like the euphoria, you know, the end of the kind of bull market, you know, all the, all the crappy stuff going on that you think are like, top signals. And on the other scale, you have the new money flowing in. So as long as the new money is kind of heavier than the, you know, the top signals, so to speak, then it's, we're going to keep going and no one knows, you know, when the new money is going to stop coming in. I mean, the only way you could actually figure that out and kind of look for a good signal is if you were like a centralized exchange and you were obviously had data on how much new money was coming in, what your, you know, new, new user signups were like. Those kind of places are best positioned to kind of look at that. But even, even still, like, I mean, I just thought of something as Coinbase is ipo ing this year, right. Coinbase hasn't even ipo'd yet.
00:05:18.270 - 00:05:39.138, Speaker A: And that's going to bring in a ton of fresh interest and capital, I think, too. And, you know, I just, I don't know where we're going to top. I. All the signals that I used to use are moot right now. None of them work right now. Um, because of the fact that we've just, like, basically widened the, the reach of crypto to basically everyone now. And I think we're going to see, you know, a lot of people coming in because of that.
00:05:39.138 - 00:06:13.718, Speaker A: So, yeah, just a little bit of thoughts on that. I know yesterday I might have sounded a little bit bearish and I kind of was in, in because, like, I was looking at Coingecko and I was like, this is just insane. Like, this is how I felt at the end of 2017, and we all know how that ended up happening. But then I took, like, today to kind of really think about, like, you know, think it through, like, from first principles and think about all the stuff that's still bullish about the ecosystem and still kind of, like, lasting and what we still have to look forward to. And it kind of counterbalanced that. Like, my scale tipped back to, okay, like, I'm pretty bullish. Even though all this other crap's happening, I'm still bullish.
00:06:13.718 - 00:06:42.034, Speaker A: So, yeah, I just maybe wanted to clarify a little bit of what I was talking about yesterday, too, because I had a couple of people messaging me about it and saying, oh, you're bearish. I'm like, no, not necessarily bearish. Just, like, call cautious, I guess you could say, because, you know, you always want to be cautious. You always want to kind of, like, make sure that, you know, you're. You're in a position that if we do go into another bear market, that you're fine. And I actually live by a rule that, you know, you never want to be 100% out of the market, but you never want to be 0% out of the market either. Right.
00:06:42.034 - 00:07:04.354, Speaker A: So you want to kind of strike a balance. And what a lot of people like to do is, I like to sell on the way up, which I think is actually, like, totally fine. Even though you're still bullish, you're just taking risk off the table, essentially. Right, right. You're basically potentially going into stable coins and just yield farming with it. I mean, that's something you couldn't do in 2017. Now you just cash it out the stable coins, you know, pay your taxes if you have to, and then earn some.
00:07:04.354 - 00:07:35.744, Speaker A: Some yield on it, which I think is really cool as well. So, yeah, I mean, I had a. I mean, I've gone through why I'm still really bullish on Ethereum, obviously, in one of my refills the other day, I think it was last week, I went through, like, 20 minutes of just why I'm extremely bullish on Ethereum and Ethan, that nothing's changed since then. I just think that, you know, we could have, like, local tops where the market dumps 30% again and, you know, everyone thinks, oh, is that it? Was that it? Right. And that happened seven times in 2017, I think, until it actually was it. So this isn't unusual. This isn't foreign.
00:07:35.744 - 00:08:05.006, Speaker A: This is just par for the course. And you have to be prepared for it, basically. All right, so an interesting tweet from Banteg today, one of the Wi Fi core developers. So he and I'll read out the tweet. So he said, people really underestimate how alluring to builders Ethereum's credible neutrality sounds. There is simply no way the next visionary project is launched on an Ethereum killer. They will remain a home for heavily subsidized, low effort forks with genuine, genuine innovation coming from Ethereum.
00:08:05.006 - 00:08:36.562, Speaker A: Now, obviously lately we've been seeing a lot of these, I guess, other blockchains kind of come to prominence in the social sphere because of Ethereum's high fees, right? And one of them is bit binance smart chain, which I've mentioned before, and that. And I've been talking about on Twitter a bit. And, you know, for those who don't know what it is, binance smart chain is a straight up clone of Ethereum. Like a legit clone fork. It's using the exact same kind of code base. It's. It's just kind of ripped out proof of work and replaced it with these kind of distributed nodes.
00:08:36.562 - 00:09:11.716, Speaker A: There's like, they say there's 21 of them, but in reality there's like one, and that's binance. They can. They control the whole thing. So it's just a centralized version of Ethereum. And I kind of find it funny because there's a deep irony in that, and that the only thing that's been able to get any kind of traction outside of Ethereum is a centralized clone of Ethereum. And, you know, outside of that, to Bantech's point here about people wanting to build on a credibly neutral platform, this is why I'm the most bullish on Ethereum. Why have I ever remained the most bullish on Ethereum is that the developers that come into our ecosystem are developers that are basically like the best of the best.
00:09:11.716 - 00:09:40.034, Speaker A: Essentially. They are coming in for all the right reasons. They want to build something right that's going to change the world. They want, you know, the genuine innovation, as Banteg says, is that it's happening on Ethereum because of that. These people don't want to come from like the old centralized world and then just build on one of these other chains that they don't consider to be credibly neutral and decentralized. So that's why with binance smart chain, all you see the apps on there are just clones of the Ethereum apps, and they're low effort clones as. As kind of bantay says here they're, they're nothing special.
00:09:40.034 - 00:10:23.890, Speaker A: And, you know, I'm not trying to, like, crap all over it, but for me, being around for so long, binance, smart chain chain reminds me of eos from 2017. And it was the same story back then, same playbook. You know, we're more scalable than Ethereum, we're doing more transactions than Ethereum, come to us, blah, blah, blah. And literally exact same playbook, exact same kind of like architecture as well, where you have these kind of centralized nodes, essentially. Um, and back then I was dealing with the same thing with people kind of like shilling this thing, being like, it's going to kill Ethereum, blah, blah, blah. And we all saw what happened, right? The, I mean, not just the price of eos, but like, the platform itself just, there's, there's just no community there, there's no developers there. There's just nothing really, from what I can see.
00:10:23.890 - 00:10:52.554, Speaker A: And, you know, the market's moved on now they're on to the next Ethereum killers. And it wasn't just eos, it was like Neo, and there was like Q term. And so bunch of others out there. And I'm not trying to single out any projects, but, like, there's no denying that these other projects don't really have any traction. And I'm not saying maybe some of these newer ones don't get traction sometime in the future, but there's a reason Ethereum has remained the leader, you know, even though it has all these issues, right. Ethereum is the least scalable blockchain besides bitcoin. Right.
00:10:52.554 - 00:11:32.464, Speaker A: I think actually litecoin is probably less scalable, but in general, like, no one cares about litecoin, but in general, like, um, there's a reason why that people still use it. The network effects are just so strong. And I've spoken about this a lot and like, yesterday's refuel and stuff. And, you know, maybe I'll do a dedicated video on this because I feel like I'm getting so many questions from people about why Ethereum is going to win, why I think Ethereum is going to continue being the dominant platform. And I need to just kind of put my, kind of all my thoughts out there because I could go on about it for like an hour. So obviously needs a separate video. Um, but yeah, I think I wrote about this in the Daily Gwei newsletter today as well, about Ethereum spirit, and that can't be replicated by these other platforms.
00:11:32.464 - 00:12:18.694, Speaker A: And that's because the Ethereum system itself kind of lends itself to those kind of community members and brings them in and, you know, kind of forms that spirit within it. So, yeah, just a little bit of thoughts there. I'll digress for now. I probably will put out a video with my full thoughts on like competitors and why I think Ethereum is still going to win. And that's probably going to be a long video because there's so many pieces to this puzzle that you really need to kind of dig deep to understand. You know, the most surface level argument is saying Ethereum is going to lose because it's got high fees and other chains are more scalable. If that is your entire argument for why Ethereum is going to lose, right, then you, to me, you've just got no idea what you're talking about, if I'm being frank, because there is so much more to that and we've got so much evidence, years and years of evidence of this.
00:12:18.694 - 00:12:46.000, Speaker A: And if I'm being honest, the most, the most valuable network by far, that's almost a trillion dollars in market cap, is bitcoin. And bitcoin does not scale at all. It's like three or four transactions per second. Their L2 system is basically like the lightning network is meh, right. Their L2 system is crypto bank centralized exchanges. But bitcoin is still worth a lot for all the reasons that Ethereum is still worth a lot and still kind of like as a platform in my view. So also like a leader as a platform.
00:12:46.000 - 00:13:28.724, Speaker A: But anyway, I'll probably cover that in a video sometime soon when I've, when I've got some time to sit down and do it. But I digress for now. So really, really bullish news out of Mastercard over the last 24 hours, which I actually missed initially this morning, and then later this evening I was like, wait, what? Where did this come from? But basically what it is, it's Mastercard saying that they're going to be supporting cryptocurrency on their networks. So this is pretty insane. I mean, Visa has already announced this, I think like a few weeks ago, that they're going to be supporting crypto specifically like USDC and stuff like that. And Mastercard, you know, put out this press release and basically said the same thing, but they didn't kind of note what currencies they're going to support. They just said that they're going to be supporting cryptocurrencies.
00:13:28.724 - 00:13:50.260, Speaker A: I mean, we can already guess that it's going to be BTC and ETH, right, straight up. But I think they'll actually follow the PayPal playbook as well. So they may support, like, LTC and BCH, things that are like, not considered securities. I think that's like a pretty big thing for these companies. They have to be sure of that. But I'm curious to see if they'll support stable coins. I mean, I think they will, right? Like this.
00:13:50.260 - 00:14:20.206, Speaker A: It's a no brainer for them to support USDC, for example. They probably, I don't know if they'll support tether and it's a bit of a gray area there, but USDC, I'll be over the moon. If they supported die, that'd be really awesome. But yeah, it remains to be seen. But the fact that they're actually getting involved, it just, I mean, as I was talking about before, the amount of traditional finance people and companies coming into this ecosystem now is what makes me the most bullish, because that's where all the money is. Like, literally 99.99% of the money is in that system.
00:14:20.206 - 00:15:02.086, Speaker A: Defi is still a rounding error, crypto still a rounding error. And if that money is kind of making its way into crypto, and if only like 10% of that money makes its way into crypto, crypto can go to like a $10 trillion total market cap, essentially, which is insane because, you know, if we're going off like the long tail distribution, that would put ETH at over ten k for sure, and BTC would probably be 200, $300,000 or something. So this is the kind of power of that money coming in and, and all these companies signaling that they're going to support crypto is the same kind of signal that Elon sent when he bought BTC with Tesla in that this is legit, this has lasting and staying power. Jump in with us. Right. This is safe now. You know, we're cool with it.
00:15:02.086 - 00:15:25.126, Speaker A: So, yeah, very bullish news out of Mastercard today. So ETH Global's market make hackathon finished. And there was judging that I actually was a part of a couple of days ago. It was really fun to judge all these projects. The finalists have been listed with the winners kind of being announced, I think, today at twelve eastern time. But yeah, you can see all the finalists here. There is a bunch of different projects.
00:15:25.126 - 00:15:56.980, Speaker A: I think there's about ten projects here. I'm not going to go through them all, but you can check out this tweet thread in the YouTube description. But what I do want to talk about is that the ETH global events are some of the best for finding new projects. And new talent building, new Ethereum projects. So for those who don't know, ETH Global is kind of like run out of the Ethereum foundation, or at least is like, I guess, part of the Ethereum foundation. But maybe they've spun out at this point. I mean, I'm not totally sure, but like, they definitely started in that, kind of, in that, in that arena there.
00:15:56.980 - 00:16:34.672, Speaker A: So they're always very high quality events, very high quality hackathons, if not the most, if not the highest quality hackathon we have in Ethereum. Maybe ETH Denver as a close second there. But there's always projects that come out of this that are, that are super, you know, innovative and super. And some of them end up changing the game. So, I mean, as I'm scrolling through here, you can see like all these projects basically, and as I said, you can check them out yourself, but it's cool to see, I mean, there's stuff like, you know, what's his orca protocol, a flexible and adaptable DaO implementation. So, you know, it's not just defi that's being worked on, right? It's daos as well. This thing called Paladin.
00:16:34.672 - 00:17:17.904, Speaker A: Paladin is a governance lending protocol. This new money Lego allows users to benefit from additional Apy while helping governance activists, user activists, user inactive voting rights. So, yeah, I mean, like, what else is there here? Like arbitrage, like, I mean, Lev Aave, I mean, a lot of other projects here, gearbox protocol under collateralized protocol for margin trading. I mean, a lot of it is defi, but there's still dows and governance stuff happening too. So. Yeah, anyway, I'll let you guys check it out because I don't want to butcher kind of like the, the kind of overview here, but yeah, be linked in the YouTube description for all of you to check out. So I've spoken about loop ring a lot over the last few weeks, I guess, on the refuel and how they've been growing.
00:17:17.904 - 00:17:49.096, Speaker A: And I looked at their TVL today and I didn't realize it was up at over 200 million, actually, which is, which is amazing. And you can see the growth here has just been explosive, right from like 30 or 40 million at the beginning of January to over 200 mil now. And I put out this tweet and I basically said necessity, aka the need for cheap and secure transactions, is the mother of invention. And loopring has, has been there to answer the scalability call. And they have. Right. The only reason why, I mean, maybe not the only reason, but the main reason why loop ring has been able to get this traction is because there is a need.
00:17:49.096 - 00:18:08.256, Speaker A: Now people are being priced out of layer one. They need a solution. Loopring is there to help them. So that's why we've seen this tremendous growth here. And it's not just loopring, you know, a lot of the other ones are getting growth too. There's a lot of. I mean, everyone's pretty much talking about scaling and L2 right now, which is actually one of my thesis is for why gas fees being high was actually a good thing.
00:18:08.256 - 00:18:44.472, Speaker A: And I wrote a piece in June of 2020 arguing that gas fees being high is basically a shelling point for the entire ecosystem. It affects every participant, right. And because it affects every participant, they're all going to work together to fix it. So I'm really happy to see that thesis playing out because I'm pretty proud of that, that I was able to kind of call that. But for me it was just like, you know, going back to what I was saying about the Ethereum spirit. It's also got to do with not giving up, right? The builders aren't going to just give up on Ethereum because it's got some problems and some scaling worries. They're going to stick around and fix them and work together to do it.
00:18:44.472 - 00:19:31.804, Speaker A: So the fact that we have this shelling point in the high gas fees just kind of strengthens the bond of the Ethereum community and the developers and kind of gives us a more healthy and better network, I think, as well. So Synthetix have voted to approve the first, I guess, creation of a synthetic asset for Tesla shares on their protocol, which is really, really cool. You can basically do zero slippage us stock trading using synthetix when this is implemented. There's also kind of another protocol, I think, called mirror protocol from the terra ecosystem that's doing kind of these synthetic stocks. But, you know, I'm an SNX holder, so I've always been bullish on synthetics doing this. And this is one of the main reasons I actually kind of bought SNX, is because I think synthetic assets are amazing. But I think they're.
00:19:31.804 - 00:20:05.064, Speaker A: They're even more amazing for assets that aren't blockchain native, right? Because you can have a synthetic asset for ETH and that's all well and good, but ETH is ethereum native stocks and bonds and equities and all this kind of stuff. There aren't, they aren't kind of native to the chain, but all you need is an oracle and then a synthetic implementation on synthetix. To kind of trade it. So. And I don't want to trade stocks in the traditional system. I want to trade them on Ethereum like I trade any other asset. And that's exactly what synthetix is going to enable now with Stesla, and I'm sure, like other ones coming down the pipeline, too.
00:20:05.064 - 00:20:17.800, Speaker A: So very, very excited about this. And you can go check this out as well. I'm not sure when it's going to be implemented. It says when the first available deployment window. So it should be sooner rather than later. But once that happens, I might pick up some. Some s.
00:20:17.800 - 00:21:02.684, Speaker A: Tesla. I'm pretty bullish on Tesla in general, but we'll see. You know, the Tesla chart looks like a crypto chart. If you go look at it, it's just, like, straight up, but, yeah, we'll see what happens there. So FranK Chaparral from the block has put out this tweet today saying that, and I'll quote alliance Bernstein, a $600 billion asset manager, is explaining to clients the importance of sushiswap and Uniswap, and he's got a slide here of them explaining it. This is stupidly bullish. Right? Like, I was just saying how traditional finance is coming into this ecosystem, and I didn't think that would be at this point of the kind of cycle where they're explaining not only uniswap, but sushiswap to two people, and they've got one interested here in balancer and bancor, and they're using TVL as a term, total value locked.
00:21:02.684 - 00:21:28.300, Speaker A: That's not a traditional finance term. That's a crypto native term or a defi native term. So, I mean, again, this theme of new kind of institutional, traditional finance money coming into this space is what is counteracting all my other top signals that I've looked at before. Because this money comes in, you know, slower than. Than other types of money, but it comes. And when it. When it comes in, they allocate to fundamentals based things.
00:21:28.300 - 00:21:50.210, Speaker A: They don't allocate just crap, and they don't just sell. Right? Like. Like a retail investor would sell, like, during their first crypto kind of rodeo. They make concentrated bets and they hold them, and they make sure that they don't just, like, panic sell or anything like that. So this. Yeah, and as I said, this is counteracting all the other top signals that I'm. That I'm kind of seeing, which is kind of pretty funny here.
00:21:50.210 - 00:22:19.742, Speaker A: And then there's another tweet here. Frank's quoting the kind of deck. And it says DeFi adapts currently offer a variety of financial services, including lending, borrowing, and financial exchanges. In this sense, Defi competes with banks and financial institutions, though DeFi is nowhere close to their size yet. And then, and then Frank just adds his ads yet with like a monocle, with the monocle emoji yet. Right. That's, that's a pretty key word there because it doesn't say that they never will get there.
00:22:19.742 - 00:22:54.378, Speaker A: It just says that they're not there yet. So, yeah, this is just as I said, this is the thing that's making me the most bullish right now is that they're not. I actually figured the traditional finance system would fight against this more than they are. But I think they might just be seeing the writing on the wall really early for some reason, which is kind of insane. And, you know, we've had banks actually work with, with crypto before. Like, we had JP Morgan be a pretty early adopter of, of kind of like this technology doing. They actually made their own ethereum client that was forked from go Ethereum called Quorum.
00:22:54.378 - 00:23:21.970, Speaker A: But I mean, this is just so bullish. Like, I would rather them not fight us and just embrace this tech and learn to work with it because that just means we'll get adoption much faster and we'll kind of like, get this reality that we want to see with kind of defi taking over the world will get that out a lot faster. And I mean, they're a $600 billion asset manager. Like, they're not going to put $600 billion into Defi. Right. You know, but even if they only put like 1% of that into DeFi, that's $6 billion. Right.
00:23:21.970 - 00:23:45.810, Speaker A: 1% into defi. I mean, I can see that that's not, that's not anything too crazy. And that's $6 billion just from one asset manager coming into, to Defi. And you might think, oh, you know, Defi's got a really large market cap. It's like 50 billion or something like that. Yes, but the market cap doesn't matter when you compare it to, like, the new money coming in. Buying $6 billion worth of Defi assets just for, as an example.
00:23:45.810 - 00:24:24.050, Speaker A: Right. Would move the Defi total market cap probably up to like three or $400 billion because not only is it buying, buying the assets, pushing the price up and pushing the market cap up as a, as a, as a multiple. So, for example, for every $1, maybe pushes the market cap up by like $5, but it also signals to the rest of the market that there is this incredible buy pressure on these tokens, and everyone else starts bidding it up. So, yeah, that's. That's the most bullish thing happening right now in my eyes for. For this space and going to keep watching this, because the more this happens, the more bullish I kind of get here. So there's a new yearn interface out today.
00:24:24.050 - 00:25:11.396, Speaker A: Andre just tweeted out this link, didn't say anything about it, but if you go here, you can see that there's a new interface here for the different yield farming kind of, I guess, like opportunities you can sort by, like, v two, v one earn, like, things like this and active vaults and stuff like that. Or active, like what? What you're kind of in with your own wallet. So, yeah, it's good to see them kind of experimenting with new interfaces here. I think this isn't perfect, but it's better than what they had. I think one thing that yearn has kind of struggled with is definitely UI and Ux, because I think a lot of them definitely are very powerful kind of builders in the back end sense, like smart contract developers and building out strategies. But they seem to have a little bit of weakness around the UI UX. But this is a step in the right direction for sure.
00:25:11.396 - 00:25:41.784, Speaker A: So, yeah, really, really happy to see this. So Hayden put out a pretty snarky tweet today, which I thought was quite funny. So CZ from Binance tweeted out that there was kind of an issue with the binance centralized exchange, not the BSC chain, the actual exchange, where it was down for about 30 minutes, I think. And so Hayden Adams put out a tweet where he said unis. And he's the founder of Uniswap, and he said, uniswap will be coming back online soon after a temporary outage. Oh, wait, never mind. It has never gone offline.
00:25:41.784 - 00:26:01.798, Speaker A: And then CZ responds with worry about pancakeswap, which is like a uniswap clone on BSC. And Hayden kind of responds with, like, a laughing emoji here. But I want to focus on that kind of parent tweet for a second here. Even though the gas prices are high. Right. And it's expensive to use, the ethereum network is still usable if you can pay those fees. Right.
00:26:01.798 - 00:26:37.330, Speaker A: It has not gone down in. I don't think the Ethereum network has ever gone down, like, gone offline. Even during the Shanghai Dos attacks in late 2016, the network didn't go down. So from that respect, the fact that Ethereum is such a highly available platform that you can use if you, obviously, if you can afford it, right. You can pay the fees, I think is really special because, you know, no matter, I guess, like how much activity hits the network, it's bounded by the gas limit, as I described before. Right. And because of that, yes, there are other trade offs here where it's expensive to use, but the high availabilities is the trade off.
00:26:37.330 - 00:27:15.850, Speaker A: And I like that. I would rather us have high availability for these systems where they're always available and as long as you can pay the fee, then have like, you know, zero fees or whatever, or cheap fees, and the system goes offline every now and again. Because I think, as I said, we're scaling by a L2. I've said this plenty of times. I think, you know, the cheap transactions can happen there, but we need this highly available main chain that's highly secure as well, which is why we're scaling layer via two, for example. Now, I mean, obviously comparing a decentralized blockchain like Ethereum to a centralized exchange like binance is maybe a little bit of a fool's errand. But these are the people we're trying to disrupt.
00:27:15.850 - 00:27:34.946, Speaker A: These are the companies we're trying to disrupt. So, yeah, just, just wanted to make a note there. I thought that was quite funny. All right, last thing here from DC, investor on the L2 subject. So he says, okay, Gemini, Coinbase and Kraken. Whoever brings direct, whoever bridges directly to Ethereum, L2's aSAP, gets my business. If you do it, I'll prom.
00:27:34.946 - 00:27:53.234, Speaker A: I promise. I'll bring friends like or rt if you're in. If ethereum, you l two s include loop ring, optimism, zksync. What say you? Tyler, Cameron, Brian, Jess. Jess pal from. Jesse pal from powwow. Sorry, his Twitter name is Jess pal from Kraken and Tyler and Cameron from Gemini and Brian from Coinbase.
00:27:53.234 - 00:28:37.022, Speaker A: This is what we need for L2 kind of adoption as well. We need these centralized exchanges to all adopt the same kind of L2 payments infrastructure, and then they can all talk to each other. So you could imagine them adopting something like loop ring pay, for example, where instead of having to send Ethereum based assets through the Etherium main chain, Coinbase can just send it through loop ring to, to Kraken or to Gemini, because there's a lot of arbitrage transactions that go on, or to, like an Ethereum users wallet on loop ring or whatever solution they choose. This needs to happen. It needs to happen ASAP. In my eyes, I know that for these big companies, they move very slowly and it's harder for them to just do it right. They can't just like say one day, okay, we're doing L2, and then the next day it's done.
00:28:37.022 - 00:29:30.304, Speaker A: They have to go through like a whole product life cycle, which I totally understand, but they need to have get started on it like yesterday. They need to already be working on this and I hope they are. I know Coinbase in their mobile wallet already supports optimism as I think as a testnet for now that we're one of the first to adopt that, but we need all these exchanges to agree on maybe, maybe one or two l, two s to, to kind of like really get that adoption there. I know that, let me say goes, plasma chain was adopted by Bitfinex with Tether, but there's, I don't think any other exchanges have adopted it yet. So there's not really any use for people to use it right now. So we definitely need more exchanges to kind of adopt this tech, which I hope to see kind of this year as we, as I guess the Ethereum network remains expensive and more users will probably demand it because at the end of the day, if enough users demand it, these exchanges will implement it because it'll be worth their time, worth their, their money, worth their kind of resources to put towards something like this. This.
00:29:30.304 - 00:29:42.844, Speaker A: All right, that's it for today, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching. If you haven't subscribed yet, be sure to do so. Give that video a thumbs up, join the Daily Gwei Discord channel and subscribe to the Daily Grey newsletter and I will catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
