00:00:00.200 - 00:00:28.318, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deli Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and it's Justin the 17 July 2023 right, everyone, let's get into it. So actually, before we get into it today, just wanted to quickly thank everyone who wished me a happy birthday yesterday. I did post on Twitter that it was my birthday yesterday, had some great american barbecue to celebrate, and had some great time with the fiance there. But yeah, thank you to everyone for wishing me a happy birthday. I am 31, not 50.
00:00:28.318 - 00:01:03.654, Speaker A: A lot of people in the comments thought I was like 50 or much older than what I am. And I can kind of get that because I have like the beard and I guess I look older than what I am. But it's always funny and people comment that it's like, no, I'm not 50, guys, I'm 31. But yeah, no, just wanted to say thank you to everyone for the well wishes there. But anyway, moving into the news, so there's actually a lot to talk about that happened over the last few days, and I'll get into all the biggest stuff, but to start our stuff with today, we have an update on the SEC versus a Coinbase case. So this comes from Meta Lawman. You can read this little thread, I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:01:03.654 - 00:01:43.934, Speaker A: But basically it seems the judge is favoring Coinbase at the moment. It seems the judge is going against the SEC. We obviously saw last week with XRP or ripple winning their case against the SEC, or at least partially winning their case against the SEC. It seems like the SEC's regular regulation via enforcement kind of approach has not been very successful. And he's getting a lot of pushback now from the court's system. And that the same thing is true with the SEC versus Coinbase case here. Basically, metaloreman points out here that the judge assigned to the Coinbase SEC case, Judge Faila, I think that's how you say.
00:01:43.934 - 00:02:34.062, Speaker A: Or Faila, I think that's how you say her name. She says it's not crazy in the faala parlance for Coinbase to think that what they were doing was okay because it was exactly what you let them do when they filed their ipo registration. So basically, it's pretty wild that people were making this point saying, you know, why did the SEC approve Coinbase going public if they thought Coinbase was doing illegal things such as trading unregistered securities? Uh, and the judge is basically saying that as well. Like, why did you approve Coinbases uh, IPo, if this was the case, because Coinbase had some of these assets listed, uh, that you, that you have said that are unregistered securities at the time of their ipo, and they also had eats taking, I believe, as well there. So it's great to see that. And it, that's basically uh, those comments basically signal that the judge is favoring Coinbase over SEC and. But it's still very early.
00:02:34.062 - 00:03:41.130, Speaker A: Right. But I think that with the loss last week for the SEC from Ripple, with the fact that it was a pretty big loss because the judge basically said that XRP wasn't a security and now this judge saying that, hey, you know, the SEC doesn't seem to be doing its job if you're now saying that Coinbase is doing illegal things that they were doing at the time that you approved their ipo. Yeah, it feels good to get some wins under our belt, right, against the SEC and against Gary Gensler, who definitely has been encroaching and on crypto for quite a while now and has been extending the powers of the SEC, which definitely need to be put in check, of course. But yeah, I just wanted to get that little update there on that one. You can check out the full thread, it's not that long, but I'll link it in the description below for you to do so. All right, so there was another 8th call, devs consensus call over the weekend, or I believe on Friday, but there was this recap put together by Christine Kim here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But there's one thing in particular from the call that I wanted to talk about, and that was the core developers discussing address assessing the validator set size.
00:03:41.130 - 00:04:28.812, Speaker A: So right now we know that there's a lot of validators coming online on the ethereum network. And the more validators that come online, the more load is put on the network. Because obviously the more validators there are, the more signatures there are, the more every valid, more work every validator has to do, the more bandwidth each validator basically has to, or, sorry, each staking setup would use. And that's an issue, right, because if the validator set size gets too large, and I think estimates say if we get to like 2 million validators, we're going to lose the ability to validate on low powered hardware such as rock five B's and Raspberry PI's because the load would be too much for that, that hardware. Right. And obviously bandwidth, bandwidth requirements are going to go up so much that we end up kicking off people who don't have unlimited bandwidth. Right.
00:04:28.812 - 00:05:11.880, Speaker A: And to give you a sense of numbers here, I think you can potentially use up to like two terabytes a month, I think, right now. And that's fine for people who have probably unlimited data caps like me. I mean, I'm using almost 20 terabytes a month because I'm running multiple ELCL combos, but for a lot of people that don't have that. So how do we address this problem? Right? How do we address the validator growth rate? Well, there are a few different solutions that were tabled. One of them included a potential monetary policy change which would basically change the issuance curve of Ethereum staking. I don't think that that's going to happen anytime soon. I don't think it should happen unless it's more than just capping the validator set reasoning.
00:05:11.880 - 00:05:58.340, Speaker A: And I understand that the reasoning is that we're currently overpaying for security, but I would like to see actual numbers on that. I would like to see deep research done on that. I would like to see community discussions around that before that is even considered for inclusion in any kind of upgrade. And I think that the developers, they wanted to get something into Den Koon, the next Ethereum network upgrade. But that's definitely not going to happen in my mind. I don't think there's going to be a monetary policy change in that upgrade. The second thing that could be done is, as I discussed I think a few weeks ago, where you would basically lift the max effective validator balance to something like 2048 ETH instead of 32 ETH, so that people could consolidate their stake into, you know, a handful of validators instead of potentially hundreds of validators if they have a lot of ethnic right.
00:05:58.340 - 00:06:44.116, Speaker A: And this would obviously bring down the amount of validators on the network and would bring down network load overall. Now, I think that I said last time that something like this would be like neutral to positive for the network if you weigh up all the pros and cons. I'm actually going even further towards the positive side now simply because I would rather that solution than a monetary policy change just to address the validator size. I think a monetary policy change to address other things would be, would be welcomed. But as I said, I'd like to see more research there. But if it was just for this sole purpose, then I would prefer the max effective balance being increased. Now, the easiest solution that was tabled was something that could be included with Deng kun, and that would basically be to cap the churn limit at twelve validators per epoch.
00:06:44.116 - 00:07:32.912, Speaker A: So basically it would cap how many validators could enter the beacon chain per per epoch so that we could slow the rate of growth of the amount of validators coming online. So it gives us more time to basically come up with the better solutions and get them included in network upgrades. This is something that could be done very easily. I think it would be like maybe even just a line of code changed and it could be included in Den Koon and it shouldn't be controversial. It does kind of change the calculus a little bit, I guess, and basically, basically changes the expected future rate of growth for validators. And I guess that's the whole point, right? But I don't think anyone would really care. I don't think people would be like, oh, you know, I expected at this point to be able to enter the, the validator queue.
00:07:32.912 - 00:08:22.248, Speaker A: Sorry. To be able to enter Ethereum staking faster because the churn limit went up, because more validators came online. I don't even think most people know about the churn limit. So, yeah, I think this is like by far the least controversial option and the one that should be, I don't even think it's controversial at all, to be honest. But it's, it's the easiest option and the one that should be pursued if the core developers and researchers agree that we need to do something to slow the size. Sorry, slow the validator set growth. Now, some people ask, you know, why wasn't this done before, earlier? Why was this not kind of like taken into consideration earlier? Well, it was, but at the same time, I don't think even the core developers and researchers realized just how fast ethereum staking would grow because you need to remember a lot of this was designed back when we were in a pretty deep bear market.
00:08:22.248 - 00:08:53.896, Speaker A: A lot of this was designed in 2018, 2019. Right. Uh, the beacon chain went live in December of 2020. And then pretty much all the focus was put on basically getting the merge done, which was a huge undertaking, obviously. Uh, but then after that, we, we, you know, the focus was done on putting through validated withdrawals. And now there's a lot of other things on the Ethereum roadmap to consider that it just was something that was talked about and considered and there were solutions tabled. Uh, but essentially what happened is I think that the validator set size grew a lot faster than people thought it would.
00:08:53.896 - 00:09:28.306, Speaker A: And honestly, I'm, I was pretty blown away as well. I didn't think that we would get to, you know, a persistent validator queue of over 80,000 still. I mean it was over 90,000, it's still over 80,000. I didn't think we would get to that. But I think I really underestimated how popular eats taking would be. I really underestimated the demand for things like lsts, for example, and how people could use them within Defi. I mean I knew it was going to happen, right? And I've discussed this for a while, but I don't think I kind of like estimated the growth rate of those things properly, which is, it's a nice problem to have.
00:09:28.306 - 00:09:56.814, Speaker A: I think it's a nice surprise, but at the same time it brings with it other issues. So yeah, those are the three kind of options being looked at. As I said, I don't think an Ethereum monetary policy change or an issuance curve change would happen anytime soon. And I don't think it would happen if it was only to address this issue in particular. It would have to happen if it would address multiple different things. And it was convincing enough for the community to say hey, you know, we should do this because it shouldn't be easy to change the monetary policy. And traditionally it hasn't been, it's been quite difficult to do so.
00:09:56.814 - 00:10:38.772, Speaker A: And it was only done when the community felt it was necessary. Because Ethereum is monetary policy basically boils down to what's called minimum viable issuance, which basically means we issue as much new ETH that is minimally viable to secure the ethereum network and no more. And right now a lot of the researchers believe that we are currently overpaying for security, which means we are issuing too much ethnic to secure the Ethereum network. And I would like to see obviously more research done on that, I would like to see more arguments around that and more discussion happen around that. But there's not going to be a monetary policy change anytime soon. As for increasing the max effective validator balance, that is a more complex change. It's definitely not going into Denkun even if it was approved today.
00:10:38.772 - 00:11:26.876, Speaker A: So that could happen sometime next year if it was approved and if the community wanted it. And obviously there's the trade offs there that I've discussed before, and then there is this churn limit thing, just setting it to twelve instead of letting it keep increasing as develop more validators come online. That is the most palatable solution. That is something that could go live with dengun and we'll have to see if it will. But yeah, I'll keep an eye on that and keep you guys updated on that one there. All right, so we have a long tweet here from Ryan Berkman's today talking about ETH's positive black swans. And he basically talks about all these things that were, that are going to happen for Ethereum as a network and ETH as an asset to continue, I guess, like growing Ethereum's network effect, growing Ethereum's moats, and making ethereum the best settlement layer it can be and ETH the best asset it can be.
00:11:26.876 - 00:12:02.504, Speaker A: Now, I'm not going to read out the whole tweet for you. You can go check this out for yourself. But one thing I did want to mention is that Ethereum generally has two things that it's scaling, right? I mean, you could say it's three, but let's stick to two. There are two technical things that Ethereum is scaling. It's scaling Ethereum the network, right? We're scaling that via L2s, roll ups, all that good stuff there. And I've talked about those a lot, and I will talk more about that in a sec because there's an exciting announcement got to do with that that happened over the weekend. But a lot of people forget that Ethereum also scales ETH the asset, and it does this in a few different ways.
00:12:02.504 - 00:12:28.116, Speaker A: So ETH the asset is kind of the main export of the Ethereum network. You can think of this like the US and the US dollar. So the US exports us dollars to the rest of the world. It is the world reserve currency. It is the currency for preferred, the preferred currency for international trade. It is the preferred currency in a lot of countries around the world that have pretty high inflation, right? Like places like Argentina and Zimbabwe and things like that. They prefer the US dollar.
00:12:28.116 - 00:12:55.706, Speaker A: Same is true for ETH, right? ETH gets exported to all kinds of networks within the crypto ecosystem. It gets exported to other layer ones via bridges. It gets exported to via L2s, you know, via the same bridges. It gets exported to side chains. It is this asset that everyone wants, right? And a lot of people dominate their wealth in. They use it as money, they use it as collateral. It has a huge market cap, right? It is basically the reserve asset of the crypto ecosystem.
00:12:55.706 - 00:13:21.554, Speaker A: I know that BTC exists, but BTC is a lot less portable than ETH. It's a lot less interoperable than ETH. You have a lot more trust assumptions as well, because not only do you have bridging trust assumptions, but any kind of tokenized BTC is completely centralized, right? So you have multiple failure modes there. And BTC is just not a very financialized asset when it comes to on chain things. Maybe outside of that, it is. It's obviously a store of value. People use it as that.
00:13:21.554 - 00:14:00.548, Speaker A: You know, in certain places around the world, people do use BTC as money in very limited fashions. It's not really used that much. But whereas with ETH, ETH is the money of the on chain ecosystem, everyone wants to use it. It is the gas fees for ethereum layer one. It's used as gas on these L2s, and then it is used and is the biggest kind of like source of collateral for a lot of these money markets, for different liquidity positions, stuff like that. So not only as an, as the ethereum ecosystem, are we scaling Ethereum, the network, but we're also scaling ETH, the asset in various different ways. And now I did mention there were three ways that Ethereum kind of scales.
00:14:00.548 - 00:15:00.130, Speaker A: The third way is more social. So ethereum exports its values, right, and has these kind of values and principles of decentralization, censorship, resistance, all that good stuff. And it exports those things to the L2s, because a L2s, if and when they're constructed correctly, get to inherit those properties, they get to inherit censorship, resistance, they get to inherit security and potentially liveness, benefits and things like that from, from Ethereum. But with that comes the social inheritance. They become aligned with Ethereum, right? They become part of the ethereum network and part of the Ethereum family, and they are welcomed with open arms rather than something like an alternative layer one, for example. That is a perfect segue into a very exciting thing that I wanted to talk about that happened over the weekend, was this proposal on the Celo governance forum from celo Labs to transition or to basically change sello from an l one into an Ethereum based l two. Now, for those of you who don't know, Sello has been around for quite a while.
00:15:00.130 - 00:15:25.784, Speaker A: It is an l one. It has its own validator set, and it's been around, I think, as early as 2019. I remember seeing a presentation given actually on Salo in 2019 at, in Berlin, I believe. I think it was Dapcon in 2019. And even back then I was thinking to myself, I don't think this, this could succeed as a layer one. I don't think this is meant to be a layer one. And I haven't paid too much attention to sello since then.
00:15:25.784 - 00:16:03.530, Speaker A: But they started off as wanting to basically create a payments network or a kind of like payment rails for developing countries. I don't know what kind of success they've had with that or with their layer one model. But you guys know my opinion on layer ones, generally, they're, in my opinion most of the time or pretty much all the time, far inferior to L2s. But in saying that for a long time now, the ability to transition from a layer one to a L2 has been difficult at best, right. Because the infrastructure just wasn't there. It's only recently that we had a lot of the infrastructure come online. And on the infrastructure I'm talking about are the tools to make the transition easy, such as the op stack.
00:16:03.530 - 00:16:41.518, Speaker A: Such as the ZK sync stack, right. Such as the Polygon ZK stack. So basically these SDKs or software development kits that allow you to create an l two very easily, but, and allow you to pick and choose what you want. So pick your data availability layout, pick your sediment layer, pick what infrastructure you use, you know, all that sorts of stuff. And that's exactly what Sello is doing here. They're going to be leveraging the, I believe the op stack from, from what I can, can read here. And they're going to be storing their data on eigen layers, data availability layers or eigenvalue.
00:16:41.518 - 00:17:17.014, Speaker A: So what's cool about this is that, I mean, it still is a L2, because I define a L2 as something that posts its proofs to Ethereum, but it can store its data elsewhere. So it's optional data on Ethereum, but it can store its data on eigen data availability layer or somewhere else. Right. Whereas a roll up is something that posts both of those things to Ethereum. Now people will disagree with my definition on these things, but I'm not here to debate that today. What I'm here to discuss is this actual proposal. So what, what they're going to be doing is they're going to be transitioning the l one to an l two using the op stack, storing their data on Eigen Da.
00:17:17.014 - 00:18:14.112, Speaker A: And what they're also going to be doing is decentralized sequencing by using their existing validator set. Now this is really cool because they do have an existing validator set. So instead of having to bootstrap a new one, they're basically going to be using their existing validator set to decentralize out the sequencing of the sello L2 here, which I thought was, was really cool and really novel. Um, and then uh, on top of that, you've got here that uh, they'll be using Eigen DA as their data availability layer because they want to maintain those low fees on, on cello, I get that. It's going to be interesting to see where these l two s choose to store their data once ERP 4844 goes live. Like will it be cheap enough to justify the lower security of an off chain data availability solution, rather than putting it on Ethereum layer one? We'll have to see. But at the same time, Eigen DA is validated by the same validators that Ethereum is using.
00:18:14.112 - 00:18:50.500, Speaker A: Not to say it's going to have the same decentralization security liveness guarantees as Ethereum layer one. But if you had to choose between the, you know, a data availability layout that was secured by Ethereum validators and one that was secured by, I don't know, some random validators, you have, you know, that just got stood up for the purpose of securing that data availability layer. I know what I would choose. First and foremost, it would be obviously the ethereum validators. So that would, that's very cool. And then the third point here is that a design that retains Salo's one block finality. Now I haven't read into this too much yet, but that would, that, that sounds pretty cool as well.
00:18:50.500 - 00:19:40.990, Speaker A: Obviously ethereum wants to get to one block finality eventually, but if Salo can somehow do it as an l two, that would be, that would be pretty cool as well. But yeah, I think that the broader discussion here around l one's becoming l two s. Uh, outside of the fact that I'm gonna do a little bit of gloating here. I called this a long time ago. If you've been watching the refuel for a while, you know that I have said for a long time now that when the infrastructure is there, we're gonna see l one s become l two s. Because it makes a lot of sense from not just an economic standpoint, because it's much more expensive to be an l one than it is an l two, but also from a network effect community, you know, product market fit standpoint. And on that note, another thing that I want to talk about is that typically the Ethereum community's, I guess, approach to these l ones is to be hostile towards them, right? And I get that because I've been hostile towards them.
00:19:40.990 - 00:20:15.768, Speaker A: I think my reasoning for being hostile towards them is a bit different to other people's. For me, it's more that I just don't see the point in them technically and economically. I know that there are some of them that have communities that have attacked Ethereum in the past and that really annoyed me, obviously, over the high gas fees and stuff like that. But for me, I always looked at these l one s and I, and especially the ones that were like EVM compatible. And I thought to myself, this is so pointless because I saw the l two s coming, I saw them improving all the time. I was, I was keeping up with it very closely. And now they're basically at the point where these l ones can transition.
00:20:15.768 - 00:20:52.844, Speaker A: I think Ethereum, as a community needs to embrace these l one s now. There is not every l one is obviously created equal or should be treated equal. For example, if there was an l one that came across that was extremely hostile to Ethereum for much of its history and became an l two, I personally am not going to just welcome them with open arms because they're bringing their community with them. Right. If their community is still going to be hostile towards Ethereum, even as an l two, well, that just kind of defeats the whole, whole purpose, right? But whereas with something like cello, I don't believe that they've ever been hostile to Ethereum. I haven't seen it. Maybe they, maybe, maybe originally they were, maybe they weren't.
00:20:52.844 - 00:21:09.968, Speaker A: I don't know. I haven't seen it personally. Um, so I don't think that we should deride them or we should kind of like make fun of them. I don't think we should say, oh, you know, there's the ghost l ones are coming over and there's going to be ghost l two s. Maybe they will, maybe they weren't. I expect that it'd be plenty of ghost l two s. There's going to be ghost l two s.
00:21:09.968 - 00:21:46.544, Speaker A: And what I mean by ghost l two s, basically l two s that don't have any activity on them. Um, but I expected to be plenty of these ghost l two s that started off as l two s just because, as I've said many times before, I don't believe there's going to be that many generalized l two s that are going to be super successful. I believe there's probably going to be less than five that are like 80% of the activity happening there. But in terms of their specialized app chains or app l two s, there's going to be plenty of those. But at the same time, not all of them are going to succeed. There's going to be plenty of dead end ones because they're going to be projects or products that people just didn't want to use. Just because it's an l two doesn't mean that it's going to succeed.
00:21:46.544 - 00:22:12.764, Speaker A: So I don't think that. So I guess my main points here is that I don't think we should be necessarily hostile to these projects. I don't think we should be shitting on them. I don't think we should be wishing them ill or anything like that. If they transition to being an ethereum l two, it's on them obviously to grow their own project, grow their own product. And if they've made the decision to become an l two, I think that's the first step in mending their relationship with the Ethereum community. If they were hostile in the past.
00:22:12.764 - 00:22:43.626, Speaker A: But yeah, I don't think we should go around on twitter and parade around and kind of like deride them or anything like that. Now, as I said, it is a case by case basis as well. There are certain l ones that have been much more hostile than others. But yeah, we'll have to see how that evolves there. But I'm curious to see what the next l one is that becomes an ethereum l two. If I had to guess, I actually couldn't, to be honest. I guess right now because there are a bunch out there that I think would make a lot of sense to be an l two rather than l one.
00:22:43.626 - 00:23:43.726, Speaker A: But at the same time they're kind of like dying l one's to begin with and don't really offer anything different to the existing set that we have. At least with Salo, their whole thing is going after and creating payments networks and these tools for community impact for developing nations, things like that. So at least they have something that they're focusing on that does fit with ethereum community values like the like Gitcoin stuff like that, like the public goods network and things like that. But it's not like one of these other evm l one s which are literally the same thing as like optimism and arbitram, right? They're just offering EVM compatibility and developers can just deploy their same apps on them. I don't even see the point in them transitioning to an l two because they are just going to be in the same position as an l one. So there are going to be projects out there that maybe make the transition that in my mind is probably going to fail straight away, but that's going to happen anyway. But yeah, this was very exciting announcement and news out of the sello ecosystem here.
00:23:43.726 - 00:24:12.566, Speaker A: You can go check out the full post for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And yeah, the summary here from Vishal. Just recaps what I said about Salo, that it's going to be an optimistic roll up using the op stack, using Eigen da and decentralized sequencing via Sallow's existing validator set. All right, staking sticking on the L2 topic. So Zksync has announced something really exciting here today. So they've announced something called Boozham.
00:24:12.566 - 00:24:50.802, Speaker A: I think that's how you say it. It's probably not. I don't know how to pronounce this, but it's spelled b o o j u m. So Bhujam is ZK sync errors new high performance proof system for radical decentralization. It's an upgrade that will transition Zksyn era to a stark powered proof system providing world class performance on consumer grade hardware. So I've talked about ZK provers before, and about how getting the hardware requirements down for proving is something that pretty much every ZK team is focusing on right now and competing against right now. My cryptography knowledge is definitely not to the point where I could say what system is better than, than another.
00:24:50.802 - 00:25:47.986, Speaker A: But it does seem like there seems to be a convergence on a stock based approach at this point versus other approaches. Now, as I said, I'm not up to, up to speed on it, I'm just kind of observing here. But what I found really interesting about the proving kind of sorry. This new thing from ZK sync was that they've been able to bring down the proving costs to consumer grade gpu's, requiring only 16 gig of GPU RAm. So that's basically the biggest breakthrough, I believe, in this announcement here, because it means that myself, with my Nvidia 4080 in my machine, could use the, it could use that to prove, um, ZK proofs on the ZK sync network, uh, which I can't do right now with other ZK provers, as far as I know. I think that, I remember saying scrolls prover. I can't remember the Ram requirements that they had.
00:25:47.986 - 00:26:17.722, Speaker A: I think it was like 128 gig or something like that. And that was down from a lot higher. And it's going to keep coming down from there. Uh, and also at the same time proving as much as I think it's important to bring the hardware requirements down, it's not like absolutely critical, because proving, you know, you only need one proof. So any, like, it doesn't matter if it's like, it's like a one of n kind of trust assumption, right? A one of n kind of design. Yeah. Where basically you can have one prover and just proving everything.
00:26:17.722 - 00:26:59.472, Speaker A: And as long as they get the proof out there, you're good to go, but obviously you want to have more than one for redundancy and liveness and things like that. So that's why it's good to bring these requirements down as much as possible so that consumers and everyday people can participate in this and also potentially earn fees for doing this as well. So yeah, you can go check out Boozham for yourself. I'll link the full announcement in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, sticking on the L2 topic again, Mantle has announced their official mainnet, which is live now. So mainnet mantle network is now open to all blockchain users, from developers to users. So another l two joins the fray here, which is really awesome to see.
00:26:59.472 - 00:27:36.790, Speaker A: You can go check out mental network, sorry, check out the announcement about this for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But yeah, their testnet has been live since January of this year, so they had about, I guess six or seven months worth of Testnet and now they've launched their mainnet here. I saw something about them storing their data off chain as well. So not on ethereum l one. I'm just trying to find it here because I remember seeing it, but I've forgotten exactly where they're storing their, their data. I think it might have been Eigen Da, which is kind of funny because Eigen Da is, is landing a lot of projects so far and it's not.
00:27:36.790 - 00:28:04.674, Speaker A: I don't believe it's live yet. I believe it's going to go live relatively soon here. But yeah, I think this is where they're settling their data to. But yeah, as I said, another l two live here on Mainnet for you to go check out. I believe that there was maybe an airdrop as well, or something like that formant, so you might be eligible for that. That's something to check out there, but you can read the full post here for details on all of this. I will link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:28:04.674 - 00:28:53.174, Speaker A: All right, lens protocol V two has been introduced, and the reason why there's a lot of major announcements lately, guys, is because ETH CC, the conference in parents Paris is currently on and you're going to see more major announcements come out over the next few days because of that. So it is going to be an exciting week this week, hopefully. But yeah, anyway, jumping into lens protocol V two, it's obviously the next chapter of lens here. V two brings even greater control to builders, integrators, as well as people exploring web3 powered experiences. So basically there are a bunch of new features here. One of them is called Open Actions, which sets a new milestone for composable social networking by bridging external web3 experiences directly into the lens app. With open actions, users and developers can bring their own smart contracts to enable any external smart contract action on a lens publication.
00:28:53.174 - 00:29:33.832, Speaker A: This capability can even be extended to cross chain actions with an Oracle support, such as actions on Ethereum and l two s. And you can see here what this currently looks like, and you can see all the different use cases such as buying an NFT ticket, minting something on Sound XYZ, minting on OpenSea on Polygon. So it's basically bringing interoperability to the lens stack here. And they've given more examples of what this is is here. So there's a bunch of other features that you can give a read. I'll link this in the YouTube description for you below to check out, but I just noticed I'm at 30 minutes already, so I'm going to going to power through the rest of these updates because there's, there's a few other things to talk about here. So yeah, check this out.
00:29:33.832 - 00:30:15.756, Speaker A: Lens protocol V two. We'll link it in the YouTube description below. So the Aave Dao has launched Go, the go stable coin, which I discussed last week in depth. So I'm not going to rehash all of my discussion from last week about this, but Go is live on Mainnet. I believe that they have over $100 million worth of TVL already, which is very cool. I'm going to be keeping a close eye on Go because I think, as I mentioned last week, Fiat pegged stable coins are all going to hit ceilings and they're all going to hit ceilings because you can't have something that's truly decentralized and use truly decentralized collateral and not hit a ceiling just for the reasons I mentioned last week. You can go watch last week's episodes for this.
00:30:15.756 - 00:31:11.070, Speaker A: I believe it was either Thursday or Friday's episode, but I still think it's interesting to see all these different stable coin designs be played out in the market and be played out on chain for people to play around with, see which one sticks, which ones don't. So that's why I'm excited to see go live today or yesterday yesterday, July 16, so you can go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do. So speaking of V two s liquidy, he's coming out with a V two so you can see here that at the stable summit, which I believe was a side event to eat. So cc they apparently, or they being liquidy apparently, I believe they have announced the I guess like solution or they have cracked the solution to the stable coin trilemma. And that stable coin trailer is the thing that I've discussed before, scalability, stability and decentralization. So they say, yeah, we're not stopping at just creating a stable coin.
00:31:11.070 - 00:31:34.740, Speaker A: The next iteration will offer attractive products for leverage and borrowing for staked ETH holders. We're working towards a public launch in 2024. Invite you to be part of this exciting journey. Liquidity V two will extend the existing offering and deliver a new reserve backed stablecoin model harnessing staked ETH. And you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I'm most curious to see how they've actually solved or the stable coin trilemma.
00:31:34.740 - 00:32:27.944, Speaker A: Because as I've discussed before, I don't actually think there's a solution to it because there's just not enough collateral back collateral available, decentralized collateral available to back a stable coin to keep it truly decentralized and to make it scalable. Right? Forget about stability, just think about scalability and decentralization. And if you do have a collateral asset such as ETH that is big enough, then ETH becomes the stable coin. As I discussed last week, if it's market cap is like $100 trillion, right? For example, I mean, it could be one day, right? I mean, if, if ethereum succeeds, why not? But if it is $100 trillion, then ETH is literally the stable coin. ETH would be used as money not just within the on chain ecosystem and the online ecosystem, but everywhere. And in that world, we wouldn't need a fiat pegged stable coin. We would just use ETH, right? And ETH is already used as money in a lot of ways, which is pretty crazy considering that it's only, its.
00:32:27.944 - 00:32:50.112, Speaker A: My cap is very small compared to other currencies around the world. It's $250 billion, right? That's, that's tiny, really, relative to other things around the world. But if it's hundred trillion, then the calculus is different here. So we wouldn't need fiat peg stable coins in that world. But yeah, I'm gonna keep an eye on, on this. Maybe I've missed that. I don't know if they've ever, if they've announced how they've, how they've solved it yet, maybe I missed that.
00:32:50.112 - 00:33:41.444, Speaker A: But I haven't. I haven't haven't looked too deeply into it just yet, but you can go check that out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, just to round out and finish up today's episode, as the synthetix ecosystem is undergoing a pretty cool, pretty radical shift here. So Kane posted a blog post over the weekend titled Synthetix what comes next, part four. So they are going to be launching something called Infinix, which is a new product product that, that the Synthetix ecosystem is launching here. And you can read all about it in this blog post, but essentially what Infinix is trying to be, or trying to do is that they're trying to kill centralized exchanges, so they want to be a fully decentralized exchange that can rival the experience that you get on centralized exchanges from speed to cost to everything else.
00:33:41.444 - 00:34:35.058, Speaker A: And of course the synthetix ecosystem will be at the heart of this, and the SNX token will also be at the heart of this. And you can read all the details about this in the blog post here. And there is a waiting list now live at Infinix IO for you to sign up to if you would like. Now this is a pretty big undertaking, I believe, and has been a long time coming, I think. Uh, yeah, there's, there's discussions all the way back in 2021 that discusses things like that, discusses the name Infinix itself. And there is also a kind of like a post here from 2020 from gothic synthetics asking which do you prefer as the new name for synthetics exchange, Quinta or Infinix? And then Quinta ended up coming out and I believe it's been live for quite a while now. But now Infinix is the next step in the synthetix journey here, so you can go give this a read.
00:34:35.058 - 00:34:51.194, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but I think that's going to be it for today's longer episode. I didn't expect it to go this long, but thank you everyone for bearing with me, and thank you for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
