00:00:00.250 - 00:00:40.060, Speaker A: How do you get that steady state growth in terms of people adopting DeFi as their financial system? And for me, one of the big things there is just this point around being able to transition from something which is structurally variable to something which is structurally stable. And if you cannot do that, then arguably DeFi cannot serve the financial needs of the whole of the world. And that's something that we clearly want to happen and being able to kind of transition. So therefore, kind of using an interest rate swap or kind of another kind of fixed rate primitive to move into something that is stable rather than something which is kind of variable is ultimately going to be important in bringing that wave of people into the space.
00:00:42.910 - 00:01:02.446, Speaker B: All right, everyone, today we're talking about the fixed rate lending unlock, what gets unlocked in DeFi when you move from variable rate lend and borrow to fixed rate lend and borrow. We have two of the best people to talk about this today. Simon Jones, co founder, Volts. And Alan Nemeberg, founder of Yield Protocol. Really excited to have these two folks on today. Mike, what are we getting into?
00:01:02.628 - 00:01:39.902, Speaker C: So in the previous two episodes, we talked one about the migration of activity from CFI into DeFi. Then we talked a little bit about connecting to Shar's thesis with new token distribution mechanisms with interest rate swap unlocks and how that's going to play into the next bull market. What we really wanted for this next episode was to talk to two people who are actually building protocols that facilitate the transition from a variable rate of interest to a fixed rate of interest. We want to get in the weeds with what that unlock looked like and how it could play into the next bull cycle. So that's why we chose the two of them to speak to. I learned a lot from this, frankly. You'll have to listen to the actual episode to figure out what's going on.
00:01:39.902 - 00:01:41.482, Speaker C: But yeah, I thought it was a great episode.
00:01:41.546 - 00:02:08.370, Speaker B: Yeah, here's what I went into the episode wanting to get out of. It a just the specifics of fixed interest rates. How do they work in TradFi? What's the comparison? How good is the analogy to TradFi? And then once you get these fixed rate interest rates, what does that actually unlock in crypto are we going to have on chain mortgages? And that's really what I went into this episode trying to learn and yeah, got a lot out of it. Let's get into the episode.
00:02:08.450 - 00:02:22.938, Speaker C: Cheers, guys. All right, everyone, welcome to another episode of Bell Curve. Today, Jason and I are joined by Simon Jones of Volts Protocol and Alan Niemberg of Yield. Guys, welcome to the show.
00:02:23.104 - 00:02:23.994, Speaker D: Thanks for having us.
00:02:24.032 - 00:02:24.938, Speaker A: Awesome to be here.
00:02:25.024 - 00:03:02.642, Speaker C: Awesome. Really excited to dig into this episode because we're going to be talking know, we've kind of hinted at it at past episodes and we've talked around it. But what I want to get out of this episode is the exact unlock that fixed income lending provides in crypto. And I want to get into the mechanics of how that actually works with the two of you. And I think there's no one to do it with better do it with than the duo that we've got here. So Simon, as the indirect or like semi direct inspirer actually of the entire trajectory of this episode, do you want to just kind of provide like maybe we can start really high level and you can outline in your terms like what is the unlock that's associated with the ability to borrow and lend at fixed rates?
00:03:02.786 - 00:04:04.540, Speaker A: Yeah, so there's a kind of really interesting problem that I think that exists in DeFi as an ecosystem where the ecosystem as a whole, it is structurally variable. And this actually exists all the way across the stack. So just to explain that briefly, if we go right to the bottom of the stack to your kind of proof of stake mechanic, which is obviously kind of where the vast majority of ecosystems are converging, without getting too into the weeds. Of that you have supply and demand dynamics which mean that the rate of return that validator nodes produce on a block by block basis are variable in nature. So right at the base of the ecosystem you have this kind of like variable rate of return coming out of the ecosystem. And then on top of that, you have kind of just kind of two predominant other layers to that stack. The kind of second layer being the protocols, where obviously the vast majority of protocols at the moment are designed such that supply and demand dynamics, again, mean that you get variable rates of return.
00:04:04.540 - 00:05:05.774, Speaker A: And then on top of that, you have kind of like either trading strategies or kind of market makers where even if they're trying to build a strategy that is kind of market neutral in terms of return that is still fundamentally built on top of an ecosystem that is structurally variable so that trading strategy is highly likely to be variable too. So kind of when we look at that at the most macro level and we think about kind of much broader adoption and how is DeFi going to start becoming something more meaningful, that is kind of used by everybody in the world, that structural stability, it cannot continue to exist. It only works for a proportion of society. And when we kind of think about what we're doing at Vault and obviously what Alan's doing too, what kind of an interest rate swap enables it enables you to transition from something that is structurally variable to something which is structurally stable. And in doing so, we expect that to increase adoption around the world.
00:05:05.972 - 00:06:02.158, Speaker D: I think that's a great point, Simon, and I just wanted know I think you laid it out really well. I think also too. The way I kind of think about it is DeFi has been in this short term mindset, right, which is there's all these possibilities, all these kinds of different things that can happen and new things coming online all the time and everyone's sort of thinking about it. I think thinking about the next thing or thinking about the things they're doing on a relatively short term horizon. I think, as we think as people adopt a longer term mentality about what the ecosystem is, about what it does and understand the ecosystem and understand how things work better, I think you'll see a longer term mindset begin to form and that'll enable and help unlock, I think, the kind of mentality that'll make the fixed rate ecosystem really pop.
00:06:02.324 - 00:06:35.178, Speaker C: Yeah, I would agree with that. And I think we've kind of laid out analogues in previous episodes as well. But if you look at TradFi, maybe we can get into the market for interest rate swaps today. It's an enormous market, right? It is a quadrillion with a Q, which for my tiny bell, curve sized brain, it's hard to even imagine how large that market really is. So can you walk us through when we're talking about the market for interest rate swaps? What is that market? Why does it exist? Who are the types of participants that engage in it? Just give us a sense, like, high level of what that is and why it's important.
00:06:35.344 - 00:07:32.410, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think to answer that, there's almost two parts to that answer. There's the first, which is where does the rate come from in the first place? And I think looking at traditional finance as an example helps us think about the importance of it in DeFi. And then once we understand kind of like, where does the rate come from, it becomes kind of clear why a derivative market starts to exist around it. And the rate markets in traditional finance are essentially just set by central bank. So we've got the Fed in the US Bank of England, UK ECP, et cetera, and they kind of use that basically as a tool to kind of affect the economy and all these types of things. But what they set as the base rate, it ultimately affects everybody. And what's really interesting with the rate markets in traditional finance is it's not even the base rate itself, it's expectations of what the rate will be, which is what drives the way in which people behave.
00:07:32.410 - 00:08:49.830, Speaker A: And we've literally seen this recently where Powell, for example, has come out, made some pretty hawkish remarks, and like trillions of dollars has just been wiped off the stock market. And it's kind of and it's insane in some ways, but then it also kind of very clearly leads you onto, well, this is why kind of a derivative rate market needs to exist because there is this kind of variability which is coming off the central banks and uncertainty and that restricts kind of people's ability to make decisions over the longer term. And that's what then creates the need for an interest rate swap market in traditional finance. And just to explain very simply how an interest rate swap works in traditional finance, if you just take a vanilla swap, there is someone who is wanting to kind of trade some point on the forward curve for perhaps like the rate of today. So they might be entering a fixed rate, kind of selling a fixed rate and selling a variable rate. There's a counterparty on the other side doing the opposite. But if you didn't have this kind of like variability off the way in which the rate was created in the first place, you kind of wouldn't really have this massive need for interest rate swaps which comes off the back of it.
00:08:49.830 - 00:08:53.362, Speaker A: And the same is very much true in DeFi as an ecosystem.
00:08:53.506 - 00:09:18.478, Speaker B: Simon, I like this idea that you brought up earlier of the yield stack almost. You're like, at the very core layer of DeFi, you have proof of stake and it's inherently variable because of just market supply and demand. Can you just dig into that a little more? So, in traditional capital markets, you have the Fed funds, right? And it's set by the central bank and the Fed. What does that look like for ETH right now?
00:09:18.644 - 00:10:08.510, Speaker A: Yeah. So it's funny, I actually am starting this personal thing. I'm starting to call it the base rate for the metaverse. So post merge, I think staked ETH is going to well, it will be like in TradFi, you've got the base rate set by the central bank and that flows through to the rest of the economy. I think the base rate for the metaverse, I E state ETH, it will flow through into kind of the rates that you get on protocols. It'll flow through to the rates you get from trading strategy perspective, even if you think about like, say, a CFI lending business, which I know they're kind of not, the purpose of this show is to almost talk about the fact that bring them in. If you just bring them in briefly, right, imagine they're trying to lend to a trading firm and the trading firm has effectively got this risk free rate of staking ETH and generating seven or 8% yield.
00:10:08.510 - 00:10:45.994, Speaker A: The kind of impact of that as a reference rate for the whole ecosystem is pretty wide. So I think post merge, when we get the base rate for the metaverse kind of materially changing and in many instances, many people are commenting they expect it to almost double in terms of rates which it produces for validator nodes. So when that changes and it is variable and is important and exists in protocols, exist in trading strategies, et cetera, et cetera, actually then having a forward curve that's built off the back of that becomes even more important.
00:10:46.192 - 00:11:31.830, Speaker C: Yeah. So is it appropriate to and maybe, Alan, I can pick on you here as well. Is what we're talking about here basically creating some sort of yield curve, a DFI native yield curve, where in the US. In TradFi, you have this concept of the risk free rate, which is basically the ten year, which is sort of set by the Fed at the shorter end of the curve, but really longer end. It's like what Simon was talking about, like expectations, right? It's literally like growth expectations that sets the ten year rate and then basically all other yields kind of ladder on top of that ten year yield, right. So that's supposed to be if you're lending to the US. Government, that's the least risky thing you can do basically in the world, and then everything else that you do on top of that, like if you're taking on corporate debt or municipal debt or equities or whatever it is, you're taking more risk than that.
00:11:31.830 - 00:11:57.810, Speaker C: So is that what we're talking about, kind of when it comes to crypto, where you could kind of see ETH as kind of simon to use the base rate of the metaverse? Right. That's the least risky yield that you can take in DeFi. And then maybe next one step up from that is like alternative layer ones that are a little bit newer, but they might offer higher yield to induce investors. Then on top of that, you've got the app layer of DeFi where you're taking even more risk because you're kind of leveraging yourself into other yields. Do you see us building out kind of a yield curve?
00:11:58.390 - 00:13:17.802, Speaker D: Well, absolutely. I do think there's one interesting wrinkle to this idea as ETH, as the base layer of returns, in the sense that you are taking ETH price exposure when you stake. I definitely think Staking is going to set the ETH returns. And since ETH is such an important part of the market, it's going to drive the market in a lot of other places. But other rates like stablecoins might be more reflective of what's going on in the broader economy in terms of the dollar and things like that. But I think you've identified it correctly in that the construction of a yield curve, I think, is where we're going, right? That is, how do expectations about the rate of return over time evolve and then how do traders and economic participants take advantage of that? And one thing I think is really interesting, as Simon has explained really well, is that an important thing here is like, what's the base economic activity that really drives a lot of the rates. And I think in the dollar part of the stablecoin part of the ecosystem, at least for fixed rates, it's not yet clear what that economic activity is.
00:13:17.802 - 00:13:29.466, Speaker D: And I'm really excited to talk about where it might come from and where it might be. But I think that that's ultimately what's going to drive what does that yield curve look like as it develops and as it grows.
00:13:29.578 - 00:13:50.134, Speaker B: And just for my middle of the bell curve brain here, the yield curve comes from the ability to have a fixed rate, fixed term borrow and lend of die. You guys are saying, like, we can create a yield curve. Is that where the yield curve comes from? It's on the back of this fixed rate, fixed term borrow and lend market.
00:13:50.332 - 00:14:41.110, Speaker D: Yeah, yield curve is just a mental picture of plotting out what the interest rate for different maturities are. So you might have what's the overnight rate? What's, 30 days? What's, 60 days or three months and nine months or a year in DFI right now, there isn't really much of a curve that is you can't really borrow that long term, maybe up to a year in places. And what we've seen, at least in the past, is that once you get past six months, the demand kind of tapers off pretty radically. I think that'll change as you start to see institutions that are borrowing for the long term and have business models that need to borrow for the long term. Right now, it's still relatively short, very short by traditional finance standards.
00:14:41.770 - 00:15:10.042, Speaker C: So let's talk about specifically what we've kind of talked about the market for interest rate swaps. What is like simon you were starting to get into this a little bit, but walk us through how this market for interest rate swaps, which is enormous, right? Who are the participants in that? What do people use? What are the different use cases for an interest rate swap type market? And then maybe we can even walk into an example of how that yield gets transformed from a variable yield into a fixed rate yield.
00:15:10.186 - 00:15:57.118, Speaker A: Yeah, say again? I think it's worth drawing comparisons from traditional finance because the utility is still in many instances, fundamentally the same. And an interest rate swap in traditional finance gets used predominantly for three different use cases. So the first being risk management, the second being speculation, and then the third actually being product construction, which can be both structured products for corporates but also a bunch of products for retail. And this is in fact, I literally did this last night at barbecue. One of our friends is like, what is it you do? And I was like, have you heard of an interest rate swap? And she was like, no. I was like, well, have you heard of a fixed rate mortgage? And she's like, well, yeah, of course, but what people don't realize simon, actually.
00:15:57.204 - 00:16:03.618, Speaker C: What is your hit rate for being like, have you heard of a market for interest rate swaps? How often are people like, yes, I'm very familiar with that market. Absolutely.
00:16:03.704 - 00:16:04.978, Speaker B: At a barbecue, too.
00:16:05.144 - 00:16:56.542, Speaker A: Yeah. The problem is, like, 90% of my friends are comparable to us, actually, the hit rate is quite high. For the rest of them, it's pretty low. But I was just almost using it as an example in my own mind, which is that one of the use cases is to build products and services off the back of it, which actually have utility to people where they don't know it's interacting with an interest rate swap, but they do have utility in that product, which they're consuming, if that makes sense. And we expect the same thing really to happen in DeFi and it's already starting to take place in terms of what we're observing. There's people who are using vaults as a primitive to hedge risk. So that could be for example, just to bring the CFI guys back in, it could be a CFI lending business where they're promising fixed rates on one side they're lending at a variable rate.
00:16:56.542 - 00:17:25.580, Speaker A: They've now got a liability on the balance sheet that they want to hedge and they can now do that on chain. Or it could be people who are kind of speculating. So there's kind of a whole bunch of different trading strategies you can build off the back of rate markets existing in DeFi. And then the third is this final one which is around product construction and like fixed rate mortgages on chain. I can see that happening in the future. I would love that to happen. I think it'll be a pretty monumental event when it does.
00:17:25.580 - 00:17:39.390, Speaker A: But before that, what we're seeing at least is that there are a lot of other products and services which are really wide spectrum actually that people are starting to build off the back of an interest rate swap market existing in DFI.
00:17:39.890 - 00:18:25.978, Speaker C: Yeah and I actually really love this example of the 30 year fixed rate mortgage actually as it was explained to me by someone in TradFi, that's an animal that you don't actually find in the wild, right? Because traditionally the way that actually works from a construction standpoint is there's some sort of variable rate, right? Like let's say it's Libor that it's based off of and then you get like libor plus like x percent. Like let's say it's one or 2% and that's variable. And what you need to do to construct a fixed interest rate mortgage is you basically because that's the locked in part, you basically need to use options, right? And you say, okay, whatever the interest rate of the mortgage is, let's say it's Libor plus like 1%. So that's 2%. These are old. You could have gotten this mortgage last year Jason. Congrats to you budy, these mortgages don't exist anymore.
00:18:25.978 - 00:19:28.574, Speaker C: But let's say it's like 2% and then you would want to lock in somewhere higher than that, right? Maybe it's four and a half percent or something like that. And basically what you need there is someone who wants to borrow right at that higher rate and then you need someone who's a speculator to take the other side of that. What you basically do is taking a leveraged bet on what interest rates are going to do. So that's why I think it's an important concept to construct in people's minds that this idea of speculation, people that want to take leveraged bets on interest rates and the construction of structured products, they seem like they're separate but they actually walk hand in hand and I think that's an important thing to point out to folks. Yeah. So I guess the question is what does that look like in crypto? Do you guys think? Because in TradFi we can point to mortgages right on the consumer level or like a car loan or something like that, that's fixed rate at the corporate level you can kind of point to the ability to borrow, right? There's a huge market for corporate debt that you want to do at a fixed rate. Like 88% of corporate borrowing is in of the US corporate bond market is in fixed rates.
00:19:28.574 - 00:19:43.320, Speaker C: So I guess moving forward, what does that look like for crypto? Are there consumer products that people are going to want to borrow at fixed rates? Are there corporate products? Are companies going to want to raise debt via DFI markets? What do you guys see on the demand side of the fixed rate market?
00:19:44.170 - 00:21:08.962, Speaker D: I would love to jump in and just say that I think that right now today we're building products I think for DeFi natives, right? So at yield we're building this fixed rate fixed term borrowing and lending platform and we're doing it for people who are native DeFi. Maybe they've used compound, maybe they've used Aave and they want to get a fixed rate against ETH or something. But we're also I think and we're trying to use this demand for leverage I think, and maybe sort of bring out the advantages of fixed rates, right? Like a lot of leverage in DeFi is used for example for yield farming, right? In that case you're often seeing people looking to they have some asset that they want to yield farm and maybe they want to borrow against it to increase the returns. And so borrowing at a fixed rate I think is really great for those kinds of use cases because you have a good sense of what your costs are going to be and so as long as you can find returns that are higher than that there's something to be made from that leverage. And of course since you're locking in your cost that's really attractive. Your interest rate is not going to go up and suddenly make the trade not work. So I think that's a really important part of where we are today.
00:21:08.962 - 00:21:47.774, Speaker D: But I'm really excited about how I really think Dows are going to be really important in terms of borrowing demand in the future, and especially fixed rate borrowing demand. Because if you're building a business, controlling your costs in terms of interest rates can be important for budgeting, can be important for a lot of different aspects, especially if you have a business model. Maybe that it works only if you're doing at certain cost levels, then I think that having fixed rate unlocks a bunch of things that you might not have if you just don't know what you're going to pay in terms of interest.
00:21:47.892 - 00:22:45.310, Speaker A: Yeah, just to add to that, I guess I'd agree DeFi is still at a relatively nascent stage, right, in the grand scheme of things. And that's probably putting it lightly. And I think as the sophistication of the market keeps increasing, there's going to be more and more, in my mind, more and more demand for people who are kind of essentially managing risk in a better way. So whether that be kind of fixing your borrowing costs, whether that be to Alan's point, from a Dow's perspective, actually, do you kind of continue to distribute tokens into the future or do you kind of supplement that in a different way? Like, are you taking your debt as a Dow? And the entire ecosystem, I guess as it starts to become more and more mature, there's going to be more increasing need for more sophisticated management around finances. And fixed rate borrowing is obviously a big part of that.
00:22:45.380 - 00:22:58.294, Speaker B: Alan, can you just go deeper into that in terms of what that means for DAOs to raise in debt instead of because right now there's only really one way to raise capital, which is equity, trade equity and or tokens for cash, right?
00:22:58.332 - 00:24:04.314, Speaker D: Right now, a lot of Dows, somehow you're giving out tokens in order to either selling them and then using the cash to do something or you're distributing the tokens to incentivize something. I think it's really just sort of about what can be most capital efficient, right? Especially right now, for example, a lot of token prices are down. Dows might not want to give away those tokens today because they believe they're going to go up. We think things will turn around, we'll have another bull market. But you do have fixed costs, right? You have developers to pay or other costs in terms of the business of the Dow. And so borrowing might be a good way to fill that need. But I think long term debt is better in terms of supercharging a business, right? So as business models get figured out and you know, like, okay, if I do this thing, I'm going to make money and if I do more of it, I'll make more money.
00:24:04.314 - 00:24:47.094, Speaker D: So therefore I want to do more of it, but I don't have the capital to do more of it. Borrowing can be a much better way to supercharge that because it's just another line item, right? It's like, okay, I'm going to have this cash, I'm going to do this thing, I'm going to increase revenue, but I only have to pay this much interest. And that's why fixed rate is so important. Because if you don't know what the interest rate is going to be, you don't want suddenly your interest rate to spike and then suddenly what you thought would be a profitable business model to stop being a profitable business model. So I think that there's just enormous room for that to really sort of take off. It's so early. I don't have even a great example of this happening.
00:24:47.094 - 00:25:42.700, Speaker D: I mean, we really haven't seen, I don't think, a lot of business models outside of Web Three Native stuff move into the space. Although it is starting to change. I think that there's some wild, really interesting things happening out there. One thing that comes to mind that's just totally random is there's a Dow for investing in R D projects for lifespan extension. And they're doing research. They're being recognized in the sense that Pfizer wants to invest in them, right? Like this traditional company wants to invest in a Dao because they're doing interesting research. I think the power of the coordination mechanisms that we can create in terms of these organizations will unlock new business opportunities and that, in turn, will be the source of demand that will, I think, drive a lot of what we're building in the fixed rate space.
00:25:46.350 - 00:26:21.510, Speaker B: Will that be the first venture into under collateralized lending? Because when me or you, Alan, like the individual takes out a loan, you have to over collateralize it because there's no way to look it into my credit. Right on chain. So what do you do? You have an over collateralized loan, but with protocols, they spit off revenue and there's a smart contract that could get executed if the collateral is dropping too low. So could this be the introduction, like Dow to Dow lending or like protocol to protocol lending? Is this going to be the first venture into under collateralized?
00:26:22.170 - 00:27:09.030, Speaker D: I mean, yes, I think so. I think one interesting thing about DeFi is it really blurs the line between collateralized and uncollateralized. Right? Like, if you have a loan that's collateralized by a Dow's governance token, is that truly a collateralized loan or is that an unclateralized credit based loan because the collateral is the governance token. So it's really sort of a bet on that Dow either way. So I think there's this blurring of that. But actually I think that's good in the sense that there are just all these new ways to structure risk and the risk of a loan and to distribute who has what risks and therefore who sits on the spectrum between being a very safe risk and a very risky risk.
00:27:10.890 - 00:27:13.830, Speaker C: That's technical. That's a technical term.
00:27:15.610 - 00:27:30.140, Speaker D: So I think unclateralized lending, as traditionally known yes, I think is going to be in the space, but it's going to look very different or it can look very different. And I think that that can drive a lot of value.
00:27:31.310 - 00:28:11.410, Speaker A: Just to add to that agreeing with what everything Alan is saying, actually, if you're thinking about under collateralized lending well, I kind of challenge whether it's under collateralized. It's. Just collateralized against future revenue streams. So if you are a Dow and you are seeing revenue coming into a smart contract, and that is kind of relatively predictable, and you can actually programmatically borrow against those future revenue streams that you know are going to be coming into this contract and could be kind of siphoned off to pay a loan, then arguably you are able to borrow against those future revenue streams. So for me, I think it's a pretty interesting space.
00:28:11.500 - 00:29:12.742, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it's fascinating because if you look at, again, the analog to TradFi, it's like a collateralized loan would be usually what you use for collateral there if you're a company, is like PP E, right? It's like your plant, your property and your equipment. That sounds all well and good, but let's say you're making Widget X, right, and you collateralize it with the capital equipment to make Widget X. Well, if people don't want Widget X at some point in the future, then all that collateral you had was supposed to be valuable that you were supposed to be able to take possession of and flip is no longer good, right? So that's the flip side to collateralized lending in TradFi type markets. One of the things that you guys I think are hinting at that's really interesting for DeFi is like a cash flow based lending, right, which is how a lot of lending gets done. And you can actually say right now if a bank makes a loan to blockworks, we say, hey, this is what we have in accounts receivable. This is like our history of revenue, please believe us that we can pay you back. But what you can do in a DeFi crypto type setting is you can actually say here's how I make revenue, here's how I've historically made that revenue.
00:29:12.742 - 00:29:30.900, Speaker C: You don't have to believe me. I'm going to bake it right into the contract that you're going to get X percent of revenue moving forward. It's like a huge risk that gets removed when you do this type of lending in crypto, I think, which is an under discussed use case, I think, for it in general. But.
00:29:35.590 - 00:29:59.782, Speaker A: There hasn't really been demand for that yet because there's been this massive bull market and everybody's been focusing on growing rather than optimizing the way in which the finances of the model work, if that makes sense. But I think we're now transitioning into a new phase where it's getting more sophisticated. There's not quite the same kind of kind of sentiment around and actually adoption of that type of product in my mind is just going to be more demand.
00:29:59.926 - 00:30:25.810, Speaker B: I was going to ask Simon, why have I mean, Mike said this is like 90% of loans in capital markets are fixed rate, not variable rate. But in DFI it's all variable still. So why have fixed rate loans not become popular so far? Is it market demand, right, where early DFI adopters are just inherently risk takers or is it more technologically like a tech limitation where you need these mature L two S with low fees? What is driving the lack of a market there?
00:30:25.880 - 00:31:31.160, Speaker A: Yeah, for me, I guess speaking more from a voltage perspective, I think it's been a combination of two things. I think that the first has been timing and then the second has actually been around the technology and from a timing perspective kind of fixing yield into the future. The truth is that that kind of has existed from a CFI perspective, but with the kind of relative implosion of CFI, there's less availability of fixed rate lending. So I think we're going to start to see a lot of that kind of coming on chain, albeit that there are challenges of course around over collateralizing a position. But then the second around from a technology perspective. For us, one of the kind of key problems that we wanted to solve for was to make an interest rate swap market as capital efficient as possible. Such that if you think about it from the utility of fixing your kind of borrowing costs, it shouldn't be inherently too expensive to fix that cost such that your net borrowing cost effectively is way higher.
00:31:31.160 - 00:31:47.662, Speaker A: If you make it capital efficient such that you can kind of fix with a relatively low amount of capital, your net borrowing cost still kind of remains within a relatively or moves within a relatively small margin. And that's one of the things that we certainly optimize for and we think will drive demand going forward.
00:31:47.796 - 00:32:39.710, Speaker D: Yeah, I just want to maybe echo that a little bit. I think one thing that as I mentioned earlier on the call, we will see this movement from a shorter term mentality to a longer term mentality. And I think in that shorter term mentality, the interest rates or whatever, the fixed rate world wasn't attractive enough yet. But as you have people who have a longer term mentality come in, I think they will have that that will be attractive to them. And the ability to get funds for longer fixed rate loans, of course makes it possible to have them in the first place. Right, so there's that chicken and egg problem. I think it's unlocked when you have better infrastructure like these interest rate swaps that make it possible to make liquid markets in these rates.
00:32:39.710 - 00:33:11.400, Speaker D: Once that infrastructure is in place, the demand that may exist out there but really doesn't have a home to go to, can start to come in and can start to take advantage of. Yeah, as Simon said, it's been a bit of a timing problem and it is a bit of a tech problem. We do need kind of infrastructure for this. Building a fixed rate protocol proved and continues to be much harder than I would have expected starting out.
00:33:12.410 - 00:33:25.278, Speaker C: Let's walk through that side. So we're kind of isolating the problem there's. The demand side. Right. You need someone to want to issue and set and for someone to want to borrow on the other side, like fixed debt. Right. So there's the kind of demand side of this whole market that we're talking about.
00:33:25.278 - 00:34:01.250, Speaker C: Then there's the kind of the mechanics right, that haven't simon that was kind of what you were talking about. There's still some mechanical restrictions on actually making this happen. And then there's actually the speculative side of this market, which is you kind of need a different type of degen to want to take levered bets on interest rates than Aping into yield farms. If there's one thing I believe about crypto, we'll find that degen, but we need that different type of speculator. I think in the space. I'd be curious, I'm talking to two guys who are founders at crypto, at protocols. I'm not going to ask you when, Token, but I'm assuming in the back of both your minds you're either keeping that as a fundraising mechanism.
00:34:01.250 - 00:34:40.230, Speaker C: I would say, though, if you think about the two different types of ways that you can raise capital, I guess there are three now. There's like debt equity and I guess Tokens right. The cheapest of those types of fundraising mechanisms are debt. That's why actually a lot of the premise of this season comes from is built on the assumption that DeFi founders will at some point consider raising capital via debt. So I'm like curious, you guys don't necessarily have to give me any insight into your particular capital raising roadmaps, but is this something that you guys think about, right, because it is a more kind of capital efficient way to do things. Yeah, I'd be curious.
00:34:41.050 - 00:35:15.530, Speaker A: Well, I think it has to be on the table. If it's not, then you're kind of not thinking broadly enough. I don't know. Maybe speaking for us, it's one of those things. Well, you need revenue streams. And when we think about faults as a primitive at the moment, kind of comparable to uniswap, the fee switch is set to zero right now, so there's no revenue streams coming into the protocol, but certainly going into the future. Why would you not do that? It would be more capital efficient.
00:35:15.530 - 00:35:29.142, Speaker A: And to Alan's point earlier, if you kind of have landed on a model where you can pour fuel on the fire and you can keep growing it, then raising debt to do that actually is kind of like a more efficient way of doing it. Yeah.
00:35:29.196 - 00:36:21.874, Speaker D: I mean, one interesting thing is yield protocol already has debt in the sense that when everyone interacting with it is interacting directly with the protocol, borrowers are borrowing from the protocol effectively and lenders are lending to the protocol effectively. So the system as it exists today actually has fixed rate, fixed term debt inherent in it. But it's only driven by usage. Right. It's not driven by the protocol itself. I guess it's possible that future governance could decide, like, the way to fund yield protocol. One way to fund it and make it grow faster would be to use the existing debt system that it has and borrow via those channels to obtain cash for whatever and yield.
00:36:21.874 - 00:36:44.800, Speaker D: Also, in terms of what we're doing today, we're very much just like Simon and know there's a fee revenue switch. But it's like the goal is not to make revenue today. The goal is to create a useful protocol to find the right areas of product market fit for fixed rates and then make those great.
00:36:45.170 - 00:36:59.266, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that's a key thing as well. It's just that most projects in this space are really nascent. Right. There's a reason why you don't see even outside of crypto, you don't see two year old startups being like, hey, I'd love to raise some debt. It's all equity financing at that point.
00:36:59.288 - 00:36:59.474, Speaker A: Right.
00:36:59.512 - 00:37:17.990, Speaker C: Because that's what investors they want equity upside in something that's that young. But also if you don't have fixed cash flows, it's really hard to do debt based financing. And I would wonder how significant that is if that's a big part of the reason why we haven't seen debt financing for Dows at this point because it's just like they don't have cash flows.
00:37:18.570 - 00:37:23.020, Speaker D: Yeah. Do you know of a Dow that has great cash flows? Because I would lend to them.
00:37:24.750 - 00:37:29.962, Speaker C: Not particularly. Although the fee switch is being experimented on as we guys.
00:37:30.016 - 00:37:33.742, Speaker D: Yeah, maybe uniswap can borrow. I would love I'd lend to them.
00:37:33.876 - 00:37:35.440, Speaker A: Me too. Sure. Yeah.
00:37:36.290 - 00:37:44.346, Speaker B: Ellen, if uniswap went what would you actually look at? If uniswap went to you? How would you set that up? What's the actual mechanism?
00:37:44.458 - 00:38:26.142, Speaker D: I mean, so in terms of yield protocol, we're trying to build a, you know, bringing together borrowers and lenders. So if Uniswap's like, hey, somehow we want to know, I would be like, okay, how can I help you access the lenders? Right. The way that yield protocol sits currently as facing both the lenders and borrowers, I think just makes it easier or makes it work better. But as a Dow, it's not itself being the lender or the borrower. The ultimate lender to the borrower will.
00:38:26.196 - 00:38:34.626, Speaker B: Folks end up right now you can get fixed rate loans on something like Ave or Compound. I don't know what the actual numbers are.
00:38:34.728 - 00:39:09.180, Speaker D: Ave has a kind of product. It's kind of the stable rate or whatever. Ave's had that for a while. I mean, it's kind of, by design only a small fraction of what they do. Because of course, if it started to consume a lot of the capital put into the Ave pools, it could start to really affect the broader market. So they've sort of hobbled it price wise from the get go. In terms of the rates that it quotes you, they aren't very good.
00:39:09.790 - 00:39:11.198, Speaker B: The rates are super high.
00:39:11.364 - 00:40:11.002, Speaker A: They're deliberately high. Yeah. In fact, actually it's interesting, you just brought this up because I don't know when this is getting aired, but we have recently created borrow markets on Ave and compound which is going to be announced tomorrow. So assuming this isn't being aired between now and then, good to talk about it. And this is almost coming back to one of the points we were kind of talking about earlier, which is what has restricted demand? And I think in many instances there's the silos. If you're on Ave or Compound as a borrower already, is there a way of just easily kind of converting your variable rate loan into a fixed rate loan? So what kind of vaults as a kind of primitive enables is because it's just a swap of that rate of return literally with a click, you can convert your variable rate loan on Avion compound without ever removing it. You can convert it into a fixed rate loan where those rates are market driven.
00:40:11.002 - 00:40:37.400, Speaker A: They are not the kind of like stable rates that exist on Ave, which are deliberately artificially high and therefore haven't really seen much adoption. Instead, if you're kind of borrowing at a variable rate of it depends what the forward code looks like. But if you're borrowing at a variable rate of, say, 1% or 2%, you'd actually expect the market driven kind of rate for a fixed rate, say over six months or whatever, to be much lower than the stable rates you get on Ave at the moment.
00:40:38.090 - 00:41:21.720, Speaker B: I think that might answer my question because I was trying to think about so in capital markets, like Mike, you said it well, like the 30 rate, 30 year mortgage is not like a beast that exists in nature, right? So really what happens is the bank might have like an interest rate swaps desk and they'll get a mortgage and it'll be variable and then they'll take it to the desk and they'll swap it. So in crypto, I think, Simon, you might have answered my question there, but who's the counter for me, the user or the Dow? Is the borrower? Where are you going? Are you going to volts directly? Are you going to yield or do you see volts and yield as like a protocol that sits on the background, in the background and then there's basically like apps that are built on top of it.
00:41:23.850 - 00:42:02.100, Speaker A: For us, well, I guess it varies. Like people can build products on top of vaults that abstracts away the complexity or people can just come direct and what we've actually deliberately done is we've kind of abstracted away some of that complexity for users. So if you have a variable kind of borrowing cost on Avial compound, you can actually go to the Vaults kind of interface and you can just edit click convert that into a fixed rate kind of debt. So for us, you could either choose to interact with vaults directly or it could be kind of somebody that builds the abstraction layer on.
00:42:05.910 - 00:42:33.930, Speaker C: Know, maybe moving on because the way I'm kind of segment it's always imperfect to reason by analogy. But when I look at again, TradFi is an analog. There are like three big markets right? There's like the sovereign market for debt. There's the corporate market for debt and then there's the individual, like the individual market for debt. The consumer, let's call it consumer. So corporates what we've kind of been talking about maybe the Dana is in crypto for DeFi native debt markets. We're going to get DAOs as the main borrower, right? Because they're very similar to a company.
00:42:33.930 - 00:42:58.850, Speaker C: There's a real need for them to raise do like debt financing. I can for some reason easily see a Dow going to DeFi markets as opposed to trying to get a loan from a bank. Can you imagine what that process would look like if anyone's gotten a loan from a bank? No way you're getting that as a Dow. So they're definitely tapping crypto. So that makes a lot of sense to me. Product market fit wise. One thing I'd love to get your guys just high level thoughts are on if there's an analog to a sovereign debt market in crypto.
00:42:58.850 - 00:43:42.478, Speaker C: Because really if you think about the biggest sources of yield in TradFi writ large, it's countries, right? It's countries like the United States or China or Russia, whoever it is saying, hey, I need to fund things that are going on to my country. They tap international debt markets for that, right? There's an enormous you can see like treasury issuance. It's like off the charts. We're running a $1 trillion deficit, by the way, into perpetuity. So good for America. But those are really deep liquid markets. I'd be curious if you guys see any analog and the thing that it seems like we're talking about the ETH stake rate is the new base rate then it would actually make sense that L ones are the real creators of yield in crypto.
00:43:42.478 - 00:44:23.710, Speaker C: And actually that leads you to a weird conclusion where it's like do you ever see L ones tapping debt markets? I know that sounds funny because you're like how would they even do that? But it is kind of interesting. Like could ethereum, which also you can construct a PNL and I actually think this gets done. Someone creates a PNL for ethereum. Could they ever tap a debt market or could debt markets spring up where you transform that base rate, that stake rate for ETH into a more sustainable form of yield? I know that's kind of a weird wonky high level thing to get at, but I'm trying to understand what is that base? Who are the real whales when it comes to either borrow or generating yield? And I'm wondering if L ones could potentially be that yield creator.
00:44:23.870 - 00:44:35.880, Speaker A: It's definitely an interesting thought. I think one of the things I've learned in this space is to never take anything off the table. Who knows? Maybe it's a polite way of saying.
00:44:40.090 - 00:45:39.130, Speaker D: But why not, though? Because think about it. I think that to your government's question, right, it would seem surprising today for a government to like issue a bond on, you know, the Ethereum Network or, or some other network. Like that would be, that would be kind of shocking and weird. But ten years from now, I mean, maybe that will seem like the most sensible thing in the world because you've got access to this global financial market. And so a government, and especially maybe small governments could tap demand anywhere. They could go directly, say, to a consumer in the US or the EU and make the case that, hey, we're a small sovereign, but we're really coming up, we're really going to be doing great, buy our debt and give us a loan at a cheap rate. That could really change the dynamic of global financial markets.
00:45:39.130 - 00:45:53.760, Speaker D: And it doesn't really require any new technology here for that to happen. It would really just require a shift in mindset and shifts in mindset like that. They seem really hard until suddenly they're not.
00:45:54.370 - 00:47:21.050, Speaker C: So maybe the next big step for sovereigns is not another small country buying bitcoin, right, which is what we've seen over the know, year and a half. But actually it would be a small sovereign that's like choked in existing capital markets to say, hey, I'm actually going to tap DeFi native credit markets and try that as opposed to what we have in the traditional system. That'd be really interesting, be fascinating. Yeah, I guess maybe to again, maybe just close as well with like because I think what we're talking about here right now, it really stems from like do you guys see the yield coming from the real world? Call it like sovereigns and companies and individuals taking their existing infrastructure and putting on the blockchain or are there crypto native sources for that yield in general? I think a lot of that is like that's touching the maker debate for real world assets, like what sort of collateral do they issue die against? And I think that's like a big question when it comes to everything that we're talking about here, right? Because what we need at the end of the day is demand for borrow and then you need liquidity and speculators to kind of take the other side right, to transform the variable into fixed. And for that you need scale. And so I think I'm very torn. I mean, do you guys see this centering around like real world assets? Do you think we do need corporates and sovereigns, like tapping these markets to create demand or do you think there are ways that crypto from within the industry we could create that demand for debt markets?
00:47:21.950 - 00:48:27.114, Speaker A: I think there's potential over time for there to be kind of both in my mind and I think frankly, you think about how disruptive the technology is why does it have to just remain kind of crypto native forever? I think it'd be a great shame if that was the case. And I think one of the things I don't want to just kind of talk too much just from a vault perspective, but one of the things that we often think about is there are these rate markets that can be created. Like if you think of ETH as the base rate for the metaverse, you can create a rate market around that. But actually there's no reason there's literally nothing stopping us from creating TradFi rate markets on chain. At which point, say just for example, you could have a libor index rate coming in and you create a rate market off the back of that. And at the point which something like that starts to happen, you are really breaking down the barriers between the two different ecosystems. Or arguably DeFi is starting to wedge itself more into traditional financial markets.
00:48:27.114 - 00:49:03.420, Speaker A: And the more and more that that happens actually I'd start to see, I could see more and more capital getting comfortable with the risks associated of operating on what is a new technology. And over time as more of that happens, there's going to be more assets that exist in the space. Maybe real world assets are going to start to become replicated on chain. All of this in turn leads to kind of more activity, more demand for borrowing, et cetera, et cetera. So I kind of view that as both actually in my view, like long term and I think if that doesn't happen, then we've done something wrong, if that makes sense.
00:49:04.030 - 00:50:21.826, Speaker D: Yeah, I would say both as well. I think the thing for me is I've been pessimistic about real world assets for a while because doing things on DeFi just seems faster, right? Or doing things DeFi native seems faster. The ability to iterate faster means that things that are happening that are interesting tend to be more DFI native or more crypto native or more web3 native than traditional financial assets coming on chain. But we do have a very good example in the form of USDC of a traditional financial instrument, just dollars in a bank account coming on chain and kind of working. It still exists, regulators haven't destroyed it. And while things have been certainly concerning lately around privacy and sanctions and how all that's going to interact with the chain, and there's lots of thoughts to be concerned about there. It seems like at the same time, you're actually finally seeing this world going from regulators just don't like it and won't interact with it and want it to go away to being like, okay, this is a world we have to interact with and maybe even have to make some concessions to.
00:50:21.826 - 00:51:04.222, Speaker D: Or if not the regulators making concessions, then lawmakers figuring out how to solve the problem. And so while I'm still very much of the mindset that I think most of what we'll see that will be exciting and most impactful the fastest will be coming from native assets and ecosystem and native things. I think I'm actually optimistic, or more optimistic than I was in the past about movement from regulators and lawmakers in terms of actually opening the door to more traditional financial products on chain and bringing more world assets on chain. So I'm very optimistic about both.
00:51:04.356 - 00:51:52.446, Speaker C: I'm curious, the one thing that's really hard to foresee in crypto is timing, right? Like, when does this eventually end up working? And the other thing I think that we can be pretty certain about is that things don't tend to be like slow and gradual in crypto. It's like it's not working, it's not working, it's not working. That extremely works very quickly. So what we're trying to get a sense of, I think, is where, if at all, you see fixed income lending being an unlock for the next cycle, for the next bull market, which maybe you have a view on. Cycles. Like we're going to continue in this four year pattern, but it seems pretty clear we're in a bear market right now, and we, hopefully, God willing, are headed towards a bull market at some point in the future. I can see the ability to borrow and lend at fixed rates and structured products that are laddered on top of that, fixed rate borrowing, lending as being an enormous unlock for the space.
00:51:52.446 - 00:52:06.530, Speaker C: I'd be curious if you guys see that unlock affecting, right, either as a catalyst or maybe continuing further like the next bull cycle, or what you think that interaction is going to look like, or if you think it's just too hard to tell because of timing.
00:52:07.510 - 00:52:54.130, Speaker D: I definitely think fixed rates could play an important role in the next bull cycle. I mean, for the last one, 2020, 2021, we just weren't there yet. Yield protocol was just some code we were working on when Compound, for example, launched their governance token and sort of kicked off a lot of yield farming and stuff. And Ethan bitcoin started to rally. So really it was far too premature to have any effect in that cycle. I think this cycle definitely can, and I definitely think that if nothing else, then the primitives around what we're building and both of our protocols I think are going to be important in that I think will help drive it. So maybe fixed rates won't be the central story.
00:52:54.130 - 00:53:15.002, Speaker D: I think the central story to every boom sort of comes out of left field. I was excited about NFTs, but I never expected the NFT boom. Who knows what will be the driver? But I definitely see a role to play and we're definitely betting on that. I mean, we're definitely trying to build towards that.
00:53:15.136 - 00:54:20.640, Speaker A: Yeah. And I guess from my side, well, I kind of think of it from the perspective of what is going to drive the next bull market and how are we going to get more people, more capital coming into the space? Because there probably will be something completely unexpected like Alan was it, the NFT boomer is clearly going to be something else which will happen at some point. But then there's also how do you get that steady state growth in terms of people adopting DeFi as their financial system? And for me, one of the big things there is just this point around being able to transition from something which is structurally variable to something which is structurally stable. And if you cannot do that, then arguably DeFi cannot serve the financial needs of the whole of the world and that's something that we clearly want to happen and being able to kind of transition. So therefore, kind of using an interest rate swap or kind of another kind of fixed rate primitive to move into something that is stable rather than something which is kind of variable is ultimately going to be important in bringing that wave of people into the space.
00:54:23.330 - 00:55:44.454, Speaker C: I think the reason I was kind of alluding to a different type of degen, right? Like on the other side of that, because I agree with you, Simon, it's like, look, if we want businesses to tap DeFi native credit, like, you need that ability to borrow lend at a fixed rate, right? I think it's very easy, at least for me, to sit down and conceptualize what the demand side of this market could eventually look like. But I think the less understood on the back of that is you need a robust either options or perp market. That's what the mechanics kind of look like of locking in those fixed rates and then you need people that are willing to speculate. If you think about the original OG dgens in TradFi, it's like Paul Tudor Jones and Stan Druckenmiller and George Soros because what they were basically doing was taking these levered bets in currency markets, right, and breaking the back of England and stuff like that. Our version of that is basically people aping into yield farms and taking an enormous amount of risk there. But I think it makes sense that as the space institutionalizes, you're going to say, wow, these are like really native markets where they're not very efficient and there's an enormous amount of ability to tap leverage and speculate on things that we understand, which is interest rates and how interest rates flow through into different valuations. So whenever we're crafting a thesis in crypto, I think it's important to keep the speculative like, what is the speculative nature and how is that going to kick this use case off? Because I agree with you, I think over the long term you need that ability to borrow and lend from the demand side.
00:55:44.454 - 00:55:51.646, Speaker C: But also I think you got to keep in mind how is speculation going to be leveraged here? I think to kick things off, yeah, I think.
00:55:51.668 - 00:56:28.738, Speaker A: That's. Well, in fact, actually, just to talk against one of the things that we're seeing that's really interesting is the merge is coming up and we've got markets around kind of State East by far. One of the most popular trades is for people to enter what we describe as a variable. Take a position where selling a fixed rate, buying exposure to the variable rate because they expect the whole thing to go up. Right now that trade actually looks crazy because the fixed rate you're selling is like 6%. But the variable rate as of today is way lower. But there's this huge speculative nature to it, which is that I expect that variable rate to be like 8%, maybe even higher post merge.
00:56:28.738 - 00:56:36.410, Speaker A: And we're seeing to your point, Mike, we're seeing that as a big driver of activity, this different type of DJ.
00:56:36.750 - 00:56:40.254, Speaker B: So Simon, post merge, do you think the variable rate ends up being higher.
00:56:40.292 - 00:57:09.794, Speaker A: Than the fixed rate, the fixed rate right now? So the fixed rate on Volts protocol is driven off trading activity. So if there's loads of fixed takers, then that basically has kind of demand effect in one direction. If there's loads of variable takers a demand effect in the other direction. At the moment there's been so much variable demand it's pushed up the price of the fixed. But post merge expect the variable to increase and then who knows, maybe the fixed kind of increases further.
00:57:09.922 - 00:57:10.598, Speaker B: Interesting.
00:57:10.764 - 00:57:24.938, Speaker C: All right, guys, I think we've played 20 questions. I appreciate both your guys time. Just any closing thoughts or anything that we might not have covered on fixed rates that unlock or I guess also if folks want to find out more about you and your protocols, what's the.
00:57:24.944 - 00:57:58.254, Speaker D: Best way to do that? So if people want to learn more about Yield protocol, we're at Yieldproteocol.com. We love talking to our community. So if you're watching this and you think all fixed rates should be this or it should be that, we want to build it for you. We want to make it great. So I think that there's a lot of people out there who haven't yet had their chance to say here's what fixed rates should be in this ecosystem, but please come work with us at Yield protocol. I mean, we're building cool stuff and we'd love to have you involved.
00:57:58.382 - 00:58:40.660, Speaker A: Yeah, and then from a vaults perspective, you can find us vaults XYZ. Similar to Alan, we spent loads of time in the community kind of jump into our discord. What's pretty active at the moment is there's lots of teams that have come through kind of identifying the fact that this kind of new interest rate swap market has been created and can see the way in which that is going to be used to build a new bunch of products and services for the space. So we actually end up setting up private discord channels with a lot of these teams. And that honestly, some of the kind of best times to reach out is when it's very early in the ideation stage, because we've spent a lot of time thinking about what can be built on top of vaults, and we love ideating it with people.
00:58:41.190 - 00:58:54.694, Speaker C: Awesome. All right, guys, thanks very much. It's been a great interview. We'll have to do this again sometime next bull cycle when fixed interest rates are kicking everything off. We'll do another roundup and we'll say, I told you so. So that'll be a lot of fun.
00:58:54.812 - 00:58:55.426, Speaker B: Thanks, Simon.
00:58:55.458 - 00:58:56.102, Speaker D: Thanks so much.
00:58:56.156 - 00:58:57.080, Speaker C: Cheers, guys.
00:58:59.770 - 00:59:02.474, Speaker B: All right. Another good one. What'd you think?
00:59:02.672 - 00:59:45.110, Speaker C: I thought it was really good. I mean, both of those guys are deeply involved in they've both got projects right, that is actively facilitating this thesis that we're talking about. So in the case of Alan, he's actually figuring out the mechanics of how to create transform variable into fixed rate yield in crypto. And then Simon is actually building the exchange that's going to facilitate that. Right. So he's building an AMM for fixed rates and they're licensing actually part of Univ Three to do that. So both these guys have very deep understanding of what the transformation of variable to fixed rates actually looks like and then it was fun to kind of speculate with them about what that actually might end up looking like in crypto.
00:59:45.110 - 01:00:08.734, Speaker C: I thought my take on the episode was I think everyone like the overall mindset. I haven't been changed walking into this. I think I believed walking in and I still believe that fixed rate lending is going to be big. I think what we're looking for is the catalyst and that's what we just haven't necessarily seen yet, I think.
01:00:08.772 - 01:00:45.546, Speaker B: Does it feel like I mean, one of the big themes of the episode was doubted out lending, right. And lending and borrowing against future revenue of the protocol and having the future revenue of the protocol become the collateral, essentially. Does it feel like going deeper and deeper into a bear market could actually be the kicking off point? Reason being, the more down bad that protocols are with their token prices, the less likely they are to want to sell tokens to get cash. So if your token is down 90%, you don't want to sell it for cash, you would rather lend against it. Does that feel like maybe okay, so.
01:00:45.568 - 01:01:14.626, Speaker C: There are like two different ways that this could go in crypto and this is where I would be worried about this. Right. What a trend that I'm starting to notice is being like, hey, instead of selling my doing like equity finance, I'm going to sell my token or whatever for financing. I don't want to sell my token, I want to hang on to that. So I'm going to borrow against this and I'm going to use that as collateral to finance that. That I just do not love. I will be honest with you.
01:01:14.626 - 01:02:16.930, Speaker C: I do not love it as a construction, actually. I think if you go back all the way to Enron, I don't mean to bring this up, but one of the things they were doing a whole bunch of other bad things there, right, with their business. But the reason why it was able to implode so quickly is what was later found out is they had all these balance sheet vehicles that they were borrowing with, but they were financing, they were collateralizing it with Enron's stock. So that's why that unwind happened like that super quickly. I just don't love the idea of collateralizing loans with really early stage equity. What I'd be interested in for DowDow lending is this was kind know, Tushar wrote about this in his thesis for the opportunity for DeFi native interest rate markets, which is basically you borrow against future cash flows that a protocol is going to earn. Right? So again, the analogy is like for you and me, right? If we went to Morgan Chase tomorrow and we're like, hey, we'd like to get a like what they look at is our past revenue, our EBITDA, like our net profit that we're generating.
01:02:16.930 - 01:03:00.258, Speaker C: They would look at our accounts receivable. They would kind of look at all these our credit scores, they'd look at all these different metrics and then they'd be like, okay, we think that these guys are going to pay us back. Guys, please use the funds for what we said. That what you said that you're going to use the funds for and please pay us back in crypto. You don't actually have to do that last step, which is trust, right? We're going to get into this in a later episode. Actually, we're talking to someone who's building a structured product based on the ability to fix rate lend essentially with funds that are only good for one purpose, right? But what you can actually do is you can look at funds that are protocols that are generating even if it's not cash flows today. Like, let's say if it's some percentage of well, I guess uniswap is probably a good one.
01:03:00.258 - 01:03:31.434, Speaker C: So let's say they turn on the fee switch. You could be like, okay, you guys are going to get whatever it is, ten or $20 million in fee switch revenue. You could design it into the contract to route those funds into paying back this loan. It sounds small. And then you could even go one step further and be like, hey, these funds that I'm giving you are loaning you. I can see what you're spending that money on, right? I can see where that is going on the blockchain. Like, you are proved to spend the money on this, this and this, right? Basically what you're doing is removing layers of risk.
01:03:31.434 - 01:03:38.366, Speaker C: So for that I'm very bullish. But on the ability to use your own token.
01:03:38.478 - 01:03:40.754, Speaker A: Use your own token as collateral. Yeah.
01:03:40.792 - 01:03:43.022, Speaker B: Because then the unwind just happens faster and faster.
01:03:43.086 - 01:03:49.510, Speaker C: Yeah, I guess if Alan were on this recap, what he might say is like yeah, but you just have to price it appropriately.
01:03:51.690 - 01:03:54.450, Speaker B: There's a market for everything riskier asset.
01:03:54.530 - 01:04:06.218, Speaker C: Yeah. You don't price it as fully collateralized lending, then I guess you price it based on what you think the risks are. So I think it is an interesting way know, it's something that's interesting, it's not being done.
01:04:06.304 - 01:04:16.334, Speaker B: I also like Simon's framework for the yield stack, which is just a nice way to look at it, like the ETH stake rate as the base layer of yield and everything kind of flows back off of that.
01:04:16.452 - 01:04:55.562, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that's another big unanswered question for me and frankly I'm not sure we're going to figure that out because all you can really do is speculate about it. But we do need some equivalent in one of two things is going to happen. Either real world is going to integrate with crypto or it's not, right? And all the yield that gets generated is going to be crypto native in some way, shape or form. I guess there are pros and cons to each one of those. That what we need. Traditional debt markets are based on one superbid, which is like the US government, right? They issue a whole bunch of lending. A lot of yield is generated off of the US government's desire to borrow even like lesser countries, right.
01:04:55.562 - 01:05:45.594, Speaker C: Create smaller. If you drop outside of the top ten economies by GDP, then those debt markets are super small, liquid and very difficult to tap. So what we need in crypto is either take advantage of what exists that would be the real world asset, right, and start integrating Treasuries and more US dollars and maybe MBS and stuff as collateral and then building yield off that or you go the crypto native way. But you need that gigantic, sustainable, relatively predictable source of yield and you probably need consumer products, crypto native consumer products that people want and there's a need to finance those, the purchase of those consumer products. So I think both of those features I see problems with and I'm not really sure which way we're going to they don't have to be mutually exclusive by the way. They can be both. But that's the unanswered question for me.
01:05:45.712 - 01:05:58.830, Speaker B: Yeah, I think there's one thing that I wish we talked to them about, which was it really feels like regulation is determining so much of what happens in these markets and I do wish if we had them back on I would talk to them about that.
01:05:58.980 - 01:06:26.438, Speaker C: Yeah, well I think it's very different. There are all these things that especially US based protocol founders are very careful to be like, see, we're not doing this and this and this. So this token isn't a security. But when you do what we're talking about doing, which is issuing especially on the Dow side, like if they issued something that looks like security. Yeah, it's just like these poor lawyers. You'd rather already bringing their hands and pulling their hair out. It's like, Guys, help me out here.
01:06:26.438 - 01:06:34.140, Speaker C: You can't just issue debt on the blockchain and call it not a security. So yeah, I think that's when it becomes sort of difficult.
01:06:36.510 - 01:06:37.626, Speaker B: Anything else?
01:06:37.808 - 01:07:22.154, Speaker C: No, I just think that conversation set us up for our next two conversation. I think the point that we were really trying to drive home there is that there's some element of this which is speculative, right? Like the actual mechanism with how that variable rate that starts with the stake rate and then kind of flows up the way that gets transformed into a fixed rate. You need an options market to basically do that. And for that options market to work, you need people that want to take levered specular bets right within those option markets. So that's the next thing that we're going to be talking about, basically. And then the structured products thing is really what is the unlock. So the ability to borrow and lend at fixed rate and then build a structured product on that, that's what we're going to be talking about next.
01:07:22.154 - 01:07:48.394, Speaker C: And I think you correctly identified the link in between those structured products and uncollateralized lending. Because again, to your point, it's not much help for blockworks. If we wanted to tap these markets to take out a loan, it's like, hey, I need to have X amount of collateral to go tap this market. It's like, no, I'm going to you because I need the money. Here's. Why? I'm credit worthy. So I think under collateralized lending and structured products are the next big unlock that we need to explore.
01:07:48.522 - 01:08:01.000, Speaker B: Agreed. All right, coming up next we have on chain options. Then after that we've got under lending, uncollateralized lending. Really excited for those two. If you guys are enjoying it, punch that subscribe and we'll see you next time.
