00:00:00.520 - 00:00:41.236, Speaker A: Well, please, everyone, welcome Vitalik here, joining us at DCXproc. And as all of you know, because, you know, I wouldn't shut up about it. Like, this is pretty last minute, the scheduling is pretty, pretty lightweight. And therefore we figured after all of the talks that Vitalik did in Istanbul, like easier appearance in a form of and ama, ask me anything, would it be suitable for now? So it's basically your session as well. I'll just hand over the mic to Vitalik and you can ask questions and of course, you feel free to do you and just say whatever, Vic.
00:00:41.260 - 00:00:41.824, Speaker B: Sure.
00:00:43.204 - 00:00:46.108, Speaker A: So what will be the first question?
00:00:46.236 - 00:00:49.268, Speaker B: Well, Yosef, what's your question? Oh, okay.
00:00:49.356 - 00:01:26.324, Speaker A: So, yeah, let's start easy. Assuming that we have infinite amount of resource in the universe, what would you say is a reason to push for sustainability? Like, if we can basically look at human evolution in a sense of, well, if we just exhaust all the resources there are, why would we attempt to do anything sustainable here on earth if we can just like push for space exploration and just like, mine everything out there.
00:01:26.984 - 00:02:07.518, Speaker B: I see, okay. Yeah, yeah, it's a good question. I mean, I guess, like, when I hear the word sustainability in a crypto conversation, usually it's like, oh, are the core devs going to have enough money? And like, is the governance structure going to survive, needing to find, like, new people who aren't the original founders and all these kinds of questions. But here it's like old school sustainability. It's like, you know, like, where's the nickel gonna come from, Doug? Right. Yeah. I mean, I think in general, like, I'm very pro expanding into space and I think it's the sort of thing that we're going to have to do eventually.
00:02:07.518 - 00:03:24.282, Speaker B: And I think there's good rationales for that, even from the point. From the point of view of a different kind of sustainability, which is just like minimizing long term risk. Right. It's that, you know, if you have literally everyone on one planet and everyone has access to tools that can have all kinds of complicated impacts to each other, and, like, everyone has massive externalities with each other, like, that's a really challenging structure to govern, that's a really challenging thing to maintain. That's something that could become really challenging if there was ever any large disagreements. And so I do believe in space as a way of just making it possible to have both more distance and probably and even more cultural diversity and those kinds of things in the long term in terms of, like, physical resource use. I mean, this all depends on, like, how fast the different technologies go right, because, like, there's people who literally think that we're going to have super intelligent AI in 15 years, and if we have super intelligent AI in 50 years, then, like, that could solve all kinds of problems.
00:03:24.282 - 00:04:12.044, Speaker B: If it doesn't, of course, break the world first. But on the. I think this is one of those things that can be debated, but everything that I personally hear suggests that there's definitely room to keep making new technologies and keep using existing resources in a way that's much more efficient. And I think those things are good too. And I think it's amazing that we're creating solar panels that are much better. It's amazing that nuclear fusion might finally be maybe two real decades away instead of, like, two fake decades away. So, yeah, I think as often as the case, I'm a fan of sort of pursuing both directions at the same time.
00:04:14.064 - 00:04:17.440, Speaker A: Are there more questions in the audience here?
00:04:17.632 - 00:04:20.164, Speaker B: Yeah, hi.
00:04:20.744 - 00:04:33.170, Speaker C: What's your take on homomorphic encryption and how it could potentially enhance ethereum in the future? Do you think? It's really close? And what do you think about the work that the team at Sama is doing?
00:04:33.362 - 00:05:27.396, Speaker B: Okay, finally, something more down to earth. Okay. Yeah, so the one concern I have with homomorphic encryption is basically that, like, it has a super high overhead, right? Like, with the gestarks, we're used to an overhead of like 1000 x, or, like somewhere between 1010 thousand x if you do the circuit writing job well. But with fully homomorphic encryption, it's like way higher, right? It's like somewhere between a million and a billion x. And you can do basic circuits with that. Right? Like, I think people don't appreciate how even in modern applications, like, the part of the application that does the important business logic is like, you know, a few hundred bytes, and then the part that's like a few billion bytes is just random junk. And so, and, like, it being a billion to a billion x overhead does not mean that it's not viable, but, like, it does put an upper limit on how much you can do with it.
00:05:27.396 - 00:06:40.122, Speaker B: And then the other challenge is, like, with homorphic encryption, you still, like, you still need some party to decrypt the thing at the end. And there's a lot, like, basically, there's a sense in which fully homomorphic encryption and MPC have a very similar trust model. And a lot of the time you can take fully homomorphic encryption applications and make them more efficient just by doing MPC protocols instead. Because fhe just basically means you do MPC, but with only one round of interaction, right? If you just like, allow yourself to have two rounds or three rounds or a little bit more interaction, then often you can improve efficiency much more. Which actually gets me to the next topic, which basically is MPC, right? Because it does have less overhead than Feg. And the way that I think about that space is that there's like two flavors of MPC. There's sort of the, what the crypto space usually thinks of as being MPC, which is like these k event systems where you have like a committee and you need six out of nine to do some computation, and then the whole thing breaks because it turns out that five of those nine are on the same server and it gets hacked to people with $250 million.
00:06:40.122 - 00:08:16.856, Speaker B: Um, but then, so, like, that type of NPC, I'm fairly bearish on both because, like, the trust model is like, actually not that good, right? Like, the problem with these 51% trust assumptions is like on a blockchain, when you have an assumption that people are not going to 51% attack you, there's like actual accountability behind the assumption, right? Because if they do attack you, then, like, it's obvious to everyone on the Internet what happened, and you can just, like, go and make a new chain and, like, go. Even if. Even if all of the in protocol slashing fails, you can go make a new chain and delete their money, right? But if you have a, like, MPC privacy preserving system, then if you have like 51% of them colluding and just quietly passing all the information to, like, JP Morgan or the NSA or the KGB or whoever else, then, like, that is completely undetectable, right? And what that. And so, like, if in any kind of mature ecosystem, like, we would just totally have conspiracy theories all over the place about how, like, these committees are actually all colluding with governments, and, like, they'd have absolutely no way to refute any of that, right? So that's the reason why I'm like bearish on M of NPC. The thing that I'm bullish on is like two of two and sometimes three of three, right? So technology is like garbled circuits. They've existed for decades, and they're much simpler than these more complicated MPC protocols and garbled circuits. Basically, let you say, you provide a function, I provide the data, compute the output together, and we learn what the output is.
00:08:16.856 - 00:09:57.552, Speaker B: And you can enhance these protocols so that you can add like ZK snark style security properties on top of them and so forth, right? And the nice thing about the two of two trust model is that it does have the kind of trust model that we expect, right? In the sense that, let's say, for example, you are the government of ZK landia, and you're deciding whether or not to give me a visa. And I have a bunch of popes, a bunch of decentralized ZK stamps, a bunch of credentials, whatever. That proved to me that, like, I'm the sort of person who deserves to get a visa to seek idea, right? But then you don't want to publicly reveal what the algorithm is, because if you do, then people are going to, like, exploit it and, like, hyper optimize for it and becomes useless, right? And so I take my, my set of ZK credentials, you take your algorithm, compute it in a two of two, and we both get the answer, right. And in that model, you do not learn any of my information, I do not learn your algorithm. And so it's like the trust model is still sort of perfect in that sense, right? Like, if one of us does something wrong, the worst that can happen is that the person who does something wrong either gets a bad answer or gets a no answer. So I think that's like, that's the sort of thing where it could possibly be the next frontier after, just like, pure ZK snark applications, and then after two of two, you could potentially extend to three of three. So, like, for example, if you're, let's say, instead of issuing visas to ZKL India, you're making a dating service.
00:09:57.552 - 00:10:51.198, Speaker B: And, like, you're deciding if Yosef and I are compatible as a match, right? And I provide a bunch of things about me. Joseph provides a bunch of things about him. And then you run your algorithm, and then you determine a match score, right? And, like, that's three of three. And so those kinds of, like, very small group things, like, usually two of two, maybe a little bit of three of three. Like, that's the stuff that I'm more bullish on and then more complicated stuff I'm less bullish on in the short term, but I think, you know, the door is open to it in the long term. Yeah, I just think that, like, the, like that, like two of two and small group stuff. Like, it just has the right combination of being very close to viability and, like, having specific applications that make sense with trust models that people would really be easily be willing to go for.
00:10:51.198 - 00:10:53.314, Speaker B: And then you go from there, and then we keep going.
00:10:56.214 - 00:11:10.154, Speaker D: Cool. Hi, I have two questions. In your current vision of Ethereum, do you consider it to be a nation state? And if so, what kind of role does neutrality play in the current world?
00:11:11.084 - 00:11:56.030, Speaker B: Good question. I would say I don't like comparing blockchains to any existing type of structure directly. And the reason is that I think it shares a lot of similarities with many kinds of existing structures. Blockchains are open source software, but unlike open source software, they also have the shared hard drive. Blockchains have a coin, but they're also not just about the coin. And unlike companies, they don't have a CEO. Blockchains often are religions, but unlike religions, they also have this technology and coin and a lot thing that you can do attached to them.
00:11:56.030 - 00:13:10.394, Speaker B: And then blockchains are kind of like nation states in some sense in that they have this sort of top level sovereignty property, or at least they have it in theory, but not, but, but then again, like even most nation states only have it in theory, right? Like there's, there's lots of nation states that are like totally dependent on some agreement with the US for, or some bigger country for their security, right? So blockchains, I think they do have some sovereignty in theory, in that they don't intentionally depend on a specific nation state as their kind of like base of, you know, sort of defensive last resort. They try to be yet independent of any specific single one. And that does. And they do try to achieve a certain kind of international neutrality. I would actually argue that blockchains try to achieve more international neutrality than nation states do. Right. Because if you're a nation state, like you generally have trading partners, you have allies, you have enemies, you have the scary country off in the corner that you're constantly worried about, you have the place where you need to get your energy and all of these things.
00:13:10.394 - 00:14:32.200, Speaker B: Nation states seem to have a very hard time being neutral in practice in the long term. Even if you look at Switzerland, for example, it's got this multi hundred year history of being, getting this amazing reputation as a super neutral place. And that evolved in this context where, you know, it's sitting in the middle of like France and Germany and Italy, and France and Germany in Italy historically would fight each other for a long time, but then now, you know, France and Germany and it really are all part of the European Union. And like, it's then is Switzerland going to be neutral between the European Union, which is the thing it's literally in the middle of, and other things that the European Union is against. And it gets harder. I think blockchains do try to achieve greater neutrality in that sense than nation states do. Blockchains are in some sense obviously not perfectly neutral because just the concept of being able to send transactions without being censored is a thing that some nation states are much more comfortable with than other nation states, right? And so there's a, like, there's a limit to how much neutrality exists, but they definitely do try to just like as basic infrastructure, be intentionally less opinionated than a lot of other things.
00:14:32.200 - 00:15:22.494, Speaker B: Though one of the challenges there is that, like, that doesn't mean that like a blockchain's community is also going to be a, also going to be neutral, right? Like if you think about like bitcoin, for example, right? Like the bitcoin blockchain is a totally neutral piece of software. You have blocks come out every ten minutes, you have transactions, and like, all it does is be money. But then which latin american country, like, would you say if you had to say one is like an ally of bitcoin? And like, you probably come up with the same answer, right? Exactly. Like everyone would probably come up with the same answer. And like, that's not a property of the technology, that's a property of the people. And I think, like, any blockchain is just inevitably going to have those kinds of dynamics with parts of its community for social reasons. And I think, like, that's fine.
00:15:22.494 - 00:16:45.964, Speaker B: And, like, we shouldn't try to, like, like, we shouldn't try to suppress it in a way that's fake, right? Like, if, you know, 80% of like a huge portion of ethereum, people really do strongly believe that, you know, like, let's say, yeah, you know, like the European Union is great and, you know, let's say, yeah, you know, a bunch of other, other large countries around the, around the world are dangerous, then, like, that's going to come out in the way the community behaves, right? And like, if you try not to say that, like, if you try to hide things like that, then, like, people are going to notice eventually, right? But then on the other hand, like, you don't want to just randomly go all out and just like, pick fights all the time and then like, reduce your coalition down to like five people, right? So, no, no, it's a, it's a balance. Like, I think it's, yeah, I don't want to put, like, I don't think we should be putting either blockchains or even, or their communities or any of those things sort of into a box by trying to make them say that they are the same type of thing as a country or the same type of thing as a religion or the same type of thing as a company. I think they're like a different kind of thing that has some similarities of all of them, but also important differences. And we should remember both.
00:16:47.264 - 00:17:45.104, Speaker E: Yeah, so thanks for that. I want to follow up with another question. So I think in this one, we talked a little bit about kind of adopting this framework of if we look at it as a nation, even if it's not, and it's very different, we talk mostly about foreign policy, like how does a blockchain relate to different other entities that exist? But I also want to talk about internal policy. So if we say, okay, maybe we are in this religious phase, and as we progress to the next phases and this trade phase, like in the foundation from Asimov, we will face different challenges. And right now we are seeing some of those challenges with centralization of staking, for example. And usually in a system like the US, if we're speed running financial history, this is the moment where a regulator step in, but we don't have a credibly neutral regulator. So I'm wondering, how do you think about the future of these decisions institutions when we're based on this neutral consensus?
00:17:45.764 - 00:19:06.986, Speaker B: It's a good question. I mean, I think, like the, I guess the supremacy of the code is like in a blockchain is like high, but it's definitely not 100%, right? So, like, if, for example, quantum computers came out tomorrow, like, we would absolutely. Who here would agree that we should hard fork to, like, deal with that somehow? Anyone want raise your hand if you think we should. Anyone think we shouldn't? Right? So, I mean, I think realistically, like, we, like, if a hard fork is necessary to prevent, like, quantum computers from just like causing everyone to completely lose their money, then, like, it's going to happen, right? The difference between a blockchain and traditional structures is that, like, well, there's different kinds of blockchains, right? So, like, if you look at Tezos, for example, they kind of explicitly embrace the idea that they're like a corporation and like they have voters and the voting can pass decisions. But in ethereum, I think there is like an intentional desire to eschew a process, like to prevent there from being a process that has too much unbounded legitimacy. And so there are core devs. And if the core devs propose, like, hey, we're going to switch over to this other hash function, then it's probably going to pass and no one's going to oppose.
00:19:06.986 - 00:20:50.710, Speaker B: But if those exact same core devs propose, like, hey, let's issue 30 million ether and let's give that 30 million ether to us, then, like, that's not going to pass. It's going to create a hard fork and it's going to cause all kinds of problems, right? So there's, you know, basically whether or not a decision can successfully get through depends not just on the sort of structure of, like, which individuals voted for it and which individuals did not, but also on, like, the actual content of the decision, right? And that's something that's, like, only really possible with this kind of off chain informal structure. But at the same time, like, like, I think it is a balance, right? Because the reason why people wants to have this kind of informal structure is because they don't want there to be an organized force that can just, like, go off and start, like, grabbing away people's coins or whatever. But at the same time, you know, people do want something that is able to respond to threats, right? And quantum computing is one example. Other examples would be even just executing on the existing technical roadmap, like dank sharding, proto dank sharding, and then evm improvements, then adjusting the roadmap in response to threats. So, for example, there has been an existing roadmap to change, proof of stake over to, say, single SWOT finality. But now that we've discovered that, like, wait, there's also these other centralization concerns that need to be addressed, like, maybe the single SWot finality roadmap is going to look a bit different, right? And that's one of those things where depending on the nature of the proposal that gets made, right.
00:20:50.710 - 00:21:54.430, Speaker B: Like, one thing that could happen is that the core devs, because, like, in general, the pattern is that the core devs have high legitimacy to do all kinds of things. If the proposal is like, quote, purely technical, but then the core devs have a much more limitations. If the proposal is like, has economic meaning and it affects people differently and it gives some people coins and deletes other people's coins, right? And so maybe, like, one possible outcome is like, the core devs figure out how to do a staking decentralization proposal in such a way that it does try to be as purely technical as possible and kind of avoid economic impacts as much as possible. And then if that happens, then it will just go through. Right. Another possibility is like, you can't do that, right? And basically, yeah, if, for example, something like Lido got up to like 80% of Ethereum staking, but then there was a lot of community will to just like, say, this is unhealthy and we're gonna, like, be, we're going to make it possible for people to do the thing that Lido lets them do without Lido. And because it's in protocol, it's going to be better.
00:21:54.430 - 00:22:52.014, Speaker B: Then that means that there would be a hard fork that makes LDO tokens go down quite a lot. And that's the sort of thing that would require a much greater level of legitimacy than just core developers. And so I see a couple of different paths forward. One of those paths forward is to just kind of embrace full, more governance minimization and just say, look, we're going to just, like, do everything that we need to do using just these uncontroversial technical changes. The other path would be to try to create better signaling tools and to try to make it more clear what kinds of changes actually have the legitimacy to go forward. Right? So one example of this was back in 2016 to 2017, where there were, like, a bunch of really controversial proposals going through the Dao fork, EIP 999, which would have rescued the parody wallet, reducing the issuance from five to three. Reducing the issuance from three to two.
00:22:52.014 - 00:23:36.952, Speaker B: There were a bunch of different voting systems that people just quickly created for those. There was something called carbon vote, where you could go vote with your ETH. And then there was something. There were votes on GitHub, there were votes on Reddit, and people, like, did just, like, set up these votes. They participated in these votes, and people were able to see, like, which way the wind is blowing for any particular proposal, right? And in 2023, like, we have the tools to make way more powerful signaling tools, right? Because we have ZK voting, we have popes, we have zoo pass and Defconnect tickets. So you can now really easily, cryptographically prove that you attend an Ethereum event. You can get coin, passport.
00:23:36.952 - 00:24:42.248, Speaker B: Like, we have all kinds of things, right? And so we could try to make much better signaling tools in order to just help give everyone a clear indication of, like, what kinds of potentially radical ideas, like, actually have pretty broad community support and which ones don't. And the benefit that this would give to core developers is, like, there have been a lot of instances in Ethereum's history where Ethereum core devs worked really hard to make a particular proposal happen. And then at the last minute and all core devs call happened, and then suddenly, like, there wasn't enough momentum to push it through, and it was decided that, like, this proposal was not good enough, we're not going to do it. And, like, months of people's work got wasted. Right. And this actually slows down Ethereum development because it basically creates this environment where even today, core developers are often not willing to, like, really commit and go into proposals that are at least, I think, actually good and important because they are afraid that, like, well, is all core devs governance going to just go rug us at the last minute? Right. And so if we did have better signaling, then, like, that's a problem that we could avoid.
00:24:42.248 - 00:25:32.256, Speaker B: Right. But I think, like, one bigger, just kind of broader conclusion from all this, right. Is that, again, like, blockchains are a different kind of thing from, you know, nation states and corporations. I think the one metaphor that you might think about is the judicial branch of a nation state, like the courts. If you imagine a country where the parliament and the president and the prime minister just got kicked out, and so the laws would just not change, but the courts kept running. If you imagine that kind of country, then, like, you would still have laws, you would still have interpretations of laws that would still be able to keep going in a lot of ways. And a blockchain is probably fairly similar to that.
00:25:32.256 - 00:26:22.894, Speaker B: But one of the weaknesses of that is that over time, as you have to kind of rely more on clever interpretations of laws that were made a really long time ago to sort of do the legwork of adjusting to a modern world, the more there is risk where people are uncertain about what actually is going to be legal and what's not. And basically what you have there is an absence of good signaling tools. That kind of government is not really one that's historically been tried at all. And blockchains are probably trying the closest thing to that. So it is definitely in a pretty new region of governance space. And I think there's a lot of interesting things that could be done to better improve how we deal with it and how we make the best of it.
00:26:24.474 - 00:26:25.002, Speaker F: Hi.
00:26:25.098 - 00:26:25.774, Speaker B: Hi.
00:26:26.314 - 00:26:27.386, Speaker F: Would you like to ask, by the.
00:26:27.410 - 00:26:27.974, Speaker B: Way.
00:26:29.754 - 00:26:59.492, Speaker F: I would like to follow up on two privacy events or sessions which we have had here during the DCX Prague. We are designing the czech stablecoin with all the innovative belts. And this is like streaming real time finance and so on, the multi chain aspect. But what I am more concerned about is what I would call, like, branch attack resistance. Okay. I remember you somehow addressed a little bit this topic with the stealth addresses, and I think it was in June.
00:26:59.588 - 00:27:00.356, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:27:00.540 - 00:27:10.840, Speaker F: Can you elaborate a little bit further if there is any research in this so called branch attack resistance with respect to stable coins or ERC 20s.
00:27:10.912 - 00:27:16.072, Speaker B: Yeah. How would you describe a branch attack. Yeah. I'm asking like, what's your definition of a branch attack?
00:27:16.208 - 00:27:59.950, Speaker F: Yeah. Well, what would be the best to avoid it, basically. I mean, goodwise, what's your definition of a branch? Oh, the definition, yeah. Well, because you actually have that ERC, when you have the ERC 20, you have in fact comparable to the traditional finance, like open banking account, you know, the transparent one where anyone can see that, you know, the DRC 20 was transferred. So immediately you are being addressed physically for whatever you have there in the possession. So that's what I would call a range attacker. If you are aware of XXCD, that comic which, which was showing about that.
00:27:59.982 - 00:28:01.174, Speaker B: Oh, the $5.
00:28:01.254 - 00:28:01.902, Speaker F: Yeah, yeah.
00:28:02.038 - 00:28:05.934, Speaker B: Wrench with a, wow, okay. I felt like a branch, like a branch condition.
00:28:06.714 - 00:28:07.866, Speaker F: Not a branch, branch.
00:28:07.970 - 00:29:07.150, Speaker B: Yeah, branch attacks. Yeah. I mean, I think if we want to deal with wrench attacks specifically, then like what we basically need is we need more, like we do need privacy tools, but we need like particular types of privacy tools, right? Like basically tools that, where you can't just like go and like check on either scan and see, like, wait, this guy actually has a huge amount of money, right? So I think stealth addresses do solve the problem. And I think just like privacy pools type schemes also kinda solve the problem. But the other part of the problem, of course, is like from a user's wallet's point of view, like you don't necessarily want to want it even to be visible even from a user's wallet. How about like what all of their different assets are, right? So that's a user interface problem. I don't really know what the best answer is right now, but that's definitely something that probably seems good to work on.
00:29:07.150 - 00:30:13.738, Speaker B: And then from a blockchain point of view, I would say, yeah, the right solution basically is to encourage more use of privacy protocols. And then another thing is like, the relationships between different individuals that are on chain also need better privacy, right? I mean, even things that like guardians for social recovery and multisig wallets, right? Like it should not be easy to see like who all of the guardians for a particular multisig wallet are, right. And like there are ways to make guardians more privacy preserving. We just have to like implement them and write code to write code for them. And for, and then like, there is other examples of relationships, like just like if like Vitalik ETH sends a transaction to whatever your ETH is, then like, that should not be visible as a public link. And like stealth addresses also solve that problem, right? So yeah, I think it's like a combination of these different technologies for a couple of different use cases. Like, there's the right kind of use of both stealth addresses and other kinds of privacy preserving tools.
00:30:13.738 - 00:30:22.084, Speaker B: And there is a standardization challenge in like, making things like guardians more privacy preserving.
00:30:27.784 - 00:30:57.324, Speaker C: With the same topic. Sorry, I will leave more questions to the rest of the people, so I don't take too much time. So what about the plausible deniability? Basically being able to say, from the same wallet, I'm able to derive many inferior infinite numbers of wallets. So you're able to basically generate multi sub wallets and at the same time adding to some kind of mechanism to that. Something like time lock encryption where you can delay the attack even if the five dollar range attack having different states.
00:30:57.984 - 00:31:40.054, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think in general, like, the idea that large amounts of money should be stored in a vault that has a time delay is a really good one. Like, yeah, time delays are brilliant. I think wallet security setup should use time delays much more. The whole plausible deniability thing, I think it's cool and I think it should exist. I wonder how easy or how hard it would be to actually get adopted, given that, I feel like that stuff never got super far for just regular desktop hard drive encryption. Truecrypt really tried, but it only kind of got there. Yeah, I guess I see that as a UX challenge.
00:31:43.034 - 00:31:45.482, Speaker C: We talked previously about FE and the.
00:31:45.498 - 00:32:09.674, Speaker B: Way it's not easily trackable. What users do you see for Fe functional encryption? Honestly, within the crypto space, probably not that many yet. I think probably efficient enough. Fe is still far away enough that we haven't really seriously started, like, going through the use cases. So. Yeah, don't have a good answer.
00:32:11.494 - 00:32:24.474, Speaker F: Hi, yeah, blockchain tech has the potential to start establishing causality in the social sphere. For example, using po apps. Does Ethereum remit extend into the social sphere as it applies to making media more transparent and verifiable?
00:32:26.934 - 00:33:21.010, Speaker B: There's definitely applications that can make media more transparent and verifiable. I think it's, it depends on, like, which specific piece of media you're trying to make more transparent and more. Yeah, right, right, yeah. I mean, I think a big part of the problem here is, like, it's the same thing as the Oracle problem, right. The problem of like, how does a blockchain know what happens in the real world? And, like, the thing that you can do, for example. Right. And the thing that we could do with a lot with like, much more standardization work is just having better guarantees of, like, think of the correctness of things that people said, right.
00:33:21.010 - 00:34:01.068, Speaker B: Like right now you can like screenshot someone's tweet and like no one really knows if that. If that tweet was like actually real or it was fake, right. And if we somehow make the Internet more natively signed and natively verifiable, then like that's a problem that could get solved more easily. But then if you talk about some events that happened in the real world, then the question is like what is your ultimate source of truth that anyone is going off of? Right. And I'm not convinced that that side of things is really a blockchain problem. Like it. It could be like you could improve on it a little bit with trusted hardware.
00:34:01.068 - 00:34:42.924, Speaker B: Right? Like, you know, you could say like okay, we're going to have like cameras and the cameras will have attestations and then you could like do some blockchain thing to timestamp it, which you know, is totally a good idea. Right. But yeah, I guess the part of that problem that is aviable like a blockchain problem is definitely. Yeah, far from 100%. It's more of a kind of like hardening, technologically hardening the entire ecosystem of like how we learn about facts that happen in the real world and how do we. And how we get that information to people a problem. Hi, do we have about ten minutes?
00:34:44.984 - 00:34:55.363, Speaker C: Okay, I have a follow up about what you said about MPC wallets and the fact that some bugs are. Some exploits are undetectable.
00:34:55.663 - 00:34:56.207, Speaker B: Okay.
00:34:56.255 - 00:35:12.003, Speaker C: So the same probably hold true for many ZK based chains. Like ZCash had the same issue with toxic waste and the bugs that they had several years ago. So you said that you were quite bearish about NPC. So what's your stance on these kind of chains?
00:35:12.343 - 00:35:58.744, Speaker B: Well, there's like the short term. In the long term, right? So like in the short term ZK bugs are absolutely undetectable. But that's something that can be fixed over time. My concern with NPC protocols is more like MPC protocols inherently have a trust assumption. You have an m event and there's like specific end that you have to choose and like that's not a bug. That's just like how the thing is. So it's you know, like there are definitely some NPC use cases that like definitely that make a lot of sense but like the ones where you try to get everyone to trust the same committee of twelve people, that's the sort of stuff that I'm not really in favor of basically just because there are these trust uses like this undetectable trust problem that you can't get away just by formally verifying the code better.
00:35:58.744 - 00:36:23.894, Speaker B: And then in terms of how to reduce the risk of bugs in these ZK systems, I think in the short term, the best answer we have is multiprovers requiring a block to have proofs from multiple different proof systems in order to be accepted. And that's the direction that all the roll ups are going right now. And then we'll see what happens in the future. We might get much better form of verification technology, or we might get something else, and we'll see.
00:36:26.114 - 00:36:51.394, Speaker D: So as Ethereum starts to get more mainstream adoption, we see people gathering around groups like daos, collectives, communities. And I'm wondering how to really how you would suggest addressing the challenge of, like, proof of unique identity in particular, when related to voting or rewards or any, anything in that nature.
00:36:52.574 - 00:37:59.152, Speaker B: Proof of unique identity is a hard problem. I mean, I think there's basically two different families of approaches to it, right? Like, one family is the biometric approach, which is like either, you know, world coin or some of these more kind of lower, like less specific specialized hardware independent solutions or something else. And then the. And then of course, there's also like centralized stuff, like bootstrapping off of government identity. And then social, like, social graph stuff is basically like, here are these like five people who all attest that you are a unique human, and then those five people have already passed into the system. And so you probably are unique human as well, right? And I think all of these approaches have different trade offs that. So, like, for example, the problem with the social graph approach is that it's like, very hard for it to scale across, like, outside of the community where it started, right? So, like, there's a bunch of these systems, like, like there were circles, there were some others, and they have a do a very good job of getting adoption within the community that initiated them.
00:37:59.152 - 00:39:08.942, Speaker B: But then if you ask, like, you know, how is someone in a country in the middle of Africa or Southeast Asia or where else? It's like very far away from the initial user base supposed to get into the system. And there's no good answer because they don't know anyone who's in the system. They don't even know anyone who knows someone who's in the system. The distances are too large, and so there's just no good way for them to participate then biometrics. I think the big advantage of biometrics is that they are really universal in that way, right? Because like, any human has biometrics and can get accepted. Right. And when India rolled out their Aadhar system over the last year or over the last decade, one of the big advantages of biometrics, because, like, Adhar does rely on biometrics in a kind of similar way to what world coin does, is that, like, it is actually able to go and enroll people in random villages far off in the mountains and, like, have a pretty good guess that this actually is a unique person and it's not someone trying to get, like, five different identities.
00:39:08.942 - 00:39:38.940, Speaker B: And they do all of this despite those people not being plugged into any kind of existing networks. Right. And, like, that's an actual advantage. But at the same time, like, biometrics in the long term definitely have a lot of security problems that they involve all these centralized trust issues. And then the third one is going off of existing government ids like passports. And the concern I have with that is, on the one hand, it's like, there's a lot of existing infrastructure. There's a lot of stuff that you can really easily bootstrap off of.
00:39:38.940 - 00:40:30.268, Speaker B: But the problem is that once something that depends on passports gets institutionalized, then one is that there is going to be people who live in countries whose passports just, like, do not support whatever digital proof scheme that you're using. Right. And so you are going to exclude a lot of people. And then two is that, like, malicious governments could totally just, like, print an unlimited number of fake identities because they control the keys that print the passports. Right. So, yeah, like, basically so, so there's these three families of schemas that have different kinds of properties. I think my general view is that relying on, like, either biometrics or centralized trust based ideas in the short term is okay, but then in the long term, you probably don't want to rely on them, and in the long term, you want to do social graph stuff.
00:40:30.268 - 00:40:51.384, Speaker B: But then once you have a system that's kind of bootstrapped to a reasonable level of fairness, using things other than the social graph methods, then, like, maintaining it using social graph methods becomes much easier than, like, using social graph methods to start one from scratch. Yeah.
00:40:51.464 - 00:41:23.534, Speaker A: Continuing the question of use cases and adoption, you have a lot of experience in blockchain and you travel a lot. You see, the travel industry is one of the industries that can have impact of blockchain, taking into consideration that there are a lot of data breaches. The travel is global, but it's hardly like it's a lot of fragmentation in there, in the technology, and, like, will it create a new wave of mass adoption of blockchain or blockchains as technologies.
00:41:24.514 - 00:44:03.474, Speaker B: Will the travel industry create a lot of mass adoption? I think it depends on, like, which specific use case you have in mind. Right. Because, like, I think the easiest use case that's like, within travel is just giving people easier access to international payments and getting their money to be accessible in lots of different countries. And that's still something that, like, big parts of the world struggle with in a lot of ways. So that is what, that is a place where I think blockchains could have a big impact. There is like, other more specialized applications, like, oh, you know, can you sell tickets? It's unchained, which I think is really cool and interesting. Better than like, trying really hard to create a lot of, like, newer and much fancier things.
00:44:03.474 - 00:45:01.770, Speaker B: And then also I think there if you. There are ways to create protocols in a way that mis, minimizes the fund holding load that they have. If you think about even trading protocols, things like cross chain exchange, for example, you can design that in such a way that doesn't rely on liquidity pools. You can design it in a way that relies more on just off chain protocols, limit orders based on, based on top of open standards and those kinds of things. And like, basically, yeah, avoid like cross chain bridging in general. Right. Like, if you have coins on, like, if you have coins on layer one, then, like, moving those, having those coins on L2 is probably like, it is fine, but like having these, I mean, like trusted multi sync bridges that like, jump between all kinds of systems.
00:45:01.770 - 00:45:27.384, Speaker B: Like, the more you can avoid doing that and the more that you can just like, hold assets in the same place where the assets are issued. And that if you need to do things across shade, do it by trading instead of doing it by holding, then probably the better. So, yeah, I don't know, that's probably my main opinion on this. Just kind of like stick to lower risk and more boring stuff. Hi.
00:45:27.824 - 00:45:31.960, Speaker A: So I saw you chatting at Zuzalu about AI crypto.
00:45:31.992 - 00:45:34.624, Speaker B: We were talking about existential risk and use cases.
00:45:34.784 - 00:45:35.564, Speaker A: Curious.
00:45:35.904 - 00:45:38.040, Speaker B: Like, do you have any new thoughts.
00:45:38.072 - 00:45:40.544, Speaker A: On use cases around AI and crypto.
00:45:40.584 - 00:46:29.184, Speaker B: And any projects you maybe have seen that are interesting or like directions that have kind of sprouted out over the last months? Yeah, it's a good question. I think I feel like everyone wants there to be an intersection of its we in crypto and AI, and, like, there are some intersections that exist, but they're always like, I think smaller than people expect there to be. There is ZkML and I think ZkMl can actually be useful. For example, you could do things like scan someone's face and then run a ZKML model and then verify whether or not they're a member of some group without actually learning anything about their identity. That's a privacy gate, and that's useful. And you can do that. That's not the sort of thing that's going to make or break civilization.
00:46:29.184 - 00:47:31.296, Speaker B: Right? And as far as, like, things that make or break civilization go, I feel like the big challenge with AI is that, like, we're, the space is creating things whose capability is on a trajectory that's rapidly improving. And at some point this century, it's going to become significantly more powerful on, like, basically all dimensions and humans are. And once that happens, and that's like, like, that carries a lot of risks. Right. For, like, very obvious reasons. Right? And the, the question is, like, what is even the role of humans going to be in that kind of, that kind of world? And if we don't want the role, like, if we, if we don't want the role of humans to just be sort of completely powerless, that like, either, you know, we have to merge with the AI's or we have to control the AI's or some combination of both. And, like, part of that is a governance challenge.
00:47:31.296 - 00:49:06.060, Speaker B: And possibly there's like, ideas from Daos and ideas from other kinds of cryptocurrency applications that might actually help, but possibly there's ideas from other kinds of technologies. I think that the one place that where we might, where the crypto, like, ideas from the crypto space might be more useful is like actually in kind of governing the transition, right? So one example of this is like even just things like kill switches, right? Like over the last three days, we saw a completely non transparent backroom attempt to do something to open AI, apparently because of fears that, you know, the company was going too fast and, like, acting recklessly in certain ways. Right? And this is the sort of thing where, like, if we want to have a governance mechanism that really, yeah. Gets accepted by the world on like, this kind of really consequential topic, then, like, it has to be more open and democratic in some way. And actually getting sentiment from large groups of people at scale is the sort of thing that ZK technology and other kinds of things could actually be good at doing. And so potentially, if we figure out how to do signaling tools for the purpose of making better Ethereum hard forks, then we might be able to just use that same technology and then use those same tools to do real time polling around AI and possibly even when the time. If you know, like.
00:49:06.060 - 00:49:34.234, Speaker B: And when the time comes, like, I, like, have kill switches that are directly connected to things like that, for example. Right. And, like, that would at least be less of this kind of totally undemocratic stuff than what's, what's, what's been happening so far. And it might actually work efficiently enough to be effective. Like, this is all very early, early stage thoughts, right? But, like, I think that's the sort of thing that is absolutely worth starting to think about.
00:49:34.894 - 00:50:16.974, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you so much. We are on time, so I just want to finish up with, like, one last question and perhaps an appeal. We touched on adoption, we touched on the various use cases where we touched on the comparisons between blockchains and blockchain communities and nation states. Now, like, one topic that I'm perhaps interested in is what do you think the local communities, like, within the nation states, should do to basically get their own nation states, their local governance, to adopt and integrate blockchains into their own infrastructure, just as it happened with the Internet or various different technologies.
00:50:17.094 - 00:50:57.744, Speaker B: Right. I feel like actually one of the simplest things to integrate might actually be Zoopass. It's the zero knowledge identity system that got created inside of zillow earlier this year that it got used. You actually got used for tickets at Devconnect. But basically it's like a system where users can hold information and then make zero knowledge proofs about their information. And so you could do things like, for example, prove that you have a particular ticket without revealing anything about which ticket you have or anything else about yourself. And now Zoopass has been successfully used and deployed on a multi thousand person scale.
00:50:57.744 - 00:51:29.584, Speaker B: And so it's the sort of thing that, like, absolutely is ripe for starting to do local government experimentation with. So I think that's a good place to start. And then once you have that, then just because the crypto world is so amidable to be connected together by zero knowledge proof. So, like, you basically could have, you know, like, government attestations and ethereum address attestations within the same wallet, and then, like, we can start integrating those two worlds together and building applications that take advantage of both of those.
00:51:30.284 - 00:51:32.844, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you so much. Thank you again for joining us here today.
