00:00:01.600 - 00:00:48.202, Speaker A: Hello dear colleagues, my name is Andrei Folalev. I'm CTO of Neon Labs and I'm chief architect behind Neon EVM, which I'm going to present today. So what exactly is Neon EVM? Neon EVM is the cheapest and the fastest evm on the market. It can process more than 1000 of transactions. The speed up to 2000 of transactions per second, and the crucial moment that neon EVM can process transactions in parallel. And this EVM right now is working on Solana Mainnet. On this picture you can see the architecture of Neon EVM.
00:00:48.202 - 00:01:36.114, Speaker A: And Neon EVM has two components. The first component is neon proxy. It's a special Ethereum like RPC endpoint for ethereum clients, and you connect any ethereum like client to it. It can be any wallet, any application, web, Ui and so on. And neon proxy will pack your transaction which you send to it and send it on chain execution on the Solana on the Solana we have Neon EVM program. It's a smart contract and it will process your transaction. You can deploy any contract, any source code which can be compiled by any compiler from ethereum ecosystem.
00:01:36.114 - 00:02:27.424, Speaker A: And Ethereum ecosystem has a lot of compilers like solidity, like Vapor, like U, U and others. And during execution, neon EVM program can invoke Solana programs and it can be spread token program. It can be metaplex library, Piv data price feeds. You can get dataprice feeds from chainlink which is working on the Salana. So all this is right now is working on the Solana mainnet. And on this slide you can see the wide range of development tools from the ethereum ecosystem which can be used on the salon. It can be different frameworks which already is used by the Ethereum developers.
00:02:27.424 - 00:03:41.914, Speaker A: It can be truffle, foundry, hardhat, some developers like Foundry and Neon supported. You can use Openzeppelin library which provides a big library of templates which can be used for development of blockchain applications. And also in ethereum ecosystem they have a lot of online eds which can be used on neon too. So what is neon EvM? Neon EVM is synergetic solution of two exciting ecosystem. From the Ethereum you can get a wide range of development tools which I already show you, and you don't need to make any changes in the source code of application which you can get from Ethereum ecosystem. From the Solana. Neon EVM gets benefits of low gas fees, high transaction through spoof, and the main advantage that this EVM can process transactions in parallel which is impossible on other Ethereum like blockchains.
00:03:41.914 - 00:04:48.770, Speaker A: On the slide you can see the prices of transaction, you can see the speed which we get which we approved on Solana, Devnet, Mynet and always available online. So on this slide, the current status of neon ecosystem in Solanaminet. As I said, there are a lot of development tools, lcv support, different indexers like Zgraph covalent. We have a special explorer which provide access to information from the Neon network about processed transactions. Neon scan and it is deeply integrated with source scan. And when you need to see what happens inside of Solana, you can go to neon scan and go to source scan and see how your transactions were processed on Solana. In Solana transactions, Neon has enough functionality to be integrated with any Ethereum like block explorers.
00:04:48.770 - 00:05:40.422, Speaker A: And right now Bloxcall has endpoint with information from Neon. Also we have fork of safe multisig so you have ability to create the same multisig wallets like in Ethereum. On Solana we have access to different Solana programs. And right now on Neon EVM is run fork of Uniswap fork of balancer with the name Sobo. And we have a queue of the application which are ready to run on our platform. Access to our platform is provided by the very big validators on the market, p two p validators and Everstake. In the near future we want to run our neon dao.
00:05:40.422 - 00:06:35.534, Speaker A: So we make our system decentralized. So it's about current status. Let's talk about next our plans and I'm happy announced today that Neon EVM signed a partnership with the bridge. With this partnership, Neon EVM will be connected to other EVM chains like Ethereum, Polygon, avalanche and others. All of you know that crypto breach is not only about transferring of assets, it's about interoperability. And the bridge has a very nice tools which will be available on Zeneon. For example, the bridge has the swap liquidity network.
00:06:35.534 - 00:07:20.870, Speaker A: It's a very powerful infrastructure which shifts paradigm from the model continuous liquidity locking to the model liquidity on demand. This paradigm allows high performance trading with zero slippage and without requirement of high tower. If you want more details, you can find Alex Mirnof on his conscience and ask him. Yes, hi, he is here. I made your marketing. Okay, nice. So Alex, we use you.
00:07:20.870 - 00:08:18.362, Speaker A: Okay, let's go. So the next slide I want to announce a very interesting feature which we want to execute in the near future in our platform. It is about multi token gas payment system before deep driving in the specific of neon Evm let's take a look what happens in the ethereum ecosystem. In the Ethereum ecosystem there is a very popular Ethereum improvement proposal about account obstructions. This proposal was included by Vitalik to the Ethereum roadmap and it has a lot of interesting functionality. It can be used to pay for transactions in your c 20 tokens. It can be used to process gas free transactions.
00:08:18.362 - 00:09:25.524, Speaker A: For me, the most interesting feature is that it can be used for abstracting accounts for interaction with roll ups on Ethereum macro system. Very interesting proposal and very nice news for neon and for Solana that it can be used on neon without any modification. You can get contracts from Ethereum, deploy it on neon EVM, get bundler from one of the company like alchemy or some other, run it and everything will work. The proposal still in draft. The next disadvantage that it is required some changes inside of wallets and clients and so on. And Neon team decided to suggest another decision which doesn't require any changes in the wallet and the client. So you can get any existing Ethereum application and run it on neon EVM, pay for transaction in any token which is available in the Solana.
00:09:25.524 - 00:11:03.344, Speaker A: And the main issue which we resolved during this implementation was how to sign the agreement between user and neon VM that only user can choose in which token he will pay for transaction and it will not require any changes. And we decided to make the multi chain id environment in which each chain id is linked to the token. And this field is present in all types of transactions on Ethereum and it can be easily used for multi payment tokens. So in our opinion, this will open our platform for white use for different users when they have different tokens and they can buy these tokens for any transaction on neon. It can be rapid Sol, it can be stablecoin, it can be bridged token from Ethereum and interesting moments and operators can get fees in these tokens, they can earn money in stable tokens. So very interesting feature. Okay, let's go forward the next moment an exciting news for developers that we are working on compatibility between neon EVM contracts and Solana programs.
00:11:03.344 - 00:12:36.616, Speaker A: It's the most popular question which we heard on different events, on different conferences. How possible to call Solana program from the solidity contract. And right now we are on test stage of this functionality, prepare it for the public testing and it will be possible to use to run any Ethereum application from Ethereum ecosystem on Neon EVM and call any Solana program from the Solana. But it's good that right now Neon EVM support, spare token, Metaplex, PIF network, chain link. But Solana has a lot of other applications and exceptional applications and it will open very interesting possibilities for all you can. So what we can do, we can build complex defi strategies, we can build interesting yield farming strategies and by implementing this functionality we open world for growing all ecosystem, not only neon, for Solana too. The next ledger is a very popular name in the world of hardware wallets.
00:12:36.616 - 00:14:11.350, Speaker A: And since Neon EVM supports Ethereum protocol, it's very easy to use Ledger to send transactions in Neon EVM, you only need to install Ethereum application to the hardware wallet, configure a client and that's it. You have security storage for your private keys. But we didn't stop on this feature right now. And right now ledger team and Neon EVM team is working on deep testing of integrating neon EVM into ledger live application. That means that you can use ledger live application on desktop, on mobile to sign transactions on transfer tokens in Yonivm to transfer your c 20 tokens and you will have security storage for your private keys. The next for regular users, it's very critical to get tokens on the platform and for usage. And right now on several crypto exchanges there are a lot of users who already have neon tokens, but withdrawal of it is limited to salon addresses only.
00:14:11.350 - 00:15:03.592, Speaker A: This means that they need use an additional tool, a non EVM hazard, to transfer these tokens from salon address to Neon address. From one hand, our tool allow don't have any sole token for pay for transaction, but from other hand it is required from user to additional one additional step. So it's not very user friendly. That is why right now bybit is working on integrating direct withdrawal of neon tokens directly to neon EVM. Okay guys, that's it. Right now Neon EVM is live. It is working on Solana Mainnet.
00:15:03.592 - 00:15:30.524, Speaker A: It provides the highest transaction. The price of transaction is really small, it's really cheap. The crucial moment that neon EVM can process transactions in parallel and it is impossible on any other ethereum like blockchains. So join to us, run your application on us. We are ready. We are waiting for you. Thank you for your attention.
