00:00:02.520 - 00:01:42.104, Speaker A: All right, well, thanks very much to the organizers and all of the staff at the Fields Institute for really going above and beyond to make this event happen online. So as, as was said, I want to talk about some joint work with Rolando de Santiago, Ben Hayes and Daniel Ha. So this is about maximal rigid subalgebras of deformation. So there's a bit to unpack here in terms of, well, what is a maximal rigid subalgebra and what's a deformation? And I'll get to that. But I think at the beginning I should just kind of tell sort of the story of how this fits in to the program for classifying two one factors and give some context for our results. So I think, you know, this has been discussed at least a few times so far in the conference, but yeah, here's how the story starts. So these capital greek letters are going to usually denote countable discrete groups.
00:01:42.104 - 00:02:45.994, Speaker A: And from any countable discrete group, one can. Well, we want some sort of conjugacy class condition. So I'll usually assume ICC. So all of the conjugacy classes but one, the identity, our infinite. Okay. And yeah, for, for one of these groups you can, you can get a unitary representation on little l two just by left shift of the, the natural basis by the group. So that's the, the left regular representation.
00:02:45.994 - 00:04:12.090, Speaker A: And you can take those unitaries and close them up in the weak topology or take the double commutant. If I want to close in the weak topology, I should take the Spanish and that defines the group von Neumann algebra. And that's a two one factor. All right, so the big question in classification. Oh, well, maybe other than, you know, these things are very important examples of two one factors. I should say really that the main, or one of the main reasons they're interesting is that the projections that are sitting in here, those are corresponding to invariant subspaces. So if you're interested in the representation theory of accountable discrete group, this is always a canonical representation.
00:04:12.090 - 00:05:22.874, Speaker A: And this von Neumann algebra really tells you how this decomposes. So kind of the big overarching thing is to try to classify these things. So what properties of the group can be used to distinguish group on Neumann algebra? And, you know, of course there are several properties and some of them have been discussed already. So amenability has strong structural consequences by the work of Kahn. There's property t, there's property gamma of Marie and von Neumann. So those are just kind of on off things. You either have them or where you don't, you kind of want invariants that take sort of broad numerical ranges.
00:05:22.874 - 00:06:24.914, Speaker A: And so there are a couple of these sort of related invariants that exist for groups and dynamical systems associated to a group, and even two on factors. So there's this l two Betty number, and I really want to focus in on this in a second. So I'll tell you what that is if you don't know. Of course, a lot of people were in there in the inception of Lt Betty numbers for groups, but that comes from work of people like Attia and Chigurh and Gromov, etcetera. There's a notion of cost for dynamical actions of groups. That's Gaboria and Leavitt. And then there's Voikilescu's microstates free entropy dimension.
00:06:24.914 - 00:08:03.154, Speaker A: And I guess we've seen a little bit about microstates from talks on con embedding. But these are all sort of numerical invariants. They attach numbers, and those numbers can take a continuum number of values. And so the question is, do any of these things have, are any of these things von Neumann algebra invariance? Those are very big open questions. In particular, if the l two Betty number is a von Neumann invariant, that would imply the free group factor problem. I should just write that out. So the free group on m generators being isomorphic to the factor of the free group on n generators, does that imply the ranks are the same? M equals n? Really? Of course, free groups are not isomorphic because their abelianizations have different rank.
00:08:03.154 - 00:09:37.592, Speaker A: But of course, that has no purchase in von Neumann algebra theory, because boelian rank is not defined anyway. Okay, so that's kind of the big picture. So the work that we were interested in was specifically about some consequences of things for Betty number zero. So let me just talk a little bit about comology and Betty numbers for a sec, just to define what they are. And that's kind of important for the context of why we were interested in the results that we got and how our results kind of make sense of some of these techniques and group commology at the von Neumann algebra level. So let's talk a little bit about this. So what, what is, uh, what's going on here? So we, we start with a unitary representation of a group, and so what's the one cohomology.
00:09:37.592 - 00:11:15.882, Speaker A: So a co cycle is a map. One coast cycle is a map from a group into the Hilbert space that has this Leibniz identity. So this, these are, if you like, and, you know, so these are, these are affine. These correspond to affine actions on the Hilbert space whose linear part is the representation. You can think about them as kind of, it's a discrete group, so this doesn't quite make sense, but kind of tangent vectors at the origin for this action makes sense if it's like a lead group or something like this. And so you can look at the space of all the co cycles. Now, there are, there are kind of boring ones among these, and these are the inner one co cycles.
00:11:15.882 - 00:12:51.744, Speaker A: And those are simply where you, you just have implemented by, you know, taking this kind of differential against a fixed vector, and then you, you have something that's, that's slightly more general than this. So you have almost approximately inner, and that's to say it's locally approximated by. So one thing I'll point out is there's a theorem of Guichardet, and this is sort of one thing as a consequence of our techniques that we can kind of grapple with at the von Neumann level now. So I'll just put it here. But this is a very useful and remarkable fact, is that, so these approximate inner co cycles are the correct closure, or the closure and the correct topology for the inner ones. And so if this representation has spectral gap for what I'm saying, that's going to be, for the left regular, that's is going to be where gamma is not amenable. I'm sorry, Thomas, there's a question from Ilya Farrah.
00:12:51.744 - 00:13:13.188, Speaker A: He's asking, how is this representation PI, sub g of z a unitary? That's not a unitary, that's just a vector. Right. But you order that PI maps gamma into u of h p. Oh, sorry. C. Sorry. Ignore me.
00:13:13.188 - 00:14:11.584, Speaker A: Sorry. Yeah, it's just. Yeah, it's a, it's a coast cycle, so it's going into the Hilbert space, not the unitaries. So if you have spectral gap and for the left regular, again, that's just lost that as being non amenable, then, uh, approximately inner implies inner. So the inner things are already closed. And so you can, you can think about this, this space of all those cycles, and let's just do it for the left regular, modulo the inner ones. I'll just write that as b one, by common convention.
00:14:11.584 - 00:15:04.344, Speaker A: Well, let me just write this as l two of gamma, to be clear. And so this is, this turns out to be a right l gamma module. So if you just multiply the vectors on the right instead of the left, all of the algebraic identities are preserved. And inner things go to inner things. And so this has a dimension. And so the first delta Betty number of the group is the dimension of this. Okay, great.
00:15:04.344 - 00:16:36.694, Speaker A: And so, in particular, if you're not immutable, then the Betty number being zero is the same as saying, well, there's no interesting comology. Okay, and so kind of a sub question to the big question, which is still itself a big question, if that makes sense, is just having zero l two Betty number of von Neumann algebra invariant. And Jesse has a theory of l two rigidity, which is, you know, a von Neumann algebraic property. So it is an invariant, which is the, you know, is a natural and the correct analog of vanishing of Betty number for von Neumann algebra. But it's not. So everything that's every group one Neumann algebra, that's l two rigid, has vanishing Betty number. But the other direction is difficult, still pretty wide open, but.
00:16:36.694 - 00:17:52.010, Speaker A: Okay, so, well, that's a hard question, but you can kind of know, find another sub question to your question that maybe is tractable and still interesting. And so what are some consequences? Or what are some things that have zero l tube Betty number? So let's write down an example of something with zero l two Betty number, or a general type of example. So if we start with h one and h two being property t groups, well, let's start with a. Let's look at a group gamma, and let's have two property t subgroups. And let's assume that their intersection is in subject. So if you have this setup. And let's just assume also.
00:17:52.010 - 00:20:05.034, Speaker A: Well, yeah, and let's assume that they generate. Okay, so if we have two generating subgroups with property t and infinite intersection, then you have vanishing l two Betty number. Okay, so I may, you know, time permitting, try to sketch this, because it's germane to the results that I'll discuss in the von Neumann algebra setting. Hopefully, I have a little bit of time to indicate how that works, but. Okay, so here's the sub sub question. So if you, you have a group gamma with positive l two Betty number, is l gamma isomorphic to any l lambda, where lambda decomposes above. So this was, this question was posed by Jesse at an aim workshop.
00:20:05.034 - 00:21:19.774, Speaker A: And so, well, okay, we were extremely ambitious, and then still extremely ambitious in our question, but slightly less ambitious, and, well, now I don't know what level of ambition this one is at. It's kind of not for me to judge because we solved it. So, answer is, no, this cannot happen. So this is some, at least in property t here is not super essential. You can just have. You can just replace that with each of the Betty numbers. I just wanted to write the question as Jesse posed it.
00:21:19.774 - 00:22:47.808, Speaker A: So that gives you some indication that, well, okay, maybe, you know, these, you know, these betting number questions may not be totally hopeless or out of range of techniques. So, you know, we have. So I want to talk about the ideas here that helped us resolve this question. But, you know, before I do that, are there any questions over this background? I'll just kind of pause here for a few seconds. So. Okay, so there's a couple of questions here on the chat. So the first question, or, okay, one question is, what is meant by a von Neumann algebra invariant? And that is.
00:22:47.808 - 00:24:00.926, Speaker A: So I'll just give the concrete, um, I'll answer the question concretely for l two Betty number. So, so if I have two group von Neumann algebras that are isomorphic. Okay, and so plenty of these things can be isomorphic without the groups being isomorphic. Does that imply that. Well, the groups may not be isomorphic, but maybe there's still some information about the groups that survives. And so if the Betty numbers survive, then that would be the l two Betty number being a von Neumann algebra invariant. And if isomorphism of the group factors tells you that both Betty numbers are zero, if one or the other is zero, then you could say that Betty number zero is a von Neumann algebra invariant.
00:24:00.926 - 00:25:51.314, Speaker A: And you can play the game for any of the other things that I talked about. So does that clarify that? Okay, great. And, okay, so then the other question that popped up is, what is the significance of the sub question? So, of course, the question of whether the thing that I wrote here, whether Betty numbers, all of them, are, regardless of whether it's zero or not, is a von Neumann algebra invariant. I pointed out that that implies the free group factor isomorphism problem, the sub question of whether Betty number zero is a von Neumann algebra invariant, that is kind of less of a kind of. It's not connected to such a kind of a longstanding, open problem. But the significance, I guess, is that the technical difficulties you seem to have to overcome are related with continuity of if you have two different generating sets, is there some sort of way to kind of transfer the cohomological properties from one to the other? And this is related to continuity of the microstates free entropy dimension. And so there's kind of a lot of related conjectures here.
00:25:51.314 - 00:27:28.294, Speaker A: There's a lot of these related invariants that I was talking about. Microstates, variations, entropy, dimension, fixed cost for a group or cost of an action, and the L two Betty number, they're all kind of very similar, and there's lots of estimates that go between them, but there's not really sharp things that say they're kind of all the same. And if they were all the same, that certainly allows you to, you know, for instance, you know, if you have positive Betty number having good microstates models. So I think Vaughn gave a talk about cusps forms and the group von Neumann algebras for PSL two z, and having microstates approximations or cusp forms, for instance, would be something that number theorists would be interested in. So it's a little bit, kind of harder to address the significance of that in the sense that it's just related to a lot of very technical, internal open problems in the field with possible applications in other directions. So I hate to be a little bit wishy washy on that, but it is important, and I hope that that at least justifies it a little bit more. Okay, great.
00:27:28.294 - 00:28:47.162, Speaker A: So let's then kind of talk about the von Neumann algebras. So, you know, our results are not, you know, about cohomology. They're about the von Neumann algebra version of comology, or at least the von Neumann algebra version of the one co cycle. You can kind of talk about von Neumann algebraic versions of one co cycles individually without having a coherent clamology theory. Again, it's one of these difficult problems that seems to elude us having an interesting cohomology theory, but these are the analogs of one co cycles. And these are extremely important because of Popa's deformation rigidity. It's right there in the label, Siri.
00:28:47.162 - 00:30:21.782, Speaker A: So this has, you know, this is, you know, something that's developed over the last 15 to 20 years, you know, starting with some fantastic work of serene Popa, you know, who really brought this whole concept or strategy to, in one kind of big chunk right into existence. So the deformation rigidity has really revolutionized classification. It's really the, that so far, the only tractable method for. For classifying, you know, large families of factors, I should say probably non, non gamma ones, to be honest about that. But, yeah, it's really kind of the, the way that we understand classification of factors. So what is, what is a deformation? So we have m is a two one factor, just in general, and there's a bit of data that's going into this definition. So.
00:30:21.782 - 00:31:23.944, Speaker A: So a deformation of M is, well, okay, I'm gonna. I'm going to put more stringent conditions on it than just a general deformation. So this is what Popa calls an s malleable deformation. But I'll just say deformation just for shorthand, and I always mean this. So it's a collection of objects. So one, you need an over to one factor. So this thing m is now kind of swimming around in this, this bigger two one factor M Tilde.
00:31:23.944 - 00:33:48.782, Speaker A: Again, this, you know, you want a unit, all inclusion, and then you, you have a one parameter family alpha of t of automorphisms of the over factor on Tilde. So it is a one parameter group in the sense that additive identity holds. And then kind of the last piece that you want is, you want an involution of the over factor. Oh, and you know, this, of course, it's, you really want to strongly continuous, right? So you have this involution that fixes sub factor M and so that it reverses the direction of the flow. And I can't really, you know, explain in, there's not one particular reason, you know, why the existence of this thing is necessary, but it comes in, in so many sort of important ways in the theory, it's kind of hard to quantify. So this is really kind of the extra special, non obvious thing that you need to really, to make this definition kind of sing. Again, this was all discovered by Popa, beginning in his early works on the subject.
00:33:48.782 - 00:35:13.380, Speaker A: So the importance of the beta, just deformations in general. Okay, so that's what a deformation is. And so it turns out, and I can't really get into the construction here in too much detail or any detail at all, but this is a generalization of a one co cycle. So if you have one cocycle c, and it doesn't really matter into what any representation, the representation is kind of irrelevant here. You can use that to construct a deformation of an S valuable definition. So in this way you can import cohomology theory into deformation rigidity. And this is a major source of a way of kind of getting some structural properties of the group on Neumann algebra.
00:35:13.380 - 00:36:21.836, Speaker A: So you can, and of course, if you look at the differential, this thing will exist on a dense subalgebra. Again, I can't really get into the fine points of this. If you look at this differential of a deformation, this gives you a derivation of the algebra into some bimodule. And of course, derivations of algebras are well understood to be the analog of comology for. But there are plenty of deformations that don't come from one commology in any way, shape or form. All right, so the second part of deformation rigidity is the rigidity. So that's equally important.
00:36:21.836 - 00:37:58.134, Speaker A: And so what does it mean that something is rigid so well, let's set it up. I'm going to have m, and then I'm going to have this s malleable deformation of m. And so we'll say that a subalgebra is rigid if alpha t converges uniformly to the identity on the unit ball of q, so converging. So yeah, on unit ball in the, in the two norm. Okay. All right, so, example. So if q has property t.
00:37:58.134 - 00:39:46.944, Speaker A: So there's a generalization of property t from groups to von Neumann algebras due to Kahn and Jones, then q is always rigid, or any embedding and any deformation. Okay? In fact, you can take that as a definition of property t for a von Neumann algebra. Okay, so there's a couple of sort of questions here that were kind of open and that we were able to address to get the result that I told you before, this kind of non isomorphism for these kind of amalgamated property t things with things with positive Betty number. So. Well, okay, let me just make another definition. Well, yeah, so, okay, I'll say it this way. So I'll say that.
00:39:46.944 - 00:41:35.118, Speaker A: So if we have q inside of m and I have some intermediate algebra here. Pull. And again, I'm fixing some deformation. So we'll say that p is a rigid envelope or q if it is a unique, maximal rigid subalgebra containing q for the deformation alpha. So unique and maximal are important here. So in cohomology theory, it often is interesting to take a subgroup that has vanishing Betty number. So a subgroup with property t or something like this, and then try to find a, try to establish that there's sort of a unique largest subgroup that contains it, which has vanishing Betty number.
00:41:35.118 - 00:43:37.674, Speaker A: So that's kind of an important linchpin for these kind of homology vanishing results that I talked about. And so this question of whether you could do the same thing for a deformation in a von Neumann algebra to kind of recover some of these cohomology techniques is exactly what we were able to establish. So here's the theorem. So if we have two one factor m, we have some s malleable deformation of it. We have a subalgebra q and m, which is rigid, and so that the commutant in the bigger thing is contained back inside M. So I can't really say this is crucial, but this is replacing some sort of mixingness in the phenomenology theory, if you know what that means. If you don't, don't worry too much about it, but you have a rigid thing, then there is a rigid envelope.
00:43:37.674 - 00:46:23.624, Speaker A: And moreover, if you have so maybe this is part one two. If you have q one, q two, and m rigid, and their intersection, when you commute it with, when you look at the relative commutant of the intersection of M Tilde that's sitting inside of m, then q one and q two have the same rigid envelope. In particular, the algebra that they generate has to be rigid. Okay, so that's the main theorem that we established. And so really, the key innovation here was kind of finding really the correct analogs for cohomology, vanishing techniques. I think I'm, yeah, running sort of short on time. So I can't, I think, well, I can't really quite get into it, explaining exactly how that goes.
00:46:23.624 - 00:47:45.884, Speaker A: But I guess, you know, here is kind of a quick corollary, is that result above. So I have gamma with positive l two Betty number, and gamma is not isomorphic to a lambda. Lambda is generated by two subalgebras with property t, whose intersection is infinite. So. So why is that? So here's the argument. So l of h one and l of h two inside of l of lambda are rigid, or any deformation that was property t. So by property.
00:47:45.884 - 00:49:13.864, Speaker A: Okay, great. Well, then, as I said, well, okay, so now you take the non trivial one co cycle. So pick non trivial one co cycle here for gamma. You can do that because the Betty number is non zero, and construct a deformation. Now, this is one working for the left regular representation of gamma. So this has the right mixingness for every infinite or for every diffuse subalgebra. So that's good, in particular for the intersection.
00:49:13.864 - 00:50:53.594, Speaker A: And so this mixing, this assumption. So whatever, I'm not going to talk about what that bimodule is, but that thing is sitting back inside of lambda l gamma. You're assuming they're isomorphic. And so by our main result, we have that this deformation that you get from c converges uniformly on the unit ball of gamma. But this is a contradiction. It's a contradiction because you can check that if you have a non trivial one co cycle, it has to be unbounded. And just by the literal description of what this deformation does, you can check that the unboundedness implies that it can't converge uniformly.
00:50:53.594 - 00:51:56.764, Speaker A: And so that that does it. Okay, so my time is basically up. So that's the strategy. And I said before, as I said before, this gives some hope here that we may kind of have a foothold into maybe beginning to start addressing this question of whether vanishing Betty number is a von Neumann algebra invariant. That being said, you know, here's the next logical question to check if h one is amenable. This also has vanishing l two Betty number, and h two still has property t. With all the assumptions, the intersection is infinite.
00:51:56.764 - 00:52:28.334, Speaker A: They generate the group. Is that going to be isomorphic to a group on Norman algebra with positive D number? And, you know, so far we have some kind of stab at addressing this, but so far the techniques that we've written down have to, you know, there's still a non trivial amount of work to do to kind of push it to this, this case, but I'll just leave it there and thank you for your attention.
