00:00:00.800 - 00:01:18.604, Speaker A: All right, so we were looking at certain types of groups, in fact, some of, at least some of what I talked about last time, maybe all of what I talked about last time, and some of what I'm talking about this time. You could, you work with pretty much any group. But we were looking at these so called real reductive groups, so connected and reductive. Reductive is an awkward word which means something definite and simple and algebraic and intrinsic in the complex case. But in this real case, that's not really so. And so the way of describing it is always something like this, that it's a group which is closed under matrix transpose, like that, various variations on this. But anyway, that's the group.
00:01:18.604 - 00:02:25.178, Speaker A: So we were studying K is just what you get from G by intersecting with on or son, that would be good enough. So that's a connected group also it happens, and it's maximal and compact in G, maximal with the property of being compact inside of G. And then we were building a new group, the so called cotton motion group, which is just the semi direct product of k acting on a certain vector space p, which I forgot to define before I find g zero. So I'll do it right here. P is just the part of the Lia algebra of G, which is not in the Lia algebra of K. So it's just those elements in the liage for gift, which instead of being skew symmetric, which is what would put them in the LgBT of, oh, they're symmetric. I might have talked about gl and C.
00:02:25.178 - 00:03:11.254, Speaker A: Maybe I should talk about gl and C for where I'm going, which case we should be talking about. The conjugate transpose here and here on should become un like that. All right. And the point about g zero is that it's a much easier group than G. Not only is it easier, but also its sea star algebra is easier, its representation theory is easier. And let me just, I took the trouble of actually doing the calculation properly before showing up here. So let me just tell you exactly how this goes.
00:03:11.254 - 00:04:08.904, Speaker A: We're in the business of forming convolution algebras, and so we are interested in functions on g, maybe smooth and compactly supported. So let's define a sort of Fourier transform. I called it diamond in the notes. And the Fourier transform of a function on g is going to be a function on the vector space p times, or maybe the dual of the vector space p times the times k times k, like this. And so you have to fiddle around a little bit to get this formula right. So the formula is not very illuminating. It's going to be a type of Fourier transform.
00:04:08.904 - 00:04:44.464, Speaker A: So we're going to integrate over p, and there's going to be some exponential factor there. And now you have to figure out exactly what is the good formula. Well, some experimentation is required, which I just to serve you better undertook to do. The question is, did I put it in these notes? No. Damn. It's in the other notes. Right? That is awkward.
00:04:44.464 - 00:05:44.540, Speaker A: I think I pretty much remember, however, how it goes. So something in the semi direct product consists of a k and an element of p, like that. And here, what we're supposed to integrate is nu of k two of x. You sure that's right? Or should it be. Yeah, this triple, or maybe put minus sign there, if you like. This is in P dual times k times k. It annoys me that I didn't bring this piece.
00:05:44.540 - 00:06:08.034, Speaker A: I worked the thing out and I didn't bring a piece of paper. That's one. This much I remember. But I think there's also something like, maybe just next, maybe it's k, one of x or something. The notes will have the correct formula. So annoyed. Didn't bring it down.
00:06:08.034 - 00:06:43.854, Speaker A: Idiot. Anyway, yes, we're integrating over p, which is a subspace of the lie algebra. And when I say k, I mean let k act on x. How does it act? Well, in this concrete formula up here, it's by. Just by conjugation, if you like, the adjunct representation. And let's hope this is right. Otherwise we'll fix it up in post.
00:06:43.854 - 00:07:14.874, Speaker A: And what you get, maybe we can work it out. See if you can help me out by eyeballing this. Jacob, you're on. Here's where we want to end up. We want to have a smooth function on p star times p times k. Well, that's what we have. And now we want to look at k in invariant functions like this.
00:07:14.874 - 00:08:09.534, Speaker A: And k should be acting on by right multiplication on these two copies of k and in the obvious way, on p star. So Jacob will work out the correct formula here. On the basis of what I just wrote. I'm pretty sure we got to fix this up. This should be something like k two of x. K two inverse of x. I'm sorry, what was the question? Yeah, in fact, I made a mistake there.
00:08:09.534 - 00:08:35.394, Speaker A: I wanted to put the inverse over here, because otherwise it appears in a couple of places over here. Strongly makes me think this is k one of x. I remember the general form of the formula. Um, yeah. And Jacob will. Will soon correct what I've written, and this is only part of the point. Of course, if you divide out by k, it's really just a function on p star times k.
00:08:35.394 - 00:09:19.440, Speaker A: That makes sense. You started off with a function on p times k, so you have the right dimensionality here. And the critical thing is, what happens if you take a product of two functions and then you take this transform. So the star means convolution in the group algebra of g zero. And what you get out of it is something nice. So let's just write down the formula for the product on the other side. So let's stick in a new k one, k two.
00:09:19.440 - 00:10:17.524, Speaker A: Now, I regret putting the inverse in there. It just seemed like a good idea at the time when I was typing the notes, but now I didn't put it in. So what you hope for is that the Fourier transform changes pointwise multiplication. Sorry, convolution multiplication into pointwise multiplication. And that's exactly what happens to a certain extent. This extent that what this says is you should think of this diamond construction as giving you a function from the vector space p star into smoothing operators on k. And this is how you multiply smoothing operators by the convolution product.
00:10:17.524 - 00:11:42.904, Speaker A: And the little is that this version of the Fourier transform, which I'm kicking myself for, not being brought on a piece of paper to correct. How's it going? Okay, just to make sure, it's a kx on p star by the input. By k? Yes. I can't correct it. Yeah, it'll be in the notes. It induces an isomorphism, a unitary isomorphism, the level of Hilbert spaces, at least if the measure is chosen to, so that the volume of k is one. And you see, you've already built, you've already used.
00:11:42.904 - 00:12:39.144, Speaker A: Where is it? Here. You've already implicitly chosen a measure on p. And to get a ha measure on g zero, you also need to choose a measure on k. But let's suppose you choose the har measure, which has volume one. Then there's a nice unitary isomorphism here and a sea star algebra. Isomorphism into what? Well, the c zero functions from p into the compact operators on l two, which are k equivariants. So k acts on p star in really the only way it could, and it acts on l two of k by the right regular representation, and it acts on compact operators and l two of k by conjugating by the right regular representation.
00:12:39.144 - 00:13:17.244, Speaker A: And now we're in business. So this is what the c star algebra is. Yeah. I wanted to have this nice formula for multiplication. Yeah. The number of k's. Yeah, it looks better that way to me.
00:13:17.244 - 00:14:25.214, Speaker A: Suppose you fix a new, and now you look at the convolution operator, the integral operator on l two of k given by f diamond. So k one and k vary. What kind of equivariance does that operator have where you fixed a value of nu? Well, it's going to be invariant not under some action of k, but just under some action of the part of k which fixes nu. So if you fix a value nu part from zero, then the chances are that the resulting integral operator, a function of k one and k in this little piece of the board that I'm pointing to, it's not going to be completely k equal variant, so it's not going to lie in the Seser algebra of k. It's not going to be describable by a single function of one variable in the group k. And so you can't completely reduce to one variable. It'll be a function of two variables, k one and k, and it'll be right translation invariant for the subgroup k, sub new.
00:14:25.214 - 00:15:23.534, Speaker A: And I think this, I could never make it simpler than this. I did at some point make it possibly correcter than this, but, but I didn't make it any simpler than this. So from this we can extract a kind of a nice result, the theorem of Mackie, about groups of this general type. What Mackey did covers a lot of other examples. How do you get a unitary representation of g zero? How might you get a unitary representation of g zero? Well, that would be the same thing as a representation of this c star algebra, non degenerate representation of this c star algebra. Remember, this g zero is a amenable group. So you get all of the representations, just as representations of this reduced sea star algebra.
00:15:23.534 - 00:16:32.914, Speaker A: It means a representation of this sea star algebra. So you need a homomorphism from this sea star algebra to the bounded operators on a Hilbert space. Well, let's take the Hilbert space to be l two of k, and let's build a homomorphism from this Easter algebra to bounded operators on l two of k, in fact, compact operators on l two of k. Just by evaluating at some point, each time you evaluate at some point in p, you'll get a representation. But that representation will not be irreducible. Why will it not be irreducible? Well, when you evaluate these integral kernels, these fellows, as I was just saying to Eckhart, when you evaluated a given nu, these integral kernels have the property that they are constant for right translation by the subgroup k, sub nu, all of the things in k which fix nu. And that means that the representation, the right regular representation of k sub nu, the right translation representation of k sub nu on l two of k, will commute with this given representation that we get by evaluation at nu.
00:16:32.914 - 00:17:34.394, Speaker A: And that's not allowed for an irreducible representation. It's supposed to just have nothing in its commutant, well, scalar multiples of the identity. That means that this representation decomposes somehow into irreducibles, because it's a representation as compact operators. A little bit of general theory tells you that it decomposes as a discrete sum of irreducibles. And because we know what the commutant of that representation is in compact operators, namely the image of C star of k lambda as it acts on l two of k, it's easy to figure out how to take that representation and decompose it into irreducible sub representations. Each one occurs with some multiplicity. Okay, sorry, but the distinct ones are labeled like this by a unitary representation of knew.
00:17:34.394 - 00:18:05.590, Speaker A: In other words, if you like a sister algebraic direct summand of the C star algebra of knew, that's it. Except everything here is k invariant. And so if you pick a different point nu in the same k orbit, you're going to get exactly the same collection of representations. Oops, not like that. Like this. There's an obvious action of k on this space, and you're supposed to divide out by that action of k. And that's it.
00:18:05.590 - 00:19:00.034, Speaker A: It's almost never the case that you can just write down what is the dual dual of a group. But here you can sort of, I mean, you still need to know what are these compact groups? And that may or may not be simple to figure out in any generality. And then you need to know what are the irreducible representations of these compact groups. And that may or may not be so easy to figure out. Get to that in a moment. Okay. And then we stated this isomorphism, which involves the k theory of the c star algebra of g zero.
00:19:00.034 - 00:19:48.794, Speaker A: Now we have a pretty good picture of what the sea star algebra of g zero is. And so if you're a k theory expert, you can figure out what this thing is. So it's the k theory of that fellow. So the space p star is going to play a role here, and so is the group k. And in fact, the right thing to put here is, sorry for all the k's, k equivariant k theory. So this thing is quite computable. K theory of vector spaces is something that Raoul Bott told us a lot about.
00:19:48.794 - 00:21:10.018, Speaker A: If there was no group k in the picture, I mean, the compact lead group k, if that wasn't in the picture, then the k theory of a vector space only depends on the dimension of the vector space, and it's alternately z or zero, by the famous periodicity theorem. And it's not much different here. This thing here is very close to the representation ring, the freeobilian group on the set of irreducible representations of. Kid, what does close mean? Yeah, well, if p star was even dimensional, and if the action of k on p star, which is the same as the action on p, if the action of k on p star factor, which is an orthogonal action, if it factored through the spin group or the spin c group, then this would close, would be like this. Right on the nose, yeah. Otherwise this thing can be understood in terms of algebraical data, Clifford modules and so on. The problem of determining what this is is completely solved.
00:21:10.018 - 00:22:17.018, Speaker A: It's isomorphic to something which is all finite area and algebraical. Like this representation ring is. There's a paper of a Siegfried Ektarhof and a student plant planter, and they explain how to nail this down completely, kill it dead using Clifford arteries. Some cases are quite interesting. So it's in the bag. But what about this thing? So there is this concasper of isomorphism, which I didn't write down here, but what it says is the k theory of C star reduced of g is what's on this board here, the k theory of C star reduced g zero. So it's quite computable.
00:22:17.018 - 00:23:29.874, Speaker A: The isomorphism of Karn and Kasparov is quite a difficult thing to come to grips with. But anyway, there it is, and we might like to know what, what on earth this is all about. After all, spend all this effort trying to prove the concept of isomorphism. What are we actually calculating that? So let's just spend a little while talking about this. First of all, a unitary representation of g. So I'm thinking of one of these groups up here, one of these real reductive thingamajigs is said to be, well, there are two schools of thought here, weakly admissible, or maybe just admissible, if the following thing is true. If each irreducible unitary representation of k, let's give it a name, PI.
00:23:29.874 - 00:24:31.354, Speaker A: Let's span this a little bit, fit in some notation. PI, a unitary representation of G on a Hilbert space H of I. So the representation PI of g, of course, you can restrict to a representation of k and when you do that, you'll get a representation of k. And it's a fact that any representation of k, because k is compact, is a direct sum, nice simple Hilbert space, theoretic direct sum of irreducible representations. And you can ask, how many times does a given irreducible representation occur? And the answer doesn't depend on how you did the decomposing. So it makes sense to ask whether the number is finite or not. And this is the finite case, occurs only finitely often or finitely many times.
00:24:31.354 - 00:26:13.046, Speaker A: In restriction PI to k, like that, you could get a representation of k by starting off with an irreducible representation sigma, and then just taking sigma plus sigma plus sigma plus sigma plus sigma. And that thing is never allowed to appear in a admissible representation. Okay? And back in the early days, Harris Chandra proved a result, which is of middling difficulty, that every irreducible PI is admissible in this sense. And on the basis of that, it's quite easy to see that when you convert PI into an irreducible representation of C star of G, the image of the representation. So that's now a collection of operators on Hilbert space H PI, the operators you get are precisely the compact operators. So the second line is much easier than the first line. Second line is an easy consequence of the first line.
00:26:13.046 - 00:27:00.154, Speaker A: And the first line is, yeah, not so terribly simple. Yes. So is the content the second one that you get exactly the compact operators, or that it's contained. The content is contained. And the fact that you get all of them is kind of elementary. Assuming you have containment, you definitely have to get all. That's a consequence of irreducibility.
00:27:00.154 - 00:28:32.210, Speaker A: This is what we're defining here. Admissible without the weak qualifier means not only is this condition true, but the representation is finitely generated. In a certain sense, finitely generated by k. Finite vectors is the precise way you're supposed to say it. And, yeah, the category of such admissible representations is a very beautiful category with lots of important finiteness properties that Harish Chandra and others eventually established. It's, yeah, this big algebraic story, which we're not going to talk about. But going back to k theory, each time you have a irreducible representation, you get a homomorphism of groups from the sea star algebra of g to the compact operators.
00:28:32.210 - 00:29:40.800, Speaker A: Sorry, to get homomorphism of groups from the k theory of c star of G to the k theory of the compact operators. And that's just z, if you call this like PI star. And if the representation is not just in the unitary dual, but, but in the tempered Joule in the reduced tool, then you can put an r to talk about the reduced sea structure instead of the sister algebra. So we get a chance to study k theory just a little bit by means of homomorphisms like this. Sadly, in terms of, I don't know, set theoretic weight, almost always these maps are zero. All of the g's that we're studying, except for degenerate examples, which are compact groups, they have an uncountable number of irreducible unitary representations. And for all but a countable collection of representations, this map is actually zero.
00:29:40.800 - 00:30:57.864, Speaker A: So that's, that's too bad. Nevertheless, it's not always zero. I think I'll skip one of these definitions, in fact, before I give change my mind. So, an irreducible unitary representation of PI G is said to be. Lots of different words we could put here, but I'll say discrete series, if two things are satisfied. First of all, this representation is a representation of the reduced Easter algebra. It's a representation in the reduced joule of G.
00:30:57.864 - 00:31:44.304, Speaker A: And the second thing is that if you look at the single point consisting of PI, or strictly speaking, the equivalence class of PI, this thing here is an open and closed substance of this reduced joule. So that's okay, that's a definition. You have a compact group. Then the topology on the reduced dual. First of all, the compact group is amenable. So the reduced dual and the full unitary dual are the same, and the topology on the dual, which is a countable set, is just the discrete topology. So every irreducible representation is a discrete series representation.
00:31:44.304 - 00:32:39.034, Speaker A: This property here, however, is much harder to achieve for infinite groups. It's not obvious. In fact, when you look at other equivalent ways of writing down the definition, it almost seems obvious that these things cannot exist. But it's certainly not obvious that they do exist. But occasionally they do. It's a fact that, for allergy, these representations are the same thing as the irreducible, square integrable representations, if you happen to know what they are. That's not completely, it's not certainly not a tautology.
00:32:39.034 - 00:34:15.870, Speaker A: And there are groups for which it's not true that the two classes are exactly the same same. But if you have one of these, then you're in business. One of these representations, that is vis a vis K theory. So here's just a general fact, and I cannot remember if I mentioned this in the last lecture or not, so I'll mention it again. Suppose you have a closed two sided ideal in the seastar algebra, a you'll remember that closed two sided ideals were used to understand, or rather define the topology on the spectrum of a. Well, here's some something else which is kind of interesting. If you have a representation which is irreducible of the big guy a, and if it has the property that it doesn't restrict to the identically zero representation on j, remember, the representations where you do get an identically zero restriction are those in this closed set associated to j.
00:34:15.870 - 00:35:12.098, Speaker A: So this condition is defining an open subset of the spectrum of PI. And the condition on the conclusion of this lemma is that PI, restricted to j, is irreducible. This is one of the things that your sister algebra professor teaches you what to teach you. And so what happens is you have an irreducible representation of a, let's say, and now there's a dichotomy. When you restrict it to j, you may get just the zero representation. If that happens, then really the representation of a is a representation of the quotient a mod j passes to a representation of a mod j. If that doesn't happen, then it's really a representation of j, because this is a little easier.
00:35:12.098 - 00:37:02.266, Speaker A: Every irreducible representation of j and irreducible means it's not allowed to be zero, remember, extends uniquely to an irreducible representation. Okay, so the representations of a break up in this nice way into a certain collection of representations, they form an open subset, which is the temp, which is the dual of j, and then a certain other collection of representations, which is a closed subset, which is a dual of a mod j. Okay, so that's not quite right for non sea star algebras, but it's right here. All right, so now back to that was just a little sea star background. Back to discrete series representations. What happens at the level of k theories? First of all, the level of sea star algebras is this. The whole seastar algebra of g contains within it, well, the kernel of the representation of PI.
00:37:02.266 - 00:37:43.594, Speaker A: Of course, that's an ideal. And there's the complementary ideal that you could build here, the annihilator of the kernel of PI. That's the c star algebra. That's the collection of all elements in C star of g, which when you multiply them by something in the kernel, you get zero on either side. So that's another close two sided ideal. And if you happen to have an ideal which corresponds to an open and closed subset of your space, then these two ideals are actually complementary in this sense. There's nothing else in them.
00:37:43.594 - 00:38:44.446, Speaker A: This is an ideal. This is an ideal, the product of anything in here with anything in here, no matter what PI is, is always zero by definition of the annihilator. But the sum of these two things may or may not be all of C star of g. It will be C star of g. If, corresponding to this decomposition, corresponding to this direct sum of ideals, you have a decomposition of the tempered jewel into two complementary open and closed subsets, which you will have in this situation here. Of course, after you divide out by the kernel, the annihilator becomes isomorphic to the image of PI, which is just the compact operators on the Hilbert space of the representation. So if you have a discrete series, it appears in this sense discretely inside of the seastar algebra.
00:38:44.446 - 00:39:41.144, Speaker A: You can split off a summand which is exactly the representation. In some sense, it's the compact operators isomorphic to the compact operators on the representation. And so the k theory of c star of G breaks up into two bits a bit, which is the k theory of compact operators, which is z, and another bit which we don't know much about yet, and in particular the composition. You can do the following thing. Now, we could start off with this annihilator, the orthogonal complement of the kernel of PI, which secretly we know is the compact operators that maps into the sea star algebra of G. It's an ideal. And this, according to this construction here, the k theory of sea star maps back to the compact operators on h PI.
00:39:41.144 - 00:40:53.184, Speaker A: This composition here is an isomorphism. In fact, it's an isomorphism at the level of Siesta algebra. So certainly at the level of k three. So the inside of the k theory of the siesta algebra of G, there's a canonical direct summand of, consisting of the integers k theory of c, star of g, breaks up into the integers in a canonical way, directs them something else, which is the k theory of the kernel of PI. Yeah, what? I mean a group. It's a fact that if G has a discrete series representation, I guess this applies to everything except the trivial group or finite groups. If it has one discrete series representation, then it happens to have a whole bunch, just happens to be the case, an infinite number.
00:40:53.184 - 00:41:36.992, Speaker A: So you'll be able to do this an infinite number of times, and you'll get a whole bunch of infinite copies of z embedded inside of the k theory of c star of G. That is to say, these infinite number of generators will be linearly independent inside of the k theory of the sea star reduced algebra of G. So they'll generate many, many copies of integers inside the K theory, because that's what they look like. They look discrete inside of the pictures of the discrete part, but the series part. Oh yeah. Because they're built, according to some. It's possible to build these fellows according to some uniform construction first.
00:41:36.992 - 00:42:18.996, Speaker A: That was done by Harris Chandler, actually. He built the characters, these representations, much like Weil did for compact groups by some uniform construction. So we call them discrete series. Okay, lots of other ways of describing what these representations are, but this gets to the k theoretic point quite quickly. I'm going to buy one of these. I have a pretty good eraser at home, but not as good as this. This is.
00:42:18.996 - 00:42:33.624, Speaker A: I mean, it is a hagoroma eraser, whereas this is something else. But I love this thing. Maybe I'll just steal it. Don't tell anyone how I get that done. That's right. And I didn't get any chips. Ahoy.
00:42:33.624 - 00:43:24.124, Speaker A: Cookies, by the way. Of course. Now, if this thing does go missing, the RCMP are going to be knocking on my door, aren't they? Yeah. Just to show you what we're up against here, suppose the group is Esau tour. Here's what the tempered joule, the reduced dual, looks like. There's a copy of the integers like this. So these dots are labeled by the integers.
00:43:24.124 - 00:44:05.502, Speaker A: This picture, it's hard to draw properly. In one blackboard. You need, as I was explaining on Saturday, you need two blackboards which are parallel to one another. There's an even part of this picture consisting of the even integers, which should be on one of the blackboards. An offset should be the odd part of the picture, consisting of the odd integers. So you have to imagine that while I'm drawing it anyway, so these three in the middle, the dots that I'm shading, they go on and on forever, are discrete series representations. And then there are three others.
00:44:05.502 - 00:44:44.530, Speaker A: And it's a little weird what happens. There are two copies here of the interval from zero to infinity. There's an even copy, which should be on this even part of the spectrum, and then an odd copy of a line on the odd copy. And these guys, yeah, they're sort of open at this end like this. And the way the spectrum works is kind of interesting. As you march down. The first of all, the topology in the spectrum of this half line is the usual topology on the half line.
00:44:44.530 - 00:45:34.868, Speaker A: And these two lines are separated. So if you remove all of these dots, what you're looking at is just the disjoint union of two open half lines. If you throw in the dots then what happens is that as you go down the even, so called continuous series, what you converge to is the even dot here, zero. But if you go down the odd series, you converge to one and minus one. So it's a little bit non hostile. Okay, so this is the even principle, or continuous series, odd continuous series. And inside of the K theory, you get a copy of z for each of these dots, and then for the even.
00:45:34.868 - 00:46:45.740, Speaker A: So what happens, I should say, first of all, at the level of the sea star algebra, is that the seaster algebra is the direct sum of all of these compact operator algebras. That's not completely a consequence of what's written there, but it is the c zero, direct sum, direct sum, a component sea star algebra for the even series, direct sum, a component sea star algebra for the odd series. So the entire seaster algebra is a huge direct sum, mostly of pieces that we've come to terms with, just copies of the compact operators. And then there are two, you might say exotic terms, but actually they're much easier to understand. There are two other terms, one of which corresponds to the even continuous series and one to the odd continuous series. And when you look at k theory, what happens is that if you evaluate anywhere on these even or odd continuous series, as we were doing up here, you actually get zero. Except if you evaluate at the end of the odd series, where you can either evaluate at minus one or one, and then you don't get zero, you get a map, which is an isomorphism from that k theory of that component, c star algebra, two z, the k theory of the compact operators.
00:46:45.740 - 00:47:23.124, Speaker A: So the K theory of c star of G. And in the odd case, you get zero everywhere. And the k theory of the odd continuous series component is entirely zero. And the k theory of the even, did I say, I think I meant to say even continuous series component. I cannot remember what I did say. As for the k theory of the odd principle series component, continuous series component, it's isomorphic to z by evaluation, in the sense that still up there on the top right board, at either one or minus one, you get the same isomorphism there up to sine. So the k theory looks like z plus z plus z plus z plus z plus z plus z, et cetera.
00:47:23.124 - 00:48:15.196, Speaker A: And one of the z's is kind of exceptional because it's attributable to this odd continuous series. But all of the others kind of, kind of are indeed not kind of are, but are encompassed in this construction here. If you look at this sort of composition, anything different series, where it looks the kernel five. Yes. Yeah. It's not difficult to prove that. If you choose a second continue discrete series representation, then the annihilator for it lies as a sub ideal of the kernel of the first fellow, and indeed the kernel of the first fellow breaks up as a direct sum of compact operators for one, compact operators for the other, and then the mutual kernel for both of them.
00:48:15.196 - 00:48:45.004, Speaker A: The intersection of the kernels for PI and PI two. Okay. And that's true for any finite number, and it's actually true for an infinite number. But there's a little bit of math involved to see that that's really correct. Quite a bit of math involved to see that you can, if you have an infinite number of discrete series, you'll get an infinite direct sum of copies of the compacts plus a mutual kernel. The fact that it's just a simple direct sum is not trivial. That's a famous theorem of Harris Chandler.
00:48:45.004 - 00:49:39.464, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. The mutual kernel in the case of sl two, r of all of the discrete series is a direct sum of two other ideals, and one of them corresponds is some sea star algebra connected to or related to the even principles continuous series, and the other one is for the odd series. And I'm not going to go yet further into those details, although we'll get there in a moment. So somehow, like understanding the distinct series together with their, their big. Colonel? Yeah. There's a mechanism for constructing these even series. This is always true.
00:49:39.464 - 00:50:25.714, Speaker A: This, what I'm about to say is not a terribly difficult statement. There's a mechanism for constructing these even series which involves discrete series representations of a smaller group of diagonal, in this case the diagonal subgroup. Actually, in this case the diagonal subgroup consisting of the matrices plus or minus the identity. So in some sense, everything is attributable to discrete series, but not only the discrete series of G, but the discrete series of various diagonal subgroups of G. Let's say you were talking about. To get an interesting example, you'd have to look at something, something like, I don't know, so four or something like that. Then there's a different series to deal with, or SP four.
00:50:25.714 - 00:50:53.966, Speaker A: R is a good example to work out. I didn't say SLN, because when you get to SLN, there are no discrete series, as it happens, just the way it works. When n is more than two, there are no discrete series. For example. Well, SL three. No, SL three is easy to deal with. It just happens there are no discrete series.
00:50:53.966 - 00:51:23.518, Speaker A: SL three has some pleasant features. For example, the dual is completely housed off. So there's none of this weird rubbish going on here. And you can write down without too much difficulty, what the dual of SL three is. Let me just mention one other example here, since I want to in a moment switch to complex groups. If G is SL two, c there, this is another example where there are no discrete series. And what the dual looks like is this.
00:51:23.518 - 00:52:08.572, Speaker A: Here's a line, a full real line. Here's another full real line. Here's another full real line. Let's have the lines going on to infinity in that direction. And at the bottom you have a half real line like that. And this example shares a feature with this example that we'll try to, or a bug maybe, that we'll try to deal with next time, which is that if you look at the topology, here is what you see is what you get. It's just this topology sitting inside the Euclidean plane, and this part of the dual, this piece at the bottom, this is the so called spherical dual that corresponds to this even fellow over here.
00:52:08.572 - 00:53:19.584, Speaker A: It doesn't have any k theory at all. It looks like the c zero functions on a half open interval, and that has zero k theory, just like this one does, the even series where you just converge to one point, that's like a half open interval. So K theory fails to notice parts of the joule of G. In fact, it always fails to notice the most, somehow the most important part of the representation theory of G, which is this so called spherical series, the one at the bottom. So that's an annoyance that we'll discuss more on Thursday. Okay, here are just a couple of pictures. I want to describe in some detail what C star of G looks like from a certain point of view, at least for certain g.
00:53:19.584 - 00:54:02.126, Speaker A: And for that purpose I'd like to say just a little bit about what the dual of a compact group looks like, because, I mean, we know from Khan Kasparov that there's, I'm trying to find smoking gun on the board. It's not there anymore. The Khan Kasparov isomorphism says that the K theory of C star of G zero is the same thing as the k theory of C star of g, C star reduced of G. And if you look at what is the unitary dual of g zero, it's all about representations of compact groups. Well, compact subgroups of g, these knews. So if you really want to come to grips, even with the simplified version of C star of G, which is C star of g zero, you ought to know something about compact groups. Fine.
00:54:02.126 - 00:54:32.974, Speaker A: So I'm going to tell you a little something about compact groups. Now, and we shall assume that g is connected, because if it's not connected, it might as well be a finite group. And I am certainly not qualified to tell you what is the unitary rule of a finite group. That's arithmetic. That's not, yeah, that's hard. Okay, so let's just assume k is connected. Okay, so this is what you learn in lead theory class.
00:54:32.974 - 00:55:41.834, Speaker A: Inside of g, you're supposed to fix a maximal torus, excuse me, inside of k, maximal connected abelian subgroup contained in no bigger abelian subgroups. So that thing always looks like circle times circle times circle, certain number of times, and that's a maximal torus. And if sigma is in k, you can just restrict it. And when you restrict from k to t, the representation will cease to be irreducible, because every irreducible representation of an abelian group is one dimensional. So unless you started with a one dimensional representation, this restriction will not be irreducible. And so it'll be a direct sum of what are called global weights. Irreducible, one dimensional represent, well, necessarily irreducible one dimensional representations.
00:55:41.834 - 00:56:45.564, Speaker A: And the collection you get always looks kind of cute. So here's a picture I'm constitutionally unable to draw this very well. Those are supposed to be three lines in the plane meeting at 60 degree angles. Actually much better than my typical effort. Okay, now I'm just going to, with this as a sort of guide, build the lattice of these global weights. You get the picture? I think so on, the more I draw, the less convincing this picture will be. So this is a picture of t hat, let's say in this particular case, su three.
00:56:45.564 - 00:57:40.464, Speaker A: If you have an irreducible representation of t, that means it's a lie group homomorphism from big t to the group u one, and it induces a Lie algebra homomorphism from the li algebra of t to the liability of u one, which is I times r. So what this picture is, is a picture of the homomorphisms from the lialgebra of t into I times r. I mean, all of the points and inside of all of these points are the integral ones which exponentiate to regroup homomorphisms. They don't all do that because of course, the torus is not, not a very simply connected space. Okay, I'm not going to draw more dots, get myself into trouble. Okay, now what? Suppose you have an Irreducible Representation, then you'll get for yourself a collection of weights. Maybe this one is in the collection.
00:57:40.464 - 00:58:28.854, Speaker A: If you look at this group, the normalizer in k of t divided by t, the so called vial group, that's effectively a subgroup of k. So it acts by conjugation on the set of weights. And so when each time you have a dot, you'll have the image of these dots under this conjugation action. And the three lines represent how the action is supposed to work. You're acting by reflection of these lines. What the f is this? Okay, let's now simplify the diagram so I can not confuse myself with the dots anymore. We'll keep those ones.
00:58:28.854 - 00:59:56.602, Speaker A: If you have a dot maybe here, then its reflection across the line will also be a legitimate dot, and then the reflection across this line will also be a legitimate dot, and so will reflection across this line. And now you can reflect back, and there will be two more here and here. Suppose you take the convex hull of the set of weights. You'll get a picture somewhat like this, beautifully symmetric, with a beautiful sixfold symmetry like this picture shows unfailingly. Okay, it's called the weight diagram. It's always the hull, as you see in this picture of a single orbit. All of the extreme points in this picture are obtained just by moving around one weight inside of this vector space.
00:59:56.602 - 01:00:15.234, Speaker A: One point in this vector space. You never get a more complicated shape. In this particular case, for example, with, I don't know, twelve extreme points. Not allowed. Never happens. You always get a picture like that. And not only that.
01:00:15.234 - 01:01:36.994, Speaker A: Once you know the picture, you know the representation. And not only that, once you have any dot in this plane which is integral, and you move it around by the vowel group, and you fill in, make the convex hull, there is a representation for which that is the weight diagram. So there's a one to one correspondence between orbits under the action of w, of weights inside of this vector space, and irreducible representations of k. And finally, and maybe most importantly, so just to summarize, PI determines this weight diagram, by which, here I'm just meaning this convex hull. And that determines the w orbit. And all of the weight diagrams you get are indeed the convex cells of a single extreme point, like you see, of the orbit of an extra single extreme point, like you see here. So there are as many representations as there are orbits under the Weil group of characters of t, integral weights of t.
01:01:36.994 - 01:02:41.912, Speaker A: That's the theory of Catan and Weil and others. I guess we were calling these guys sigma. And the only reason that I'm telling you all of this is that I want to be able to tell you that the set of representations comes with an ordering like this. And the ordering is the ordering obtained from the diagrams. If the diagram of sigma one is contained in the diagram sequential, that's a partial order. And for example, in this Su three case, there's a unique fellow at the bottom, which is just this origin here, which corresponds to the trivial representation of g. So the trivial representation is a unique minimum representation for this order, and then there's a whole bunch of others.
01:02:41.912 - 01:03:37.290, Speaker A: Then it becomes a partial order as you go out. And you can do this for any k whatsoever, as long as it's connected. If the group is not connected, it's not true that by passing to this infinitesimal day won't surprise you at all. It's not true that when you pass to this infinitesimal data, you will capture what are the representations of k. That would be very surprising if it was the case. I should say that the k's which do arise, which are not connected in this game, are not terrible k's. You never find a k whose component group is sl seven of the finite field with eleven elements, or some rubbish like that.
01:03:37.290 - 01:04:40.738, Speaker A: What you find are k's whose component groups are just z mod two times z mod two times z mod two. So it's not that bad. Still keeping track of all the z mod two's, is it? Sure. Now back to c star algebra. Here's a little lemma, super easy. And it's about projections not in the sea star algebra of G, but in the multiplier algebra of the sea star algebra of G, with the following property that if you have a representation of c star of G, doesn't even have to be irreducible. So it's a fact which I didn't tell you that.
01:04:40.738 - 01:05:58.254, Speaker A: First of all, I did tell you that if the representation is non degenerate, then this corresponds to a representation of g. What I didn't tell you until now is that if you have a non degenerate representation, it canonically extends to this multiplier algebra, uniquely extends to the multiplier algebra. So we can form PI of e sigma, and this is the orthogonal projection onto the sigma isotypical substrates. So as I said before, sigma, or rather h PI, breaks up into a direct sum of irreducible representations of k. And if you gather together all of the sum ands which are isomorphic to sigma, then you get a subspace of h PI, which doesn't depend on how you did the original decomposing. That's the isotypical subspace, and there's an orthogonal projection onto it which you can write down a formula for using the Robinius Scher orthogonality theory, which I won't tell you about because it's not relevant. So there is this projection.
01:05:58.254 - 01:06:51.158, Speaker A: So, for example, there's always a canonical projection onto the k fixed vectors. You may say, wait a moment, you were talking about David Kerstan on the train and how big a deal it was that he built a projection. Yeah, it was a big deal, but he built a projection not in the multiplier algebra, but in c star of g itself. That's an altogether different game. Building this projection is piece of. Take some convolutional operator. Okay, so now let's define a couple of projections, namely, just the sum of these, e sigma one s, where sigma one is less than or equal to sigma.
01:06:51.158 - 01:07:27.170, Speaker A: For this ordering that I'm talking about over here, here's a smaller representation. For example, this particular diagram cannot occur. I wasn't paying attention as I drew it. But just to give you the idea, this is always going to be a finite sum, because the representations are labeled by these discrete points. There's only a total number of finite number of discrete points inside of this picture that I've drawn. So in particular, there can be only finitely many w orbits inside of it. Yeah.
01:07:27.170 - 01:07:55.818, Speaker A: What's wrong with this picture is that it's two w orbits around the edge, not one, if you think about it. Okay. And here's another fellow. P sigma minus, or, I don't know what to call it. I'll call it just q sigma. It's just the same thing, except I'll leave off e sigma from the sun. All of the other ones, all of these e sigma one's, are orthogonal to one another.
01:07:55.818 - 01:09:08.978, Speaker A: Why? Well, they're obviously orthogonal in every representation according to the way I defined them, and that makes them orthogonal in the c star algebra, the multiplier algebra. Nearly there. Didn't say that yet. I'll set in a moment. Let's go back to the continuous field, which is built from a deformation to the normal cone, which is allegedly what this class is about. So finally, we're getting back on track here. So this is the field of, first of all, the smooth family of groups GT all of which are copies of g, except for one, which is g zero.
01:09:08.978 - 01:09:48.164, Speaker A: This motion group that we've been talking about today, and they give rise in the way that's by now standard to a continuous field of sea star algebras. And here it is. All of these sea star algebras include exactly the same maximal compact subgroup, k. In fact, inside of the continuous field inside of the deformation space, there's a canonical smooth family, constant family of subgroups, which in each fiber is just k. K doesn't get stretched or deformed or at all. Throughout this d and c, it's only the directions normal to k that get changed. So we have kkk all the way.
01:09:48.164 - 01:10:51.394, Speaker A: In all of the fibers of the deformation space, we have kkk all the way inside of the multiplier algebra of c star of g. We have these projections all the way, and they have the property that they're continuous in the following sense. They multiply continuous sections of this continuous field into itself. I should have added that to that theorem, but I wasn't looking before I crossed the road, and so I forgot to do it. But these e sigmas and the p sigmas are compatible with continuous field if you form them in every fiber of this continuous field, in the sense that pointwise multiplication by e sigma sends continuous sections to continuous sections. So now let's just, we don't have to keep writing c star of GT. Let me define at just to be it.
01:10:51.394 - 01:12:03.388, Speaker A: And now let this be the ideal generated maybe by the big one. I should need to get a sigma into the notation somehow. Jt sigma, like that, p sigma, and another ideal, which is pretty much the same as one of these, the ideal generated, I guess I should have called these in j, not j. And I obey standard lexicographic ordering. What does it mean, the ideal generated by p? Well, I mean, you just take all possible products, something in a times p times something in a, and all possible sums of those products. That's now an ideal inside of a. And if you take the norm closure, then it's a sea star algebra ideal.
01:12:03.388 - 01:12:47.594, Speaker A: That's what I mean. Same thing for in both cases in j. So these guys are continuous fields of sea star algebras in their own right. And so the problem of understanding this continuous field to a certain extent breaks down into the problem of understanding these smaller continuous fields. And that problem breaks down still further in the following way. We've mentioned, we've come up against Morita equivalence equivalents of categories in the sense that Kahn was hinting at in the past in the groupoid world. Well, in the sister algebra world, it just means this.
01:12:47.594 - 01:13:37.232, Speaker A: If you have a couple of sea star algebras, a and b, then they're said to be marietro equivalents. And now I'm going to reuse this notation of some P's and Q's here. But you shouldn't think that the P's and Q's that I'm about to use are related to these P's and Q's. It's just that there's only 20. I mean, on a good day there's only 26 letters, and, you know, lots of them you just can't use. But you can't call a projection j. I mean, God forbid.
01:13:37.232 - 01:14:47.888, Speaker A: So there are only a certain number of letters you can use. So the condition is there should be a third sister algebra. There are many ways of stating this, but this is just the shortest way to write it down. There is this, and there are projections p and q in the multiplier algebra of C. This p and q do not necessarily have anything to do with the p sigmas and the q sigmas, such that the a algebra you get by cutting down c by p and the b algebra you get by cutting down c by q. At this point, you could just define C to be a direct sum b, and you could certainly find a projection p and q which has this property. So you need to know that both projections p and q speak to all of a, so that you're not doing two things which are totally unrelated here.
01:14:47.888 - 01:16:09.446, Speaker A: And the way you say that is that if you look at the ideal generated by p, that's all of C and the same for q. So each time you have a projection inside the multiplier algebra of any c star algebra C, you could look at the corner, as they say, associated to C PCP, and that's going to be Morita, equivalent to this thing CPC, this ideal inside of C. And every moritra equivalence is somehow broken up into two such, if you like, elementary equivalences. So that's what's going on. That's what Morita equivalence is all about. It's a fun exercise, not completely trivial, to show that this is an equivalence relation, not sort of obvious the way I've written it here. So, for example, inside of the two by two matrices, there is over any siesta algebra.
01:16:09.446 - 01:16:53.080, Speaker A: There it's a projection 10 zero, that's your p. And that p has the property that two by two matrices times p times two by two matrices over any siesta algebra, is all two by two matrices. And so you see that the one by one matrices are equivalent to the two by two matrices, matrices and so on. And that's basically, that's all that's going on. There are no examples which are substantially more difficult than that. This is an equivalence relation, which is basically just saying that the three by three matrices are equivalent to the seven by seven matrices over any sister algebra it's not very fancy, it's not very complicated. There's an art to building the C's in situations where you suspect there might be a circle.
01:16:53.080 - 01:18:12.844, Speaker A: That's an interesting art. But the end result is usually something pretty simple from a purely sister algebraic point of view. All right, so we're in a position to say something sort of intelligent, finally. So let's go back to these reductive groups that we began with. And now let me assume something which wasn't part of the original definition, that apart from everything else, this thing is a complex. I mean, in addition to everything else, this thing is a complex least subgroup and a connected reductive group, in the sense that we were just discussing before. So sl two c good, sl two r bad, that's.
01:18:12.844 - 01:18:47.734, Speaker A: There's a version of what I'm going to tell you. For compact groups, excuse me, for all real groups, there's an easy version. For compact groups, there's a version for all real groups, but that it's harder to. And it's basically the same. But there are details that make it a little harder to express what's going on. Whereas for complex groups, the whole story is ready to be told. We have all of the preliminaries here and a fraction of time to actually state them.
01:18:47.734 - 01:20:11.714, Speaker A: And this is a result that, as far as we know, I mean, as of November or whatever it is, 2023, there's only one way to prove this that we're aware of, which is to do representation theory and just bash this thing over the head. We really want to understand this continuous field, but it's a little complicated. What's going on? For the following reason. If you. Let's take, let's just take the easy case of sl two C. That is the reduced joule of sl two C that I'm pointing at right now. It's almost always the reduced dual of the.
01:20:11.714 - 01:20:59.542, Speaker A: It is almost the reduced dual of the motion group as well, but not exactly. Here's what happens as a set. It turns out the reduced dual of the motion group can be identified with this picture. But in order to explain what I'm now going to say, let me just make these points on the vertical axis here a little more prominent. The topology is a little weird. Here's what happens for the reduced dual of this would be suitable acting on three reals. If you think about it, the p space for Sls L two c is three dimensional, and this is the standard.
01:20:59.542 - 01:21:26.804, Speaker A: I mean, there's only one. This is the representation of Su two on a three dimensional space. Well, only one irreducible one. Yeah. Here's what the topology is. As you march, each line more or less has the topology that you see. And so if you remove the big dots, just like I was saying for sl two c, the topology of this picture is the topology you see on the blackboard.
01:21:26.804 - 01:22:04.112, Speaker A: So without the dots, the topology of the reduced dual of g zero, which is also the topology of the reduced dual of g, is just the blackboard topology. But in the reduced dual of g zero, as you march down one of these lines towards zero, you converge not only to the point on the line, you also converge to the same .2 up and the same .4 up and the same .6 up and so on. So it's a non Haasdof space. And as you converge down to one irreducible, this is an irid to one, one of these double points, not double points, big fat points.
01:22:04.112 - 01:23:05.660, Speaker A: You'll converge to all other big fat points above it, which are spaced an even number of units away from the initial one. That's the topology on the dual of g zero. And it's not exactly the same as the topology on the dual of G. And the way to understand what's going on here is supposed to be this theorem here. Suppose you take these, which are the big guys, the I's are the big guys, and which comes first, this t over sigma. Suppose you look at it divided by JT. Now, what is the dual of it divided by JT? Why should we care about this? Well, the dual of it divided by JT is a certain closed subset of the dual of it.
01:23:05.660 - 01:23:47.774, Speaker A: The dual of a quotient is, by definition of the topology, a closed subset of the dual of the big algebra. So the dual of I mod j is the closed subset of the dual of I. On the other hand, I is an ideal inside of a. So the dual of I is an open subset of the dual of a, and therefore the dual of I. Modj is a relatively open or relatively closed subset of the dual of a. It's the intersection of an open subset in the dual of a with a closed subset in the dual of a. So it's a part of the dual of a, neither open nor closed, but not too bad, a so called locally closed subset.
01:23:47.774 - 01:24:42.162, Speaker A: That's what we're talking about. We're talking about a sea star algebra whose representations correspond to certain irreducible representation. Irreducible representations correspond to certain irreducible representations of g, first of a and then of g. Because a is the reduced sea star algebra, which representations are we talking about? We're talking about those representations which vanish on j. And that means by definition of j, that if you look inside of those representations for the e sigma prime isotypical subspaces where sigma prime is less than sigma, then they don't exist. So these are the representations of g which don't have any isotypical subspaces smaller than the sigma isotypical subspace. And the sigma isotypical subspace has to be non zero, because the zero representation is not counted as an irreducible representation.
01:24:42.162 - 01:25:19.054, Speaker A: So the representations of this thing are the representations of g, which have sigma as its so called minimal k type, the smallest possible chaos, typical non zero chaos, typical subspace is the one indicated by sigma. I should say minimal, not smallest. And as for the going back. So it's interesting to study this. That's what I'm trying to say. This thing, the spectrum, at least of this sea star algebra, has a simple interpretation in terms of representation theory. And as for this field, it's Morita equivalent.
01:25:19.054 - 01:26:39.752, Speaker A: What's a Morita equivalence of a continuous field? Well, here's what a Morita equivalence is, and you just put t's everywhere. There should be a continuous field of C star algebras. And in a p and a q which multiply continuous sections to continuous sections, you do the obvious thing, reach equivalent to a constant and commutative, a constant field of commutative sea star, maybe a constant field with commutative fiber. I'm not saying the k theory is constant, I'm saying its constant. Once you have a commutative sea star algebra, it's easy to know what is the spectrum of the commutative sea star algebra. I mean, if it's c zero of x, the spectrum is just x, as we discussed. So if you get it down to a commutative sister algebra, you've got it down as far as you can get as far as representation theory is concerned and inside of.
01:26:39.752 - 01:28:14.494, Speaker A: As for the representation theory of Imod j, there's nothing to it except whatever this commutative space is, right? There are no weird multiplicity problems that you have to worry about, no non Haustorf, nothing that you have to worry about. This part of the spectrum, which is the representations which have sigma as a minimal k type, they have the k type sigma, and no smaller k type. This part of the representation theory is just like the representations of a commutative siesta algebra. It is the representations of the commutative sister algebra, namely the commutative Siesta algebra, that this thing is morita, equivalent to there's one other little fact also from representation theory, which depending on your interests is not that important, but it clarifies matters immensely here I think each PI, which is no tempered irreducible representation of g, or for that matter any irreducible representation of g, has a unique minimal k tag. That's not completely obvious because we're talking about a partial order here with these funny diagrams we had a while ago, not a linear order. So it's possible for one representation to have two equally small minimal k types. That happens up here.
01:28:14.494 - 01:29:18.644, Speaker A: This is not a complex group, but this representation, for example, that I just drew an x over is an example of a representation, okay, in the real world, which has two minimal k types, not one, but in the complex world it doesn't happen. So what are we saying? We're saying that if you take any of these groups Gt, well, there's only two of them, g and g zero. But let's not worry stress about that. If you take any of these groups Gt, then you can look at the reduced unitary dual of gt g t, and you can break it up into pieces, sort of strata, not terrible set, theoretic hideous monsters like in Bosuk ulam or something like that. No, a countable number of locally closed pieces, the pieces we've just been talking about. And each of these pieces individually doesn't change as t varies, including at t is equal to zero. The whole space does change as t degenerates from something nonzero to something zero.
01:29:18.644 - 01:29:59.402, Speaker A: The topology changes in the way that I described before. But as for the individual pieces, which in this diagram are just the individual pieces that you see, those pieces don't change at all, the way in which those pieces join together. The topology on the disjoint union of the pieces, and it is a disjoint union. Thanks to the second theorem, that topology is is up for grabs. But the individual pieces are all exactly the same. Not only that, but in a way which is compatible with the continuous field that we've been studying for a while now. So all of the spectra, all of the spectra of these sea star algebra is GT.
01:29:59.402 - 01:31:46.714, Speaker A: They're all the same in some sort of filtered sense. What happens is there's an increasing union inside of the spectrum of the seastar algebra of GT by open subsets, and the difference is one open subset minus all of the smaller open subsets, those differences which are the spectra of these things, the sort of associated graded space or something that is constant that doesn't depend on t at all and because k theory I didn't say this but I will now behaves nicely with respect to moritra equivalences in fact, it follows from this that if you believe the representation theory then you have to believe this concasper of isomorphism if two sea star algebras are assembled from the same pieces in a compatible way maybe a whole continuous family is assembled in a compatible way from the same atomic elementary pieces fundamental unit of spectra spectrum I guess yeah then it must be the case that the k theories are the same in a way which is compatible with the continuous field naturally so we're done we proved the concasperov conjecture sort of well we didn't we reduced it to this interesting fact about representations of g with a given minimal k type and then you have to check that it turns out to be correct all right, sorry it went over time to stop thank you Internet thank you humans. We shall continue on Thursday.
