00:00:00.090 - 00:00:19.978, Speaker A: I think it does send a good message about the fact that we're taking this seriously and really do want to be aligned with the users. The traders, specifically the traders. I actually don't care about anybody else in the ecosystem. Like, the entire point of all of this stuff that we're building is to build the best possible product for our end users.
00:00:20.074 - 00:01:04.334, Speaker B: All right, everyone, we will be back to the program in just a moment, but before we do, I want to share something that blockwork has been cooking up for these last couple of months. March of this coming year in London, Blockworks is hosting Das London, the largest institutionally focused conference in all of crypto, Goldman, JPMorgan, Zero 72, all in one room. So you can know what the big money is doing. So click the link at the bottom of this episode, it'll take you right over to the homepage and use Bell 20 for 20% off. And I will see you in sunny London town in March. This episode is brought to you by Maverick Protocol, a suite of liquidity tools built around an innovative Amm maverick helps token projects, Dow, treasuries, lps, or basically anyone in Defi shape their liquidity with efficiency and flexibility. How, you might ask? Stick around and you're going to be hearing about them more later.
00:01:04.334 - 00:01:34.166, Speaker B: Now, on with the show. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer, the views expressed by my co host today are their personal views, and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. Hey everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve.
00:01:34.166 - 00:02:36.590, Speaker B: In today's episode, Dan and I interview Antonio Giuliano, the founder and CEO at DYDX. This was a particularly fun episode, not only because Antonio is such a forward thinking and visionary founder, but also because we got to re examine a lot of the themes that Dan and I have been exploring this season, primarily through the lens of dapdexes that are building on Ethereum from the perspective of the operator of an app chain. So a lot of the questions that we've been asking ourselves this season, such as how MeV leaks outside of dapdexes to proposers in Ethereum, is very different when the validators are actually part of DyDX chain itself. We also got into some really fun nuance around some of the work that validators can do for an app chain, and some of what's possible to build on an app chain, say, having your validators actually act as oracles and run an order book on your behalf. We also got Antonio's perspective on the relative market share of perps versus spot going into the future. So overall, just an extremely fun episode with a visionary founder. So hope you enjoy.
00:02:36.590 - 00:02:45.438, Speaker B: All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Today, Dan and I are joined by Antonio Giuliano, the founder and CEO at DyDX. Antonio, welcome to the program.
00:02:45.604 - 00:02:47.634, Speaker A: Hey, thanks so much for having me.
00:02:47.832 - 00:03:40.766, Speaker B: Thanks. We're really excited about this because I think this is going to be a fun sort of culmination of a bunch of the topics that Dan and I have already covered this season. We're going to get deep on the idea of MeV. We're going to cover frequent batch auctions again, because that's a part of v four for DYDX, albeit from a totally new perspective, because Dan and I have been approaching most of the season from the perspective of a Dap Dex building on Ethereum. And instead we're going to be talking about the app chain perspective here and hoping to get into the nitty gritty granular weeds there. And I also maybe just want to say as a disclaimer, this is assuming a little bit of basic knowledge about DyDx and perps and all of that good stuff as well. So just to dive in here, Antonio, Dan and I have been one of the big themes that Dan and I have been exploring this entire season is this idea of reducing MeV leakage outside of Dex ecosystems.
00:03:40.766 - 00:04:05.370, Speaker B: And some of that loss ends up going to kind of the proposer in the system of Ethereum, but obviously in an app chain context, that's very different. So I guess just from a very high level, before we start to walk into some of the architectures that you have for mitigating or dealing with Meb, how do you, as the operator of an app chain dex, think about Meb? That might be a little bit different from the Ethereum sort of canonical perspective.
00:04:05.790 - 00:05:11.054, Speaker A: I think the most important thing to understand is that the design space is bigger, in my opinion, because you, as the app chain, own more of the stack. Obviously, in something like Ethereum, there's no preconception that validators should care at all about any particular app running on top of Ethereum. Like, it's not really the validators or potentially even the proposers responsibility to maybe do something like minimize MeV on Uniswap or whatever other random decks might exist on Ethereum, but that could potentially be fundamentally different on an app chain, and I think it does make the design space bigger. I won't say it's objectively better, I think it comes with positives and negatives to it. But I think it allows us to do things like potentially align the incentives of the validators, the token holders and the users in a better way and more aligned way than what we could do on top of Ethereum. So I think that's a pretty high level thought and there's a ton to dive into, but that's what I'll start with.
00:05:11.172 - 00:06:17.070, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I'd be curious, when you start to think about that alignment, one of the things that stands out to me know in sort of Ethereum land, Dan and I spent a lot of time talking about how really, when you think about lps and swappers on something like Uniswap, they're actually very united today in that really what we want to do is there's an enormous amount of Mev that ends up leaking down to the Ethereum proposer, and folks on the app layer are sort know, laser focused on mitigating that leakage and then just redirecting it back to the system of lps and swappers. And then eventually, maybe somewhere down the line, there's like a little bit of a battle for what's the right amount of fees to take, et cetera, but we're just a long ways away from that. I would love to get your perspective on. You sort of have this more explicit third stakeholder here, where the validators in your ecosystem are running sort of consensus based code, but also the application logic as well. So how do you think about balancing sort of that MEV that gets created between those three stakeholders, and then how much do you think about redistributing them versus just trying to mitigate it entirely?
00:06:17.230 - 00:07:39.978, Speaker A: So I think that's a really good characterization. I would also argue that there's actually four stakeholders in the ecosystem. So the three that you said, effectively the makers and the takers, and then the validators as well. I would also argue that us as developers, because we have access to more of the stack that we're building on, we have basically more tools to work with for MeV on top of an app chain than we would if we were just constrained to building smart contracts or other types of decentralized systems like proposers that could bundle up back to the base chain. So with that in mind, I'll introduce two high level concepts that we're thinking about right now, and the other high level thing that I'll say before I dive into literally what we're doing is that although I think this is a really exciting large design space, it's also very unexplored, and I think it's much more unexplored than MEb on Ethereum so far, just because app chains are newer, there haven't really been any projects with super significant trading volume that happen on an app chain. And we aim to kind of set the standard alongside other really good partners like Skip and others for what MeV can be or what MeV mitigation can be on an app chain. Okay, so what are we actually doing? The thing that we have built into the platform right now is at a high level, what we're calling social slashing.
00:07:39.978 - 00:08:32.158, Speaker A: Based on, we effectively came up with this metric where you can score the execution quality of the trades that each particular validator is executing relative to the mean or the average, and then you can compute statistics over the long term and be like, aha. This particular validator is executing at a price that's ten basis points, whatever, farther away from almost all other validators. They must either be doing MeV or potentially have non performant hardware, software, whatever else. But whatever. You don't really want that particular validator to be in your network. And I think just being able to come up with this one particular metric from an auditability perspective is valuable. Now, of course, this is a really open ended question, and there are a lot of opinions on whether this is actually going to work or not.
00:08:32.158 - 00:09:09.770, Speaker A: And we don't necessarily think it's going to be the be all and end all of MeV prevention, but we think it's a good start. And I think it does send a good message about the fact that we're taking this seriously and really do want to be aligned with the users. The traders, specifically the traders. I actually don't care about anybody else in the ecosystem. Like, the entire point of all of this stuff that we're building is to build the best possible product for our end users. So just a little bit more on how this social mechanism works so effectively. Skip, which is a third party provider, has built this dashboard which tracks this metric over time.
00:09:09.770 - 00:10:28.180, Speaker A: And then you can look for each particular validator, how good or bad is their fill execution quality. And then the theory is later, either the token holders, some governance committee still sort of being figured out by the community at a high level, can come in, do things like potentially slash these validators and their respective stakers, or take other action based on how egregious the execution scores are. Now, this is really a game theoretic problem, right? Like, how is this going to end up? Is it going to be like, over time, all the validators, maybe there's not one that's super egregious, that's kind of obvious, but maybe they all start doing a little bit more MEV over time to the point where they're effectively outsmarting the metrics ability to catch them. That could happen. This is really a big experiment, but I also think it's possible that, at least from a messaging perspective, this one buys Dydx a lot of time on the MeV side, because these things, these games that you play on both sides, from the kind of mitigators perspective and the extractor's perspective, take a long time to flesh out. And the sophistication on both sides, I think, increases over time. So that's the thing that we've literally built, or skip has literally built on top of the protocol right now.
00:10:28.180 - 00:11:42.086, Speaker A: We can dive into that at a high level. The second thing that I'll just introduce really quickly, and obviously we can dive more into this later, is more protocol level mechanisms to mitigate MeV. And I'll kind of introduce a concept at a high level that some who are familiar with cosmos may be familiar with, but probably most who aren't familiar with cosmos might not be. And this is the concept of vote extensions. And what vote extensions are at a high level is a way for not just the validator or the leader that's proposing a specific block to put information into the blockchain, but at a high level, it allows all validators or some subset of validators to put information into every block, even if it's being led by another validator. And this concept is actually really powerful, and I think is a good example of what I was talking about, where we, as the developers of the software behind UiDX, can use this tool to put more information into the blockchain and effectively to use all the validators to come to consensus on what the actual orders, what the actual trades that are put into the blockchain are going to be. And right now, this does not exist on the DyDX chain.
00:11:42.086 - 00:12:09.400, Speaker A: This is something that our research team is working on right now from a high level. We've kind of really taken our research team at DyDX from zero to one in the past six months, and I'll dive more into this later using this concept to not just have the one proposer leader have full say over all of the trades and all of the matching that happens on the chain, but effectively use all the validators to work together, I think is a powerful concept that we're exploring, too.
00:12:10.170 - 00:12:48.050, Speaker C: Yeah. So maybe starting with. I think it's a great overview, starting with the social mitigation strategy. I guess I come from a world where I'm kind of steeped in the belief that social mitigation for MeV is hopeless, and so we should actually just steer in the other direction and accelerate it and encourage mev extraction within certain bounds as much as possible. And I think you've gotten some pushback from that school for sort of attempting something like this, the sort of social shaming of mev extraction. Yeah. I'm curious how you react to that reaction.
00:12:49.190 - 00:13:35.454, Speaker A: Okay, well, first of all, I just don't really care. Obviously, I respect you and respect all of the opinions of the people who have thought about this for a long time. I mean, Dan, you know this, but we have been talking about with paradigm and Dan, for example, for a while, strategies on how we can mitigate mev. But let me be more specific about what I don't actually care about. I don't think it's necessarily bad for these things to be experimented with in different ways from an ideological perspective. Again, I think we do have more tools that are available to us through building our own app chain than most other platforms of significance have had so far. So I think that does warrant at least experimentation with this social slashing in a different way.
00:13:35.454 - 00:14:08.602, Speaker A: Again, I think it's a big open question about whether that works long term. And honestly, I don't think that it's likely that's 100% of the solution in the long term. I do, like I was mentioning before, think it buys a good amount of time. I do think it sends the right message, and honestly, it's just not very expensive to build. Kind of tasking the research team on how can we come up with this one metric, and then how can skip implement something to track this. I think it was certainly worth doing. So I think there's a little bit too much of ideological dogma in general in crypto, which I've probably been well documented on saying before.
00:14:08.602 - 00:14:09.260, Speaker A: Really?
00:14:10.590 - 00:14:11.980, Speaker B: Where are you seeing that?
00:14:12.530 - 00:14:36.918, Speaker A: Too many nerds that are upset about their technology, probably. But anyways, I try to be really agnostic to the technology and even, let's extend that to the game theory of these mechanism design questions that we're coming up with. So that's probably the main way I would respond. Probably that's true, but I think it's worth experimenting with, especially in a low cost way, like we've started to do.
00:14:37.084 - 00:15:26.390, Speaker C: Yeah. And the way I see it, you're going to need some kind of social mechanisms anyway to prevent collusion. For example, in the end game, I think you're still going to potentially be vulnerable. If two thirds of validators were all to collude on censoring and ordering blocks. And if we just encourage the idea that, oh, it's fine to do anything that the economics that the computer science allows and that the economics encourages, then ultimately I think you're going to run yourself off a cliff no matter how many mechanisms you build in. So I do agree that I think a lot of the challenge is, is it actually possible to detect collusion or you're just going to end up in an arms race with searchers. But I think you've recognized that as much as anyone, which is why, again, I think you're doing so much good research on the long term and moving to other mechanisms.
00:15:27.450 - 00:16:01.614, Speaker B: Yeah, I would highlight this as a difference that you tend to see in between ethereum and cosmos, just having spent a bunch of times in both ecosystems. Whereas ethereum is dealing with a very different problem because it's generalized block space. There are so many different validators. That has certain advantages, but also certain constraints. Like, you couldn't be like, well, let's just kind of come up with this social rule and give it a shot. Whereas in cosmos, you tend to see quite a bit more of that, actually, which is sometimes very refreshing. But also, many cosmos chains don't have sort of the intense privilege of securing $250,000,000,000 worth of value.
00:16:01.614 - 00:16:05.070, Speaker B: So it's just a very different problem, I think, that you're trying to.
00:16:05.140 - 00:16:54.850, Speaker A: I think it's a different problem. And one of the decisions that we actually made on the DyDX chain is, at least to start, we decided to make it very special purpose. And then there was actually a pretty big open question about what do we enable things like Cosm wasm to enable general purpose execution on top of the DyDX chain? In some sense, at first glance, it might be like, oh, yeah, of course, why would we not do that? It's pretty free, actually. But then you have to start worrying about things like how do you share block space between the generalized execution environment and anything special that you might do. How do you mitigate the concerns of mev with the generalized stuff and the specific stuff, like, how do we trade off against those two? And I think likely we will move more towards generalized execution on the DyDX chain, but in an intentional way. And it's always easier to solve a lot of these problems, and they're big problems when the design space is simpler.
00:16:57.110 - 00:17:07.450, Speaker C: Maybe we should get a little into the batch auction solution that you announced last month. Do you want to describe in a little more detail how that works and how it takes advantage of vote extension.
00:17:07.470 - 00:18:09.506, Speaker A: At a high level? Right now, the way the DyDX chain works is very similar to a normal order book exchange, where whoever's the leader, as per the software, gets effectively full authority to match the orders however they want, and specifically however they want, consistent with the limit prices of the orders that are put in the blockchain. So to some extent, this is effectively fine. This is more or less what exists on top of things like Ethereum and basically every other Dex. Right now it's a little bit different, because it's an order book based system versus an amm one, and that has different considerations. Again, we have this social mitigation feature right now, but we think there's more to do here. So the big idea about the frequent batch auctions is that orders would no longer be matched on a one to one basis, but instead each particular market would come up with one clearing price. Again, still for the time being, that clearing price would be put in by the leader of each particular block.
00:18:09.506 - 00:18:52.294, Speaker A: Potentially over time, you could include things like validators working together with vote extensions to come up with the clearing price for each particular market. But then it's kind of like, okay, let's maybe take a step back here and just talk at a high level about how order books work. It's kind of like there are some ask orders that are selling assets, there are some buy orders. If you've ever looked at an exchange before, you know what that looks like. And then what is matching? Matching means that normally the ask orders are here and the bid orders are here, and there's some spread between the two. But if there's a bid that actually crosses this ask price, or an ask that crosses this bid price, then you should have these two people trade with each other at this particular price. But what price? That's kind of the question here.
00:18:52.294 - 00:19:49.126, Speaker A: The price that could be valid for these two orders to match together is anything within here, and maybe numerically. Let's give an example of that. So if there's an ask order to sell at ten, and there's a buy order to buy at 15, then the leader right now, as per the software, can make those two orders clearer, basically anywhere between ten and 15, and maybe we can come up with a better solution for that. So the problem here becomes it can be more susceptible to things like sandwich attacks, where if one of the leaders injects their own order and then they take a spread based off of that, then they can profit. But it's a lot harder to do those types of attacks if you're using this frequent batch auction, where there's just one clearing price for every order that matches in our particular block. It's not a golden ticket to solve everything, but we do believe it solves a good amount of classes of attacks on MEB. So it's something we're seriously considering over time.
00:19:49.126 - 00:20:55.742, Speaker A: Now, let me maybe talk from the other side, because we've been talking a lot about from a technical perspective, how do we solve MEb. It is a big problem, but there's trade offs too. And one of the reasons that we didn't start with the frequent batch auction, and one of the things I'm still honestly thinking about from a product perspective is how does this change the product experience of trading on DyDx? Because one of the things that we've tried to do from a product perspective on DyDX is make a product that's very similar to normal exchanges, or at least web two exchanges, and make something where professional traders and market makers and the like don't have to change their trading strategies, ideally too much to trade on DyDX at some level, especially now that we've come fully decentralized, we have to accept that that's probably inevitable and we should change the strategies over time or kind of change the rules of the game to make the game as fair as possible. But there is some cost to changing the game. It's like market makers have to figure out how to quote now on frequent batch auctions instead of order books. Maybe they don't care that much about that. Maybe they do, but that's what building great product is about.
00:20:55.742 - 00:21:03.700, Speaker A: You have to consider these product trade offs, get a lot of feedback from your users, and then decide whether you ultimately want to make that change. Yeah.
00:21:05.350 - 00:21:22.360, Speaker C: Once you've introduced frequent batch actions, you do have the issue that if you still have individuals proposing blocks, then they can censor or adjust blocks and potentially still kind of effectively sandwich users or extract value from users. Do you want to talk a little about how you solve, how you propose to solve the censorship problem?
00:21:22.890 - 00:22:15.458, Speaker A: Yeah. And this is really where vote extensions start to come in, and that's what I was discussing before. But the high level idea with vote extensions and we have a number of different ones that we're exploring on the research side, I think we've mostly finished the ideation process, so we're always open to new things there. But our best idea right now is at a high level. Like I was mentioning before, all of the validators, or at least some subset of the validators, work together to put into vote extensions all of the orders that they see. And then this is a really powerful primitive, because once you have in consensus all of the orders that should have matched that they see. To be more precise, once you have all of those orders or proposed trades in the blockchain, you can have the subsequent leader look at the data that's in the blockchain and probably use that data to come up with what the matches should be on an ongoing basis.
00:22:15.458 - 00:23:24.782, Speaker A: So there's potential trade offs around this as well. And in kind of the worst case, it could introduce a one block delay to finality, probably not the end of the world. Like the block times on DyDx are on the order of a second, but now maybe you're waiting for, okay, it's like order is placed, then block one, all of these validators together puts all of the trades that should have happened into the blockchain. And then block two, the new leader actually uses that data that's in the blockchain to come up with those matches together. But this really does solve in a big way, at least as per the constraints of how many validators, the two thirds consensus, all that sort of stuff, and intenderment, the problem of denial attacks, where it's like now, no longer can a leader ignore certain orders or insert, they can still insert orders of their own, but they're subject to the same rules that everybody else is subject to. So this is the biggest, I think, long term solution that we'll probably have for MeV or this is our best idea right now. But one of the things we're pretty excited about in the long term, just talking about, there's always trade offs and trade offs and trade offs with all these sorts of things.
00:23:24.782 - 00:24:25.678, Speaker A: But one of the questions that we're trying to solve right now is how do we make this happen from a performance perspective? Because the way vote extensions work at a very high level is like the leader exists, then they propose a block, then they send that block out to all the other validators and then vote extensions, which is something that's new within cosmos, allows all the other validators, the followers, whatever, to put data back to the leader that they have to put in the blockchain. But this could be a lot of data. Like if we're saying it's order number of trades that are happening on the DyDX chain per each block, now it's multiplied by all of the validators. So before we kind of had this data problem of, okay, obviously we have to put all of the trades on the blockchain into the blockchain, but only one validator has to do that now, at least for vote extensions. It's like you multiply the number of trades that are happening per block times however many validators you have. So we're shooting for like 100 in the near future or so. I forget what it is off the top of my head right now.
00:24:25.678 - 00:25:14.320, Speaker A: I think like 50 or something, but now it's like 100 times as much data. So one of the other problems that we're trying to solve is, okay, first of all, how important is this? Will this degrade the performance of the network? We think it's relatively important because honestly, one of the problems with boat extensions right now is that they haven't proven yet to be very performance. They're very new, and I think the Cosmos team skip others are doing good work in terms of optimizing them. But for us, from a mechanism design perspective, are there ways that we can optimize this and maybe have validators only put a subset of the trades into the block, or only the ones that are different from the ones the leader proposes or something like that? There's a lot of different ideas that we're considering, but that's the type of work that we're doing on the research side.
00:25:15.410 - 00:25:54.474, Speaker B: That's super helpful. Antonio and I want to dig deeply into there, but I actually want to just take a moment here to connect some concepts with folks that might be a little bit more similar with Ethereum. So a lot of what Antonio is describing here and what ABCI plus plus enables you to do sort of rhymes with a lot of the conversations that get had in Ethereum around PEPC and sort of all stem from this idea of how to conduct censorship resistant auction and to break the sort of proposer monopoly. So just to break down. Antonio, you did a great job of describing that. But just to show, whenever it's a complex topic, I always think it's good to get pictures. Maybe that's just because I'm secretly five years old, but I think it's helpful for folks.
00:25:54.474 - 00:26:51.754, Speaker B: So just to go even into a little bit more detail about how one of the differences in cosmos is that every validator runs both the consensus clients. That's tendermint, or I guess comet, bft now, but also the application logic. And then there's this thing that bridges them, which is ABCI previously. And then in the ABCI regime, basically consensus comes up with a finalized block, which is the input to the application layer. And if you're following along via video, which I would encourage you to do, you can sort of see a diagram of what that looks like. But in ABCI, there are these three sort of touch points that happen as the block is being built, where the application can actually have input and more collaboratively build a block. And that's where this idea of vote extensions come in, when actually different validators in the chain can submit transactions which are then deterministically included within the next block.
00:26:51.754 - 00:27:03.826, Speaker B: Hence how you can get the censorship resistant auction, I think, which is. Is that correct, Antonio? Just to make sure I didn't butcher that overall, but I feel like that's the. Okay, cool.
00:27:03.928 - 00:28:03.302, Speaker A: I think that's basically correct. I mean, honestly, I'm not quite as familiar with the state of the art on MeV, on Ethereum as you guys probably are, and potentially even some of the listeners are. But I would make the high level point that a lot of the stuff is very similar. And I really suspect that the end state solution for app chains and layer one, L2 systems on a bigger, more generalizable chain like Ethereum are going to be similar. It's probably like the things on top of Ethereum will end up building probably something pretty similar to whatever ends up working for the app chains, but then also solving the problem of how do we have this settle back to a base layer system? It's just a little simpler. Again, for us right now on DYDX, and some of the things we have going for us is we have the whole stack like I was talking about can be more tightly coupled with consensus. And then it's also just honestly really nice that we have this decentralized network of entities that we can kind of make from a software perspective, do whatever we want as long as there's mechanism design around that.
00:28:03.302 - 00:28:40.354, Speaker A: And this concept is really valuable. So it's like this proposal builder, like separation, all this sort of stuff. Okay, we just have proposers be the validators, obviously. And then even for something that's totally different, like oracle prices, normally if you're building a perk product on top of a more generalizable chain, you have to solve this problem of. Okay, well, great. Your consensus is fully decentralized to the level that ethereum is but who cares? If your oracle network is less decentralized, then your entire product is going to be less decentralized than that. And you can use products like chain link or others that are doing a decent job solving this problem.
00:28:40.354 - 00:29:36.040, Speaker A: But for us, really nice, we literally just have like 50 to 100 already decentralized entities that we can make do extra stuff like report oracle prices on the network. And I would argue that people have too narrow minded of a view of what decentralization means. I think people reduce this problem too much to what is the level of decentralization of the base chain itself. Obviously very important, since everything is clearly limited by that. But I would kind of argue that the full decentralization of the system is kind of the min, of all the decentralizations of the critical pieces of your network. And for some, like a spot exchange, maybe there are fewer, but for a derivatives exchange. Okay, now we got to worry about mev like we're talking about, or we got to worry about oracle prices, or even if we're going to follow this to conclusion, we got to worry about the decentralization of clients and front ends and stuff like this.
00:29:36.040 - 00:30:17.050, Speaker A: So I think we just try to take a more holistic approach to what is decentralization. And then I've actually been impressed with how little people have been lampooning us, at least for the past year or so on making the decision to switch to our own app chain, because hopefully we're doing a good job communicating it. But there still are those out there that are like, oh, well, you have 50 to 100 validators. This thing is clearly not decentralized at all. Yes, that's a min on the amount of decentralization that we can have. But I would argue the entire system is more decentralized still than at least any other decentralized perp exchange that's out there. And that's really our goal.
00:30:17.130 - 00:30:46.922, Speaker B: All right, everyone, we will be back to the program in just a moment. But before we do, I want to share something that blockworks has been cooking up for these last couple of months. March of this coming year in London, blockworks is hosting Das London, the largest institutionally focused conference in all of crypto. We are gathering 1200 of the world's largest asset managers. So think tradfi, macro funds, crypto native funds, big allocators and financial institutions. So banks, payment processors, et cetera, all in one spot. It's very rare to get the likes of Goldman, JPMorgan, zero, 72, whatever, all in one room.
00:30:46.922 - 00:31:04.222, Speaker B: So you can know what the big money is doing. We're diving into the themes that they care about. So we're talking about the intersection of macro and crypto, where we are in the cycle. Real world assets. So everything from stablecoins to onchain treasuries to tokenized assets, it's going to be a blast. But the other reason you really want to go is London, baby. Center of the world at one point.
00:31:04.222 - 00:31:23.910, Speaker B: You got pub culture, you got fish and chips, great beer, it's going to be a blast. So because you're such great listeners to bell curve, there's a code, Bell 20, that's going to get you 20% off. So click the link at the bottom of this episode. It'll take you right over to the homepage. You'll see all of our speakers and use Bell 20 for 20% off. Ticket prices are going up soon. Make sure you go use that code.
00:31:23.910 - 00:31:26.690, Speaker B: I will see you in sunny London town in March.
00:31:26.850 - 00:31:44.750, Speaker C: Maybe that's a good place to segue and talk a little about DYDx's transition from originally being an L1 Ethereum application to being an l two to being a cosmos app chain. So what were some of the trade offs and factors that made you make those decisions as a project?
00:31:44.900 - 00:32:15.800, Speaker A: Yeah, so we've been around for a while. I mean, DYDX is like six and a half years old at this point. So we were in DFI before DFI was even a thing. So obviously we were building on layer one, Ethereum, because that was the only thing that existed in town. And that made a lot of sense at the time. The reason that we went to l two is pretty simple. Honestly, we were getting destroyed by the amount of gas fees that our users and kind of the company, to some extent on behalf of users, were having to pay.
00:32:15.800 - 00:33:09.830, Speaker A: And this didn't used to be a problem at all. But then in the bull market of 2020 or so, when people really started trading on uniswap compound actually using these products, the gas fees went like 1000 x through the roof, which was hard to foresee. And honestly, the decision at that point in time was like, oh my God, this is terrible. Who's going to use an exchange where you have to pay $100 to make every single trade on the exchange? And I think that really hit home more for us at DYdX, at least sooner than some of the other decentralized exchanges of the time, because our users are more professional than the users, I would say, of pretty much any other decentralized exchange. And when you're kind of yoloing in to some random shitcoin. And on Uniswap or whatever, do you have to pay $50 gas fee or whatever. But the thing could kind of go up 100% in the next 2 seconds.
00:33:09.830 - 00:33:44.962, Speaker A: You're probably not going to care quite as much about gas fees. Uniswap users obviously still do care about gas fees, but probably less than DyDX users do, is the point I'm making here. We had to solve this problem, and we took a look around at what was possible to build on at this point in time. In 2020, entered into a partnership with Starquare to build the, I'm used to saying current DyDX product. I guess it's not the current DyDX product anymore, but the V three version of the DyDX product. And that's what exists today. And there certainly are trade offs there.
00:33:44.962 - 00:34:27.950, Speaker A: And the thing that we had to do to enable that level of performance at the time, given the limitations of the technology, was introduce some more centralization on specifically, effectively the sequencer side through Starquare, and then on V three. And all the way up until V four, us at the company behind DyDx were operating parts of the exchange, and we were operating things like the matching engine, and that worked pretty well. And that's taken us to where we are today with about a billion dollars a day or so traded on the platform. And you can trade on DyDX with almost no gas fees, basically no gas fees. And that's a pretty awesome trading experience. And again, we have to really look at who are our users. They're different than most other dexes.
00:34:27.950 - 00:35:01.840, Speaker A: But I think there is a really fundamental reason why we were, I would argue, the first major project to really embrace l two in a really big way, and at least by trading volume, the biggest product on l two today. So that's why l one to l two, I don't think that should be huge news to anybody at this point. I think the rest of the market has finally caught up that this is something that is exciting. I mean, I think people are always excited about it to some extent, but it's also feasible now with things like optimism, base, starknet, all this other stuff, and now the LC revolution is really on. So you might ask the question.
00:35:04.130 - 00:35:34.840, Speaker C: I do think it's interesting, because I think you were somewhat early on that, and particularly on the question of composability, because I think early on, other than DyDx having, I think for a while, the cheapest flash loans on Ethereum, l one, I think you've kind of assumed composability or atomic interoperability with other applications as a major goal. And I think with moving to l two and then moving to l one, you're sort of moving further away from colocation with other Ethereum apps. Do you think, has that been a major sacrifice for the application?
00:35:36.650 - 00:36:20.834, Speaker A: It's a good question. And just a brief aside on the flash loan piece, I would argue we actually kind of invented flash loans at Dydx. We didn't call them that at the time. And Brandon and I, our chief engineer and myself, we were like, oh, this just seems like a cool thing we should obviously build, but we're not going to take a fee on this or anything, and we'll just enable them for the entire ecosystem, because why not? We want to use it. I don't even know how much has been put through in flash loans on DydX, like a trillion dollars or something at this point in time. So I think we were right that these were going to actually be big, but probably should have put some more potential value capture, whatever around that, whatever, we're moving on. So that was flash loans.
00:36:20.834 - 00:37:08.098, Speaker A: And I think we really did think a lot about composability. And I think that flash loan thing is an example of us building that as a first and foremost priority on what we used to build at Dydx. And I think the reason why we've moved away from that is we've realized that it's hard and it really distracts you from what you're building with the end user facing products. Not that it's impossible to do both, but it's very hard. And I really believe, and I think people probably see this come through in a lot of the communication that I do publicly. It's all about the product, our product, first and foremost, and then it's all about the end user experience. And we just have, as you say, I agree, kind of moved away from composability over time.
00:37:08.098 - 00:38:04.150, Speaker A: I think that's gone well for us, and I don't think this will always be the case for DyDX, but I think I see it as a sequencing thing where it's really important for us to get the main use case for the product to be great before we move out to enabling or at least encouraging or seeing as a major priority other people building other products on top of the protocol as well. And this is not to say that this is the objectively right way to do it, but I think this is the right way to do it for DyDX. And just with the dna of our team. I think again, our users have really high expectations because they are more professional traders. So it's really hard to build a derivatives exchange. Like you got to think about all these things like performance, like liquidity, like oracles and everything else in between. And it's just the design space, the complexity is harder than for just a spot exchange.
00:38:04.150 - 00:38:50.550, Speaker A: So I think it warrants us spending a lot of time focusing on it and then going forward. We already have started to do this. One of the things that I'm excited about, even with the DyDx chain, is other people building either code directly into the DyDx chain or things on top of it. I think the thing I described before that skip is building is a great example of this. I think the DyDX token holder is having literal more control of the exchange because, okay, now they don't have to have this centralized entity implement some of the things that they want to do. The whole thing is decentralized, it's open source, and they can just enact effectively any change to the active software that they want to. So I think things like that do move us more towards composability in the abstract sense.
00:38:50.550 - 00:39:04.730, Speaker A: And then eventually we'll get to the point where we really are to the level of like a uniswap or something like that being like, hey, we're uniswap, you can use uniswap.org, but really it's about just building stuff on top of uniswap and that being a really powerful.
00:39:06.350 - 00:40:25.902, Speaker B: So Tony, one thing I'd love to get a sense of know, you've been, I think, very vocal and probably very forward looking, I would say amongst founders. I remember at a panel you were at our Das conference, it must have been like a year or two ago, but you said it many other times, which is like, I wish founders would stop looking at these ecosystems as distribution and more look at what it can enable in terms of your product, which I think you are probably ahead of your time, and that might still even be a somewhat non mainstream consensus take. But I would love to get a sense of when you think about what being an app chain enables you to do more concretely, as opposed to what you could do even on the L2, like the starkware. I'd be curious what those things are, what are sort of some of the advantage of, for instance, having each validator being able to run their own order book. And you mentioned I was actually going to ask you about oracles as well because that seems like it's a hot topic in Ethereum land of using an oracle versus not, or how do you use the Oracle? And you kind of have this very neat answer to that. So I guess for folks who aren't, as in the weeds, in terms of what you're thinking about building from a product standpoint, and what were some of the needle moving decisions that you were like, wow, I can just build this. And this solves a lot of my actual product level challenges, being an app chain as opposed to being adapt.
00:40:25.902 - 00:40:31.158, Speaker B: Can you just give us maybe like your top two or three in terms of what moves the needle for you?
00:40:31.244 - 00:41:15.490, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a good question. And I think whenever you're building a really big new product, it's worth articulating in very simple terms, why are you doing this? What's the one thing, maybe the two or three things that you're trying to solve by building this new product? Like, what's the problem on your existing product if you really feel the need to build something fundamentally new? I touched on this before, but just to clearly articulate it, for our move from layer one to l two, it was performance. That was it. It's like we had to build something. We were just getting so destroyed by the gas fees, the performance was so bad, we had to make that change before others in the space did. And we figured it out. And the big change from v three to v four, or the move from an l two to an app chain, is decentralization.
00:41:15.490 - 00:42:25.482, Speaker A: And we had to solve this problem of how do we get rid of these central components of what we are operating on the chain, and how do we make the system as decentralized as possible, both now and then, have a good platform to improve decentralization over time? So with that in mind, I touched on this before, but I really do believe this is the most decentralized system that we could have built that's sufficiently performant as well. And that's hard, actually. It's hard to not have to trade off against decentralization and performance. And I think to some level you do. But I think great software engineers realize that everything is a trade off, but you can kind of minimize the effect of trade offs over time or, like, what's the best trade off that you can actually make? And we felt like we needed to, as a goal, at least maintain a similar level of performance to what exists on DyDxv three. And we articulated that in terms of the amount of orders placed per second that we saw on the platform and on DyDxv three, it was about 500 to 1000 orders placed per second. So again, at least to start, and we'll continue to improve this over time.
00:42:25.482 - 00:43:07.942, Speaker A: But we needed to have the DyDx chain process 1000 orders per second, ideally with low or no gas fees, because who wants to pay gas fees when you're a market maker and placing orders? That's terrible. So I've said this before, but just briefly, I'll say it again. The big thing that we did about two years ago when we started looking into building the DyDx chain was take a look around and ask ourselves which blockchain or l two or whatever can support 1000 operations per second? And not just operations, but these are pretty sophisticated operations, actually. It's not just like you're moving funds from one place to another. You got to do margining checks. You got to do all this other stuff. That's pretty computationally hard.
00:43:07.942 - 00:43:52.774, Speaker A: So 1000 of those types of transactions per second, again with ideally low or no gas fees and as close to instant finality as we could achieve. And we came back with the answer, none of them, not even close. And maybe that's changing to some extent now. But I really do think that 1000 transactions per second is just where we're starting. If really our goal is, as I've articulated it, to become one of the biggest exchanges in crypto, period, centralized or decentralized, we have to continue growing from here. You think binance is only doing a thousand transactions per second? No, I guarantee you it's orders of magnitude more than that. So what's kind of an architecture that we could build that will continue to scale in that exponential way? So we took a look around.
00:43:52.774 - 00:44:59.820, Speaker A: The answer was none of them, cosmos included. And I won't go into too much into this right now because I've talked about it elsewhere, but we built this kind of differentiation between being able to place orders in an off chain way, the order book is run off chain, and then only the orders that actually match have to go into the blockchain. So that was the biggest reason behind the decision, was how do we solve this problem of decentralizing the order book and the matching engine? And then we kind of got a lot of cool stuff, not for free, but at least in a better design space, in a better way along the way. So we started with that, and then we were like, should we keep using chain link as we do on UIDxv three for oracles, or should we build our own oracle system? It's actually not that hard to build this oracle system or the hard part of building an oracle system is having this decentralized network of reporters. And as I've said before, I would argue that decentralization is a min. So already by definition, we're mining our decentralization by the amount of decentralization of our validator set. So we just have exactly the same level of decentralization for the Oracle system.
00:44:59.820 - 00:45:49.882, Speaker A: Obviously there's some other considerations around where are the sources coming from and stuff like that, but we try to do an industry leading job of that too. So kind of got that without too much problem. We got this bigger design space for MeV that we've been talking about as an advantage. And I think it really just does come back to, I didn't honestly think a lot about, oh, MeV is going to be so much easier to solve on an app chain and that being one of the really big reasons that we decided to build the thing that we built. But it does come back to, okay, let's pick the one thing, like what are we trying to do here? We're trying to make it more decentralized. And that will have, if you believe that that one thing that you're trying to do is really important, that's going to have a lot of impact that you maybe would not have even foreseen at the beginning if it is a really important thing to do.
00:45:49.936 - 00:46:45.322, Speaker B: Hey, everyone wanted to take a quick second to shout out this season's partner, Maverick protocol. Now, many of you probably know Maverick as an innovative amm, which they are, but in reality, they're a lot more than that as well. Maverick is a suite of tools for Defi users and builders that allows them to put liquidity where it will get the most work done. Since Maverick launched in March, they have been gobbling up market share, and at the time of this recording, which is the end of September, on a trailing seven day volume basis, Maverick is now a top three decks by volume, and they support over 50% of the volume on the l two ZK sync era chain. Maverick enables lps and token pairs to process higher volume with limited TVL, which allows them to support some of the highest levels of capital efficiency for lsts like wrap steep. Another very cool feature is something called Maverick boosted positions. So that allows protocols looking to bootstrap their token liquidity to target the shape of liquidity of any token pair with surgical precision.
00:46:45.322 - 00:47:03.986, Speaker B: Maverick is backed by some of the leading institutions in crypto, founders Fund, Pantera, Coinbase Ventures, Binance Labs. They are all backing Maverick in their vision to revolutionize the next generation of defi, dapps and helping them build their liquidity in all market conditions. Click the link at the bottom of this episode. Let them know that I sent you.
00:47:04.008 - 00:47:04.578, Speaker C: Thanks, guys.
00:47:04.664 - 00:47:33.446, Speaker B: I want to get to discussing perps here as well, because it's something that we haven't really covered in this season thus far. But maybe the last question on this subject is how do you feel about what absolutely should be on chain to ensure decentralized, like whatever your sort of threshold is for decentralization that you feel like is necessary versus which components are you sort of comfortable moving off chain, which seems like a lot of dexes are starting to experiment with that particular lever as well. So be curious to get your thoughts.
00:47:33.638 - 00:47:56.850, Speaker A: I think it really matters what you mean by off chain. On chain, I think is pretty well understood. People think about that a lot. It's like, okay, this is blockchain. It's limited by the decentralization of the validator, miner site itself, consensus, whatever. But off chain could kind of be anything. And I think a lot of people when they hear off chain, immediately think of centralized, which is an option, but it doesn't have to be.
00:47:56.850 - 00:48:46.654, Speaker A: Or potentially there could be another network of off chain participants, like a keeper network or something like that, that does some job together. But then again, you have to really think about what's the level of decentralization of this off chain thing, and as long as that's similar to or greater than the decentralization of your base chain, amazing. You're not sacrificing any decentralization when you're moving something from on chain to off chain. So that's really the way that I think about it. And I do really think a lot about decentralization at each step in the chain, as you've heard me talk about. But it matters what you're doing, right? Like potentially something like, what are literally the balances of each particular user and how are they being modified by each particular trade. That's really important, right? Obviously that's the key thing.
00:48:46.654 - 00:49:33.860, Speaker A: That has to be super decentralized. Probably. That has to be more decentralized than like, okay, I place a trade and maybe some validator censors me or whatever, great, that's bad. We want to solve that too. But do we need to solve that with as much urgency as some validator can literally change your balances by themselves or with some non decentralized network doing that? That's clearly terrible. We can't have that happen. So I think it's worth thinking about from like a product perspective, being honest about what level of decentralization does each particular point in the transaction and abstract sense chain need to have, and then using that to inform your decision making for the trade offs that you're going to make between performance, decentralization, product, whatever else.
00:49:36.250 - 00:50:04.240, Speaker C: One other thing that I think is really decentralization can have different effects on is between spot, dexes and perps. I think it's generally considered a lot harder to build a secure perp, needless to say, in part because with spot you can insure noncustodialness of everyone's assets. But with a perp, ultimately you're subject to all the risk controls of the system. So how decentralized do you think perps can get?
00:50:05.570 - 00:50:52.190, Speaker A: Well, I think the sky is the limit for all this stuff, right. And that's one of the really exciting things about blockchain, is all of this stuff is now technologically limited rather than limited by humans. And we can go a lot farther with technology, and I think it'll continue to increase exponentially, at least for the time being or the next five or ten years or so. So I think they can get very decentralized. I mean, I think the state of the art is decent right now, and I think we all believe this. But it's worth noting that a lot of these decentralized perp systems have been more or less as robust as a lot of the centralized ones, at least for the leading ones, or at least within range of that. It's a little easier because there is less open interest, all this sort of stuff on dexes than sexes, especially for derivatives.
00:50:52.190 - 00:51:43.382, Speaker A: But we're growing and it's significant right now. So I think it's just something where the level of decentralization or safety and risk is good right now, but is a major thing that we are going to continue to improve on the systems over time. I think from a financial perspective, it's pretty similar between centralized and decentralized exchanges. The main difference is you have to really deeply understand the way each participant network operates and how that's going to be different from a centralized exchange. Let's give a specific example. On a centralized exchange, obviously the operator of the exchange, the matching engine, is the one doing all of the liquidations. And on the DyDX chain now, there is no central entity, so we have to rely on all of the validators to do the liquidations.
00:51:43.382 - 00:52:36.960, Speaker A: What are the considerations around this? Okay, well, as long as we set up the incentives correctly, we can make this into a really good system. But we have to be honest. Like there's incentives for once an account becomes liquidatable, that the first validator actually liquidates this account. But what if they are offline, or what if they just decide not to, or there's some weird incentive that we didn't think about, that maybe this particular validator doesn't want to liquidate this account or whatever, and then maybe you have to wait for two, three, four or five validators and the next block spaces to actually do that. Liquidation. Well, okay, it's probably going to happen a little bit slower than a liquidation if it's on binance, and that's at kind of the millisecond level, and we have to set risk controls appropriately. Now, can we improve that over time? Yes, definitely, with things like better mechanism designs, shorter block times, all the rest of this sort of stuff.
00:52:36.960 - 00:53:24.654, Speaker A: And we have to think about the question, okay, is doing a liquidation in ten milliseconds really that different from a risk control perspective, from doing it in five to 10 seconds with really high confidence? Maybe, but we actually have to look at this statistically, and that's something our research team has done. Like what if we had a five to ten second lag on all of our liquidations, at least with the data we have on DyDXV three right now on that historical market data, would the insurance fund have lost money? And we came back with the answer, no. Again, we can never exactly know what the volatility of markets are going to be or if there are certain attacks and stuff like that. But the best we can do is approach this from good research, risk statistical basis, and understand the technology deeply. And that's something we think about.
00:53:24.852 - 00:53:25.214, Speaker C: Nice.
00:53:25.252 - 00:53:28.154, Speaker B: Just out of curiosity, what are the block times on Duo DX?
00:53:28.282 - 00:53:30.480, Speaker A: It's about a second right now, I think.
00:53:31.090 - 00:54:17.486, Speaker B: Interesting. I don't want to go dive that could be a whole other rabbit hole. But I want to ask you a little bit about just how do you see the market share in between perps shaking out with spot, I suppose on the decentralized exchange front. And then one of the other questions that Dan and I have asked a little bit this season is the popularity of perps as opposed to something like options. Which options? If you look at the tradfi as an analog, extremely, extremely popular product, and they just haven't really taken off in crypto for whatever reason. So maybe there are path dependency sort of issues there, or maybe for whatever reason, it's just a better construction in crypto specifically. But yeah, I would love to just get your thought on perps versus spot as market share, and then perps versus options as a product.
00:54:17.668 - 00:55:09.454, Speaker A: Okay, well, obviously, I'm kind of biased on the first one, but as I believe it clearly, I think that perps, especially in the Dex space, are going to become really significant over time, especially from a relative basis where spot Dexes and perp, Dexes are starting right now. Literally, if we just look at the market share of Dexes within perps versus spot, it's way less than perps. And this is the main metric that we look at, at DyDx to decide if we're successful or not, is what is our market share of all perpetuals, or more broadly, derivatives trading that happens within crypto. To give people a sense that's about one to one and a half percent right now. Pretty good, pretty significant. And this is a massive, massive market with huge companies like Binance now Coinbase, others playing within it, and we're by far the largest Dex that's playing in this space. But there's a lot of room to grow.
00:55:09.454 - 00:55:54.782, Speaker A: Right. It just doesn't make sense to me that forever crypto is going to be traded on centralized exchanges. Really hard problems to solve, as we've started to discuss. But is the market share of derivatives trading for Dexes always going to be like 2%? We're like one and a half percent, and then we have more volume than all the other Dexes combined, more or less. So the entire Dex market space for purpose is about 2%. I actually don't remember or don't have off the top of my head what kind of the spot Dex market share is, but I think it's a lot higher, probably like an order of magnitude higher, at least. And I think exchanges like uniswap have really started to take out more of, like, dan, you can correct me, around 15%.
00:55:54.782 - 00:56:43.690, Speaker A: Yeah, that's kind of what I was thinking, like 10% to 20% of the entire spot market share. So again, an order of magnitude more than what DyDX has in the perp space right now. So even if we just look at those two things, it just makes logical sense to me that should grow. That being said, there's a lot of really hard problems to solve, as we've started to say, within perp specifically, and it's just harder than building spot exchanges, especially from a technical perspective. So it does make sense to me that it's taking longer than spot, but we as kind of the market leaders and Dex perps have to be the one to take ownership of that and really push things forward, which I think we try to do. And then the second question on why perps over options. I think it's just that the market structure of crypto is really fundamentally different than traditional finance.
00:56:43.690 - 00:57:39.182, Speaker A: And I've said this for years, but my main point continues to be that in crypto, really, the one thing that crypto has enabled that has given it product market fit on a global scale is enabling retail traders to trade and have access to more professional products than they would otherwise have access to. That's like, you could attribute almost everything that's happened within crypto so far to this main thesis. And that's really fundamentally different from traditional finance, where now there's things like robinhood and retail is starting to come in in a bigger way. But traditional finance was first and foremost built to serve institutions. Crypto is first and foremost built to serve retail. And this is really fundamentally different. It doesn't mean that institutions aren't in crypto, but it means that if you are an exchange, you have to build products that retail traders want to use, and that's the entire game.
00:57:39.182 - 00:58:28.734, Speaker A: And sure, the institutions will come in, they will actually be most of the volume on your exchange. Like on DYDX, I think 85% to 90% of our volume happens from institutions, and it's like ten to 15% that happens from retail. But I really just see institutions as a multiplier effect on the retail trading volume that exists. So if we look at this from a financial design perspective on what derivatives is the space going to be most likely to trade? Probably going to be a derivative that's different, and it's going to be a derivative that's more targeted at retail. And I'm not talking about your friend that bought their first bitcoin yesterday. When I see retail here, I'm really just talking about sophisticated individual traders in jurisdictions where they have access to these types of products. But for those traders, they really want something that does solve their needs and their need.
00:58:28.734 - 00:59:05.590, Speaker A: If you're a sophisticated trader trading derivatives effectively, you want to trade on leverage, and you want to do that in as simple a way as possible. It was really interesting, actually. We had Arthur Hayes in for a fireside chat at DYDX a couple months ago, and I asked him this very question, like, how did BitMeX come to do perps rather than options? And he was like, actually, we started with options. Not that many people know this about BitMex. And they built this whole thing out, and everybody kept. Arthur was doing support himself, and everybody kept writing in and asking, like, what is like, I don't understand this thing. I just want to trade on leverage.
00:59:05.590 - 00:59:16.126, Speaker A: Let me just trade on leverage, simply. And he kept answering. And it's like, no, this is like the Xbir. Here's how you price options. Here's how you think about them. This is well understood. People don't care.
00:59:16.126 - 00:59:44.440, Speaker A: They just want a product that is simple to use. And that's how he effectively came up with the perp product for BitMex. And I think that's really instructive as to why perps rather than options within crypto. And I used to think that this was just a step in the evolution of derivatives in crypto. And I think probably to some extent it is. I do think options will gain more market share over time, but I think it's going to take way longer than people think. Like, way longer.
00:59:44.440 - 01:00:04.430, Speaker A: This has kind of been empirically proven for the past few years, but perps are really here to stay. There's a bunch of liquidity behind it. There's a bunch of retail interest behind it. And these products are now better understood, at least for our target users, than a lot of the options, dated futures and stuff that exist in traditional finance.
01:00:04.770 - 01:00:24.714, Speaker B: Yeah, honestly, there's a whole other conversation that we could have about that, actually, perps were construction that existed pre crypto. A lot of people don't know that. There's a great episode that Hasu did with sue about that on common core, but unfortunately, this is all the time we have. Antonio, this has been a ton of fun. If folks want to find out more about you, follow the work that you're doing at DyDx.
01:00:24.762 - 01:00:38.650, Speaker A: What's the best way to do that? So we are at DyDx on Twitter, DyDx exchange on the web, and I am at Antonio Mgulliano, if you like me in particular. Thank you very much for having me. This is a good conversation.
01:00:39.310 - 01:00:40.380, Speaker C: Ton of fun.
01:00:40.910 - 01:00:48.380, Speaker B: Thanks for coming, Dan. That was a great episode. I feel like we could have gone for double the length of time.
01:00:48.750 - 01:01:05.538, Speaker C: Think? Yeah, I think the only problem with it was I think Antonio is so good at explaining things and has such a clear kind of style that it was hard to get too back and forth into too much discussion with him because I think he just had a lot of really interesting, clear things to say.
01:01:05.704 - 01:01:45.834, Speaker B: Yeah, I agree. I wanted to start with this idea that he brought up about the almost like, social slashing, because this was an interesting proposal. It got a lot of attention, I would say, in both the Ethereum and Cosmos communities, the mev communities, I think you pointed out sort of the Ethereum perspective, which is that if I had to summarize it and be pretty reductive about, it's like, hey, guys, this kind of feels like cheating here. There's no mechanism design here. There's nothing on chain. This is just saying like, hey, we're going to slash the people who are bad. And I feel like this is, we underscored it a little bit during the episode, but this is indicative of a difference in between some of the solutions I've seen tried in Cosmos versus Ethereum.
01:01:45.834 - 01:01:49.934, Speaker B: But I would love, maybe you say, a little bit more about how you view that.
01:01:50.052 - 01:03:06.966, Speaker C: Yeah, well, so, first of all, I think it's very interesting, and maybe it gets a bit of a bad rap in the Ethereum community or around some people who've reacted to it. So one thing, and I noted this on the show, is, I think, any mechanism in crypto, almost most mechanisms for consensus or for economics, for a lot of these things, depend on some form of these norms or social distinction, or weak subjectivity, or call it what you will. And I think we see this in Ethereum most clearly when you talk about something like reorgs, for example. So it's accepted socially in Ethereum that it's okay now to extract most kinds of mev from a block that you are the proposer for. But it's generally not considered, not acceptable to reorg other people's blocks as proposer in order to extract more mev. And then there's areas in between that are sort of where people are learning the norms around, like, oh, should we allow someone to propose a block a little late, or these other things? But ultimately, I think those are enforced by social norms. And we as a community, made something of a decision that actually, for various reasons, we're going to accept single block meth extraction for various reasons, many of which I sort of, I tend to agree with or think make sense, but I'm not sure it's the only choice that you could make.
01:03:06.966 - 01:04:06.582, Speaker C: And I think saying we're not going to accept it actually does make a big difference. It means, for example, people sort of mock it, but it means if you didn't have this kind of norm, maybe just DyDx validates would be like, I'm the most mev extractee, so delegate to me, and I'll give you kickbacks from the mev that I extract. Right. You're able to do a lot more if it's socially allowed, and if you have to hide it, it actually does limit what you can do. Now, I think, again, clever validators often will be able, I think, to extract mev in subtler ways, and possibly, in the long run, it's a cat and mouse game. They can extract all the same kinds of mev, but I think there are other components to their solution, which includes, like this dashboard and actually measuring metrics of it, that I think, look, if it is a cat and mouse game, they're trying to be the cat for at least a second, and then, of course, they are taking. Ultimately, they're working toward trying to design other systems to either supplement or replace the social sanction.
01:04:06.582 - 01:04:21.886, Speaker C: But ultimately, I think you are going to depend on some kind of social norms, whether it's around not colluding with other people, whether it's around just not destabilizing the entire consensus. Any system, ultimately, I think, will fall back on some of, you know, the.
01:04:21.908 - 01:04:50.726, Speaker B: Reorg example is a really good a. There's an old episode of Zero Knowledge where it was Dean Eigeman, his partner at Project Blanc, but he used to be in flashbots. I think his name is Edgar. I'll look it up. But, yeah, and he was describing how he sort of embarked on this project that basically would have been extracting Mev through reorgs. And he said the thing that got him to not do it was a DM from Vitalik. So there are social pressures everywhere, and I tend to agree with you.
01:04:50.726 - 01:05:40.006, Speaker B: I actually don't think it's such a negative thing, because at the end of the day, you'd be shocked about how much just everyday, average life in every individual country is enforced by not necessarily the law, but social norms that we all abide by. And the reason that this just makes me smile, because it's such a funny difference between, I think, the Ethereum and Cosmos communities is, again, it's because I think, cosmos doesn't have this pressure of securing the $250,000,000,000 that Ethereum does. But Ethereum tends to be much more research oriented, and cosmos sometimes will just be like, let's just try this. And you actually saw this. The example that I love to point to is the lido. Well, what's the right amount of stake for one staking pool operator to have? Is it 20%? Is it 15%? Let's do some studies. And over in Cosmos land, they implemented something called liquid staking module, which is a form of regulation essentially, for the hub.
01:05:40.006 - 01:05:47.370, Speaker B: And they were like, let's just try, like, 20% feels about right. It's just funny.
01:05:48.350 - 01:06:19.414, Speaker C: I think it can have downsides, but I think it also often, you end up. It's interesting because often in Ethereum you end up with a solution that actually isn't very well researched because we didn't expect this to happen. All the research was around some other edge case and then this is the one that happened. And so unless you have a really ironclad proof that your system works, which encrypted, only a few things have that. Yeah, I think sometimes you sort of got to try it and then patch what you see rather than trying to anticipate or plan everything out theoretically ahead of time.
01:06:19.532 - 01:07:01.406, Speaker B: I agree. I also think that's why it's actually, although people, myself included, like Bamone, are pushed back against tribalism, it's actually not a bad way to organize people to solve disparate problems. Like, there's some amount of groupthink that happens in every crypto community and there are definitely cons to that. But the pro is that everyone is like laser focused on solving one thing right, or sort of in the same way of thinking. And actually having these different communities with different perspectives and ways of approaching problems is actually not a bad way of solving a really large related set of problems at scale would be my, that's my sort of thought. Okay. But one of the things that I appreciated about Antonio that I'd love to get your take on is I was thinking about this as we were recording.
01:07:01.406 - 01:07:40.558, Speaker B: He's very thoughtful about treating decentralizations as a means instead of an end. So what I mean by that is you often hear in crypto, like, I'm a decentralization, Maxine. It's like, well, why are you decentralized? Because if you ask why do I need to be decentralized? You have a good understanding of how decentralized I need to be so that I can optimize for giving a good product and trading it off against, you know, for something like ethereum and bitcoin. It was the explicit use case is censorship, resistance, whatever. For money, you want to be basically just as decentralized as you possibly can. But I feel like Antonio's been at the forefront of pushing for, well, actually for an exchange. Maybe I don't need to be as decentralized as money itself.
01:07:40.558 - 01:08:02.534, Speaker B: And instead I'm going to ask myself, for what exact purposes do I need to be decentralized? And I thought that's where a lot of the really interesting insights came out around, like validators running their own order book and being able to act as oracles. Very interesting. Do you need 1000 of those? Probably not. I thought that was a very interesting he'd clearly thought quite a bit about why he needed decentralization and to what degree. I thought that was interesting.
01:08:02.652 - 01:08:40.606, Speaker C: Oh, yeah. I think it's a theme we've talked about a bit in this season, but what do we actually want of decentralization? And I think there are different layers to it and different kinds of things you want. For me, one of the really hard lines is the ability, at least to trade on a system noncustodially. The ability, at least for me, if I choose to participate in this system, in a system and trade with it without having to have another party custody of my funds is really important. But that doesn't necessarily mean that everybody has to be. It doesn't necessarily mean that things like order books can't be more centralized. And I think if you have more centralized order books, sometimes that can mean worse outcomes.
01:08:40.606 - 01:09:10.060, Speaker C: For example, trade price execution. But sometimes it can mean better outcomes. Sometimes putting some partial trust in some entities can mean that in most cases, you actually end up with better execution. I think being a realist about that, as I think Antonio historically has been, and thinking like, okay, how are we actually going to slices? What are the components? What roles is decentralization play in our system? I think is really important for designing any of these, rather than, yeah, exactly. At every step being like, well, it must be better to be more decentralized at this step.
01:09:10.430 - 01:09:11.146, Speaker B: I agree.
01:09:11.248 - 01:09:13.980, Speaker C: Or what are we even doing here? And I'm like, well, I think actually.
01:09:14.430 - 01:09:15.606, Speaker B: We could figure out what we're doing.
01:09:15.648 - 01:09:17.566, Speaker C: Here and then figure out the best way to do it.
01:09:17.588 - 01:09:42.134, Speaker B: Maybe. You know what, I love that you said that, because so often it's like, well, maybe we don't need to be decentralized. And then people almost like their hackles go up and it's like, well, what's the point of even doing this? It's like there's a lot of shades of gray in between complete and utter decentralization and one black box server. Right. Spectrum trade offs. But you often do get a very emotional response. Oh, one thing I actually wanted to ask you is actually the question that we led with.
01:09:42.134 - 01:10:06.494, Speaker B: So you and I have been approaching this all season from we are going to optimize, actually the experience of both lps and swappers by redirecting some of the MeV that gets redirected to proposers today. And that is very different in an app chain system where it's a little bit more of a closed loop or the stakeholders are very different. It was also interesting to hear him say, I really care about the swappers, more so than anything else. That was interesting.
01:10:06.612 - 01:11:04.650, Speaker C: That's right. So I think one thing worth pointing out, which we didn't even harp on in the call, but just by doing an app chain automatically, you're capturing a lot more mev for the application and token holders than you are, as opposed to what's leaking in a system like Ethereum. I mean, even if suppose every proposer is just maximally capturing mev, and there's just a ruthless race to the bottom on that, ultimately that means that's not just going to go to the proposers, that's actually going to end up, you'd expect, or a lot of it, at least you'd expect to go to tokenomas, to stakers, because whoever can extract the most mev is able to then provide the best rewards to stakers, and they'll get the most people most stake delegated to them. And so you do have then even in this maximally extractive, one of the worst ways I would maybe think of, you could design the system. You already are getting mev extraction for in some sense the protocol for token holders. Although again, I think there's some areas where that leaks out. So I think that's important that actually you do get some benefits out of the gate.
01:11:04.650 - 01:11:50.858, Speaker C: But we don't want to. I think that's not actually everything that we want. One of the things we might want is that may have just not be extracted from users, in part because I think if you give users a bad experience, then maybe they just won't use your application, and then you actually end up with a lot of dead weight loss. Like the application might be better off if it was providing better execution for users. And then I think there's just like, what are the goals of the system? And I think generally, yeah, I've sort of talked about, I think with Dexes, I tend to agree with Antonio, that what matters actually, the constituency being served is the swapper, and we should just be maximally benefiting them. And everything else is just downstream from that, including what we do for liquidity providers and stakers and all these other parties. They're all there because somebody wants to show up and get a good price by trading.
01:11:51.034 - 01:12:33.214, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a really good point. One interesting thing, just on fees, he was obviously very laser focused on fees when we talked to him about what made you make the switch from starkware and why cosmos. And obviously he's dependent on high frequency traders as his market makers. And it actually made me think of this post from Dave Oha, I'm blanking. He is a co author, so I apologize. But on fee credits, this idea of fee credits and the key insight of this paper is that fees people describe them as a form of revenue, but really the purpose of fees as they're originally conced is a form of a civil resistance. Right.
01:12:33.214 - 01:13:12.142, Speaker B: It's like you want to prevent spam from just pulsating through the network. And the insight that David's co author had, actually, instead of just charging people, that's very crude form of civil resistance. Maybe you could do something like if you are proving that you're a good actor for the network by staking, then maybe you could just not charge fees. So I do think there are even kind of new interesting ideas in the world of app chains where you could reduce, and there's like gasless fees and stuff. I know going on, on ethereum, we talked to von Beethoven about that too, but there are even cool. We didn't have enough time to get into it, so I didn't want to go down that rabbit hole, but I thought that it's.
01:13:12.226 - 01:13:50.258, Speaker C: And this is part of what makes my colleague Charlie has historically made him excited about app chains, is I do think there's a lot more that you can do in terms of setting the rules in order to actually make metave extraction more incentive compatible or limit or limit toxic magnet extraction in a general purpose chain. It may just be impossible to actually limit these things, or much harder. And when you're cohabitating with a lot of other applications, the problems just get much harder. But when you're working on an app chain. Yeah, I think there actually are. There's a lot you can do. And a batch option is one example where you're sort of having this seep into the execution layer of how we execute these trades.
01:13:50.258 - 01:14:19.840, Speaker C: This rule at the consensus layer, in a way that potentially makes both more secure and ends up with better prices for users. So I think application layer, app chains and application specific roll ups as well, which we haven't seen as many of in this recently, for whatever reason, isn't like app specific non evm roll ups. But I think we might start to see more of at some point. I think you can actually do a lot of other rules that maybe make metrics section a little more.
01:14:21.730 - 01:14:42.614, Speaker B: There's a. This is actually a debate I was having earlier today with one of our analysts, but Antonio originally moved. There was the fee reason, but then there were things that you could do in an appchain that you couldn't necessarily do. Having your validators serve as an oracle, and hosting an order book is kind of the primary one that he talks a lot about. With restaking, you actually sort of open yourself up, and there might be the opportunity to do that.
01:14:42.652 - 01:14:42.854, Speaker C: Right.
01:14:42.892 - 01:15:18.834, Speaker B: Like you could actually opt into this actively validated service network of people that would essentially act as your set of validators as a roll up on ETh. And you can actually look like restaking has a bunch of different use cases. Eigenda is sort of the first wedge use case that they've tried to do, but they also have a partial block building as an application that restaking highlights. And you could actually see, probably in theory, a lot of what we talked about today with Antonio could be built on a layer. Two, I guess the question is, would you? And how practical is it? I'm just not in the weeds enough to be able to answer that question.
01:15:18.952 - 01:15:33.494, Speaker C: Yeah. Right. And one benefit you get from an app chain that you don't really get from restaking is this alignment of token holders and stakers ultimately actually being subject to this token that is specifically tied to the success of your app.
01:15:33.532 - 01:15:33.782, Speaker A: Right.
01:15:33.836 - 01:16:14.318, Speaker C: So, one thing, and again, I think you could still end up with a bad equilibrium where everybody extracts until they kill the chain. But in some sense, stakers on DyDX don't want DYDX, the application, to fail to be this degenerate thing that ends up killing off its users. They're more long term aligned because ultimately they're holding DyDX token and or running validator or something like that. And so in some sense, it's a way to basically tie everybody together here, whereas stakers of ETh may not actually care about as much about the success of one individual application. So I think that is an interesting thing. We talked about it. My colleague Charlie and I talked about it a few years ago in a post we wrote the cosmos thesis.
01:16:14.318 - 01:16:20.050, Speaker C: But it is interesting, potentially, to try to align people using an individual staking.
01:16:21.990 - 01:16:49.278, Speaker B: So I think that alignment is. And he actually called it out, right. He said there's a fourth stakeholder as well, which is doidx's chain. I'm a huge nerd for Cosmos, and it's always nice to get people from the cosmos ecosystem involved, because they have very different, sometimes orthogonal to ETh way of thinking. If you're a huge nerd for this, we'll actually link it in the show notes. But I don't want you to go too deep into this, but just the link with PEPC for people who want.
01:16:49.284 - 01:16:49.854, Speaker C: To figure it out.
01:16:49.892 - 01:17:28.890, Speaker B: Barnaby, who is the kind of author of the PEPC idea over an ethereum, which stands for protocol enforced proposal. Commitments, is actually very similar to Abci. And I think if you squint at it, and obviously Antonio is trying something more directly with this, it's a way of hosting censorship resistant auctions in a way where you're not questioning like who is the know, risking auction or extractable value. So that's something cool. We don't need to get into the weeds, but we'll link it in the show notes here so you can check it out because he actually highlights how these ideas are similar. Last question for you, Dan. I think we talked about this in our opening episode of the season, but it was interesting to get his thoughts on the part market.
01:17:28.890 - 01:17:55.490, Speaker B: That was a cool little anecdote about Arthur Hayes actually trying to start out with options, which makes a lot of sense now that he just said it like, yeah, obviously you want to start out with something like options instead of some weird derivative that had basically been theorized but never took off in tradfi. But he was clearly, and I'm kind of on this page, too, that perps look like they're going to be the winning derivative instrument, at least for the time being. What did you think about his thoughts about just relative spot versus perp market share, and what do you think about all that?
01:17:55.640 - 01:18:50.038, Speaker C: Yeah, well, I basically agree with what he said. I think there's a lot of room for decentralized perps to grow relative to centralized ones. And I think some of, I'm not sure that there are. I think in some ways decentralized perps, it might even be more important relative to centralized because in part, perp markets, as we've seen historically, can be subject to a lot of abuse and can be very risky. And I think to some extent, a properly designed and fully transparent on chain decentralized prep you think should be actually a lot more auditable, a lot more ordinary people, a lot more, or at least for highly technical people, a lot more transparent and ultimately potentially safer. I think in the long run it should be safer. I'm not sure we're at that point today, although again, depends on the centralized prep that you're comparing it to.
01:18:50.038 - 01:19:28.730, Speaker C: I think one more interesting one that I think is worth noting is I think long tail perps when you're trading crypto assets, I think spot markets versus perp markets, if you're on chain. One nice thing about trading spot is like you're literally trading the thing itself. It's just as close to the metal as you can get. But one thing on chain perps might be able to unlock is actually just trading on this really long tail of things, what we would normally consider to be prediction markets. And I think prediction markets have been having an interesting moment. We haven't talked about them much. This, you know, I think we've seen some centralized prep exchange sort of play.
01:19:28.730 - 01:19:31.006, Speaker C: Okay, can I offer something that's a little more like Trump futures.
01:19:31.038 - 01:19:31.186, Speaker A: Right.
01:19:31.208 - 01:19:57.340, Speaker C: Or prediction markets on that? I think you could see decentralized ones do it as well, and they might be a natural place to actually just be trying. Okay, can we get derivatives on. There's many more things that you could do a derivative on, like, literally any number than there are actually just assets in the world. And so this long tail, very long tail, I think crypto has been historically good at serving this extremely long tail. Decentralized crypto solutions have been, and I think you could see purpose serving that as well.
01:19:57.950 - 01:20:26.322, Speaker B: Yeah. You know what else crypto does well? It's like the best and worst thing about it, right. When it comes to finance, it moves quickly, which is very. That's not how it works in tradfi, for good reason a lot of the time, it turns out. But you also do get a lot of very interesting experimentation. Like, one of the things I wanted to ask Antonio was, if you look at something like Avo, they have pre token futures that have launched, so you can actually trade something before it actually trades. Is there a ton of value to that? I don't really know, but I don't know.
01:20:26.456 - 01:20:40.370, Speaker C: It's kind of like, how do you set your. No, there's no sort of spot price to reference. It's like an entirely circular construct. Right. But I think certainly an interesting concept.
01:20:40.530 - 01:21:11.374, Speaker B: Yeah. All right, last question for you here, because Antonio, I feel like has come out. This is, I think, a very differentiating thing with Antonio as a founder, as opposed to many other founders in the space. Antonio's come out and said, like, look, I don't want to be judged based on the ecosystem. It should only be about the product. And honestly, putting my own founder hat on, everyone admires that, right? Like, yes, it should be about the product, it should be about the users. But then I put my own founder hat on and it's like, well, yes, but at the same know eth has all of these users.
01:21:11.422 - 01:21:11.634, Speaker A: Right.
01:21:11.672 - 01:21:42.854, Speaker B: And you can just clearly see it based on volumes and the amount of assets that have migrated up to roll ups. Like, yeah, you got a little bit of a leg up from a distribution standpoint. And the counter to Antonio's perspective is first time founders think about product, second time founders think about distribution. So I'd be curious if you're just putting on your know, you were starting a Dex, taking some of that research that you've done at Uniswap, putting it to work. I'm launching a Robinson exchange here. How would you think about doing that? Would it be all about the product? Would you be trying to go to where the users are? How would you balance you?
01:21:42.912 - 01:22:36.470, Speaker C: I think you certainly want to go adjacent to where the users are. One interesting sort of thing I've thought about Cosmos for a little bit is that ultimately, what's the Cosmos hub really? The Cosmos hub is actually Ethereum, possibly to some extent. A lot of Cosmos projects have become successful by having functioning bridges to and from Ethereum and by sort of centering themselves relatively close to the Ethereum community, the assets that are in the Ethereum ecosystem, rather than trying to be central to sort of cosmos. And so to the extent that you have actually, I think DYDx very much, my understanding is there's the bridge, obviously, from Ethereum there. There's also, I think, USDC for onboarding onto it. It's not designed, I think, to be that much harder to get into it. You can use like metamask and everything.
01:22:36.470 - 01:23:12.140, Speaker C: It's designed not to be much harder to get into it than you can, than it is to get into an l two. Right. And so to some of what makes something an l two rather than a cosmos chain, some of it is a security model, some of it is the vibes and the branding, but some of it is just accessibility and bridging. And I think if you have a cosmos chain that actually has a very easy to get into and out of Ethereum, then I think it may actually not matter that it's technically in the cosmos ecosystem, okay? But from a user experience perspective, and in terms of being able to attract users, it may actually not be that different.
01:23:12.590 - 01:23:38.830, Speaker B: You know what, I completely agree with that. And actually, one thing I was thinking about was that it's almost like Ethereum and Cosmos clearly have such a similar roadmap. There are a couple of key differences, like the hub has token voting, as opposed to Ethereum, which doesn't have. So there are some key differences, but there's a path dependence that Ethereum started with the asset. Now they're trying to go to this multi chain future of a bunch of different. Now, the benefit of that, first of all, obviously that was in lease. In the short term, the right decision.
01:23:38.830 - 01:24:04.762, Speaker B: They have many more users, much more liquidity. And so that's their starting point. The disadvantage of that is that you actually have a bunch of fragmented L2s. And Ethereum users don't have this understanding that that's all supposed to be one thing. And so it's like I go on arbitrum or I go on optimism. And the user experiences, you start on Eth and then you kind of go here, or you go up and down, and that's how you learn as a user. But on Cosmos, it's very different.
01:24:04.762 - 01:24:42.114, Speaker B: Everyone in cosmos understands. There's this shared vision of this interoperable network of chains. And actually, it makes the user experience, at least from my perspective today, very challenging. But every chain understands that it's supposed to be this one chain amidst this interoperable network of other chains. And it actually makes them, weirdly, even though they fight a lot, that was the understanding from the beginning, whereas a lot of the l two s are like, I think if you asked them privately, they'd be like, I want to be the only l two, or like one of two. It's just a different perspective and standpoint. And, yeah, they're kind of building the same thing in reverse, admittedly with some differences.
01:24:42.114 - 01:24:45.766, Speaker B: But, yeah, I think a lot of.
01:24:45.788 - 01:25:08.958, Speaker C: The time, these sort of religious differences in approach, we do it one way and they do it another way, are actually just like right now, we're making this strategic or tactical decision, and then ultimately, oh, it turns out, actually, we could just do that, too, or we want to do that too. And so ultimately, I think a lot of. And the projects that survive tend to be the ones that don't get too much. We talked about this at the Dex context, too, that don't get too much religion around a particular type of solution. Yeah.
01:25:09.044 - 01:25:18.900, Speaker B: My personal theory for why it tends to feel that religious is because you're often trying to decide between really technical decisions that no one understands. So you have to wrap narratives about good, bad.
01:25:19.590 - 01:25:33.814, Speaker C: What do you think? Like, the original stuff that there were schisms about in the catholic and protestant churches, right. It's often these incredibly esoteric religious debates, and then you sort of manage to create this massive culture around these.
01:25:33.852 - 01:25:35.830, Speaker B: Got to win hearts and minds, baby.
01:25:36.250 - 01:25:58.014, Speaker C: That's the only way you're going to get everybody to agree to your definition of the number of angels that can fit on a pin or whatever, right. Is you sort of have to make it, like, core to your cultural identity that you believe in this one rather than another one. But ultimately, yeah, I think you're ultimately not going to make, hopefully, I think as a project, not going to make a bad decision based on like, oh, we know we rallied ourselves around this, but actually we decided to make this difference, this different change.
01:25:58.212 - 01:26:07.820, Speaker B: Yeah, I agree with that. All right, Dan. Well, we can end it here. Just on the subject of Catholicism, that feels appropriate. And, yeah, this was a really fun one. And I'll see you next week.
