00:00:00.280 - 00:00:18.902, Speaker A: Whether it's ERC 4337 or some other smart contract wallet implementation, we've basically figured out how to make it so that you can do stuff without having to pay gas fees. Because, you know, in the case of 437, you could use Uniswap or you could use AAve or whatever it is. No gas fees.
00:00:18.966 - 00:00:55.020, Speaker B: Hey, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the index podcast, where the three of us come together every couple of weeks to discuss the, the latest industry news, chart crimes, crypto data, and so on and so on. The three of us have a guest today, and that is Kofi Bundlebear, and the only crypto analyst who knows how to build a front end. Very happy to have you, Kofi. And with me, of course, I also have my co hosts, denning on chain corgi at Flashbots Hill, Dobby, resident data House of Dragonfly. And I am boxer. And I am the community powers of Dune.
00:00:55.020 - 00:01:08.346, Speaker B: Before we get into it, nothing we say here should be relied upon as legal, financial, investment tax, or even life advice. We are all acting independently of our professional roles with that. Hello, kofi.
00:01:08.418 - 00:01:10.994, Speaker A: Hey, guys. Happy to be here.
00:01:11.082 - 00:01:30.090, Speaker B: Very happy to have Ko fi here. And today we're going to talk about account instruction and specifically, eric 4337. Ko fi has built a great website on this, which is called bundlebear.com. bundlebear.com. You actually got the.com domain. Congratulations.
00:01:30.090 - 00:01:52.034, Speaker B: So maybe as a high level overview, and I always love to do this, where I just ask everyone and also the people here that don't know, what is ERC 4337? So that'll be, maybe you go first if you hear this buzzword, ERC 4337 or smart accounts.
00:01:52.082 - 00:02:24.262, Speaker C: So I think about as a UX change and how it improves potential onboarding for anyone involved to use apps under the hood without necessarily needing to know that crypto is necessary or part of the infra. And I think that's a huge unlock. I think generally, the UX is pretty poor. I mean, not everyone knows how to use metamask, and it's confusing and you got to exchange and everything. Abstracting all this away makes a ton of sense. And this is what ERC 457 kind of targets.
00:02:24.366 - 00:02:29.770, Speaker B: Okay, interesting insights. Danning. What comes to mind when you hear these buzzwords?
00:02:30.270 - 00:03:20.236, Speaker D: Yeah, similar to what Dobby said. My understanding is that when we rethink about why crypto still don't have the mass adoption, some people think the UX is the big bottleneck, why you need everyone to understand what gas is and deal with the crappy process of figuring out how to put the call, like, understand the quality that in metamask. So, like, account abstraction supposedly is to let user just sign a transaction or just don't worry about everything and let the other people, I guess, supposedly bundlers to figure out what would be the optimal way to execute and settle things and. Yeah, and I believe there's a few different proposals besides ERC 4337. I would be curious to learn more about them today.
00:03:20.348 - 00:03:51.506, Speaker B: All right, great, great. First insights. I think for me it's, I can only kind of speak on the level of YouTube as well, where it's like it somehow improves uX. There's bundlers, paymasters, I don't know, there's like a bunch of stuff which supposedly makes ux better. But all that I'm seeing is like, devs building for devs. Like, it's like, oh, we have like intent based architecture aggregation. It's like all of this infrastructure builders building for other infrastructure builders.
00:03:51.506 - 00:04:26.084, Speaker B: And in the end there's five app devs who are like, oh, there's a lot of great tooling here as these things always play out in the industry. I think Dobby and Mika are coming fresh from ECC, which is also a lot of intense smart accounts. A lot of people are kind of cooking with these new paradigms, but there are already things in production and Kofi has analyzed the data. But first of all, Kofi, if you can kind of walk us through, like, what even is ERC 4337? And then we, like, I'm sure we're going to have questions if you just go on a riff here.
00:04:26.172 - 00:05:05.870, Speaker A: I think a good place to start is just like talking about what the goal is with all that counterfaction stuff. I mean, you guys hit on the most important things, which are that using a regular EOA wallet can be pretty complicated for people. And the whole point of account abstraction is that like, hey, let's abstract away some of the complexity of managing your own wallet by giving you a wallet that's actually a smart contract. So it can be like, programmed to do all sorts of stuff that makes your life easier. And this is an idea that's been around for a while. So since Ethereum started, people have been like, we should work on, well, let's start our smart contracts. We can make them do cool things.
00:05:05.870 - 00:05:56.978, Speaker A: And I mean, the first and still the most popular example of that is the safe wallet. Sort of introducing the whole idea of a multisig, like, oh, to make a transaction, multiple of us have to sign. This is safer this way. And they kind of really pioneered this idea of let's use wallets that are actually smart contracts, and then later on you have people trying out their own implementations. I think maybe instead app started doing their own version of a smart contract wallet around 2020 or something like that, when their sort of automation that they were bringing was let's allow you to bundle some complex defi action into one transaction. So move your lp from here into there, but you just have to click once. And that was kind of a way of making the experience better.
00:05:56.978 - 00:07:23.070, Speaker A: But I think that similar to sort of like nfts in 2017, after a while of seeing all of these implementations, you kind of start to think that maybe there should be a standard, because if everybody is working on their own version of a smart contract wallet and all those versions work completely differently, then you don't really get a sort of a network effect of like, hey, what if we were all using the same version? Then somebody could write an app that would work with all of the versions, or like we can all collaborate on, you know, one path that is compatible with everyone and you kind of get a lot of value out of that. You know, same way that before ERC 721 came out, people were just making different, different versions of nfts that work completely differently. And you would never have been able to make one NFT marketplace that worked with all of them because they're all wildly, they're just doing their own stuff. Then you make a standard, now everybody's the same and you can start to all build on top of the same platform. So, you know, there have been plans for a while of like, oh, let's make a standard for, you know, smart contract wallets or for account abstraction. And there's been a lot of proposals that went through the whole proposal process and never really gained traction, never really happened. And 437 is the first standard for this that like really sort of made it like past the finish line to production and is currently being used.
00:07:23.070 - 00:08:07.798, Speaker A: I mean, it's like all it really does is that it bundles together a good few sort of features that already existed in past smart contract wallets. So the main ones being that there are paymaster contracts that let apps sponsor the user's gas fees for them. So when I make a transaction, I don't need to pay the gas. That pays the gas for me. I mean, this is stuff that existed before. Other people have done versions of this, but it's just doing it now in the standard. Or sort of the idea that with a four, three, seven wallet you could do the validation with a seed phrase, but you could also do the validation with some other verification method.
00:08:07.798 - 00:09:14.972, Speaker A: Like I know whether it's like pass keys on your device or like the secure enclave on your iPhone, so you can sign with your iPhone, sign in or whatever. And you know, just also having the idea of, yeah, instead of you actually yourself executing the transaction, there's a bundler that takes a bunch of different transactions and bundles them together again, existed before, but these are all things that like somebody had done this, somebody had done that, somebody had done this other thing. This is one standard that brings it all together. So everybody who uses the standard can benefit from those. Yeah, can benefit from those ideas. Main building blocks, if we want to break it down of like what's the ingredients of a 437 wallet transaction is that you've got your smart contract wallet and you make these transactions, but they call them user operations. I feel like the Ethereum community general is very bad with naming and branding because user operation doesn't mean anything to me.
00:09:14.972 - 00:10:35.120, Speaker A: I feel like they could have come up with like a snappier name than that. But you know, you have your wallet or whatever that's made for you, you make a transaction, except that it's called a user operation and you have this other class of actors called bundlers that take a bunch of user operations and bundle them into a transaction that gets executed with a special contract on Mainnet called an entry point contract. What the entry point does is that it looks at all the user ops in the bundle and it first does a verification step, like are these valid transactions? Is the nonce correct? Was enough gas paid or whatever, does verification and then it does execution. And yeah, so that's sort of the step process. You have a wallet, you make a user op, the bundler takes it as well as a bunch of other people's user ops and then executes it with using the entry point contract. And now your transaction is on chain and yeah, it's now been like a year, six months or something like that since the standard went live and different teams started building stuff on top of it. And you know, it's been, things going down, it's been interesting to see.
00:10:35.280 - 00:11:29.170, Speaker B: I think I got most of this, but I think it would be just to actually go down to the tech level a bit more or like to make it more plastic. It's like I'm going to say something and you tell me if it's correct. Let's say I want to send Dobby 20 die. And then like in the usual case, I like basic construct call data, I call the Dai contract and like the DAi, like some like mempool picks that up and like I send it into a mempool and like eventually it will be included in the block and like the same opera. And like I actually signed the transaction. Like I have call data that like goes to like I send the transaction to the Dai smart contract and then with the whole kind of like Bundler ERC 4337 architecture. Basically what I do is I just sign a message, which is the intent.
00:11:29.170 - 00:11:59.564, Speaker B: And I think that's where the language gets kind of hairy. Is this an intent or what are we doing here? But I basically say I want to send 20 Dai to Dobby. However that arrives at the Bundler and finally gets executed is in the bundler's hands. But I guess I have some kind of proof. Or like it's only like how does it, like can you help me of like how what am I actually signing? Like do I sign the intent? Do I sign an end state? Like what's the thing similar in the.
00:11:59.572 - 00:12:48.182, Speaker A: Way to when you make a transaction, you know, you give your signature and then in the call data is all of the instructions to the, whether it's a smart contract you're calling or whether you're transferring some eth, the user operation in this case contains all of that. So it contains the data of what exactly you want that transaction to do, and it also contains your signature. And that user operation is what gets sent to a bundler. Now in the original sort of standard, there was a big idea around. First, the user operations would go into a whole new user operation, mempool, and get picked up by bundlers from there. In reality, that separate mempool doesn't exist yet. Like it's still on Testnet, it's still being developed.
00:12:48.182 - 00:13:31.016, Speaker A: So right now it's all private order flow. Like you make a user operation, it goes straight to the bundler and then the bundler is executing it with the entry point contract that I mentioned before. In terms of the proof that you get, again, probably some gigabrain out there is going to like come back and complain about me saying this later, but you don't actually like get returned the proof. It's kind of like you just send the user up, the bundle, tries to execute it in a bundle and either it fails or it doesn't fail and you sort of see what happens with that. But yeah, I think that you got the main idea there.
00:13:31.128 - 00:13:50.844, Speaker D: It feels quite similar to how the block builder is simulating the bundles or transactions from the mempool and then try to build a block and if it fits and the transaction will not be included on chain. So sounds like 4337 also has some revert protection similar to how the, you know, the block builder is running it today.
00:13:51.012 - 00:14:53.330, Speaker A: Some other kind of protection that exists, exists sort of in the form of, you know, validation that happens on the entry point contract. So if there's, I don't know, the same user operation has been sent twice, the second one is invalid, it will just fail. There's a whole sort of conversation that's going on around how to deal with sort of reverted transactions, because obviously, like, well, it's not obvious, actually. If a bundler tries to make a bundle and even one of the user operations in that bundle isn't valid, the entire transaction will get reverted. And like, bundlers can lose a lot of money on failed transactions that way. So there's a whole conversation around. Well, I mean, I guess probably bundlers should be maybe working directly with builders, or they should be using some flashbots tool or something like that to make sure that if they try and make a bundle and that bundle is invalid, they don't lose money on gas fees doing that.
00:14:53.330 - 00:15:15.012, Speaker A: There's a whole chart on my dashboard on bundlebed that tracks how many, what's the word? How many bundles fail because of like, say, front running or some reason like that. And sometimes there are spikes and sometimes the bundlers lose cash. And it's a whole. Yeah, it's a whole thing.
00:15:15.116 - 00:15:32.910, Speaker D: Possibly very common. There are like conflicts of bundles, as in like some different bundlers picked up the same transaction or user op from the mempool, and then they include in their bundle together, some other bundle got included first, and now their announce is invalid. Something like that.
00:15:33.290 - 00:16:42.210, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. Whether it's like you're saying two bundles picked up the same user from the mempool, or whether it's that there was some mistake on the app or whatever, and the same user operation got sent twice. Or maybe there's some bundler that's watching the normal mempool and sees a bundle coming in and just replicates that bundle and submits it, like, faster to earn the user op fees. Because, I mean, one of the ways that bundlers make money is that when you make a user op, you pay a fee for that, or it's sponsored by the app. It could also be sponsored by the app, and then that is what reimburses the bundler for spending time with gas fees on chain when it makes its transaction. If they've designed things well, then they make a little bit of a profit in between what they get paid for all of the user ops in the bundle and what they actually spend for making the transaction that goes on shave. So yeah, there's all sorts of race games that could kind of come into play if things aren't designed well in terms of fees.
00:16:42.510 - 00:16:46.490, Speaker C: So you said there's a profit to be made from the bundler side.
00:16:47.070 - 00:16:47.710, Speaker A: Is it?
00:16:47.790 - 00:17:14.850, Speaker C: From a user's perspective, I would imagine that getting your transaction bundled rather than like one by one should be generally a bit cheaper. Does it make up or do I expect that my transaction made through like account or smart account have been like, should I expect them to be generally cheaper, the same price? What are my assumptions in terms of fees compared to normal transactions? Do you have any idea there?
00:17:15.010 - 00:18:24.310, Speaker A: So again, this comes down to like, there's a thing of, oh, ideally, like on paper how we'd like to work and then how it's actually working in reality now. Yeah, on paper, in theory should be cheaper because, you know, in an ideal world, a bundler is getting like, you know, tons of user ops a second for it to bundle. And so like when it's making one transaction and there's like, I don't know, a dozen user ops inside of that transaction. And so like every one of those, you know, user ops has to pay a lower fee than what it would have had to pay if it was just in a transaction by itself. And yeah, you know, in that way like bundles can make a little bit of profit, but it's still cheaper for the user because their stuff is getting packed with a bunch of other people's stuff. In reality, there's like so little 4327 activity going on now that like most bundles really only contain one user op, or like if they contain many, they only contain like a small number of user ops. So you're not really saving that much money because the bundle isn't packed.
00:18:24.310 - 00:18:41.246, Speaker A: It's just like if there's only one user opened the bundle, then you're basically paying the transaction fee plus a small premium. You're not saving money on this as a user, but it's future site. If everything works out well and there's more activity, then it will be cheaper for people.
00:18:41.318 - 00:19:09.270, Speaker C: Makes me think that maybe app specific chains with account abstraction could benefit from like having large bundles and having a chain almost entirely focus on those bundles. I don't know, it's probably a very, very slim margin. I have no idea. I'm guessing it's fairly slim. But maybe, you know, when you have huge size of bundles. It does make a difference. I don't know, it's just something you got me thinking with the whole fee structure you explained to.
00:19:09.650 - 00:21:03.858, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it would be interesting to see if somebody does an experiment where like, you know, maybe there's some op roll up or something where all of the transactions, like everybody's wallet is a 437 wallet and the sequencer is actually the bundler, and then, you know, it becomes a whole thing. It's just like all the transactions on the network are smart contract wallet transactions that use 437. It could be interesting to do, but then somebody would probably also say, well, you know, if you're doing that, maybe just, you could even like skip some of these steps and just have native account abstraction, which is something that we hadn't talked about. You know, there are some, what's the word? Roll ups and some chains like for instance, Stocknet and Zksync, that, you know, instead of using the 4327 standard or using some other standard, they have it like baked into their system that like all of the wallets are by default smart contract wallets and they have their own special customized implementation for that. And it's something that they've been doing for a while, which it can have its own advantages and disadvantages. But yeah, I think that it'll be interesting to see if there are any more sorts of experiments with new roll ups that try and see maybe making four, three, seven a bigger deal in the design of the roll up, or maybe doing their own customized native account abstraction thing, or, you know, just doing whatever they want. I mean, generally, I feel like one of the disappointing things about roll ups at the moment is that I feel like there should be more roll ups doing like weird stuff as opposed to just being, you know, EVM again, it's just like, hey, it's yours, you can do whatever you want with it.
00:21:03.858 - 00:21:08.504, Speaker A: And there aren't that many people that are really doing like wild and different.
00:21:08.632 - 00:21:47.066, Speaker B: Things, you know, I think that's a hot take. Sounds like this breaks composability a lot and a lot of other people have to, have to suffer thereafter. But yeah, I guess, like, differentiation between all of these EVM chains is pretty low. I think this was a pretty good overview, but maybe if we could just quickly work out what actually changes from a user perspective. Like we've used all these very technical terms. So maybe if you have an example of an app that uses account abstraction and what we basically save in terms of user experience or how the user experience improves, that would be great.
00:21:47.138 - 00:22:59.126, Speaker A: Yeah, no, for sure. First I'll give a general pitch of the user experience side of things and then I'll talk about some example. I think that for me, the general pitch, you don't care about the technical stuff, you just want to use a wallet. Like why should you care about this? Is that, I mean, the sort of world of crypto that we have now, the apps that get you to use the most are centralized exchanges, right? Like any centralized exchange has way more users than your favorite on chain app that's being shown on crypto, Twitter. And if you look at it, if you kind of ask the question of like why do people use centralized? Like why are they way more successful and way more popular? There's a few reasons, but ux wise on the UX side of things, not talking about marketing or whatever, the main advantages of using a centralized exchange over using adapt is that, you know, you don't need to worry about gas fees, you just show up, you just click things in the app, shit happens, who cares? Transaction fees are not even in your radar. You don't need to worry about those. You don't need to worry about storing a twelve word seed phrase.
00:22:59.126 - 00:23:21.286, Speaker A: And if you lose the seed phrase, then you lose all your money. You just sign in like you would any other website. Most people know how to enter email and password. It's fine, it's easy as a form of verification. It's no trouble at all. When you click a button in a centralized exchange. Maybe there's a bunch of processes happening in the background, but you don't need to worry about that.
00:23:21.286 - 00:24:15.248, Speaker A: You just click trade, click buy, click whatever. If there's more steps to do, they don't bother you with that information. It all happens in the background. And then of course there's the very important thing of being able to go from fiat to crypto really, really quickly and really easily. Of the four things that I've mentioned, account abstraction doesn't solve the last one. It doesn't help you get us dollars into Eth or whatever, but the other three it can help with in terms of like the first thing that was talking about was gas fees, right? If you use, whether it's ERC 4337 or some other smart contract wallet implementation, we've basically figured out how to make it so that you can do stuff without having to pay gas fees. Because in the case of 437, an app can put money in the paymaster to pay your fees for you.
00:24:15.248 - 00:24:42.978, Speaker A: So you could use Uniswap or you could use, I don't know any aave or whatever it is. No gas fees. So that's one improvement for you. You just do stuff. No gas fees. We know pretty much how to make 437 wallets that you use forms of verification that aren't seed phrases. So that means that like when you create your wallet, instead of having to write down twelve words, and then if you forget them, you're fucked.
00:24:42.978 - 00:25:28.740, Speaker A: You could have verification in the form of like a passkey that's saved on your device. So as long as you have your laptop, the passkey saved on your laptop, you can just sign with that and you don't need to worry about anything or everybody knows how to sign into your phone. Just thumbprint or face verification or whatever. There's the P 256 verification that's used on iPhones and on Android. People have figured out how to use that type of verification in the smart contract wallet. So there's an app called Dymo that's like one of these new wallets that's using ERC 437 that has that sort of verification system in there. So you could just make a wallet and sign into it using your iPhone.
00:25:28.740 - 00:26:08.214, Speaker A: So just like, yeah, just thumbprint or whatever, and you're in. So the sign in is easy. And the third thing of like, being able to, you know, make fairly complex operations, but not have to worry about all the steps. We also know how to do that. I mean, if you have a four, three, seven wallet, you could maybe go to a Dex, click one button and trade. And yeah, there has to be an approval of the token, and there has to be like a swap, but that can all get, you know, those multiple user operations of approve and swap and whatever can be bundled into one transaction. And you don't need to really worry about that too much.
00:26:08.214 - 00:27:11.912, Speaker A: So those three main ux things, the gas, the verification, that isn't a seed phrase, and the sort of bundling complex operations into one transaction. Those are the three main sorts of Ux benefits. And what you end up with is that you can build an app, like demo, the app that I was talking about where somebody downloads an iPhone app, they just make a wallet sign in with their thumbprint and they just click one button to send USDC, and the USDC gets sent and they don't need to sort of worry about a lot of the complexity in the background. It works almost as if they'd used Venmo, basically, pretty much. It's the same as if they'd used Venmo. I've never used Venmo because I'm not american, but I'm just basing off my idea of what Venmo is like. But, yeah, it's just opening apps and, like, having the experience that's like a fintech app, you know, Monzo or Revolut or, you know, opening a game and having.
00:27:11.912 - 00:28:11.818, Speaker A: It's just the experience of a normal game, but you still have custody of your funds, which I think is sort of the important caveat here, because somebody listening to this might say, hey, you know, I have a neoa wallet. I've heard of some solution or other that lets me do these things. And it's just like, yeah, there are solutions that could help you do some of this, but in most of those cases, those only work if you're handing your keys over to some third party or you're handing your funds over to some third party. Whereas in this scenario, you still own the wallet, you still own your keys, but you can do all of this stuff that you'd normally only be able to do on a centralized app, you know. So, yeah, play your game where you earn an NFT of the item or whatever, and it just. Yeah, it just shows up in the thing and you don't need to worry about gas, you don't need to worry about how it works in the background, you don't need to sign in with the seed phrase. And that would be why it's better for you.
00:28:11.914 - 00:28:52.302, Speaker B: I'm really impressed that you were able to break it down like this so efficiently. I think the revolut example resonates with most of the global audience. I think revolut is pretty much in every country. And then if you think about revolut actually has, like, all of the different features where there is, like a dex in there. Like, revolut sent me a push back post, push message yesterday, which is like, get up to 50, $50,000 in loads, and I'm like, what would, like, what? Like, why are you guys trying to, like, get me into debt? What is happening? But, yeah, they have. They have all of these features. They even have, like, crypto trading, stock trading, like, at least in Germany, it's like a super, like, feature rich app.
00:28:52.302 - 00:29:57.222, Speaker B: And I think in the UK it's, like, very similar. So, yeah, and I think the main difference, I think, as you rightfully pointed out, it's like the custody still sits within yourself. If you were to actually build ERC 4337 revolut, because you still need to sign something, and the signing could just be you actually pressing a button in your app, but for that, you need to be signed in and only you actually have this part of the key that is able to actually sign this transaction and you have custody of those funds even though it sits in the smart account. And depending on the app, if we were to imagine somebody comes out with, I don't know, there's this weird hamster game on Telegram at the moment, maybe that's not the best thing. Let's just say the weird hamster game on Telegram. Maybe whoever develops that app would add an account recovery thing. But then that's an explicit kind of thing that you kind of sign into or like you agree to, whereas today it's basically the default.
00:29:57.222 - 00:30:29.590, Speaker B: Like, there's no way, like, yeah, you can have an account on a platform and they don't know how to reset your password. Like, usually there's flows built into this. I think in some extreme cases of like, protonmail and like, if you had two factor identification and like, all of this stuff, they might not. But, like, even then it's like creating will be able to, like, if I, like, lose everything of my creating account, like, they would still be able to reset my password. It's still in their custody. So, like, they can still move stuff. So, yeah, that put aside, I think we've.
00:30:29.590 - 00:31:05.982, Speaker B: Yeah, I think we've covered, like, what is this? What would this mean for users? So now if we can actually kind of dive into the adoption, I think that's a, that's a great segue. Now we've gone through what is ERC 4367? What does this actually mean for users? How could this user look like in practice? And as we are all, we're data podcasts here, so it took a while to actually get to the meaty data, but I think it would be interesting and maybe I'll share my screen first and we can kind of look at a bit of stuff.
00:31:06.086 - 00:31:31.490, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. So if you open up the site, you'll be able to see these big numbers at the top. It looks pretty impressive that in the sort of year, six months since the standard went live, more than 9 million accounts have been deployed. So each of these accounts is a smart contract. It needs to be deployed. And they've made tens of millions of user ops. Again, you can think of those pretty much as being transactions.
00:31:31.490 - 00:32:32.174, Speaker A: And users have saved $3 million on what they would have spent in gas fees, apps, sponsoring that fee, instead using paymasters. And there are big numbers here of like, oh, it's whatever. And this week in June, 700,000 accounts were active on Polygon. But then it kind of leads you to question the numbers look good, but what are those people actually doing? So there's a page in here called apps, where you can go and check out basically when people are making these user ops, taking a look at the data inside of the user ops, you can see what smart contracts or what applications people are actually interacting with. And there's a leaderboard at the top with the top apps. And we can see week by week what people are using the most. So I think maybe a good way to start would just be to talk about what are people using now? And then I can talk a little bit about what people have been using in the past.
00:32:32.174 - 00:33:42.240, Speaker A: I mean, right now, the most popular apps of the week are piggybucks, block Lords and cyber Connect. Basically what those are is piggybucks is there's this sort of token farming app called Earnham where people can earn tokens by completing random quests like, oh, follow this project on Twitter or join this discord or whatever, stuff like that. And if you sign up for Earnham, they give you like, a free NFT called piggybucks. And, you know, basically there's a ton of user ops being created right now by people signing up to this app to farm earn token and then just being given this NFT, which is why you see sort of the big numbers for piggybacks at the moment. Block Lords is some unchained game. It's like some, I think, medieval style unchained game where people buy these characters that are nfts and they can send the character to do a mission or to do a duel or whatever. And it's an on chain game.
00:33:42.240 - 00:34:27.249, Speaker A: And that app uses four, three, seven wallets for the accounts. When you sign up for the game, a wallet gets made for you to hold your nfts and to, you know, make all of the on chain transactions and stuff. Cyber Connect has been around for a while. That's like a. It's one of these crypto social platforms where, like, everybody's profile on the platform is a smart contract wallet or smart account. And, you know, Cyber Connect was kind of a thing where most people were just sort of signing up to get the cyber airdrop. So it used to be like the most used app in the 437 space.
00:34:27.249 - 00:35:09.630, Speaker A: Then after the airdrop kind of fell off, and I think now they're pivoting into being an l two, either way to say there's, like, stuff that people are using. A trend that you will find is that a lot of the apps that are being used in the 4337 space right now aren't super inspiring. Like, this is not like the greatest innovation of Defi is being come up with Orlando, something you've never heard of before. There's a lot of apps where it's just like, oh, people are using this app to farm this token or people are using this app to farm this NFT. And yeah, there's quite a lot of that. If we look at the leaderboard. FantV is an app where people can like earn FanTv token for watching videos.
00:35:09.630 - 00:35:41.912, Speaker A: So it's like watch to earn any. Chess was like a collaboration between Animoca brands and chess.com. it's like a new site where you play chess games and you can earn nfts. G one is the token of a telegram trading bot. So actually I think people are mostly using that bot to farm the g one token. But yeah, this is the sort of stuff that people are doing at the moment. And what is creating all of those big numbers that we saw on the front end there.
00:35:42.066 - 00:36:29.812, Speaker B: Yep, that's a great overview. I guess that's kind of like to be expected. It's like to go all like high or like, how do you say this? To have, like, too high expectations of like, oh, this needs to be something noble and groundbreaking that needs to be built. It's like, no, like, this actually, like opens the door to the masses. Like, did everyone of the, like, animoca brand chess game even know that they were doing some crypto stuff in the back end? Maybe. I have not gone through the experience myself, but there's a possibility where you can actually completely abstract that away. And it's just like, oh, I'm just getting, I don't know, quest rewards, like you get steam achievements or whatever without knowing that you're actually using crypto in the background.
00:36:29.812 - 00:36:54.480, Speaker B: So that's pretty cool. I like it. Even though, of course, there's farming, as always, not very pretty. And then if we just look at the high numbers, it seems like there is 9 million accounts and only 30 million transactions. So it's like the retention of the created accounts is actually horrible. And I think you even have a retention chart somewhere.
00:36:55.060 - 00:37:59.846, Speaker A: Yeah, the bottom of the page you can kind of see the retention sort of. So if somebody first started using their account in the week of the 29 April, if you go forward seven weeks, there's only like 1% of the people who like made, started becoming active in this week, are still active in week seven. The retention is quite bad. There's a lot of activity that is along the lines of people signed up for this thing because maybe airdrop, and then they just didn't use that thing. Again, there's like a lot of activity that is geared towards that. I mean, so an interesting thing is that I recently, maybe earlier this week, put out a half year report for Bundlebear, looking at that question of how many people are actually heavy users versus light users. So what you're seeing in this chart right here is I'm breaking down the accounts that are active every month based on how many of them only make one user per month versus two to ten versus more than ten.
00:37:59.846 - 00:38:48.770, Speaker A: And you can see that more than 90% of the ERC 4337 wallets that are active are just pretty light users, pretty one off people who will just maybe make one user operation. You can call it one transaction in a month, and there's only a very small number of folk who actually are using that account or using that wallet multiple times a month. And there's an interesting sort of change when you look at which apps are being used by the heavy users versus the light users. So any chess, which I kind of just pulled up there, I've never played it. I'm not really interested in chess. But there's a lot of heavy users on any chess, I guess, because you'd play a bunch of chess games in order to get more nfts. And so they're using their wallets very active.
00:38:48.770 - 00:39:26.690, Speaker A: But if you look at the light users, most of the lite users, the people who make a just one user up a month, are people maybe who are using something like the Earnham piggy box thing I was talking about where you're signing up to this app to farm some token and you just sign up and get an NFT. Or again, cyberconnect, you just sign up because there might be an airdrop and then you don't really do anything with that account again. So, yeah, there's. Most of the usage is very low retention usage, but there are also some apps that have higher retention and are really trying to, you know, get people coming back more and more often.
00:39:28.310 - 00:39:53.850, Speaker C: I have a question, and maybe excuse this may be out of ignorance, but would like, wouldn't also stuff like privy and all the like social fi sector or whatever you see as this. There's a lot of it that uses account extraction through privy. Is privy not using 4337 or not at all? Is that not the case? Is it a different type of abstraction?
00:39:54.430 - 00:40:38.248, Speaker A: Yeah, so privy, like you said, very popular, tons of apps using that. Privy doesn't use 4337. I think it's possible to use four, three, seven together with privy. They have some tutorial if you want to do that. But I think that most apps that use privy are using the sort of the default system, which is basically, I think how it works is that basically privy is holding your private key for you. Like when you sign up for an app, it just makes a wallet for you, and privy just holds your private keys and then you can sign stuff or whatever. But it's like, it's the trade off that we were talking about before of, like, privy gives you all of the UX benefits that we were.
00:40:38.248 - 00:40:58.506, Speaker A: Well, a lot of the UX benefits that we were talking about in terms of making it easy for users, make it easy for developers, but then it's sort of like, well, somebody else is holding your keys and some people that might not be like this. Yeah. That's a high degree of trust. Yeah. Versus like, I don't know. Yeah. Having a scenario.
00:40:58.578 - 00:42:31.740, Speaker B: I'm not quite sure how the, I'm not quite sure how the privy sandbox or like the Privy toolkit works, but I think you still, like, for frantic, for example, I think your Twitter login basically becomes part of the private key. So, like, you can't, you can't fully, like, I don't think privy actually has the full key, but I think, like, the main difference here is, like, on privy, you are still, you still have a wallet and like, with account obstruction, you don't, like, you don't technically have a wallet. Like, you don't sign the actual call data and all of that stuff where like, in frontech, like, you'd always have to do like, the proof and then this and then buy if you actually wanted to trade your friend or like, it was all some monolithic contract. But, like, you can imagine if you, if you wanted to do something in a privy wallet, you would still, like, you would still go through the, like, wallet user flows and you would actually, like, send like, call data to some smart contract instead of sending a user up to a bundler, which is like, that's, that abstracts away, like, most of the complexity. So, like, basically all that privy does is like, I think Kofi's second point before where it's like, you don't need to keep your twelve seed phrase word before and that's what gets obstructed away. And the rest is basically the old Ethereum ux and still in the metamask era of you need to sign some complicated call data and nobody really knows what's happening, whereas 437 hopefully is just like I'm depositing $100 into my bank account and I can clear, there's no bytecode, there's no complexities. It's just this is actually what's going to happen.
00:42:31.740 - 00:42:33.500, Speaker B: And I signed that.
00:42:33.660 - 00:43:19.902, Speaker C: Yeah, I think like account abstraction, like spam accounts are more of a spectrum than like one, only 4337. And maybe there's different types of account abstraction that cater to different people. I mean, you know, I would be down to be in custody of my wallets, but I would assume the vast majority is also down and not within the, you know, is happy to have it custodied by someone else. So it's just different style for different people. And I think it'd be really cool actually, to look at the stats of how each of these different styles of account abstraction kind of compare to one another in usage and just in different trust assumptions. And quantifying all this would be super interesting.
00:43:20.006 - 00:44:11.606, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. Like you said, it's a spectrum. There's different people doing different things in the account abstraction space with different levels of security, different levels of UX, different features even. I mean, you've got the native account abstraction. People who have like all the entire chain or the entire l two is like, has this technology, you have people using safe, which is great for a lot of things, but is best known for having really good multisig, really good being able to change your keys if you like, want to be able to reroll your key. You got people doing sort of privy type stuff, which is more of like wallet as a service than usually what people would think of as account obstruction. But hey, some of the benefits are similar.
00:44:11.606 - 00:45:01.070, Speaker A: You've got ELC 437, there are people doing different stuff and yeah, we'll see how it goes. I mean, right now a lot of people who are kind of betting on ERC 437 are hoping that most of this wallet innovation activity is going to like funnel into four, three, seven and everybody's just going to fall in line and we're all just going to use this one standard and just try and make it as best as we can together. And there are some people who hate four are like, oh, I don't like this standard at all. I want to do it my own way because I have my own ideas that I think are better than this design implementation. I don't know. I mean, that's the sort of thing I'll leave up to the people who actually make stuff. I'm just going to be making charts, seeing how the numbers turn out.
00:45:01.450 - 00:45:15.912, Speaker B: Yeah, we've covered the app and the user side. Now, one thing that I think is also interesting is the bundler landscape here, where it's kind of like you can draw parallels through solvers in the call swap system or something like this.
00:45:15.976 - 00:46:08.160, Speaker D: I'm sorry, I have some questions to follow for the applications. Yeah, sorry. So I wanted to comment from the first landing page. When we were looking at the first charts, I was looking at the comparison where it was like, oh, for a Polygon, there was so many accounts, they apparently are dominant in terms of the market share of the smart accounts. But then when you look at the charts on the right side, the user ops instantly base become a bigger thing. And initially my reaction was like, oh, maybe that means Polygon's users are most like farming and maybe base interactions more organic. But then later when we went to the apps page where we saw that the top apps, I looked into the per chain category, apparently the piggy box one was on Polygon.
00:46:08.160 - 00:46:30.266, Speaker D: So which, yes, like most people are just like coming to do a thing and then leave and potentially farming things. And the one on base was actually the one you talked about, the gaming, the block lords. So it doesn't necessarily mean they're like more organic. It's just like different type of interaction of apps can have different data pattern, I guess.
00:46:30.408 - 00:46:30.662, Speaker B: So.
00:46:30.686 - 00:47:00.204, Speaker D: That was an interesting call out. Another actually question is like, have you seen many dex? Or like a Dex trading type of application that can adopt 4337? And if not, I wonder, like what see like what are the changes an application needs to make to actually integrate 4337? Maybe we don't get an answer. Maybe that's answer a question for the app developers. But I wonder if you know anything about this.
00:47:00.332 - 00:47:55.602, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, on your first thing, I think you made a really great point about different chains having different sorts of value of users because there's a lot more accounts using Polygon, as you said, but the accounts on base are more active. So I think in this report, I actually did find that when I broke it down by chain, most of the heavy users, so the people who use their account multiple times a month, most of the heavy users are on base. And most of the light users, the people who only do one off stuff, are on Polygon. Like you said, that comes down to the apps that they're using. So maybe on base there are more 437 related apps that their behavior is. You use it more often because it's a game or whatever. In terms of if you're an app developer and you want to start using this stuff I mean, right now Florian was just about to talk about bundlers.
00:47:55.602 - 00:48:34.300, Speaker A: There's like a lot of sort of four, three, three, eh, 4337 wallet. As a service type providers out there who will happily show you the SDK that makes it really easy to add sort of embedded smart accounts into your app so that people can just sign in and they just get an account given to them. And that's like a whole sort of like battle landscape of startups that are trying to get people to use their service as opposed to their competitor service and all that.
00:48:35.680 - 00:48:50.496, Speaker D: I see, I see. So I guess it's like in terms of how the data look like, it's not really like how to say Dex router needs to do anything. It's more like, okay, use this smart wallet and then they gonna call the router or whatever on top of it as a wrapper.
00:48:50.568 - 00:49:53.544, Speaker A: As you're saying. It could be that you are an app that runs a Dex, like, you know, let's just say uniswap or whatever. Uniswap could wake up tomorrow and they could be like, hey, we want people to just be able to sign in and get given a 437 smart account. So either going to do our own thing or use some SDK and give people the option to just sign in, they get a smart account given to them and then they can fund that account and trade on it. Or you, you could have somebody who makes more like what we would think of as a normal wallet app, like a rainbow or whatever that happens to use smart accounts, or like the new Coinbase smart wallet thing that happens to use smart accounts. And it's just like people would be making user ops that happen to interact with Uniswap or whatever, like Uniswap routers, the contract being called in the user Opdev, but they don't really need to worry about that so much. They just click a swap button and a user op that says swap is getting sent to some bundler and getting processed.
00:49:53.544 - 00:50:10.036, Speaker A: There isn't really a lot of Dex activity in the four three seven space right now, it's mostly apps that are somebody's farming a token, or maybe it's a game, or maybe it's a cryptosocial thing, but there hasn't really been a lot of index activity so far.
00:50:10.208 - 00:50:45.070, Speaker D: Yeah, my last question was like, when I was looking at your rank of all the applications, and I was naturally thinking, oh, how is this data created? And in the back of my head I was like, usually when you categorize the application using onchain data you just like basically group by the two addresses. Maybe this is like a very data nerds conversation, but like, I'm curious, like how the data look differently for like 4037 data. So, like, for, for example, the app's information is probably no longer from the two addresses. I would imagine the two addresses is actually either bundler or paymaster or it's.
00:50:45.110 - 00:51:26.200, Speaker A: The entry point contract in this case. And the from address would be the bundler. So if you look at the transaction, it just looks like Bundler made a transaction to entry point contract. And so, yeah, to very briefly go into the data nerd side of things. Um, what you can do is that you can look at the, you know, there's like a, when the bundler makes transactions with the entry point, there's a specific function call called like Handel ops. And it's like the function call for handling a user op. And every user op that gets, gets handled in a transaction will have a handle up call.
00:51:26.200 - 00:52:12.486, Speaker A: And I, you can look at that and you can see information about the user op. So what was the account that sent this user up? If there was a paymaster used, what Paymaster was used? If there was, you know, what bundler was used, and also some data around, what's the word, what you can think of. It has the call data of the user open again, you can look into that to see what function selector was used and what contract was called and all of that. So, I mean, I'm just pulling up my own like internal Dunespell Dbt type thing here to show you a little bit of what this looks like. But it's basically for people who are just listening. I'm pulling up on. You'll be able to see it on YouTube, sort of my internal code base.
00:52:12.486 - 00:53:26.738, Speaker A: And what I'm showing is that if, for instance, you wanted to see what contract was being called by user upon Arbitrum, you would go to arbitrum traces and you would look at handle up calls to the entry point contract on Arbitrum. And inside of that function call, you can see information inside of the, if you decode the input data or whatever, you can see information about what was the hash of this user up, who was the sender, who was the paymaster, what was the call data. And the call data will contain stuff about what contract was being called, whether that's some game contract or Uniswap or USDC. And like, you know, what the function selector of that was. But yeah, that's basically what I do to be able to figure out this user was using this app versus this app on whatever. And I just have a bunch of manually made labels to compare the contract that was called to, you know, my own registry of what apps these are, or like, what, you know, apps those contracts belong to is a long winded way of saying it. But yeah, that's how it works at the moment.
00:53:26.914 - 00:54:07.430, Speaker B: Yeah, super interesting stuff to also look behind the scenes. I'm still like, I think the comments on, like, why doesn't any Dex use this? And my mind especially jumps to these telegram bots. Like, why, like, these telegram bots currently hold your private keys and it's just like, trust me, bro. And I guess, like with, with Unibot, you have kind of the token value as a, I mean, there's no, like, security, but like, the devs are incentivized to not rock their own token. So, like, I, I don't know that, like, you, or you're the Dex expert, do you know of any team that's like, at least working on this? Have you chatted to banana gun or someone?
00:54:07.600 - 00:54:56.306, Speaker D: Yeah, yeah. I think, like, generally the normal Dex don't use it just simply because right now, as coffee said, it is like one bundle, one transaction, and it's not very gas efficient. And I think, like, similarly, using permit two is meta transaction. Dex can kind of achieve this goal already, like, where you just sign up the transaction and then they can have someone who submit a transaction for you. So, yeah, I don't know what's the detailed comparison between that and 4337, but I think gas might be the biggest barrier for them to adopt for now. And telegram bots, I mean, I think they don't really need to use 4337. If they already have your private key, they can just submit transactions on behalf of you and everything.
00:54:56.306 - 00:55:15.232, Speaker D: But I did feel like, I think telegram bots, who I talked to banana gang, was saying, like, yeah, in the longer term, in the ultimate, you know, like endgame, they would want to use something like account abstraction to remove the trust assumption to be like, really legitimate and stuff. I don't know if that will happen anytime soon.
00:55:15.296 - 00:56:35.990, Speaker A: But, yeah, what it comes down to is that I feel like there's an incentive stink here of like, if you're a big Dex team, why are you going to spend the next six months working to implement some smart account, you know, UX solution or whatever, like you already have? I mean, if you're uniswap, you already have a bajillion people using your app and you're working on your mobile app, and you're working on your l two, it's just like you've got other things going on and it's not really like, this isn't really your priority. Maybe if you were a completely new startup and you were like, maybe focusing on how do I differentiate myself from the existing big players? I want to improve my UX somewhat. Maybe you might look into this more the same way that last year social fi apps were looking into using privy and using other things so that they could be better. I think it's enough of an effort that I think what will end up happening is that the apps that get really big using 437 will be new apps that are starting from scratch and don't have a lot of tech debt compared to some big team that already has a product that a bunch of people are using. And how many product managers are you going to have to convince to be like, hey guys, let's do what we're doing now and let's like, let's make this all smart account compatible and like, you know, do a whole other ux flow and do all this other stuff, it's just like who's going to buy into that?
00:56:36.070 - 00:57:40.924, Speaker B: Hopefully the product manager actually comes up with the idea. Like that would be, but I think we need to differentiate here between like the Dexs, like the Dex protocol builders, people like Uniswap, which are like, I mean, they're like kind of full stack, they have a front end, they have a wallet, but like all of this stuff. But it's like different teams within that organization. I think the Uniswap wallet team is probably looking at ESC 337 and they probably think it's interesting because you can abstract away like the complexity and the same, like you're not going to have the curve core dev team like looking at this, but like the aggregators, the one inches and the matchas. And like those teams, they probably look at DRC 437 and I think even for like perp dexs, they're like hyper liquids and the DyDX's and like all of these like different teams, they're probably all looking at this just because like user experience is actually like genuinely really important for them. So like they can provide an experience that's like eating away at the like centralized exchanges, market share. So yeah, exciting things.
00:57:40.924 - 00:58:30.684, Speaker B: I think, like one more thing maybe that's interesting is like kind of this cow swap solver architecture and like if we ever get to like a bundler like competition landscape where it's like not all just like private order flow, but rather there's like an actual, like, competitive bundle. Like, those seem to kind of like converge. And like, I see more and more like, intent based architecture kind of like fall on the things that, where, like, the cow swap solver, like, network would actually be really interesting. So, yeah, that's just something random that came to my mind. I think we've learned a lot about Erce 4367 here, and thank you for that, Kofi. I think just summarizing everyone's takeaways is always an interesting end to a conversation. I think the tech seems to be there.
00:58:30.684 - 00:59:15.160, Speaker B: It seems to be people can genuinely build something. And there's micronomy and alchemy and coinbase. They all have these SDKs. So it's no longer rocket science to actually implement this. Like, we see, like genuinely useful use cases immediately. While talking about this is like telegram bots, which just like hold your private key in custody, which is like, no, like, you should just give me an ERC 437 account and let me sign in with my iPhone or with my pass key or like with my telegram account even, or something along those lines. It's like, I think we all, like, see the utility of this tech and, like, it's kind of strange that we haven't seen more adoption, but it seems like people are throwing spaghetti at the wall and like we're seeing experiments and like Daimo is doing great things and like this animo car chess game.
00:59:15.160 - 00:59:47.480, Speaker B: Maybe. Maybe I'll become a chess nerd now and like farm the NFTs. But cool, like, interesting things are happening. It's kind of surprising to me that we're not seeing more adoption because like so many people are just stuck in metamask era of ux and yeah, like, how do we move them out of there? What's going to be exciting enough to actually get people to, to onboard to a four three seven wallet and yeah, maybe Danning Hill, Dobby and then Kofi, if you want to give your summary would be great.
00:59:47.560 - 00:59:51.900, Speaker D: I mean, yeah, I think it actually makes me quite bullish about really.
00:59:53.680 - 00:59:53.968, Speaker B: What.
00:59:53.984 - 01:00:13.920, Speaker D: Would be an opportunity. The crypto can be exposed to the mass option. What if one day chase can put a smarteen contract wallet in like the their normal banking accounts? And I think there just really needs to be a, like a really big institute to adopt this. And yeah, it seems the future is bright.
01:00:14.340 - 01:01:05.726, Speaker C: My point of view is that the tech is cool and what we're missing is people working on apps rather than infra. And that's like, that feels like the major takeaway from ECC as well last week and all the talks is like infra is getting to a point where it's pretty solid, but we probably need some stuff on top of it to make it all make sense. And there's a ton of things that make a lot of sense, I think you had in comparison to central exchanges and how we're slowly creeping to a ux that kind of compares to it and even is superior in ways with decentralization assumptions and everything. But we're yet to see many teams really building hardcore on this. Maybe they are on the background and we're about to see some stuff. I hope so, but I wish we saw some more.
01:01:05.798 - 01:01:52.480, Speaker A: I mean, my final takeaway would just be that, yeah, there's a lot of potential to do interesting stuff, but yeah, it's still pretty early. I mean, it's important to remember that the four three seven standard only really went live maybe a year and a few months ago. And a lot of the startups building sort of SDKs for devs on top of this are pretty young. Even if maybe it's like a team inside of a team like alchemy, they're pretty young and they've had to solve a lot of issues with their developer experience. There were a lot of bugs at first. There are a lot of not well documented things. But I think we're finally getting to the stage where the tooling is actually good enough to make really cool stuff.
01:01:52.480 - 01:02:03.872, Speaker A: And right now it's a lot of maybe not so exciting apps using that tooling. But I think more and more over time we'll start to see apps that are really exciting start to use the tooling.
01:02:03.976 - 01:02:33.436, Speaker B: As a final end to this conversation, ERC 437 is not even finalized yet. It's not an official ERC. There's just an alliance that has formed around. We're just going to, it takes too long to actually get this done and whatever. We're just going to go ahead and work with this, which I guess is a way to shortcut, but also kind of work around the social consensus. Interesting. Nevertheless, it seems to have enough adoption to actually be a real ERC at one point.
01:02:33.436 - 01:03:00.274, Speaker B: Now there's so much critical mass, I'd be surprised to see if it doesn't pass all the stages, but we'll see with that ERC 437, I think we can make a check mark on Kofi. You also one of the biggest or like one of the most well known freelance data science analysts. That's a, that's a weird, like long word, but basically what I'm trying to say is you're freelancing.
01:03:00.322 - 01:03:00.482, Speaker C: You.
01:03:00.506 - 01:03:12.590, Speaker B: You're not, like, employed like us plebs. We're the nine to fivers. You're the. There's a great word for this. I forgot. When we're the nine to fivers, you're free. You're free, man.
01:03:12.590 - 01:03:44.550, Speaker B: And you posted on Twitter the other day that basically everyone is looking for data analysts, but they should, like, demand way outstrips to supply of good data analysts. And I thought, like, maybe you could quickly talk us through your experience of, like, how do you actually, like, I don't know how, like, detailed you want to go into, like, how. How your funding sources are, but, like, if you want to give us the high level of, like, what it is like to be a crypto freelance data analyst, I think that would be very insightful for many of our listeners.
01:03:44.670 - 01:04:57.418, Speaker A: But, yeah, I made this tweet because, I mean, you guys will have noticed this, that we are in a lot of the same group chats. And usually people get requests from different teams to be like, hey, do you know somebody I can hire for this role or for this role data wise? And, I mean, just in the past week or two, there have been, like, at least, you know, six to ten big teams, like folk with good brands, with a lot of funding that are trying to find an analyst to join and that are maybe struggling a little bit to do it, which is cool. Well, not cool for them, but I guess it's cool for people who are learning crypto data analysis because it means that there are opportunities out there if you like, train up and build a good portfolio and all of that. I mean, like you were saying, I work as a freelancer, which basically means that at any point in time, I'm usually working with one or two or three teams part time with each of them doing different stuff. Sometimes it will be like, oh, this will be a gig where I'm building a very particular product for a team. We need a dashboard that does x or we need some analysis of this specific thing. Give it to us and we'll pay you.
01:04:57.418 - 01:05:43.240, Speaker A: And with other teams, the relationship is more of like a rolling basis, sort of, you know, put me on the retainer type thing of just pay me this amount a month, and whatever data requests you have, I'll just fulfill those data requests, as well as maybe building some longer term stuff to help you monitor. You have some big programs that are going on or some big campaigns that are going on. I'll help you monitor those as well. And it's been cool. I've been working as a freelancer for how long now? Like a year and a half or something like that. A bit more than a year and a half. And it's nice sort of being able to work with different people and, you know, can make a little bit more money than you'd make full time if you're working for multiple people part time.
01:05:43.240 - 01:06:04.796, Speaker A: And I can do stuff like, I'm gonna take August off. Planning to go on a trip with some university friends. And I just told the clients I'm working with at the moment that I'm just not gonna be here in August, which might be harder to do if I was actually an employee. People just kind of accept it if you're part time with them. It's just like, I'm just not going to be here in August. I'll see you in September. You know what I mean?
01:06:04.868 - 01:06:12.388, Speaker B: It's very french of you. I just said the entire country of France is closed in August.
01:06:12.484 - 01:06:28.908, Speaker D: Well, I mean, it's really. It's really amazing to say that, like, you work for part. It's really a chat move that you work for part time for a year and a half, and then you bought your mom a car, right? I remember that tweet. It was really nice thing to do of you. Yeah. But, yeah, it was a great time.
01:06:29.044 - 01:06:47.556, Speaker A: I had some saved up from all the gigs and it was just like, yeah, do something nice. I mean, what's the point of. I mean, all of us have a pretty similar work life, I think, of, like, we work evenings and weekends and holidays. It's like, what's the point of doing all of that if you're not going to do something nice with the money once in a while?
01:06:47.588 - 01:07:40.402, Speaker C: You know, I have some questions because there's different approaches to freelancing. I think one of them is the team reaches out to you or vice versa. You do something straight away with them directly. There's also more public goods style of stuff that I think bundle bear is probably more in line with. And I see the sponsors being the EF and by economy and Pimlico, the two of the biggest bundlers. I think historically, how does that come to be? Is it like you start something and then eventually you ask for potential contributions from these entities? Or is there some high level thing you can share for people who are looking to do some freelancing and are looking to potentially get into this space?
01:07:40.586 - 01:08:24.006, Speaker A: If somebody was starting with freelancing, there's two things to think about there. One, you were talking about, how do you get customers. And then two is just kind of like, what type of work are you doing versus the open source versus the closed source stuff. I think that in terms of, like, how you actually get people, there's like, on the one side there are people who are doing marketing, and on the other side there are people who are doing sales. I think that for me, most of my customers come through marketing because I've spent the past, what, four years or whatever posting a lot of crypto data stuff on Twitter to make a big Twitter account. And that's basically marketing. It means that, like, people who, I don't know will have seen some of my stuff on Twitter and then I get DM's from them when they, like, want a data thing.
01:08:24.006 - 01:09:14.254, Speaker A: Because just like, hey, I don't know that many crypto data people, but I see this guy posting a lot. It seems like he generally knows what he's talking about, so I'm just going to ask him. And so nowadays, I guess a lot more stuff or on the inbound side of things, and it's just a matter of sort of filtering that a little bit because you're just one person. You don't have the time to work with everybody and maybe some projects, bit shady, you don't want to work with them. So make some discretion there. On the other side is like, if you don't have a big Twitter account, it's perfectly fine because you can do sales. And sales is like the whole thing of you make the list of teams that you want to work with and you're cold messaging people or like, you're going to, like, in person events and like, you know, having nice chats with folk, like building, doing the networking thing to build relationships so that you can get that contract.
01:09:14.254 - 01:10:19.740, Speaker A: Or nowadays we're even seeing like a whole other side of sales with daos, right? Because all of these daos have, like, open forums where people can submit proposals. And, I mean, there are teams, I mean, we know there are teams that have submitted proposals on Dao forums to get contracts of, like millions of dollars worth of tokens to do work for different daos. And it's not that anybody on the team was particularly Twitter famous or something like that. They just came with their proposal and they, like, you know, proposed like, this is the work that we're going to do for you, and this is how much we're going to get paid. And then they do some Dao politics, you know, talking to the different delegates or whatever, and get work that way. So it's sort of like yeah, you can just kind of see whether you feel you're more of a marketing person or a salesperson and then lean into one of those two things to get customers. Just being very serious about, like, either you're making a lot of content and you're doing it consistently to market yourself, or you have like, a plan for sales and you're just like grinding, talking to a lot of people, building a lot of relationships, doing a lot of proposals to like, you know, increase your chances that way.
01:10:19.740 - 01:11:07.006, Speaker A: In terms of the type of work that pays to, most of the money that I make is through work that I do for people privately. Like, the open source stuff is actually more marketing than it is income. You know, like stuff like, I made a site recently for helping people see gas fees on different l two s or stuff like bundle bear doesn't make very, I think I have some sponsors on bundle bear, like you mentioned. Maybe those sponsorships bring in like, I don't know, like low hundreds of dollars a month, which is very nice, helps pay the rent, but it's not exactly like, hey, guys, let's like, rent a mansion in France or whatever with this money. Like, it's not life changing money. Most of them, the open source stuff is what helps people to know that you exist because you can post about it online and it's just like, oh, this is cool. We like that.
01:11:07.006 - 01:11:35.812, Speaker A: You know, it's like goodwill. Maybe people will retweet or whatever, and then that helps you to get private jobs that actually pay, but more people will never really know most of the work that you do, because most of the work that you do is in some private company account or private dune account or whatever it is. And yeah, it's just like, you know, there's different ways to do it, but it all just depends on what kind of person people are and the sort of the approach that they want to use and all that.
01:11:35.916 - 01:13:09.020, Speaker C: One thing that we, the four of us have now is this reach that you mentioned and have, like, some assumption of trust from maybe our followers and others who have seen our work a bunch. For those, if anyone's looking to go to freelancing, what I suggest is doing some work out in the open, sharing that maybe it's just penalizing a product specific, project specific blockchain, having a sector you look at and sharing that with those specific teams, and maybe they would like it enough to actually pay you eventually, maybe as a sponsor or to hire you something. But there's this problem where right now we have, I mean, I feel like every week there's a new job with like, quite high pay, but they're looking for like, crazy experience that like five people in crypto have and there's just like tons of. There's just no supply. And I think maybe like having teams push out more like bounties and stuff like this to incentivize maybe public work and having an easy onboarding for people who want to go into crypto data, maybe that would help facilitate this kind of supply of analyst issue. But yeah, and there's also tons of teams that don't necessarily need a full time data enlist and should probably leverage the power of blockchain and, like having bounties in on bounty Caster or something. That could go a long way.
01:13:09.020 - 01:13:29.352, Speaker C: Yeah, I don't know. I wish I saw more of this freelancing for public goods as well. I think once you've established yourself, it makes sense to obviously do whatever you want and you're kind of free to go and do a lot of things, which is super cool. So, yeah, I don't know, it's just a problem.
01:13:29.416 - 01:13:29.712, Speaker A: I see.
01:13:29.736 - 01:13:51.886, Speaker C: And I think all of us are in group chats where every time, every once in a while we have, hey, this job is from redacted is paying 300,000 base salary and they're looking for someone with ten years of experience, although there's been no analyst for basically ten years in crypto. So I don't know. It's weird.
01:13:52.008 - 01:15:12.520, Speaker A: You make a good point about how more teams should probably try and lean into the bounty stuff, not just to get work done, but also to, if there isn't enough supply of data analysts who have four years experience, you kind of need to start incubating people or training people a little, give people a chance who are beginners to do stuff for you and then sort of filter over time and see who's really good and really active and invest in those people, which is, of course, harder than just pay and just hire somebody who is already perfect immediately and will just do everything that you want. But, like, as you were talking about, that isn't really an option for most teams because most people like you guys, who would be amazing team members, already have a great job somewhere that they're not going to leave anytime soon. Or there are one or two people who, maybe a few more people who are freelancers like me, but, you know, their freelancers, they are booked up for a certain amount of time. Maybe they're not available to work with you or, you know, we've got the elder giant class like you know, Richard Chen and folk who are just, they won't do any work for you. They have, they're on a completely different level. They're managing some multi billion dollar fund, or they're already, you know, too rich to, like, do this bounty that you have for $15,000 or whatever. Like, you can't even get them even if you wanted to.
01:15:12.520 - 01:15:22.448, Speaker A: And so, yeah, you got to just sort of build relationships with new people and, like, help them become the next sort of big analysts and all of that.
01:15:22.504 - 01:16:15.900, Speaker C: And I have one last note, is if you are a team and you see anyone building data or contributions, public goods in your sector, I think even reaching out to the people who build it and showing appreciation or even a simple, it's not about, like, tipping or anything. Tipping is like a big plus. Like, even showing that you recognize the work and appreciate it goes a long way, I think, for analysts and helps those people maybe stay in the space more because it can be frustrating when you build at first. And essentially, it seems like not many give much of a shit about what you're doing, although it's not really true, but it's just not many are actively saying and voicing those things. So, yeah, if you are, like, if your data is on a dashboard and just pops up out of nowhere, like, I think it's super cool that you should, you should encourage those people in some way.
01:16:16.400 - 01:16:19.096, Speaker B: I think there should be more tipping. Like, I think it's.
01:16:19.128 - 01:16:20.500, Speaker C: Yeah, no, I agree.
01:16:21.360 - 01:16:49.772, Speaker B: It's stretch, like, extract value from, like, the work that somebody else has done. Like, obviously, like, open source work. There's no expectation. But, like, I still remember, like, the first time somebody tipped me, and it's like, there's, like, a magic moment where, like, oh, I can actually earn money with this. Like, this is really, really cool. I think, like, a lot of, like, I don't know, a lot of projects are, like, pretty cheap, and they're like, oh, yeah, just somebody built this. And you like, I mean, I meet a lot of people at a conference and stuff, and they're like, just like, oh, yeah, somebody built this.
01:16:49.772 - 01:17:29.402, Speaker B: I'm like, oh, did you? Like, what's this? A freelance, not just some community member. Do you pay them? Oh, no. It's like, what are you doing? Like, somebody spends, like, tens of hours to, like, work with your data. Like, you obviously see the utility in this, and then you don't even, like, retroactively tip them. $500. Is $500 really a lot for your team's treasury? Really? It's just like, yeah, not great behavior, but, yeah, we'll see how that resolves. I think there was a good segment on freelancing to all the analysts out there.
01:17:29.402 - 01:17:56.338, Speaker B: There's demand. There's demand for the skillset and the skillset. I think the demand for the skillset is only going to increase as time goes on, as more teams professionalize and actually need in house data scientists. Until then, especially if you're between this, I can actually build useful stuff. I know Dune. I know whatever flip side. I know I can build with this stuff, but people don't really see the value of my research yet.
01:17:56.338 - 01:18:25.616, Speaker B: I have a hard time monetizing. I think it's like, that's actually the, like, I think that's, like, a really hard stage where, like, you just need to put in the hours. You just need to grind. You just need to build your, build your following, build your network, or, like, go on the sales or the marketing journey, like Kofi says. And I think, like, one thing that I would always recommend is, like, specialize. Like, people notice if you're just, like, jumping from topic to topic to topic and you always, like, you kind of have an idea of what you're talking about, but not really. And, like, nobody cares about, like, the highest hundredth analyst.
01:18:25.616 - 01:18:49.368, Speaker B: Like, talking about, like, the average, I don't know, transactions per second on base or something like this. It's like this, like, find. Find your market. Yeah. Don't be commutative charts, of course, but, like, find. Find your niche, find your market. People pay more for, like, people pay more for, like, specialized expertise than just, like, you can do, like, a jack of all trades, especially in data, because, like, a lot of these problems are just solved already.
01:18:49.368 - 01:19:08.038, Speaker B: It's like, I can go to grow to PI to look at the average transactions pertain to saying nowadays, like, I don't need to, I don't need a dune dashboard for that. Or I don't need you to, like, host a whole, like, ref whatever infrastructure on your computer for that. Like, that's ridiculous. So, yeah, I think that's my, that's my final take. Do you want to say something? I think you look.
01:19:08.094 - 01:19:58.260, Speaker D: Oh, yeah. I just had another thought. I think, like, also a lot of people actually, from my recent chat with Kofi, I realized, like, a lot of people prefer to stay freelancing because of the inequality of pay across the global. Like, for example, it's really expensive to hire, like, someone in Bay Area for, like, 200k or 300k is probably some standard for someone with, like, five to ten years experience, but then imagine that money in, like, East Europe or like, India or even Africa, right? And it's gonna be like, what? Like, 30k is really good for a senior engineer. And then, like, when you are able to be paid for, like, you know, equally as a part time gig as anyone else in the world, why you would choose to be a full time and super underpaid. And so I think that's one good thing that crypto is doing with freelancing is, like, decentralized distribute in a way. I think.
01:19:58.340 - 01:20:19.150, Speaker B: Yeah, I think this pretty much finishes up the episode. I don't think there's particularly bad chart crimes in ERC 437 land, since Ko fi and a few of the teams themselves are the only people who have really only dealt with this data. So, Kofi, do you want to call out yourself on anything?
01:20:19.570 - 01:21:19.290, Speaker A: I think there's one thing I can call myself out on, which is that it's not that it's a child crime per se, but I think it is misleading. When people open up a site like Bundle Bear and they see that there have been 30 million user ops, and then it makes it, I guess it kind of conveys the impression that, like, wow, there's already so much great usage and this stuff already has product market. Fitzhen, when if you look at what are those accounts actually doing, like I did in my half year report, you'll see that a lot of the accounts that are active are like, maybe they make one user up in their entire lives and they never get used again. So it's hard. It's sort of like the big numbers are correct, they're not wrong. But it can be slightly misleading if you don't add the context of how many of these accounts are actually doing stuff consistently and how many of them are just somebody did a one off, and then maybe they don't even remember that they have an account on that app and they just abandoned it for the rest of days.
01:21:20.310 - 01:22:00.752, Speaker B: That's a very reflected take. It's like, are you building the dashboard for the CEO and do the numbers lead to look good, or are you building it for the product manager who is actually, like, whose job is at stake if this doesn't get adoption? So, yeah, with that, I think we have completed all the topics that we wanted to talk about on this episode. Kofi, thanks so much for all your contributions to the data space, for bearing the frack of the freelancers, for building with you, and for building all of this cool stuff. And thanks for coming on the podcast. Of course, yeah, thanks for listening to the index podcast. We will see you. No.
01:22:00.752 - 01:22:02.700, Speaker B: You want to say something, go ahead.
01:22:03.040 - 01:22:04.504, Speaker C: I have one last comment.
01:22:04.632 - 01:22:05.128, Speaker A: Kofi.
01:22:05.184 - 01:22:11.660, Speaker C: I worry about your safety, and I think your fire alarm is screaming for help, so you might want to buy a battery.
01:22:12.400 - 01:22:27.260, Speaker A: Yeah, I should actually do that. I mean, I'm in right now because it is. You're right, it is squeaking. I don't even notice it because it's doing it constantly, which is bad. Yeah.
01:22:28.600 - 01:22:47.260, Speaker B: That's a hilarious note to turn the podcast on. Thanks for listening to the index podcast. We'll catch you again in two weeks with a yet to decided, yet to be decided topic. As always, feedback is appreciated. Tell your friends about our podcast and see you soon. Bye bye.
01:22:58.330 - 01:23:06.594, Speaker A: Uncovering public secrets in the blockchain shade bachelor cherry picking liar.
01:23:06.722 - 01:23:08.266, Speaker C: We call them out of state shark.
01:23:08.298 - 01:23:18.880, Speaker B: Clown of Fire index podcast crypto bandaid.
