00:00:25.170 - 00:01:16.360, Speaker A: Hi everyone, nice to be here on outlayers roll up as a service day. Yeah. So hey everyone, my name is Arnold and I'm a full time research analyst at the block. So today I'll be giving a very short presentation about the overview of the rollout landscape. So a quick introduction of myself. Right, I'm a full time research analyst at the bloc and I focus mainly on researching about blockchain scaling solutions. I have a background in chemical engineering at the Nayang Technological University in Singapore and for those of you who are interested, you can reach me via email if you have any questions or you would just like to simply connect.
00:01:16.360 - 00:02:42.400, Speaker A: So on today's agenda, we are going to start with a recap on roll ups, which I think is something that most of you guys in the audience would already know. But because of the divergence in the roll up landscape, I think it is a great time to just go back to the definitions and how we classify them. And then I'll move on to the current state of roll ups where I cover a handful of relevant metrics before ending off with the future of roll ups where I give my opinions on how I think roll ups might develop in the future. So without further ado, we can begin with recap on roll ups. So I said earlier that we should define what a roll up is because I think the idea of a roll up is starting to be used as a common buzzword in the scaling domain. But a roll up at its core should at the very least be able to abstract computation from the base layer while simultaneously deriving its security from that very same layer. And as we begin to see variations of roll ups ranging from data availability modes to enshrined roll ups and even roll ups as a service software starting to appear, I think it is important to remember the necessary features that roll ups are supposed to have.
00:02:42.400 - 00:03:44.254, Speaker A: There are two main types of roll ups, optimistic and zero knowledge roll ups, which uses fraud proofs and validity proofs respectively. They are to be submitted on the base layer for them to be counted as a roll up. Right? So with that aside, this table here shows a quick overview of the existing roll ups in the space today and how we can classify them. So the top half we have what we define as traditional roll up, right? Which are solutions that use on chain data availability. And then we also start to see more varieties, more alternatives such as validiums and plasma chains, that they are commonly referred together as layer twos together with roll ups. But validiums and plasma chains, they actually use offshape data availability. So with the whole concept of data availability abstraction coming in, it has kind of blurred the lines for layer two solutions.
00:03:44.254 - 00:04:51.358, Speaker A: But I think this table pretty much sums it up, gives the clarity that we need on how we can define and differentiate the different scaling solutions today. So moving on to the main part of the presentation, we're going to be looking at the current state of roll ups. We start off first by looking at total value locked or TVL of roll ups today. And I think one of the encouraging signs of growth in the roll up space is the fact that TVL has actually increased over 114% amidst the bear markets over the past six months, where it actually grew from 4.1 billion in TVL to up to 8.8 billion. However, we should know that part of this search was actually due to the arbitram airdrop, as can be seen by the sharp uptick in March right after the arbitram or after arbitram airdrop is token right? Another interesting fact about the TVL here is that 86% of all tvls across roll ups are actually found optimistic roll ups.
00:04:51.358 - 00:06:39.050, Speaker A: And this can actually be attributed namely to the ease of deployment as well as convenience of the user experience on optimistic rollups, and that can onboard and retain users a lot more effectively than ZK roll ups. Additionally, we also know that the four optimistic roll ups, as seen in the previous slide, they actually have launched their own native tokens to incentivize liquidity in their own respective ecosystem. So naturally this helps them capture a larger market share of the entire roll up domain. Now, if we were to look at the daily number of transactions on roll ups because it provides a proxy for the adoption, we notice that it has actually grown by over 153% over the past six months, comparatively to the number of transactions on Ethereum, which has only grown by 44%. This means to say that roll ups are actually starting to account for more on chain activity than on Ethereum. And one of the really encouraging signs here is the fact that optimistic roll ups are now processing more daily transactions combined than Ethereum, at least over the past three months, ever since the arbitrum airdrop. And although this figure has fallen off since the airdrop hype, I would say that generally roll ups are still showing signs of gaining significant traction in terms of adoption, because we can see that although the hype has passed, the overall transaction growth is still generally on a slight uptrend, especially for both optimistic rollups and Zk roll ups.
00:06:39.050 - 00:08:16.534, Speaker A: So the next metric here that is highly relevant is the amount of gas that roll ups consume, because essentially the gas that they consume is an indicator of how much block space that they are actually taking up on Ethereum. So as adoption on roll ups increase, we should also see a corresponding increase in the gas consumption on Ethereum. And I think from the charts here we can see that both optimistic rollups and ZK rollups, they consume comparable magnitudes of gas. And that is pretty peculiar, namely because ZK roll ups are touted to scale Ethereum a lot more efficiently than optimistic roll ups. Right? So where is the advantage here? It should be noted that this advantage that ZK rollups have over optimistic roll ups is only really significant at high transaction volumes, which is not really present today, because ZK rollups only start to show that kind of scaling when there are more transactions being compressed into a single proof. But at low transaction volumes, the main bulk of the gas consumption actually comes from the transaction data, right? So in March we can see that there's actually a huge spike in the gas consumed by ZK roll ups. This is partly due to the civil activity on roll ups such as ZK rollups such as Stopnet and Zkync era, which have yet to launch a token.
00:08:16.534 - 00:09:20.270, Speaker A: And a lot of these Sibo actors are going to these roll ups because they are transacting on them in expectation of a potential airdrop in the future, right? And from the chart we can see that validiums, on the other hand, consume far less gas than both types of roll ups. So validium is a type of scaling solution that uses off chain data availability. And this also demonstrates the impact of posting transaction data on chain on a roll up gas consumption. And that, I think is why we are starting to see a market for alternative data solutions. And the next metric here that I think would interest some of the viewers is the revenue of optimistic roll ups. The reason why we're looking at revenue of optimistic roll ups here is because the revenue for them is public data. So it's much easier to get an accurate account of this data.
00:09:20.270 - 00:10:15.650, Speaker A: And here we can see optimistic roll ups are generating millions in revenue every month. Just so, this revenue is calculated by taking the amount of gas expenditure that is spent on the layer two, we see arbitrary and optimism generating over 4.6 and 2.7 million in average monthly revenue. And these figures are continuing to trend upwards even after the arbitrary airdrop in March, even after the recent optimism token unlock, and even amidst the overall bearish crypto market sentiment. So this actually indicates the relative independence for the demand of roll up block space with respect to the general crypto markets. Something that is interesting here would be the fact that both Matthews and Boba, they appear to have fallen off and diverging in terms of their growth trends.
00:10:15.650 - 00:11:13.010, Speaker A: And this shows how optimistic roll ups, even though they offer similar user experience, similar services, but they are not all the same. Right? And there are various factors that can account for this, such as first move advantage, trade offs in security, as well as the depth of liquidity in the ecosystem, which can significantly impact the adoption. Basically, launching a roll up doesn't guarantee that you will find adoption. Right? It's starting to seem almost like it's like a winner takes all kind of situation. But obviously this can change over time. And this slide is just counting for the gas that is paid by roll ups on Ethereum for posting batches of transaction and transaction data. And we can see that most roll ups are still profitable, including Boba and Mattis.
00:11:13.010 - 00:12:11.880, Speaker A: We see optimism and arbitrum generating 2.7 and 4.5 million in average monthly profits. Right? And Boba and Matthews are also relatively profitable. Obviously this analysis isn't perfect because it neglects the cost of running a sequencer node, which may or may not be trivial. But these profits are also calculated in us dollars, whereas the actual currency being used is ether, which means to say that these profits can fluctuate depending on when they choose to sell the ether for us dollars. Right, and then we're going to move to the third and final segment of the presentation where I give my opinion on where we might see the future of rollups gravitate towards.
00:12:11.880 - 00:13:34.910, Speaker A: I think the first notable development here would be data availability abstraction, right? It's a pretty hot topic that has been talked about. We see solutions such as Celestia Avail, previously known as Polygon Avail, as well as arbitrary antitrust starting to surface and see certain levels of adoption. These solutions offer an alternative environment for transaction data to be posted, both selected and avail. They are data availability layers, independent data availability layers, and they use data availability sampling to guarantee that blocks data is made available. Right, with just a fraction of the safe data being posted on chain. So effectively what they do is that they reduce the amount of data that has to be posted on chain, and therefore it should reduce the amount of costs that a rollout incurs for posting data on Ethereum. And then we have arbitram antitrust, which basically uses a fallback mechanism where it stores data off chain that is secured by data availability committee.
00:13:34.910 - 00:15:02.458, Speaker A: And if the committee fails, the antitrust chain will just resort to posting the transaction data on Ethereum. Like a normal optimistic rollups would. So these are some of the solutions that we're starting to see to address the high cost of posting transaction data on ethereum. And then the next unique development that I think would be the evolution of rollouts as a service or ras for shop. We have oplayer, the host of today's event, as well as Caldera and Slash being their own ras in their own terms, each of them have their own unique focus and their unique features. So firstly, we talk about layer, which I think one of the unique feature that they have is the flash layer feature, where a developer can easily spin up roll up to perform one off activities such as an NFT mint before settling back on Ethereum or another layer that layer might support. This is significant because it can reduce the stress of ad hoc events, right? Because we've seen how gas spikes when there's a popular NFT mint on Ethereum, and that can affect the experience for all other Ethereum users, not just the NFT minters.
00:15:02.458 - 00:16:08.686, Speaker A: So having a flash layer that takes away this ad hoc demand can certainly reduce the stress on the base layer. Then we have Caldera. Caldera's focus is mainly to spin up roll ups with alternative vms virtual machines before settling them on EVM chains. So this should improve the accessibility for developers to build on EVM chains because they can spin up their own preferred vms as a roll up, and then settle the outcome of that roll up on an underlying EVM chain. So this once again should bring about scalability for not only Ethereum, but other EVM chains as well. We also have SDK, which actually allows developers to spin up layer trees on stucknet. And I should note that while this isn't exactly like a roll up, the idea behind spinning up an additional layer easily or conveniently does make it analogous to Ras software.
00:16:08.686 - 00:17:10.896, Speaker A: And I think the main point of all of this roll ups as a service is to abstract the complexity of launching a roll up and make it more accessible for both developers as well as users to assess roll up block space that is much cheaper than the block space on Ethereum. So I think here is a certainty that roll ups as a service have a huge potential to scale Ethereum in the future. And the last notable development here would be roll ups building on other blockchains, right? We have Alpen Labs, which is trying to build like ZK rollups on bitcoin. We have dimension, which is roll up as a service platform as well. That is building roll ups on Cosmos. And then we have Bezos with their own enshrined rollups. Right, so we start off with the bitcoin ZK rollups, right.
00:17:10.896 - 00:18:23.750, Speaker A: One of the challenge that they face right now is the fact that bitcoin lacks a lot of expressibility in terms of their programming language script. Also, Alpine is currently building in stealth, so there isn't really much information on their progress, but it is something to keep an eye out for that bitcoin may 1 day see roll ups of its own. Yeah. Then we have dimension on Cosmos, which is, as I said, like Ras solution, but its main focus, unlike the previous ras that were covered, is more on interoperability. So it's meant to make roll ups speak to each other more easily to facilitate that cross chain or cross roll up interactions. Net tazos have their own enshrined roll ups, which basically means that the roll ups are enshrined within Tazos itself, so they don't actually need to have additional layer to scale it. And this allows the Enshrine rollout to scale tezos without needing to sacrifice a lot of security.
00:18:23.750 - 00:19:07.536, Speaker A: Basically, it's inheriting all of Tesos security. And while these solutions don't necessarily scale Ethereum, I think they are highly relevant to understand and keep an eye out for, because they can provide a clue of valuable insights as to how the roll up landscape can develop on Ethereum. So that is something that is worth keeping an eye out for. Right, so just onto the closing remarks, I'm not too sure if there's been too much content, but there are three main takeaways here. Right. I think if you are to leave this presentation, the three main takeaways. Firstly, roll ups.
00:19:07.536 - 00:19:35.464, Speaker A: They are becoming an integral and inescapable aspect to scale Ethereum. Right. We see more transactions on roll ups combined than on Ethereum over the past five months. And this trend could continue, especially if the bull market returns and Ethereum becomes highly costly to use. Number two, roll ups can be very profitable. We see optimistic roll ups alone generating over 8.5 in aggregate monthly revenue.
00:19:35.464 - 00:21:00.248, Speaker A: And this is just optimistic roll ups, much less to say if we talk about ZK roll ups or even validiums, which have very low cost. I think scaling Ethereum is not only in the interest of the Ethereum community, but like those who scale ethereum can stand to gain as well. And the third and final point is that the landscape for improving and enhancing roll ups is very vibrant and it's diverging. Right. We're seeing a myriad of solutions starting to appear, ranging from data availability, roll ups as a service and roll ups on other blockchains becoming increasingly common and this will all add to the diversity of solutions that we will see that will scale blockchains in the future. So with that I think the overview of the rollout landscape in short is just full of activity and this is amidst the Dow bear market. So I think that when the bull market comes back it will be very interesting to see how all of these roll ups continue to develop, how the technology will continue to grow and more importantly for those people growing the technology, what it means for their transaction cost as well as those running the roll ups, what it means for them to be a profitable business.
00:21:00.248 - 00:21:22.110, Speaker A: So I do think that this is a very robust ecosystem that is ready for the bull market and with that I thank you for your time and if you have any questions you can reach me via my email or on Twitter and I hope that my presentation was insightful and valuable to all of you out there. Thank you.
