00:00:13.210 - 00:00:38.342, Speaker A: Welcome to the defiant guide to Dows, your essential guide to, well, everything to do with dows. If you have questions about what they are, what you can do with them, how you get paid, get that shadow, yo. Then this will be the film for you. It's the usual thing. Me sitting in front of a presentation that I have created for your pleasure. To elucidate this most zesty, zesty of spaces ALP, hit the presentation. Do something great.
00:00:38.342 - 00:01:11.006, Speaker A: If that's what you want to do, then dows could be the way to do it. We should really have changed it to Dow something great, but we didn't because we're not that cheesy. So the world of dows have been in the headlines a lot recently. A crypto social club that cost $8,000 to join just got 100 million dollar valuation from Andreessen Horowitz and other top VCs that was friends with benefits. A new Senate report proposed the government write dows into australian legislation. A Dow paid $4 million for a Wutang clan CD. What the heck is a Dow and what are dows? Here's what's to know about the next big trend in crypto.
00:01:11.006 - 00:01:44.874, Speaker A: Now, of course, dows are not the next big trend in crypto. Dows have been around for donkeys. Years back in 2017, the likes of Aragon were forming governance procedures to govern Dows. It's only just recently that people have fully understood that a Dow can be a really viable way of running operations. And I say operations are not a business because they're not businesses. They're a completely other thing. But the likes of who else? Mark Cuban says this the future of corporations could be very different as Daos take on legacy businesses.
00:01:44.874 - 00:02:11.510, Speaker A: It's the ultimate combination of capitalism and progressivism. Entrepreneurs that enable DAOs can make dollar. If the community excels at governance, everyone shares in the upside. Trustless can pay well. It can pay indeed. And if you're looking at 100 million dollar valuation for friends with benefits for what is essentially a chat room, well then yes, it can. But then excelling at governance, that is a key, key word there.
00:02:11.510 - 00:02:21.478, Speaker A: Excelling at governance. Most dows will fail. How often have we heard that? But some are already proving their worth. And we will get into all of that straight after this message from our sponsors.
00:02:21.574 - 00:02:53.202, Speaker B: Don't let high gas costs keep you out of Ethereum, a balancer. The gas optimized vault architecture makes trading cheaper than anywhere else. Liquidity providers can optimize their fee earnings using the dynamic fee system that automatically adjusts to market conditions. You can also use asset managers to lend out idle assets, dramatically increasing your capital efficiency. Because balancer is an open platform for flexible automated markets, you can choose from stable pools or weighty pools. And in the future, more designs will be created that they don't even know about yet. Check it out at balancer five.
00:02:53.202 - 00:03:30.590, Speaker B: Avalanche is a leading third generation layer one blockchain that has a flourishing ecosystem of more than 200 projects live, with over 100 in the pipeline as well. The latest launch of the Avalanche rush DFI incentive program is the largest to date of its kind, with flagship DFI protocols like AVA, Curve and sushi leading the charge as they deploy. On Avalanche, the Avalanche platform is fast, low cost, and super easy to use. If you're a defi user on Ethereum, you can quickly and easily move your assets over using the brand new avalanche bridge and can explore the ecosystem of Davs. Head to ecosystem Avax network to get started today.
00:03:30.740 - 00:03:50.146, Speaker A: So let's just get straight into the meat of it. What is a dao? Every film about DAOs will do this. They'll break it down. It's a decentralized autonomous organization. But what on earth does that mean? Well, let's actually do the work and break it down. The organization part, that's important. It is a vehicle for agent coordination.
00:03:50.146 - 00:04:17.486, Speaker A: And I say agent and not human, because DAOs could control a fleet of driverless cars, for instance. They could simply turn up, drive, go home, get paid, and deliver whoever owns the car a payment, all without anybody touching them, all done by smart contract. And that's the point of a dow. It's decentralized. There's no central leadership. There is no hierarchy. It's bottom up.
00:04:17.486 - 00:05:20.258, Speaker A: Everyone is equal, and they're autonomous, which means that they're governed by smart contracts. There's more to it than that, really, when we come to the autonomous part, and that's always the bit when we're talking about the dows that we have today, they're not fully autonomous the way that we might have driverless car fleets, for instance. They are, however, governed by smart contracts. And that's to say that the rules that govern how an organization is set up are hard coded into smart contracts, which are very, very difficult to change. And in order to change them, the whole community has to vote on them. And normally that will be done with a lot of scrutiny and a lot of thinking about what is the best thing to do, because you don't want to mess around with smart contracts and you want to make sure that when you set up a dow, the smart contracts that you use are robust, which we had the massive hack of cream yesterday. Again, smart contracts are vulnerable from hackers who know exactly what they're doing.
00:05:20.258 - 00:05:52.134, Speaker A: And if you're talking about a dow that has a massive treasury, that could be deeply problematic. So they're essentially a way for disparate entities to coordinate their activities in the service of a common goal. And that's really kind of the academic version of it. But there is, course, the meme version of this in reality. Hey, Cooper, look at him, so handsome. Look at his eyes smising at you. Cooper.
00:05:52.134 - 00:06:39.882, Speaker A: The face of Daos, a decentralized, autonomous organization, is basically a chat room with a shared bank account, bro. That is the meme version of it. And memes form a big part of the community around know, it's informal, it's let's get shit done. But big money involved, and so big questions involved around how you set them up and how you manage the money. And that's kind of where we get to the principal agent dilemma getting deep here into economic theory. The principal agent dilemma is a conflict in priorities between a personal group and the representative authorized to act on their behalf. So you are the principal, you work in a company, you have a CEO, the agent is your boss, but it could also be you're a shareholder of a company and the CEO is the agent.
00:06:39.882 - 00:07:19.334, Speaker A: Now, you are invested in that company and you have a vested interest in seeing that company do well and you vote on things, and the CEO is then meant to act on those. But it's quite possible that the CEO might act in their own interest and they might act in a way that is contrary to the best interests of you or anybody else. Same thing could happen if you were looking for legal representation. Your lawyer might not act in your best interest. They should, but they might not. Same thing. If you're an actor, you have an agent and a manager, and the manager might decide that there's a really juicy project that they could be the producer of, and they'll act in their best interest instead of yours when they're supposed to be representing you.
00:07:19.334 - 00:07:56.770, Speaker A: And you can kind of see where this goes. This is about us delegating authority for certain things that we do to other parties and then being disappointed and exploited in the actions that they take because we foot the bill, basically. So you can imagine a trader acting or taking big risks and knowing that the major company they work for will bail them out if it all goes wrong. That's the kind of thing we're talking about here. And similarly, you put the money in the bank, you don't know where the bank invests that money. They may not do things that you want them to do. That's the principal agent dilemma.
00:07:56.770 - 00:08:34.898, Speaker A: Dows solve that. They completely decentralize everything, and they remove that hierarchy and turn it into something completely different. So here are some of the characteristics of a DaO. On the left here, you'll see some well known dows, pleaser, maker, climber, Metacartel, Moloch. And these are essentially founded on a shared goal. So you will find Daos coalesce around something. So, for instance, pleaserdao was just a group of NFT enthusiasts who saw an opportunity to really take ownership of the most significant pieces of art that were being produced in the NFT crypto community.
00:08:34.898 - 00:09:00.850, Speaker A: And so they did. And as it turned out, that was a massively successful mission statement, and it gave them a chance to create headline grabbing moments in the NFT space. And good for them. It's already sort of built around people pleaser, who's an artist, female artist. Brilliant story. So they're founded on a shared goal. They will have a multi Sig wallet, so they have a treasury, and that treasury has to be governed.
00:09:00.850 - 00:09:18.718, Speaker A: But you can't have all that money in the hands of one person. So they have multi sig wallets, normally built on gnosis, but there are a few other options as well. So they have that built in treasury. They have bottom up governance. They are trustless. So the organization of a Dow is trustless. You don't need to trust the other people within it.
00:09:18.718 - 00:10:06.670, Speaker A: Usually you have membership via tokens or NFTs. And there are various arguments, pro or con, this model mainly to do with centralization, so that the weight of tokens that you have and the disproportionate amount that, say, a founder might have in the running and governance of a project. It's the same issues that we have throughout crypto. The rich getting richer, the 1% core members having a disproportionate amount of weight. Yeah, if you're doing most of the work, then you probably should have most of the tokens. Dow rules are hard coded into smart contracts, as we already know, and transparent. So because it's smart contracts, you can audit the code, you can see exactly how the Dow is set up and what rules it's built on.
00:10:06.670 - 00:10:37.202, Speaker A: So you can decide for yourself whether that Dow suits your sensibilities, whether it's something you want to be part of. They're highly participatory. Participatory. It's a good word, isn't it? They're designed to allow you to participate and they encourage you to participate. But I think a lot of people probably squat in Dows and wait for them to do something cool that they can benefit from. And they're kind of freeloading, but that's just par for the course, really. The more you participate, the more you are rewarded.
00:10:37.202 - 00:10:57.802, Speaker A: And dows can set themselves up to incentivize people who are more involved. And we'll look at some of that later. If you want to put something forward, decisions are made via proposals. So you propose something to a Dow and there'll be a vote on it. Any stakeholder can propose an idea. That's the whole point. So that ideas can come from anywhere.
00:10:57.802 - 00:11:32.886, Speaker A: There's a great story about great TV showrunners with the writers room. They will often invite the coffee boy to come and just pitch an idea in the room. And most of the time that's shouted down, but they occasionally come up with something cool and that's inclusive and it allows ideas to be heard from anywhere. So if you want to submit a proposal, you can submit a proposal. Doesn't mean it will be accepted, but then everyone will vote on it. And the whole point about dows is that incentives are aligned. So you as a member of a DAO, have kind of gone a certain way already in terms of aligning yourself with the mission of that dow.
00:11:32.886 - 00:12:11.042, Speaker A: And so it wouldn't be in your own interest to act against it because you're a stakeholder, and you might be a minor stakeholder, and it might get political and you might want to prove a point, but inherently, it's designed to align members incentives around a common idea. And if you've gone as far as buying the tokens, then presumably you jam with that. And if you don't, well, you can leave. And finally, they can't be shut down. So the code is set, it's there. And once it's up and running, well, it just does its thing. Now, it can be changed, of course, but it can't be shut down, not unless you actually want to, which can happen because some dows just die.
00:12:11.042 - 00:12:44.238, Speaker A: They just run out of juice. And that's okay. So there are two main types of Dao. You have ones which are built to create decentralized governance around protocols. So Makerdao, Pydao, so these are for open source blockchain projects that need to really be decentralized. And then you have investments and there are other ties, but it's not really worth going into them here. So you have investment in people, in services, assets and protocols.
00:12:44.238 - 00:13:37.746, Speaker A: So in people, it might be an investment in somebody like, for instance, Rafiq Anadol, that you want to just basically support that artist through their career, or please adao with people pleaser. There might be services that you need, like legal services, assets, NFTs, for instance. Or you might decide that you, as a DAo, have a particular interest in metaverse protocols. Anything that's connected to the metaverse, you'll build a metaverse Dow, and that'll be your guiding principle for how you invest. And then people join and add their own investment. Could be ETH, could be something else that they then plug into the pool and become stakeholders in that investment vehicle. Important thing to not be tripped up by is the Dow, which was back in 2016, it was a project that raised $150,000,000.
00:13:37.746 - 00:14:01.878, Speaker A: And if you think of that, $150,000,000 is quite a lot of money. Which it is. And even for the ICO phase, that was an enormous amount of money. Absolutely enormous amount of money. I think Tezos was one of the biggest icos, somewhere around 100 and 2130, something like that. But that's not the most staggering number here. The most staggering number is the ETH.
00:14:01.878 - 00:14:32.146, Speaker A: Eleven and a half million ETH. Just think how much that will be worth today. Eleven and a half million ETH. That is a staggering amount of ETH in today's money. So this was a venture capital fund for decentralized projects. Token holders could vote on projects to receive capital, and they would then be paid out if the projects were profitable in rewards. Who knows what those are going to be? But if you look at it from through today's glasses, obviously a security.
00:14:32.146 - 00:15:32.726, Speaker A: And the SEC, in fact, came out in 2017 and said, yes, this was a security. And even if the hack that we're about to talk about hadn't happened, they would have been in deep doodoo, I am sure. But what did happen was there was a smart contract that wasn't properly audited, and some hackers just drained the entire contract, which then ended up with them owning an enormous number of Ethereum tokens. And that sprung up an ideological debate, which was this, there are so many tokens in the hands of people that shouldn't have those tokens. The Ethereum community were kind of caught. Do they continue with the chain as it is, or do they do something unthinkable? And it actually turned out they did something unthinkable. They actually rolled the chain back to before the hack happened and restored the ETH to the original owners, that is.
00:15:32.726 - 00:16:15.970, Speaker A: Even now thinking about it, that is so extraordinary a thing to do. And it still rankles of the Ethereum community. It's the reason Ethereum classic was born. Because Ethereum classic is the unaltered true history of Ethereum. But the Ethereum that we think of as Ethereum now is the one where it was rolled back to before the hack and then continued. And if you think that the whole point of a blockchain is that it is censorship resistant, it cannot be tampered with in any way, here is an instance where even if it was for the greater good, they actually did do that and set in the process a precedent. They set a precedent and who knows when that will come back and bite them in the ass.
00:16:15.970 - 00:16:51.854, Speaker A: But it is one of those things that it cut right to the soul of what a blockchain should be. And when Solana was switched off recently, during the disruption there same idea. If there is a kill switch on a network, then it's not decentralized, it's just the way it is. So anyway, that was the DAO, but that was then, this is now. So now we're talking about participation. How do you participate in a dow? Because as we said before, it's participatory and you need to be adding juice to the system for it to function. That's the point.
00:16:51.854 - 00:17:13.158, Speaker A: It is crowdsourcing talent to get something done. So there's different ways you do this. But as we said before, incentives are aligned. So a DAO should be set up to align incentives. Most dows are now, it's quite rare to find one that is not set up the right way. And then you get into things like the tools. So we have verification using collab land.
00:17:13.158 - 00:18:07.510, Speaker A: NFT communities are pretty much okay with collab Nan now, but before the PFP thing, I think most people probably didn't even know what that was. But it's just a system for you to verify your wallet and it allows token gated access to all sorts of different things. Then you're going to stake in the DAO using your tokens. So you have a certain number of tokens and often, for instance, FWB runs seasons and every season the cost of a membership goes up. So anyone who was in early, it was a cheap entry point for them. And as it progresses, it gets more and more difficult to get in. And again with FWB, you have to be vetted and allowed in on merit for friends of benefits, they're trying to create, I guess a curated list of contributors and participants, which, yeah, it's a form of centralization, but it's their community, they can do what they want.
00:18:07.510 - 00:18:53.730, Speaker A: Then you get to vote some proposals using snapshot. And we will look at snapshot in a second. You'll get rewarded, usually in tokens, if you participate, if you add value, if you do a task for the network, sorry, network for the DAO, if you perform a task, could be creating a piece of content, doing a website, adding some code. And the more value you create, the more value you earn. As really is that it's a meritocracy, which is one of the kind of core tenets of blockchain is nobody cares who you are, they just care what you do. So this is friends of benefits. Here's a wild website, this one, very kind of chaotic and weird, but this will give you an idea of what friends of benefits is all about, though it won't.
00:18:53.730 - 00:19:18.906, Speaker A: You actually have to be in the discord to get a sense of what friends of benefits is all about. This will teach you absolutely nothing. And it'll just look weird where crypto meets culture. So we're looking at snapshot now. This is snapshot. And here you will see proposals from lots of different projects. There's tons of them on here you can see kind of gitcoin, sushi, uniswap, bankless, dow.
00:19:18.906 - 00:19:46.322, Speaker A: Let's have a look at bankless. We can have a look at the proposal. So bankers currently have a proposal to create liquidity using Olympus Pro. And here you can see 76% are in favor and 23% are against. We've covered Olympus Pro previously, but this is for them to bootstrap their bank token and remove liquidity from liquidity mining. And this is all part of the DFI 2.0 movement.
00:19:46.322 - 00:20:13.780, Speaker A: That's very nice. I hope they get that through. We could also look at Olympus Dow themselves. Lots of different proposals here, but as you can see, the proposal itself is pretty short. And all you have to do to cast your vote is have the appropriate token in your wallet and then you can add your voice to the debate, which is great. And that is how snapshot works. Very, very simple.
00:20:13.780 - 00:20:58.462, Speaker A: So let's get back to the presentation. So order in chaos. The thing to remember about a Dow is it's not a company. A company will give you a contract and say your working hours from 930 till 530 and you have to work this many hours a week and we will give you this much holiday time. Dows aren't like that. I think what they do well is they recognize the fact that people in crypto are able to give an indeterminate amount of time, an indeterminate number of days a week, and they will contribute as and when they can, however they can. And that is very difficult to base kind of project management on.
00:20:58.462 - 00:21:48.714, Speaker A: You want people to say, I'm here, I'm do this, I do this, I do this. But that's not how dows work. Dows are about creating opportunities for people to give more of themselves if it's right for them. And so a good mix of a Dow community will have a lot of different people who at a certain point will kind of spin up and get faster and give more of themselves and then might recede into the background. It's a lot like, I mean, from my world making a film, you have this massive surge of energy where you get all these different talents and people together, and you all work really hard and you all become best mates, and then the film finishes, and then everyone disperses, and then it's done. It's that similar kind of energy. It's just gathering talent, bringing it together for a specific task, and then allowing it to disperse.
00:21:48.714 - 00:22:33.950, Speaker A: Now, during in a complex, multilayered Dow, there could be all sorts of different things, from running events to writing a piece of software. But fundamentally, for the DAO, respecting and facilitating this is key. I've linked here to an article that was on forefront from Jack Fancy at Protein. Wrote a really nice piece on how to Dow, and it gives you some really good ideas about just how to step into a dao and start understanding how the dao is, and then start having conversations and create value for yourself. Definitely worth having a look at that. I've linked it down here below. We'll put the presentation in the description and allow you to view that at your own leisure.
00:22:33.950 - 00:23:07.362, Speaker A: So now we go to the important bit, earning from Dows. Because in many ways, this is kind of a reflection of the gig economy or the task based economy that has sprung up over the last kind of decade or so and has been exacerbated by COVID. People need to find work, need to find ways of subsisting. And in Dows, there's always work to be done and not enough people to do it. That's really the truth of it. And I like to think of Dows as talent nexus points. We used to see this in telegram communities.
00:23:07.362 - 00:23:49.206, Speaker A: You would see people spring up who had talents in meme creation and other things, and it was very difficult for them to get heard or to realize any of that talent in any meaningful way. Dows supercharge all of that and allow that energy and that willingness to participate and get involved, a path to earning. And so there is lots of different ways that you could earn within a Dow. You could be a developer and create code. Community moderation is a massive one. Just dealing with communities, making sure that information is announced properly, and also that spammers and hackers and people are trying to disrupt things that are dealt with properly. You can create content.
00:23:49.206 - 00:24:35.138, Speaker A: This is probably where I would fit in, writing medium, articles, graphics, videos, all this kind of thing. Creating content is actually extremely difficult and it's incredibly necessary. And I'll tell you why it's so difficult is because I think a lot of people can create one good piece of content, but most people can't create another one and then another one, and then another one, and then another one every day, every week, every month. That's hard because keeping the energy to keep telling the message, very, very difficult. Graphics, we all need graphics. You've noticed that with desktop publishing and with medium articles and with YouTube, everything just looks good. So there's a heavy weight on graphics, particularly in this space where there's nothing physical to touch.
00:24:35.138 - 00:25:02.586, Speaker A: Everything has to be explained, everything has to be clear. Graphics are incredibly important websites. Obviously, you tend to see it with pop projects. They have very minimal websites. It's not as important as it used to be, but still definitely a place where you can pitch in administration, just managing documents, managing keys, managing the flow of information from one place to another. That's a huge piece of this puzzle. Treasury manager.
00:25:02.586 - 00:25:45.980, Speaker A: Well, that speaks for itself. And then there's specialized Dao roles that specific to the Dao that you're in. So, for instance, with Pleaserdao, somebody will be responsible for taking submissions for something that the DAO might be interested in picking up. So when they bought the Wutang album, and I won't go into the story of that because it's a really nice video about how they did it. Someone had to broker that deal, and there has to be someone who receives that deal and deals with. Then, you know, if you're a legal Dao and you're specifically dealing in legal questions, then you need legal counsel and people who know what they're doing. And it could be technical having someone that really understands how to architect a specific piece of the code.
00:25:45.980 - 00:26:13.282, Speaker A: So how do you get paid? Well, a reward can mean a variety of different things. A cabin, they say we pay for eligible work, and when we mention pay, we mean rewards in the form of liquid ownership. Liquid ownership, that's a really kind of interesting term here. So liquid, they mean be useful for rent and food. It's a recognition that nobody works for free. We actually have external costs and overheads that we need to deal with. And actually, if you want people to work hard, great.
00:26:13.282 - 00:26:52.846, Speaker A: But they also need to feed themselves. And we can't all just be expected to just work work in what is effectively a 24/7 economy. I saw Cooper lamenting the fact that his work life seems to completely destroy his social life. You got to achieve some kind of balance. And then there's the ownership part. Distribute governance power of the community. In the article cabin say that they were very concerned about the gig economy, which allowed people to be entrepreneurs and to earn doing something like driving an Uber, but they had no exactly zero ownership of the community that they were in.
00:26:52.846 - 00:27:29.354, Speaker A: They were generating, they were the actual, the most important part of the puzzle. But they got nothing back from that. They just got paid the fee. And so that's what this is attempting to address. You get paid, but there's also ownership. So you normally get paid in a downative token like FWB, but there's also USTC, and there's more and more traditional looking salary type arrangements coming on, particularly when it comes to software developers, because you want the best coders in this space, and they're not cheap. So kind of more traditional benefits packages and this kind of thing are being set up.
00:27:29.354 - 00:28:10.940, Speaker A: It's rare at the moment, but I suspect it will become less rare the more mature this space becomes. And so you could be a full time hire in that respect and have, I guess, whatever contract you decide you want to put together. And I believe Aragon has contracts or sample contracts that you can take, but don't quote me on that. There are grants, so you could apply for a grant to do a specific task that's on a list of things that a protocol might or a Dow might need. There are bounties, so go and find bugs in the code. And then there are gigs. So there's particular task based things like we need a website, we need a video.
00:28:10.940 - 00:28:56.680, Speaker A: Then there's source cred, which will reward you based on your participation. So it will track how many messages, how much you participate within the day to day dialogue within a Dow, and it will track that and then give you cred, which will then be rewarded however the DAO itself sees fit. And then there's this incredible thing called coordinate, which was set up by the team at yearn because they realized that they needed a way to pay people properly. It's wild. I'm going to allow my co host here, ALP, to speak at this point because ALP has been contributing to a Dao called created DaO and making videos for them. And I'm just curious kind of what that experience was like for you Alp, as you were working in that space.
00:28:57.610 - 00:29:49.378, Speaker C: Yeah. So I work at a Dao called creator Dao. And this Dao is a group of content creators that came together and created this Dow earlier this year, in summer of 2021. Basically, if you do any sort of content creation that could be graphic design, video editing, memes, translations, anything that relates to content, basically you can join. And as any other Dow journey begins, this begins with a discord server as well. So I joined over just about a month ago, and I hopped in a server and joined the welcome channel, introduced myself. The onboarding experience has been very smooth.
00:29:49.474 - 00:30:00.586, Speaker A: So how does it work exactly? Is there a brief put out that says this project needs a piece of content made, and then do you pitch for it? How does it work? Is that so?
00:30:00.608 - 00:31:33.930, Speaker C: It works like this way, you join the Discord server, you introduce yourself, as I said, and then once they see that you're a legit content creator, they give you a tag, and that opens up the rest of the discord servers to discord channels. And every project, every client has its own discord channel. And basically what you do is you get in touch with the project manager for each client and you basically jam about what sort of content you can create for that particular project for that client. And so far I've participated in like three to four projects. I've created videos, some graphic design, and as a result of that, at the end of every month there's this thing called the epoch, and it's done through the coordinate application, actually. And what happens is, is there you get invited to a coordinate session through your Ethereum address, and you get rewarded a number of gives, as they call it, and based on how much content, how much effort they've put into creating content, you gives to each member of that project. And through that they distribute the rewards.
00:31:35.150 - 00:31:39.690, Speaker A: And what are the rewards? Are the rewards that created Dow's own token, presumably?
00:31:41.090 - 00:32:12.082, Speaker C: Well, it depends on the project. So some projects give their own tokens, or sometimes they give stable coins. I participated in one epoch. I got USDC in return of the content I created. But creator Dao is also creating a native token, the creator token. They're not sure what that's going to be like, what the utility is going to be for that at the moment. So it really depends.
00:32:12.146 - 00:32:33.966, Speaker A: Well, that sounds pretty positive. Well, let's actually take a look at coordinate because that is one of these mechanisms for allowing people to do this. This is actually built by the yearn team. So they needed a way to do decentralized payroll management. So they said on this new frontier, we face new kinds of coordination problems. We need to compensate and recognize each other for the effort and passion we pour into das. Coordinate was a tool to do just that.
00:32:33.966 - 00:33:14.230, Speaker A: We go beyond just paying people. We made the experience of working with Das more rewarding, human and fair. So there's a set of tools for Daos called coordinate, built for yarn. And this is kind of how it works. You have a dashboard where you basically reward your yearn contributors and you say who you worked with and what happened, and it creates this map that allows you to visualize those interactions. And the further closer you are into the center of that map, obviously the more busy you were and that you can imagine the likes of banteg being quite heavily rewarded for that. The epoch is a month, I believe, at yearn.
00:33:14.230 - 00:34:07.194, Speaker A: So every month this is reviewed, and then everyone can kind of just say, well, I did this, I did this, I did this, I did this, I did this. And then they get paid for it, and they get paid in Wi Fi tokens and something else as well. But this is the bankless dow version of that. So you can see from season one of them using coordinate to season two just how centralized season one was and how just a few people were doing most of the work. And then in season two, everything's just spread out and there's just so many more connections between so many more people. It gives you a real sense of how a Dow can scale and how it can grow, but also how this simple tool can allow you to reward people properly just based on the connections that they assess between themselves. So coordinate is a really interesting tool for everyone.
00:34:07.194 - 00:34:54.810, Speaker A: This is the website. I've stuck it in the description below in the presentation, so you can have a look at that. Let's get back to this. So how do you find your feet in a dao? Well, the first thing to do is say GM and vibe with that Discord channel, because every Discord channel has its own sort of weird personality and its own vibe to it, and it takes a bit of time to orientate yourself there. So best thing to do is just listen and listen to how people speak, listen to the tone of the conversations that they have. In a software dow, they might be more serious and more tech focused and in a PFP Dow. They might be more meanie and culture based, but that's about you listening and then conversing with people.
00:34:54.810 - 00:35:29.406, Speaker A: And you also have to respect the culture. Don't just go in and start talking about how this token is going to go to the moon because you'll get shouted down very quickly because there'll be a lot of people who've been there a very long time and feel that they should be respected for that. And that culture grows up organically. Next thing you should do is suggest. Suggest ideas, suggest things and see how they land in a dow. Because if you don't speak up, how can you possibly know? Don't over commit. So don't give too much of yourself too soon because you might end up being disappointed.
00:35:29.406 - 00:35:56.814, Speaker A: It's better to ease yourself in and don't be discouraged if your first proposal is rejected. You can't win every time. And then the other thing is be prepared to walk away if it's not for you. There is no hard feelings here. Sometimes it's actually we want to put a bunch of energy into something and then our circumstances change and you can walk away if it's just not working for you or you just might not get on with the people that are in the Dow. It's also totally fine. There are tons of dows out there, and there probably is one for you.
00:35:56.814 - 00:36:28.402, Speaker A: So don't feel like the tokens you've bought or the time you've invested is wasted, because it's absolutely not. So how do you create a dow? Because maybe you don't find a dow that you want. Or maybe you just feel that this particular brand of toothpaste is one that you want to arrange a dow around. Just know, make sure it's governed properly. So how would you do it? Well, you create a token using a mirror crowdfund, says Cooper. You store funds in a gnosis safe multi sig, says Cooper. Then you set up a snapshot space for governance, says Cooper.
00:36:28.402 - 00:36:43.870, Speaker A: And then you make a discord with token gated access, says Cooper. All of which is free to use minus gas, says Cooper. We should listen to Cooper. Cooper is wise. Cooper's face is everywhere around Dao's. It's almost impossible to get away from him. We actually had him lined up, then we couldn't make it happen.
00:36:43.870 - 00:37:13.240, Speaker A: But we will soon because he has a lot of good things to say. And if you want to hear some of those things, you can check out his podcast with Jason Choi on Blockcrunch. So much good stuff there. And Cooper has done more than anybody else to participate in Daos and figure this stuff out. Another shout out I want to give is to Aragon. They have a huge amount of interesting information, tools, resources for you to understand how to put a DaO together. It is so much easier now to do this than it was even just a year ago.
00:37:13.240 - 00:37:41.738, Speaker A: So people can get on with the process of clustering ideas and energy and talent and money around the idea rather than figuring out the infrastructure to make stuff happen. We can have a quick look at Aragon. Now. This is their manifesto. They say we're committed to building organizational forms that defend self sovereignty. We want to create collaborative mechanisms in which violence is not only disincentivized but impossible. And we want to create long term value versus short term profit.
00:37:41.738 - 00:38:19.882, Speaker A: So all of this stuff is really kind of top level visionary stuff. But at the end of the day, as Cooper said, it's a chat room with a wallet. And really it's about ownership. It's having ownership in something, having a stake in something in ways that weren't possible before. And I don't think any of us really quite understand or know how big dows could be or will be. Kuba seems to think that LLCs, limited liability companies will all be DAOs in the next three years. I think that's ambitious and that's optimistic, but certainly from an organizational perspective, it makes a lot more sense to do a DAO than other things.
00:38:19.882 - 00:39:00.282, Speaker A: But there's still a bit of friction. But this is the Dao landscape at the moment. You can see, oh, look, it's curated by Cooper Trooper, who's that? I told you, he's everywhere. So you have DAO operating systems, you have protocols, services, social Daos, media dows collector Daos, grant dows, investment dows. There are going to be lobbying dows to lobbying governments about crypto regulations, that's for certain. And there'll be legal dows as well. Because when you're thinking about challenges to protocols, what's been interesting is that governments, you would have thought, had all the power.
00:39:00.282 - 00:40:02.474, Speaker A: But as we're starting to see crypto protocols and the crypto community pretty switched on when it comes to this stuff and have very loud voices, and they will lawyer up and fight back, because they will. And it's going to get very interesting because not only will they do that, but they got a lot of money. So we will see a lot of legal dows, I'm sure very specific, blockchain focused legal information. So talking about legals, what is the legal status of a DAO? Well, I can't give you the exact status of that because I don't know, and it's not really my expertise, but I do know there have been some interesting developments on that front. Wyoming. Who else passed a law that allows dao LLCs to register in the state of Wyoming? You actually have to be in the state of Wyoming. And there are other things, like the legal name for the DAo must include the word dao or be the dao.
00:40:02.474 - 00:41:01.918, Speaker A: Smart contracts also prevail in any conflict with the DAO's articles of organization. And yeah, there's a few different things here, but essentially Wyoming, which is sort of one of those states that's taken on the mantle of being crypto friendly, kind of like Delaware for trad finance. It's trying to be a place where crypto can have a friendly home, but, I mean, it's fairly restrictive. And then a 16 Z also published a paper called a legal framework for decentralized autonomous organizations, specifically trying to look at how you would tax dows. Because if you get paid by a dow, then that should really be income and should be taxed, and dows themselves can earn income and they could be securities. There's so many gray areas here that will need to be ironed out. And as fun as it is to kind of spin up a dow and have a bunch of people kind of aping into stuff or changing the world together, there are concerns around the legalities of it.
00:41:01.918 - 00:41:27.894, Speaker A: So at this time, two things are certain direct payments from dows for goods or services are taxable, as are capital gains and losses from the sale of governance tokens. So we shall see what happens with that one. But that is definitely on the. Yeah, this is Miles Jennings. This is the tweet thread that kind of posted this. This is very recent, actually. So this is something else that I've linked in the presentation.
00:41:27.894 - 00:42:16.662, Speaker A: You can have a look through Miles, who authored that piece just to see what they were thinking. And here's Caitlin long from Wyoming talking about this official announcement of a new type of LLC which involves dows in Wyoming. Will other states follow? We shall have to see whether they actually do. Now, I haven't really gone into dows, the famous Daos, like please or FWB in too much detail, because I think you should find that out for yourself. There are so many of them out there, like Pydow, like Moloch Dao, that it's really the work you have to do for yourself. And it's pretty easy to get into a discord channel and just find out or you can ask people. The thing I know about dows is that they really do need talent more than anything else.
00:42:16.662 - 00:42:49.140, Speaker A: They need the juice to make the engine run and that juice does run out and a lot of them will die and it will be a slow death. Gradually people will just lose interest and lose enthusiasm and that's going to be horrible. But it will happen and talent will move on. But if you are looking to incentivize people to come and work for you, then really look for the best talent you can find and then make it really easy for them to onboard. Like Al was saying in a dao. So that's it for this long winded and strange guide to Daos. I hope it was useful for you.
00:42:49.140 - 00:43:16.186, Speaker A: If you have any questions, ping me on Twitter. I'm always happy to talk about this stuff. And we're also know of course, at the defiant about whether we should follow in bankruptcy's footsteps and set up a Dow. Not sure about that yet. Not sure about whether we actually need a token that's up for debate. But it's really amazing to see just that coordinate map of participation in the DAO. So if there's a model for us to follow, maybe it's there, maybe it's not.
00:43:16.186 - 00:43:37.326, Speaker A: We shall have to see. But definitely on the radar. And I think in terms of creativity and building new models for creating content now there is something I think we can really put together a really fascinating dow and maybe we will. Stay tuned. Thanks to Alp. As always, I will see you after the weekend. Have a great one.
00:43:37.326 - 00:43:37.850, Speaker A: Peace.
