00:00:00.880 - 00:00:40.924, Speaker A: Quite a happy experience for we physicists connect to geometers and mathematicians. And I'm hoping we're going to have a very fruitful week ahead of us. Not much more to say, except that, as some of you may know, we will have a distinguished lecture series going on through this week. So that's Monday, Wednesday, Friday, the lecturer, Faye Darker, and today after that lecture, we will have a reception in the reception area outside. So stick around if you want to get together. And without any delay, I give it to Robert to chair the first session.
00:00:44.024 - 00:01:15.544, Speaker B: So, I think we announced the time of the first talk for 09:10. And so I think that maybe it's good that we take that time, because I imagine a lot of people are still going to join online. And so let's have a little break before we start the first session. But anyhow, it's been a pleasure putting this conference together. I hope that we have a very productive week. And I'd like to introduce you to the first speaker of the morning, who is Michalis de Fermos of Princeton, University of Cambridge, and he's going to tell us about the cosmic censorship conjectures in general relativity.
00:01:16.564 - 00:01:52.084, Speaker C: So thank you very much to the organizers. Sorry that can't be there in person. It looks like a very, very nice workshop. So, my title is the cosmic censorship conjectures in general relativity, and I'll try to give an overview of these conjectures, their formulation, and recent work that's been done towards their solution. So maybe I'll go immediately and tell you the plan of the. Of a lecture. So, first, I'll review the formulation of the cosmic censorship conjectures.
00:01:52.084 - 00:02:45.872, Speaker C: And as many of you know, there's. There's something called the weak cosmic censorship conjecture, and there's the strong cosmic censorship conjecture. And somehow the weak cosmic censorship conjecture is related to naked singularities and to the question of stability of black holes. So the first topic I'll talk about is what I'll call called the outside story, which is precisely that the strong cosmic censorship, in some senses, is primarily concerned about possible null boundaries of spacetime and sort of what goes on inside black holes. So that will be the inside story and time permitting, but I suspect it won't be. But in any case, if there are questions, I can certainly answer them. I'll end with a discussion of what happens to a strong cosmic censorship conjecture when you add cosmological constant to the actions.
00:02:45.872 - 00:03:32.514, Speaker C: Okay, so this is the plan of the lecture. So off we go then. Let me begin with the review of the cosmic censorship conjectures. So the modern point of view on cosmic censorship is the so called evolutionary formulation of these conjectures. That's to say, the formulation of these conjectures that uses the language of the maximal Cauchy development. So a canonical reference for this modern formulations is this very, very nice survey article of Dimitris Torsolu from more than 20 years ago now on the global initial value problem and the issue of singularities. But in some sense, this evolutionary formulation of the conjectures goes back to Bob Geroch and Horovitz.
00:03:32.514 - 00:04:37.704, Speaker C: And it shouldn't be so surprising, because, of course, Geroch and Yvonne Choque Bleu were the people who introduced the notion of maximal cashier development, which is so fundamental to discussing any issue in general world, too. Okay, so what are the formulations? So there's the so called weak cosmic censorship conjecture. And I should say that in their original formulations, with slightly different language, these both, both cosmic censorship conjectures go back to Rochopendro. The modern formulation of weak cosmic censorship is simply the following. For generic, asymptotically flat initial data, for, let's say, the Einstein vacuum equations, or more generally, Einstein Mather equations for reasonable matter, then the maximal Cocher evolution should possess a complete future non infinity. So, in discussing the cosmic censorship conjectures, it's always good to have in mind these three Penrose diagrams, sort of for comparison. So this is, of course, the Penrose diagram of Schwarzschild, thought of as a maximal Cauchy evolution of initial dada.
00:04:37.704 - 00:05:24.140, Speaker C: This is the Penrose diagram of Kerr, thought of as the maximal Cauchy evolution of, again, two ended, asymptotically flat initial data. And finally, this is the sort of Penrose diagram here of a putative sort of naked singularity, space time, okay, arising again from maybe one ended, asymptotically flat complete initial gap. Okay, so how do these space times stand with respect to the sort of predicate of this statement? Well, the point is that the. Let me maybe choose a more nicer color. I don't know. Okay. Wow, this is bigger.
00:05:24.140 - 00:06:00.256, Speaker C: Yeah. So this is future null infinity in these Penrose depictions. And in both these cases, future null infinity is complete. Okay, so both these sort of space times satisfy this, this predicate. Whereas what you're to think is that in this picture here, future null infinity ends in finite affine time. So the affine length, in some sense of future null infinity is finite. So far away, gravitational radiation observers, they can only observe for finite time.
00:06:00.256 - 00:06:49.508, Speaker C: And then, well, because they receive information from a singularity, the maximal cochine development ends. Okay? So what we cosmic censorship is trying to tell us is that this cannot occur generically. Now, I should make a little comment. The colloquial sort of description of weak cosmic censorship is the statement that, generically, singularities are cloaked by horizons. Okay? And you'll see here that in both of these examples, right, this is the singularity in some sense, and, well, okay, we'll get back to what's going on here. But in any case, whatever is going wrong in these examples is certainly cloaked behind a horizon, right? This is a horizon. This is a horizon, and everything that's going wrong is safely behind that.
00:06:49.508 - 00:07:42.066, Speaker C: But that's, you know, in the statement that I made, I haven't sort of even mentioned horizons. I've made the statement just in terms of infinity. So the attractiveness of this statement is sort of the weakest formulation that can possibly give, which captures the main point of this conjecture, which is that whatever bad things happen, faraway observers can indeed observe forever, and the theory is predictive for faraway observers. But you might, if you want, add statements of the type that any singular behavior is in some sense behind a horizon, and you might even throw in for good measure that these horizons are future complete in some sense. So you can certainly add such statements. And maybe I'll give some comments later on. But if you want, you can capture the spirit of this conjecture without ever mentioning properties of horizons per se.
00:07:42.066 - 00:08:08.702, Speaker C: Okay, so that's weak cosmic censorship. What about strong cosmic censorship? So maybe I should preface this all that. Actually, these epithets are quite unfortunate, because strong cosmic censorship is not actually a stronger conjecture than weak cosmic censorship. But these names are traditional. There's a reason for this terminology. But let me not try to go into great lengths as traditional names. They've stuck.
00:08:08.702 - 00:09:25.744, Speaker C: So always keep in mind, though, that this really is a different kind of statement, and we'll see this immediately. So what's the conjecture? Conjecture is for generic aspects of the fact initial data, the maximal Cauchy evolution, is inextendable as a suitably regular lorentzian math. So again, we look at Schwarzschild here. So Schwarzschild is actually perfectly fine, sort of from this point of view in any sense that you want to define the notion of inextendability. So maybe I should say this sort of already, that in order to make this conjecture precisely, you have to say what you mean by suitably regular. Okay? And in fact, we can distinguish between three formulations of this conjecture depending on what type of suitable regularity we impose on the inextendability. Okay, so let me, let me, let me try to explain this again from the perspective of these examples.
00:09:25.744 - 00:10:12.628, Speaker C: So Schwarzschild is sort of the paradise from the point of view of the predicate of this conjecture. And the reason is the following, that actually, the Schwarzschild manifold is inextendable in the strongest possible sense you could imagine talking about inextendability for lorentzian metrics. Namely, it's inextendable as a continuous lorentzian metric. And what this corresponds to, sort of physically, is the following. There are two kinds of observers in Schwarzschild. There are the observers, like this one here, that live forever, and there are the observers that fall into the black hole that live for only finite time. And these observers, of course, encounter a curvature singularity.
00:10:12.628 - 00:11:05.860, Speaker C: That's something that we all learn in the books, but actually, something much worse happens to these observers. Namely, they're actually torn apart by infinite tidal deformations. And there's a way to capture that in terms of properties of just the metric, which is, I think, very close to one of the themes of this workshop, and that is that the metric is inextendable not just as a c two metric, but as a c zero. And this is sort of a very attractive property because it sort of gives classical general relativity. If sort of the theory in general was like the Schwarzschild solution, then in some sense, classical general relativity has a very attractive closure property. That's to say, it really predicts everything about classical observers. In the following sense, observers either live forever or they are actually destroyed as classical observers.
00:11:05.860 - 00:11:50.262, Speaker C: So whatever happens to them later is not in the domain of classical physics. They have been destroyed as class names. So this is sort of one of the reasons why this picture is so attractive. And this sort of c zero formulation of strong cosmic censorship is such an attractive formulation. Okay, so, by the way, the inextendability of Schwarzschild as a c zero lorentzian metric is a relatively recent result due to Jans Bierstein. Okay, so that's sort of Schwarzschild. So the sort of bad situation for the predicate of this conjecture is exemplified by the Kerr solution.
00:11:50.262 - 00:12:35.664, Speaker C: And in fact, the curse solution violates this predicate no matter how you want to sort of define suitably regular, because this is the situation where the maximal Cauchy development. So the maximal Cauchy development here is this region of spacetime. So this is extendable beyond this hypersurface as a smooth lorentzian metric. In fact, as a solution of the equations. And. Well, why? Why is this a boundary of the maximal Cauchy development? It's a boundary because these extensions fail to be globally hyperbolic. So, so somehow this is a counterexample to this predicate.
00:12:35.664 - 00:13:00.452, Speaker C: No matter how you would sort of try to formally regular. And this is very problematic. Exactly, because what this corresponds to is a failure of predictability. Here is an observer. Nothing whatsoever bad happens to the observer. The observer crosses the cushy horizon. Observer has not done any local measurements that would indicate that they have left the domain of classical physics.
00:13:00.452 - 00:13:51.252, Speaker C: Yet initial data no longer is sufficient to say what happens in subserver. Because of this failure of global hyperbolicity, they are now receiving information within them. So if you want strong cosmic censorship, the most spectacular way that this sort of predicate can fail is exemplified by. By the sort of curse, okay? And finally, it's worth revisiting sort of this situation here. So I described this as a counter example to the sort of statement of weak cosmic censorship. If we did not impose genericity on the basis of. So if.
00:13:51.252 - 00:14:53.274, Speaker C: If this boundary at infinity has finite length in some geometric sense, then this would violate the predicate of weak cosmic censorship. Similarly, if this boundary here is regular, so you can imagine that this boundary here is actually c infinity, then, like in the Curr case, you could extend the spacetime beyond like this. These extensions would not be globally hyperbolic, exactly, because of. Of, you'd have to receive information from this point, which is open space. So this, again, you should think of, is a violation of strong cosmic censorship unless this boundary happens to be single. All right, so strong cosmic censorship, sort of, is really the statement that these two cases do not happen generically. Okay, so I talked about the c zero formulation, and I tried to motivate it because it gives a very attractive, let's say, epistemological closure to classical general relativity.
00:14:53.274 - 00:15:42.204, Speaker C: There's also sort of a much more naive statement, the sort of what I would call the c two formulation. Namely, that generically maximal Cauchy development isn't extensible as a c two lorentzian manifold. So, of course, c two is where curvature lives. This is typically a much easier formulation to prove, because you can identify c two and extendability, often, not always by some sort of curvature blow up. So, of course, that corresponds to failure of solutions of the ancient equation to be classical in the sort of strict sense of that word. Other hand, from the PDE point of view, this is actually sort of not a very well motivated sort of notion, because the PDe theory of the ancient equations doesn't really see the c two class. That's not a class where you have all posed in the.
00:15:42.204 - 00:16:27.116, Speaker C: So a middle ground is sort of the so called h one formulation, which maybe I'll talk about later on. So this is the statement that sort of generically, the maximal Cauchy evolution is inextendable as a locally h one lorentzian metric. And you should think this corresponds to sort of weak solutions of the ancient. So that formulation really says that sort of, you can all extend, even as a weak solution of the Einstein question. So I'll get back to this because, well, we'll see. We'll have to consider this formulation in view of the results that I'll strike. Okay, so this is the strong cosmic standard conjecture.
00:16:27.116 - 00:17:33.548, Speaker C: And finally, I'll sort of put up yet another conjecture, even though, as you'll see later, I'm putting it up as Strawman's conjecture, namely what I'll call the space like singularity conjecture. One of the reasons is that often strong cosmic censorship is confused with this conjecture. So I'll prefer to think of these as two completely separate conjectures. So, so what is this space like singularity conjecture? This is the statement that for generic asymptotic flat initial data, the finite boundary of the maximal Cauchy development is spaceline. So basically, this is saying that if there is a finite boundary to this maximal Cauchy development, I mean a boundary that's not, quote, at infinity, then that should be space like in some suitable sense. And again, you should think that the Schwarzschild case satisfies this, because here we see that this is what we think of as the finite boundary of spacetime, and it's space like, whatever that means. Whereas the curr case finite boundary of the maximal Cauchy development is null.
00:17:33.548 - 00:18:22.326, Speaker C: So this does not satisfy this conjecture. And similarly, here, the finite boundary, in the case of this naive picture of a naked singularity, the finite boundary is again null. So this, again would not satisfy this statement. So if you want this conjecture to be true, you better show that these are non generic. Okay? So it's not so easy to make this conjecture precise because you sort of, you have to distinguish somehow the finite boundary from the boundary and infinity. Now, there are many notions that have been proposed of boundary of spacetime in general relativity, and I think there are many people in, in this audience who know a lot more lorentzian geometry than, than I do. But it would be very nice to have a sort of definitive statement of this conjecture even though, as you'll see, I think of it as a strong.
00:18:22.326 - 00:19:34.334, Speaker C: Okay, so these are the, if you want the cosmic censorship conjectures. So now let me try to tell you their status in general relativity, beginning with what I'll call the outside story, which is really the story of black holes and naked singularities, okay? And this is connected to weak cosmic censorship. So weak cosmic censorship, what is actually known? Well, really the only setting where we have a definitive understanding and definitive intuition is a very restricted setting. And specifically, it's sort of the results of Christodoulou on the Einstein scalar field system in spherical sim. So maybe I should preface this all by following comment. So, of course, these conjectures are about generic solutions of the Einschen equations, maybe in vacuum or with mother, but without any symmetry. So anytime we talk about, you know, these statements in symmetry, well, of course symmetric solutions are manifestly non generic.
00:19:34.334 - 00:20:31.674, Speaker C: So anytime we talk about proving these conjectures sort of restricted to symmetry, we mean that we only consider symmetric solutions and we look for genericity in the class of symmetry. So in the nineties, dmitristadolu basically solved that problem for the Einstein scalar field system under spherical symmetry. So this is the sort of the final paper. And his theorem is the following. So for generic, asymptotically flat, one ended initial data for this Einstein scalar field system under spherical symmetry, the Penrose diagram either looks like Minkowski space or looks like this. Okay, so it looks like this. So this is this iconic Penrose diagram, which was also, if you, if you noticed, on the title page of my slide, and in particular, all three of the above conjectures are true.
00:20:31.674 - 00:21:10.698, Speaker C: That's to say, future null infinity is complete. And if you want to say it too, then, you know, any singularity behavior is hidden behind this, this horizon, which is also future complete, I should add. So that's weak cosmic censorship, but also this, this is inextendable, at least in a suitable sense. Let me not say the details so strong cosmic censorship is also true. And finally, the, the singular boundary is, is, is in fact, space like. So the space like singularity conjectures. So all three of the above conjectures are true, reduced to spherical symmetry in the sense that I said.
00:21:10.698 - 00:21:54.570, Speaker C: However, he also showed that the genericity assumption is, however, necessary. Okay? In particular, he showed that there exist sort of initial data such that the Pendro's diagram of their cushy development looks like what I've just drawn here. So this is a Cauchy horizon coming from a point here that we can identify as a naked singularity and future null infinity is incomplete. Okay, so this is actually a counterexample, not, not just a weak cosmic censorship, but a strong cosmic censorship. If. Okay, if. Were it generic? Okay, but remember, he showed that generically, you have this.
00:21:54.570 - 00:23:14.104, Speaker C: Okay, so this is really the only general setting in which we have a complete understanding of the cosmic signature. Okay? So let's go beyond spherical symmetry and the Einstein scalar field model. We do actually have a very important recent result on the Einstein vacuum equations without any symmetry, which, if you want, generalizes the second of the results that I just told you. Namely, there again, there do exist, hopefully, non generic naked singularity vacuum space times arising from regular asymptotically flat initial data. So this is a theorem which appeared in several papers of Rodnyanski, Schlapentok, Rothman and Schlepping Rossman. So basically what they showed is that there exists naked singularity vacuum solutions which have this Penrose style. Now, this is a much harder theorem than the theorem of Christodoulou constructing naked singularities for this Einstein scalar field system under symmetry, precisely because in the vacuum case, you can't really impose any non trivial symmetry that helps you in this problem.
00:23:14.104 - 00:24:35.134, Speaker C: As we all know, the vacuum equations do not admit, say, non trivial spherical symmetric solutions. So dynamical spherical symmetric solutions. So whereas this beautiful theorem of is really a theorem about odes, this theorem about the existence of such naked singularity space times, this is very much a theorem about PD's, and it's quite intricately proof. So there do exist naked singularity space times. So our only hope is to show that indeed they're non generic, as opposed to that they never occur. So where are we in showing that such solutions are non generic? So, unfortunately for the vacuum equations without symmetry assumptions, the state of the art of mathematical analysis for nonlinear hyperbolic PDe of this type is that we can only hope to prove things in a neighborhood of very specific, explicit solutions. So we're very, very far from being able to understand truly, you know, open and dense subsets of, of the modulus.
00:24:35.134 - 00:26:06.310, Speaker C: And somehow the reason for this, if you want, is that the only way that we know currently to prove, or to try to prove formulations of this conjecture is deducing proof of that statement of weak cosmic censorship as a corollary of a much more detailed theorem which completely describes the asymptotic stability of these explicit solutions in question. So, to give you a very concrete example, we can say that weak cosmic censorship indeed holds in a neighborhood of Minkowski space. What I mean is that the generic solution in a neighborhood of Minkowski space does have the property that future null infinity is complete. The only way we can deduce that statement is, as a corollary from the nonlinear stability, because space, which is a much more precise description of the asymptotic behavior of all solutions which emerge from data which is suitably close to encospace. So that's a famous theorem of Christodhulu and Kleiner. So, the next window of modularized space to test weak cosmic censorship is in a neighborhood of the black hole solution. So remember, the Schwarzschild and Kerr black hole solution satisfied the predicate of recosmic censorship.
00:26:06.310 - 00:26:58.584, Speaker C: So the next window to look at is there. And indeed, if you want, the mathematics necessary to prove the nonlinear stability of black holes without symmetry was developed over the past 20 years. Based on previous work in the physics literature, with contributions from many authors, maybe I'll say very, very briefly, the sort of main steps in understanding this problem. So, in reality, although this is the nonlinear stability of black holes, it is primarily a linear problem. And most of the difficulty was in solving the linear problem. So, the first step to solving the linear problem was understanding completely the wave equation on Kerr black hole space times. So the first work on this problem goes back to.
00:26:58.584 - 00:28:28.638, Speaker C: The first mathematical work on this problem goes back to a paper of k and Wald, and there was a seminal contribution of whiting showing mode stability of the current metric. And then, as far as the scalar wave equation occur was concerned, then in some sense, the final result is some joint work with Igor Rodnyansky and Jakob Scheperth Rothman from several years ago now, where one showed definitive decay statements for the scalar wave equation on such a fixed background. So you can think of the scalar wave equation as a poor man's linearization of the Einstein equation. So the next thing was to understand the actual linearized Einstein equations on black hole backgrounds. So in some sense, step two, still talking about linear theory, was to understand linear stability of Schwarzschild. So again, this is a classical problem with many contributions over the years, starting from a paper of actually my academic grandfather, Johnny Wheeler, together with Reggie from the late fifties, and they were important work of Tcholsky and Chandrasekhar. And using some of the insights of those papers and some other techniques a few years ago now with Gustav Holzegl and Igor Rodnyansky, we showed the complete linear stability of Schwarzschild.
00:28:28.638 - 00:29:26.454, Speaker C: And this for the experts, this concerns both gauge invariant theory, but also gauge dependent variables in a teleologically normalized double null dimension. This is very important with a nonlinear application in mind, because somehow, in order to prove nonlinear stability, you have to have proved linear stability in a suitable gauge that allows you to formulate also the non linear form. And there was subsequent work of many other people, in particular Johnson, who reproved this in harmonic age, and various other people as well. And then this result was quickly generalized, very slowly rotating cur. In fact, you don't really need any new idea to do that. You can essentially just perturb the proof. And so this was done independently by myself and Holziklibrodiansky, and also by Cuan Ma.
00:29:26.454 - 00:30:27.936, Speaker C: And then there were subsequent works which sort of showed complete linear stability in various gauges in this very slowly rotating curcase by Anderson Bechdel Blue Ma and Hefner Hintz Pasc. And finally, and maybe most interestingly, the full sub extremal case of Kerr was treated. And what you should have in mind is that the very slowly rotated case is just like Schwarzschild. There's really no difference. This full sub extreme case, that's where actual Kerr behavior begins, and it's much more complicated. But nonetheless, there are definitive, boundless and decay results for the Tchkowski equation on Kerr by Schlapitov Rothman and Teixeira Dakorshta. And with this, you can then sort of show complete linear stability results for the gauge dependent variables, also, for instance, in double null gauge, or your favorite well, closed gauge.
00:30:27.936 - 00:31:25.354, Speaker C: Okay, so that's sort of the linear situation. What about nonlinear stability? Well, the short story is that given linear stability, you can indeed, with current technology, prove nonlinear stability. But it's rather technical. So, complete, self contained proof of the nonlinear stability of Schwarzschild without symmetry was given in a recent work of myself with Holzegl Rodnyansky and Martin Taylor from a year and a half ago. So let me just make a very, very quick comment on the statement. So what does nonlinear stability of Schwarzschild mean? Remember, the Schwarzschild family sits as a sort of subfamily of the Kerr family. And in general, if you perturb Schwarzschild in Schuldada, you may end up asymptotically at a cursed solution.
00:31:25.354 - 00:32:38.244, Speaker C: So when discussing the asymptotic stability of Schwarzschild, you're looking for the subset of modulized space of finite co dimension that does not do that. That sort of. You're looking for the subset of modulized space of finite co dimension that does indeed asymptote to Schwarzschild. And sort of from the linear theory, you can see very easily that the expected co dimension is three. So this is the theorem that indeed, there, there exists such a co dimension, three submanifold of modulized space passing through the Schwarzschild initial data set, such that if you're on that sub manifold, you will asymptotically converge to Schwarzschild. And if you're on that submanifold, moreover, we prove specifically that you possess a complete future null infinity. Okay? So if you want, this was the first statement about weak cosmic censorship without symmetry in a neighborhood of a non trivial solution.
00:32:38.244 - 00:33:22.288, Speaker C: And I should also add that our theorem also tells you that the future boundary of the so called domain of other communications is indeed a future affine, complete event horizon. Now, again, for the experts, I may maybe I want to mention something about the regularity of event horizons. So, one might think, naively, that if your initial data is smooth, your event horizon should be smooth. And by smooth, I mean c infinity, initial data. C infinity, event horizon should be c infinity. But that's not actually the case. So the regularity of the event horizon depends on the weighted regularity of the initial data.
00:33:22.288 - 00:34:12.222, Speaker C: So it's not enough that the initial data be smooth, but it has to be smooth in a weighted sense. And physically, it's actually not so natural to require that much sort of weighted regularity of initial data. So, in general, the regularity of the event horizon is only finite. So the natural regularity to consider will only be finite for that. Okay, so this is the non linear stability of Schwarzschild. Let me say very, very briefly that this was preceded by various results under symmetry, starting from the work of Sthullu. I also wrote some papers on this back in the early two thousands.
00:34:12.222 - 00:35:18.150, Speaker C: And Gustav Holzhegel, in his thesis, prove for the first time, sort of stability for vacuum Einstein equations under the symmetry that reduced to a one plus one dimensional system, but in higher dimensions, because, as I already mentioned to you, in three plus one dimension, there's no non trivial symmetry that you can impose that reduces you to a one plus one. More recently, Kleinermann Scheftel proved a result in polarized axis symmetry. That's a, that's a two plus one dimensional reduction. And that that work sort of also had to use the non trivial linear theory that I talked about earlier. Okay. And I should also mention there's a recent extension of these results to the very slowly rotating cur case by a number of authors in interconnected papers. And there's also work of Elena Giorgi on stability of Reiser Nordstrom under the Einstein Maxwell system.
00:35:18.150 - 00:36:31.408, Speaker C: And, well, in case I don't get to the last part of my talk, which I probably won't, maybe I should mention at this point the very important work of Hintzen Bossy from 2016, where they considered the analogue of this problem for positive cosmological, okay, which has various differences, but is also related. All right, so finally, it's important to extend the Schwarzschild result to the full sub extremal range of ker, the true Kerr solutions. And the road is open to doing this. In view of the linear theory of Schlapentorch, Rothman, Teixeira da Kochta, there aren't really any major conceptual issues in going from Schwarzschild to the full, full sub extrema range of current, given the linear theory of Scherpenhoek, Rothman de Scheidak, that's really the deep part. But it's a formidable engineering challenge to write a complete, self contained, readable and hopefully short proof that survives the test of time. So there's a lot of work in progress, and there are various people trying to write up such things. The real interesting case, especially from the point of view of weak cosmic censorship, however, is the extremo case.
00:36:31.408 - 00:37:26.116, Speaker C: So the extremo case is subject to the so called aretitis instability. So this was something that was maybe discovered almost ten years ago now by arethaikis. So this is a funny, unexpected instability on the event horizons of extremal black holes. And it's very general, so all extremal black holes essentially are subject to this instability. Nonetheless, there is a sense in which this instability is mild. So one could still hope that one can still show some sort of nonlinear stability, which also at the same time accounts for the arithaicis instability. And because sort of, when you're looking at extremal black holes, the correct sort of formulation of the result is a sort of result in finite co dimension.
00:37:26.116 - 00:38:35.694, Speaker C: We hope that the setup of our, of our work, proving the nonlinear stability of Schwarzschild, will be useful in attacking this problem. So we've made a specific conjecture in our work, and there's also related sort of work in the direction of this by Teixeira, Dakota and Gilopoulos. And thank you so much and guide. So one could hope that you have this sort of weaker form of stability in this case that accounts for this sort of, for an asymptotic instability in the spirit of this linear arithaxis instability. But alternatively, it could be that nonlinear dynamics near extremal black holes may provide a window into new naked singularity. That's to say, it may be that when you perturb extreme occur, you actually find naked singularities, possibly even stable naked singularities. So this sort of window around extremo black holes, I think, is a very important arena for non trivial tests of weak cosmic sensors.
00:38:35.694 - 00:39:01.098, Speaker C: So, I really think that this sort of understanding, this window of modular space is probably our best bet in, you know, if we're looking for violations or maybe at the very least, more intuition about cosmic censorship. We. Cosmic censorship. This is really the place. The place to. Okay, so, so much for the outside story. So maybe now I'll talk about the.
00:39:01.098 - 00:39:52.494, Speaker C: The inside story of black holes and its connection to strong cosmic sensory and try to sort of tell you the status of this problem. Okay, so, on the one hand, here we have, there is a sort of definitive statement that one can make. And this is a theorem from a few years back, together with Jonathan Luke. And the statement is simply the following. So if Kerr is indeed stable in the black hole exterior in the nonlinear sense, then our statement is that it's Penrose diagram is globally stable. So, the Penrose diagram looks like this, okay? Just like in Kerr. And the metric extends at least continuously across a cushy horizon, just like the Ker solution.
00:39:52.494 - 00:41:04.976, Speaker C: So, if you start with initial data, which is suitably near Ker, two ended Kerr, and you have stability in the exterior in the expected sense, then the statement is that the whole Penrose diagram is stable in the sense that the future boundary of the Penrose diagram is again null. And you can again extend the space time beyond, not necessarily c infinity. We'll come back to that. But c zero continues. So, of course, the corollary is that given the nonlinear stability of the Kerr exterior, then the c zero formulation of strong cosmic censorship and the space like singularity conjecture are both false. And remember, to falsify a version of strong cosmic censorship, it's sufficient to have a whole, you know, to have one open set in modularized space where the predicate of the conjecture does not hold. Okay? So to prove weak cosmic censorship or strong cosmic censorship, you need, in the affirmative, you need to understand a whole open and dense subset of modular space.
00:41:04.976 - 00:41:50.690, Speaker C: But to disprove a version, you just need an open set of modular space for which the predicate. So, okay, so let me just say a few words about this result. So you can think of this result, even though it sort of nominally is about the singularity or the lack of singularity inside the black hole. In reality, this is also a nonlinear stability theorem for the Einstein vacuum equations without symmetry. But it's a sort of a coarse grained. And I apologize for the spelling error. So it's a coarse grained nonlinear stability theorem without symmetry.
00:41:50.690 - 00:42:36.366, Speaker C: And what's interesting is that it can be proven despite the expectation that there is a severe instability associated to this cushy horizon. More on that in just a second. And in fact, without actually understanding whether or not this instability occurs. So it's really sort of a low regularity in some sense, stability result. Okay, so what is this instability? So this instability is nothing other than the famous blue shift instability. So this first was identified by Roger Pedros. And while the sort of story is well known to many people in the audience.
00:42:36.366 - 00:43:00.710, Speaker C: So this is the very quickly, this is the Kerr geometry. So this is future null infinity. This is the events horizon. This is the cushy horizon. And now you can, you can imagine two observers. So observer one staying outside of the black hole. And observer two entering the black hole and going straight for the Cauchi horizon.
00:43:00.710 - 00:44:05.254, Speaker C: So if observer one sends a signal to observer two at constant frequency. So remember that the length of this curve is infinite. So then, as these signals are received by observer two, the frequency of the signal. So the signal will become more and more frequent. So it will be shifted infinitely to the blue in the electromagnetic spectrum for no other reason than the fact that this total length is finite, whereas this total length is infinite. So, naively, if you think that, well, these sorts of signals, you can think of this as a geometric optics type approximation to the Einstein vacuum equations themselves. So you might think that this sort of shift, infinite shift to the blue at the level of the Einstein equations corresponds to some instability.
00:44:05.254 - 00:45:00.464, Speaker C: And maybe that instability, actually, because the Einstein equations are non linear, it actually destroys the Cauchy horizon before it gets a chance to form. So this was exactly the original expectation of Penrose. So this is the blue shift instability. But immediately you can see that there's sort of a little caveat to this whole story, which is the following. You see, when describing the blue shift in stability in this naive way, I'm imagining this observer here. And this observer is sending a fixed sort of signal, a fixed strength, you know, every second as a cool, according to this observer's watch. But if you think about perturbations of the Einstein vacuum equations sort of outside of black holes, then perturbations actually want to decay.
00:45:00.464 - 00:46:19.074, Speaker C: They don't remain constant. Okay? And well, this, this sort of goes back to sort of early heuristic works of price that have now been put on a completely rigorous setting by Angelopoulos and Gaiich, which say that solutions of linear wave equations, at least they decay inverse polynomially along in particular such time like curves like the one that I discussed. And that statement is sharp. So it's not only an upper bound for decay, it's also a lower bound for decay. So the question is whether this lower bound for decay that you have is enough to show that this blue shift mechanism can actually operate. So at the linear level, what happens is that this blue shift mechanism indeed wins over the decay in the exterior and the local energy at the cushy horizon blows up. So if I look at the hypersurface that pierces the Cauchy horizon, then the local energy here of a solution to the wave equation will generically blow up.
00:46:19.074 - 00:47:21.838, Speaker C: Now remember, for a linear equation, that's the worst thing that can happen, namely that you have blow up at the boundary, you could never have blow up at some point here. But again, you might have thought sort of naively, that because the equations are non linear, in the full non linear theory, you actually have walk. So this instability type result goes back in the physics literature to work of McNamara, who's a student of Penrose, and again has been put under complete rigorous setting by Jonathan Luke and Janspersk. However, at the same time, in linear theory, the blue shift is not strong enough to cause amplitude log. So what I mean is that to go back to this picture, whereas if you look at a hypersurface that pierces the Cauchy horizon, the local energy of the solution blows up. So remember, this is at the level of h. One lock of phi.
00:47:21.838 - 00:48:23.672, Speaker C: Phi is the solution of the wave equation, okay? Phi itself in amplitude remains bounded and in fact it's continuous. And again, the first result of this nature goes back to McNamara, and here's even the first time. This statement here appeared in print in his old paper and has been proven rigorously for general solutions of the wave equation on curve backgrounds arising from compact support. Initial data by Anne France. So if you want the story for the wave equation is that you have exterior dispersive effects, namely polynomial decay of C. You have a blue shift effect associated with the Cauchy horizon, which means that suitable derivatives in suitable coordinates, I don't want to explain, grows exponentially. And this blue shift effect is sufficient, severely destroy the derivatives of phi in, in local coordinates.
00:48:23.672 - 00:49:43.360, Speaker C: So in particular, it, it means that phi will not be locally h one, but it is not strong enough to destroy the, the amplitude of C. So now let's make a naive extrapolation. So, if you think of this as a poor man's model for the Einstein vacuum equations, maybe in harmonic coordinates, for instance, then you should think that c is sort of like the metric g, and derivatives of C are sort of like Christopher symbols. So if you naively extrapolated linear theory to the nonlinear theory, this would suggest that the metric g can remain bounded, in fact, continuous up to here. But the Christopher symbols will fail to be generically, at least locally squared integral. So our theorem with Jonathan Luke essentially says that this extrapolation concerning the metric is correct. Okay? So you can extrapolate the stability aspect of this problem from the linear wave equation, which you can think of a very naive linearization, to the full non linearization equations.
00:49:43.360 - 00:50:56.174, Speaker C: And moreover, you can do this without actually understanding what happens to the Christopher symbols. Okay, so let me end with some open questions that these results leave us with. So the first thing is sort of an obvious open question, namely, do this extrapolation also to the instability aspect. So show that if you look at generic two ended initial data in a neighborhood of ker, okay, so we know from the result that I said that the well given sort of suitable stability results in the exterior, then the whole Penrose diagram is stable. And we know that the solution is extendable c zero beyond this null boundary. Show that generically it is inextendable in h one log. And this audience knows, of course, much better than I do that well.
00:50:56.174 - 00:51:34.454, Speaker C: Okay, so there are two difficulties in this problem. One is analytic, this sort of. Okay, show in suitable coordinates, similar blow up results that you have for the linear, for the pure linear theory. Okay, so extrapolate that somehow to the nonlinear theory. So that's the analytic difficulty. But we all know that showing inextendability results in lorentzian geometry is difficult, okay? And in general, I don't know of any inextendability results in this, in this class, specifically in this class. But I hope that I've argued that this class is very natural from the PDE point of view.
00:51:34.454 - 00:52:10.740, Speaker C: And so this statement would tell us that the formulation strong cosmic censorship is true, restricted to a neighborhood of the kerfal. And there's a lot of work under symmetry that, unfortunately, I don't have time to talk about, due to Israel, Poisson, Ori, some old work of myself, Luke. Ok. And recent work of van der Morte. So very quickly, another open question. So we've identified an open set in the marginalized space such that the whole singular boundary is null. And actually, our theorem is a little bit stronger.
00:52:10.740 - 00:53:08.016, Speaker C: It tells us that any space time that settles down to current, and it's expected that the generic vacuum spacetime will either disperse or settle down to finally, many cursed solutions. So any such spacetime will have a piece of its boundary null. So this is also, in some sense, a corollary of our theorem. So that leaves it completely unknown. Is there any part of the space time boundary which is space like for some open in modularized space set of vacuum for these space? So it's a little bit ironic. It used to be thought that generically, space time singularities are null. So, in view of these results, we know that there exists open sets and modules space for which the entire boundary is null.
00:53:08.016 - 00:54:18.876, Speaker C: We are yet to see any open set in modularized space for which even part of the space time bound is space. So that's a very important open question to resolve. There's also the question of the case of asymptotically Schwarzenegger extremal. Let me skip that, and let me just end with this open question. So, in two ended gravitational collapse, I've showed you open sets of modulized space for which the entire boundary of spacetime is null. What about one ended gravitational collapse? Can that also happen? That's to say, in one ended gravitational collapse, can it be the case that the entire boundary of spacetime is null? Can it be the case that there's a cushy horizon like this that closes off the spacetime? Or can you somehow exclude this? Is there necessarily a piece of space like boundary? Because if you believed in this statement, then this would be, in particular a place to look for open sets in modularized space with part of the boundary space. So I just wanted to say that there's a recent advance on this question, but restricted to symmetry.
00:54:18.876 - 00:55:15.850, Speaker C: So there's a spherically symmetric model, Einstein Maxwell's gator field model, for which you can actually study this. And in a recent, very nice work of Vante Mortel, he's able to show that in his model, you can exclude this behavior. So let me just end with this. So, I started with this picture on my title page, and this is really an iconic picture of gravitational collapse. But there's still, as I hope to explain a lot that we don't understand about sort of singularities in particular. We don't know at all if there are ever open sets in modular space where part of the singularity is space like. But one thing that we do know is that the structure of spacetime around this point does not look like what's depicted here.
00:55:15.850 - 00:55:37.678, Speaker C: That necessarily there will be at least a null piece of the signal boundary. So. So it's about time to finally retire this iconic picture and maybe make some progress on some of the open problems that I mentioned. All right, sorry to go two minutes over. Let me end there. Thank you very much for your attention.
00:55:37.846 - 00:55:38.254, Speaker B: Thank you.
