00:00:01.840 - 00:01:09.868, Speaker A: Thanks guys for having me. Yeah, so I think like, you know, it's a apt, you know, slide after Mustafa just presented is that, you know, this, what we are talking about is, I'm not sure how many of you guys have heard about the Polygon AG layer, but this is basically, we believe is the next step or, you know, standing on the shoulders of modularity. The next stage is aggregation and that is what Polygon has been working on and I will go through that. So this is like the mission of Polygon is this quest for this infinite network. Because like in the blockchain space we have, you know, typically the infra has been a very investable asset class for the VC's, crypto VC's and all that. And the chains, l one chains, if you can have the next Ethereum killer and all that. This has always been a theme for the VC investments and all that.
00:01:09.868 - 00:01:51.440, Speaker A: And anytime a new chain comes up and they will be like, okay, we have this much TPS, we have 500. It started with like, you know, polygon Pos itself, you know, did like 200, 300, 400 tps back in the day. Then you had like, okay, we will have 10,000 DP's. Somebody would say we would have 50,000 DP's, 100,000 DP's. Like now there are claims of 150,000 DP's on one single chain. The point is that no matter what constant number you talk about, that this big chain, and you can crank up a particular state machine, no matter how much you crank it up, it still is not enough. If we all expect the web3 to go mainstream.
00:01:51.440 - 00:03:11.116, Speaker A: And I can tell you that because all these instagrams and reddits and all these nfts, they live on polygon, like all of these stuff. And we used to talk about Instagram when they were going to mint nfts and they'd be like, even if we make it free to use or open to use in the smallest geographies of Instagram worldwide, it will choke not only polygons chain, but all the chains that were existing at that point in time. So point is that these shared fixed capacity chains are not the answer for this. The answer is like an infinitely growing network. Like how about 1 million dps? How about 10 million DP's? Or I would even say, and you will see in the coming three, four years, you would probably start seeing not like three, four, five years, but maybe over time, like, you know, probably a billion DP's on these chains, at least the capacity on the front and you know, currently when we talk about this monolithic scalability, it is like always, like some number, constant and constantly. We started with bitcoin 710 today, these days Solana is very popular, 3500 DP's on some of the days they are able to clock polygon. Pos also consistently clocks like 100 7200 DP's and generates a large amount of fees.
00:03:11.116 - 00:04:01.686, Speaker A: But it's still a constant number. So how do we prepare the web3 infra for the Internet scale adoption. And on the Internet, like, you know, just to give you a simple analogy, is that, you know, when you landed in Brussels, you are not looking for Brussels Internet to connect into, right? You, you came in here, you brought some telecom package and boom, you are connected to the global Internet. And this is not true for the blockchains today. If you are on polygon, PoS or arbitrum or optimism or Solana and all that, you are in some silo. And then if you want to use an application on some other blockchain which you like, let's say you wanted to use polymarket on polygon, which is very popular these days because of the us elections. And you have your assets on Ethereum, Mainnet, you have to bridge.
00:04:01.686 - 00:04:48.270, Speaker A: If you are on Arbitrum or Solana, you have to bridge using some third party bridge and then you can use those applications. The Internet doesn't work that way. I just connect on my phone and I can connect to any application available to me anywhere in the world, whether it is on, it is built by a team in Iceland or Japan or wherever. How do we prepare web3 for the Internet scale? And it needs to have these two things, like first and that modularity, modular structure as Mustafa was presenting, that enables that. It's not like fighting for the same set of users across all the blockchains. It achieves practically infinite DP's. As many chains you can have, you can have infinite DP's.
00:04:48.270 - 00:05:34.920, Speaker A: Especially some of the modular designs using data availability. But let's say if you start using ZK also, then data availability for the ZK chain validiums, data availability on something like what I'm going to talk about, like on Ag layer, data availability becomes also infinitely scalable. That means the chains can use any data availability layer that users or the developers want to use. So practically infinite TPS come from this modular design. But then you run into the issues of fragmentation, which is we were talking that users have to bridge the funds and all that. So how do we solve these two issues? Both, because both are important to take the web3 to the Internet scale. And that's where we, what we are building.
00:05:34.920 - 00:06:12.370, Speaker A: That is like we call Ag layer, the aggregation layer. And what AG layer is aglaya is this neutral decentralized service, which is a pay as you go service. I'll talk more about that. That enables the safe interoperability between the connected chains and also unifies the liquidity. And when I say the safe interoperability, some people might is it like a bridge? It's an infrastructure on top of which bridges are building. It's more of a. I think of AG layer as more of a blockchain of blockchains where there are multiple sovereign blockchains.
00:06:12.370 - 00:06:40.280, Speaker A: You can think of it as in a very weird analogy. You can think of all these chains connected into the AG layer in a way that is, those are, can be called shards, but they are actually not really shard. They are all sovereign chains. And that is one of the biggest unlocks of Ag layer, that any chain connected into the AG layer, they can be completely sovereign. They can choose. And Mustafa was also mentioning like vms, they can choose their own vm. Like, they don't need to be EVM.
00:06:40.280 - 00:07:22.110, Speaker A: They can be, you know, we ourselves are building, for example, opt in privacy plus high throughput vm, which is maiden, Vmdez. Many of you guys would have heard about that. So it enables the developers to choose any kind of VM. You could choose arbitram, orbit, optimism, stack, any other stack, sovereigns, SDK, whatever stack you want to use. You can use that stack to still connect into the Aglaya and connect into this larger Internet or this web, three Internet. And the thing is that you can choose any decentralization profile. You can have a fully decentralized layer, one like near protocol, which is connecting into Ag layer.
00:07:22.110 - 00:08:03.418, Speaker A: You can have a single sequencer, you can have like privacy enabled chain. Anything can connect into Aglaya. And then that makes it. And the users on that chain become like interconnected across all the chains. So the end goal for Aglaya is that all these chains combined feel like one single chain. And what is the offering of Ag layer is like the most important thing is it offers a safety guarantee for all the chains that are connected into it. With obviously that once you have that safety guarantee, these chains can interoperate with each other natively.
00:08:03.418 - 00:08:28.768, Speaker A: When I say interoperate, it's not about. And again, I want to go back to the Internet analogy. In the Internet previously, it used to be an. If you see, that's why it's called Internet. It's a connection of multiple local networks, like lans, vans and so many other smaller networks. This is basically the interoperability. The current Internet is the Internet of information.
00:08:28.768 - 00:09:21.976, Speaker A: The data can seamlessly flow from one place to another. The Internet that we all are trying in the crypto industry to build is this Internet of value, where the value can seamlessly flow across any of these chains easily. So that's where like, you know, I mean, although this meme is like very misused in or abused in crypto, like this TCP IP of this. But if you look at like ag layer a little bit deeply, you would realize that this is something similar to like a fat TCP IP actually, that protocol that can be like a small part in the wheel. Still, these blockchains who are actually having distribution to the users, they will play a much larger role. But there is a small part of the, an essential part of the entire infrastructure. That's where, that's how we are trying to build aglaya, as that, the minimally value extractive.
00:09:21.976 - 00:10:11.310, Speaker A: This is the part like I wanted to mention that there are some architectures we are thinking about. Like in crypto industry, there are multiple architectures being thought like that, where the interoperability can be achieved. But many of them are like, you know, currently in terms of their economic architecture, they are like rent seeking. That means you have to offer x percentage of your revenue of the sequencer to that chain. And for an app builder, it's super hard to kind of like think like, okay, especially when the app is well funded and they feel that there's a large, there's a big future for them in the future. It's very hard for them to commit x percentage of their chains fees continuously to a platform and all that. Whereas on AG layer we are completely agnostic to this.
00:10:11.310 - 00:11:34.430, Speaker A: If a developer wants to use a very highly high quality vm and wants to pay for it, it's absolutely great. For example, Arbitrum orbit offers a very good. Mustafa was mentioning stylus and other features. It's a great software to run their chains and for them, like vc developers are willing to pay fees. The thing is, for Ag layer, it does not matter which stack they are using and what is the revenue share on their sequencers or other part of their ecosystem. AG layer simply intends to provide them a simple and straightforward interoperability, which is safe and the value can move around easily. And some of the other benefits of AG layer is obviously these tokens can have native tokens, they have safe cross chain transactions, and then some of the functionality the bridge and call functionality that Aglaya offers, which also allows if you are actually a chain builder and you connect into the AG layer properly with the unified liquidity, then any of the chain, if any chain in the ecosystem, let's say OKX chain or polygon POS, which is like shortly will connect into the ag layer.
00:11:34.430 - 00:12:34.460, Speaker A: Any chain is connected to an exchange, then that means all the chains are connected. Because if users want to withdraw funds to that chain, you can simply use that bridge and call functionality and then move your funds from that exchange to the chain that you are on. So basically the binance chain, let's say if it is connected to polygon Pos, you want to move your funds from chain XyZ, which is a gaming chain, you can simply move your funds with, assuming binance provides adds that functionality, you can move your fund directly from binance to your own chain natively. So those kind of functionalities, unified liquidity, I already talked about that. On all of these chains, the value can flow without any foundations of liquidity. Many of you guys who use these third party bridges, they know that these bridges will have the bridges have to maintain the liquidity on both the sides. And if you want to move the funds, if the bridge runs off the liquidity on the other side, you cannot move the funds.
00:12:34.460 - 00:13:20.528, Speaker A: Whereas on ag layer, if the chains are natively connected into ag layer, what, how we are building this is that the liquidity is free flowing. Like you can move infinite number of tokens safely from one chain to another without the bridge or the shared bridge maintaining liquidity or needing additional liquidity provisioning on those chains. And if you want to dig more into that, definitely discuss more about that. And then this is the high level architecture of ag layer. It is like right now the v zero is available on Ethereum. There are like few chains, four, five chains are connected into it. But in future, once it docks out of the Ethereum main chain, then it's going to be a much lower cost.
00:13:20.528 - 00:14:34.150, Speaker A: Like the layer where all these chains can connect into the ag layer. They have two kinds of proofs. We have come up with this proof, which we call pessimistic proof, which is more of a proof of that chains are not misbehaving with each other. And then if you want to secure as a user, if you want to be safe from the sequencer misbehavior, then you can add full execution proofs. And for that, you guys know, like, I mean, Polygon ZK is generally considered in terms of research and all is like one of the leading firms in the space. And this like with our type one provers on EVM, type one, type two, and other kind of provers like SP one, for example with Mustafa Stauffing is also built on polygon technology called Planky three. So it's essentially like SP one is a library which enables you, if you have a rust code, you can take any rust code and pass it through SP one, and it generates you a proof on the other side, prover on the other side, and Sonki three proving libraries from Polygon is like, generally it looks like the industry is converging towards that.
00:14:34.150 - 00:15:13.862, Speaker A: We see already a lot of protocols, even the ZK protocols itself like slowly converging into that. So, yeah, so I mean, that proving system, anybody can use pessimistic proof as a baseline. And then if you want for the chain misbehavior across each other, and if you want to the users, if you want to secure your users from even the sequencer misbehavior, then you can use the full execution proofs. So that is the rough architecture of Ag layer. We can, if you want to look deeper into it, you could go into the documentation. So roughly, that's the whole idea here. AG layer plus Polygon CDK.
00:15:13.862 - 00:16:02.164, Speaker A: Polygon CDK here is a descriptor term for you using any chain. But in future you would be able to use op stack, hopefully arbitrum orbit and any other interesting stack, or for that matter any chain like you could fork like Polygon, POS chain or Ethereum mainnet itself, launch your chain and connect into the Ag layer. All of those functionalities should be easily possible with Ag layer. Currently we offer Polygon CDK only, but together they could achieve, as I said, the quest for infinity infinite DP's, which we need if we want defi gaming. All of these like mass use cases to grow. So unlimited scalability, unified liquidity, that's the mission of Polygon and that's the mission of Aglaya. I rest my case here.
00:16:02.164 - 00:16:02.700, Speaker A: Thank you.
