00:00:12.010 - 00:00:42.486, Speaker A: All right, pleasure to be here. My name is Yat. I'm chairman of Animoca Brands. My talk today is about introducing Asia and the opportunity. Part of the reason why I'm doing this is because I felt that most of the world didn't actually know what was really happening in our part of the world, and particularly on the regulatory side and what it might mean for companies here that are building in this space. So let me first explain first, the regulatory climate in Asia is completely different than what you see particularly in US. And to a lesser extent, Europe.
00:00:42.486 - 00:01:21.350, Speaker A: I think Europe is obviously more progressive than the US. Japan has made Web Three in the metaverse parts of its national agenda. Obviously, Singapore has been driving it forward. Hong Kong in particular has been pushing forward Web Three in a really, really big way. And also Southeast Asia is basically sweeping, really, if you think about it, is, I think, responsible for almost 50% of all the growth that we're seeing basically in the sort of general crypto Web Three market over the last two years. So these are stats that often aren't really talked about a lot, but let's go into some of the details. And of course, here, India, Thailand, Vietnam, and so on are amongst the largest places in which cryptocurrency is being used, which are some very particular reasons behind that.
00:01:21.350 - 00:02:30.710, Speaker A: Okay, so let's talk about Hong Kong, which is, I think, where I'm based and what's happening in that space, because a lot of people look at Hong Kong and say, oh, isn't it part of China? Is it sort of restricted with crypto? And so on. And it's actually quite the opposite. I'm part of the Web Three task force, which is basically designed to help bring companies into Hong Kong that are basically building in Web Three. Just to illustrate, the HKMA, which is the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, about a month ago sent a notice to all the big banks in Hong Kong like HSBC and Standard Chartered and those guys, and said you have to open bank accounts for crypto companies. It's the only probably regulator in the world that has done this. For instance, as an example, and this started really in November last year, where the government went up and said they wanted to become a leader in the virtual asset space and over the very short period of time, basically has issued tokenized green bonds, has about six crypto ETFs out there. HSBC, which is basically Hong Kong's biggest bank and one of the biggest banks in the world, now has the ability to you can now buy basically crypto ETFs at HSBC, for instance, in Hong Kong, has already given out licenses for exchanges.
00:02:30.710 - 00:03:45.966, Speaker A: It's gone completely full on in terms of adopting basically sort of crypto. And Web Three, the retail trading framework is also interesting because as of June this year, 16 tokens have been approved for retail trading in Hong kong, not just the big ones, but including some metaverse tokens like sand and AXS, for instance, and amongst other things. So this has been a complete about face, and we'll talk about why that's so important and why you should be paying attention to this. Now, this is the interesting part that a lot of people get confused about, because in the same week when Hong Kong released their sort of sort of crypto token retail trading, beijing released their Web Three white paper in which they basically indicated that Web Three is the future of the Internet. They didn't mention any crypto, but it happened just to be in that same week and where they basically were directing towards innovation, put out budget towards basically progressing in Web Three in China. And of course, there was also a notice on Hong Kong because on national TV, for those of you who know about China, CCTV is basically the national official broadcaster. It's a little bit like I mean, it's not a good example, but like, the BBC maybe in the UK was basically talking about the ability to buy Bitcoin in Hong Kong through sort of a regulatory manner.
00:03:45.966 - 00:04:21.994, Speaker A: So every Chinese person basically in China got to see this. So this is interesting because it's not really just about what's happening in Hong Kong. It's really a message that's coming from, you could say, high above, as it were, and Hong Kong wouldn't do anything without the approval of China. So there's some bigger moves happening here. And of course, just to sort of top it off, apefest is actually coming to Hong Kong in November, just in case you cared. All right, now let's talk about why Asia is so forward on Web Three and why it matters so much. So, first of all, you already noticed, but it's worth reiterating, web Three is about property rights.
00:04:21.994 - 00:04:54.966, Speaker A: Basically, the whole framework is that you have the ability to own the piece of essentially the web or your digital assets or your data, as it were. And it has with it a very strong capitalist framework. And one of the main reasons why there's so much push on Web Three in Asia is partially because of the pro capitalist narrative that exists in Asia. We can already see this narrative already in things of NFTs. Like last year, for instance, $24 billion worth of NFTs were sold in a bear market. But what's important isn't the $24 billion. What's important is that 90% or more of that value went to creators and owners of these NFTs.
00:04:54.966 - 00:05:37.490, Speaker A: In contrast, something like Spotify only paid about seven to $8 billion in that same year, which basically represents a very small percentage of the kind of income that was generated. So property rights already in the digital space demonstrate the kind of capital appreciation that you can have and the value. Now, this is a narrative that has been very true for Asia and is also what we believe is true for Web Three, which is the kind of countries that have low property rights, have very low GDPs, very low income, and the kind of countries that have very high property rights, say, like France or like the UK. Or US. Have very high GDPs and do typically very well. And the same narrative basically would apply. Basically, we think in web3, when you happen to own property rights for your digital assets, you have high income potential.
00:05:37.490 - 00:06:20.178, Speaker A: And if you have no property rights, like with Facebook or with Meta or those on, then you have very low property rights and no ability because you can't rent them, you can't sell them, you can't do anything with it, you have no freedom to transact. This is a very big narrative for Asian countries in terms of why it matters to them so much. Because in the past I'll give you this example. For Korea, the introduction of property rights in the physical space and eventually in the digital space, and also introduction of sort of, you could call them democratic principles has actually led to this economic miracle over the last 30, 40, 50 years in Asia. South Korea is a poster child example, but the same is true for Japan. The same is true for China. The same is true for Southeast Asia.
00:06:20.178 - 00:07:03.330, Speaker A: It's worth noting that it was only 40 or so years ago that South Korea's economy was smaller than that of North Korea because North Korea had natural resources, north Korea had a bigger population, and generally speaking was just doing better. So what was different about South Korea because they didn't have resources, they didn't have oil, they didn't have anything like this. They had, of course, natural resources in terms of people. They basically introduced democratic frameworks. They actually had the Declaration of Property Rights, they introduced capitalism. And over a course of period of time, despite the little sort of bumps on the road, basically, Korea is now the twelveTH or 13th largest GDP in the world. And if you look at Japan, and if you look at Singapore, and if you look at other Southeast Asian countries, they've all experienced the same.
00:07:03.330 - 00:08:01.670, Speaker A: The point I'm making here is that within living memory, people in Asia have witnessed this meaning. My parents have come from an environment that had nothing to an environment where they were able to benefit from property rights and capitalism. So they understand this and they appreciate this. Korea, of course, also is an example, and this is true for Asia as well, is now one of the largest gaming markets and is basically the fourth largest gaming market in the world in the virtual digital space, which I'll get to how that relates to Asia. And of course, the other important thing is that for the next decades to come, most of the global growth will come from the Asian region. It's not just because of population growth, it's because of basically the way that sort of growth is happening in terms of the economy and, of course, the welcoming sort of perspectives on capitalism. So 70% of global growth this year is expected to come from the Asian region, basically just lifting the entire sort of market up, which would include, of course, crypto.
00:08:01.670 - 00:08:44.434, Speaker A: This is in stark contrast from what we're seeing in places like America. So there's a very strong negative crypto narrative among certain people in America, and this has a lot to do with, we think, a lot to do with the inequity. So even though Asia has experienced inequity as well, broadly speaking, they have benefited from the introduction of capitalism, whereas for a lot of young Americans, they have not really witnessed any of the benefits of capitalism, as perhaps their parents have over the last 20 or 30 years, it hasn't worked for them. Which is why there's been this rising tide of sort of this socialist narrative that's been going on in the US. And we won't go into the politics around it. But the main point being that because capitalism hasn't worked that well in the US. Crypto represents a kind of digital capitalism as well.
00:08:44.434 - 00:09:18.554, Speaker A: And so there's a perspective around that that doesn't work for them so well. And when you look people at Wen Lambeau and Bitcoin and so on, all these things translate into sort of this sort of, I guess, sort of tasteless direction of the kind of wealth that they can never apparently attain. The American Dream in Asia is much more alive and well than it is in America. Now, this would be something unthinkable, perhaps, to think about 20 years ago, but that's the perspective. And that's why there's such a big difference, we feel, in places like the US. And Asia as the first part. The second thing has to do with personal and national sovereignty.
00:09:18.554 - 00:09:40.978, Speaker A: So we already know that crypto is about personal sovereignty, owning your rights, owning your data. We don't have to go into the details. A lot of people have spoken about this. But the other one is about national sovereignty, because what's actually happening is that almost every country in the world, especially in Asia, with exception of China, is dependent on US. Technology. They depend on Google, they depend on Facebook, they depend on Apple. They depend on all of these platforms.
00:09:40.978 - 00:10:38.146, Speaker A: Now, when you think of this from a national sense, that's actually a problem, because what happens if Facebook does something, or what happens if Apple blocks apps from a certain country? It's actually very, very detrimental to the national security of that country. So pushing the Web Three narrative is pushing a new technology paradigm away from, I guess, US. Hegemony. And that's actually another big agenda item, which is why Japan, Korea, China, all these places are pushing Web Three in a really big way because they see that as an opportunity to break away from basically US. Dominant technologies, which also represents the opportunity for builders like yourself, not just for funding, but also for people who want to basically sort of build new products and services that can take advantage of sort of a new market that isn't there. Because Web Three is still early days, this is a major thematic, particularly for places like China, but it's irrelevant, which is de dollarization. It's a common thematic it's another reason why Web Three is being pushed in these places, less dependency on the dollar.
00:10:38.146 - 00:11:16.766, Speaker A: The dollar is of course, as we know, the global currency of the world. 1 may argue it is also partially weaponized or fully weaponized, depending on which camp you sit on. But the point being that pushing a crypto narrative is a way in which you basically have less dependency on the dollar. And again, for certain countries this is very very important, especially when you think about sort of and this has nothing to do with sort of legalities of zone, has everything to do about national security. So these themes are all very important as to why these countries are pushing Web Three. Now, the other thing is that Asia is particularly interesting because it is a digital first culture. So if you don't know this, these are beggars.
00:11:16.766 - 00:12:09.218, Speaker A: And they don't beg asking for cash, they ask for basically money to be given to their digital wallet. It's probably the only place in the world where that happens. And this has been happening obviously for years and years and years. The point being that in Asia people are already very digitally native, which means that they are naturally adoptive towards digital technologies, crypto and so on, because this is just another extension, except it's one that is more free, which I'll go into a little later as an illustration. The largest amount of time that people spend online happens to be on aggregate in Asia. When you think about people spending time online and doing different activities, from playing games, from being on social and so forth and so on. And of course virtual identities in Asia with gaming and with avatars and what they call homepies and so on, started actually first in that know, massively multiplayer online games, free to play gaming models.
00:12:09.218 - 00:13:00.982, Speaker A: They all actually emerged from the Asian space. So they may 1 appear to be sort know, I guess pop culture icons, but really it's about virtual identities, about virtual characters, about sort of avatars and designs. Again, many people actually in Asia are very comfortable with that form of expression. Emojis and emoticons actually really became mainstream in Asia with things like Line and WeChat before they even emerged in things like Facebook Messenger or WhatsApp, or even Telegram. So again, this sort of virtual identity, digital first culture is already very dominant in Asia and then half, actually more than half of all gamers live in Asia. And one of our big thesis points at Animoga brands is that we believe that gaming is going to be one of the main vectors of mass adoption for crypto because again, gamers understand virtual ownership, or at least they think they should, because they really think they own the skins that they have. And virtual currencies have some kind of similarity to crypto as well.
00:13:00.982 - 00:13:51.266, Speaker A: And Asia is amongst sort know, the biggest markets in the world. And again, unlike what you see in America, the Asian game companies are all embracing crypto. So for instance, whereas a company like an EA, for instance, or an Activision would be somewhat hesitant towards that, not necessarily because they are, because their consumers are. In Korea and Japan, for instance, square Enix, the creators of Final Fantasy, for instance, or Krafton, the creators of PUBG or Netmarble Nexon, all of those major game companies are all adopting web3 and coming up with NFT strategies. So completely different. So if you look at the US narrative, you think NFTs are dead, you look at the Asian narrative, you think NFDS is growing, right? So it's again two different markets, two entirely different narratives around sort of the potential growth for digital assets and ownership there. Now into the opportunity why I think you should pay attention.
00:13:51.266 - 00:14:45.762, Speaker A: Asia leads the world by internet users by far, but Asia's penetration for internet users is still very low. So what that represents is growth, right? So when you think of places, not just like in North Asia, but you think of places like Southeast Asia, it just means that there's more people coming still that are not online, despite the fact that they're ready in terms of adoption and gaming the leading markets in the world just because of numbers. All right? So I've been given time, so I got to go even faster. The other reason I talked about this before is security, flexibility and freedom in the crypto era. This is something we all know about basically helping sort of do business with the unbanked. But again, in living memory, asia had gone through a lot of wars in the last 30, 40 years because of the Cold War. And so that has basically led to people having a sense of sort of concern about the securities, concerns about the freedoms.
00:14:45.762 - 00:15:31.410, Speaker A: So in other words, they are much more looking for things in which they can have sort of leverage in other ways and crypto is perfect for that, right? Whereas again, in the west there's more safety. America hasn't had a civil war in hundreds of years, right? People aren't worried about losing their property, for instance. Whereas in Asia, in living memory, they would still remember a time when they had nothing or things could just be taken away because there were dictatorships in place. So again, crypto is a very positive narrative there. So I'll skip this here, I'll close with this and then maybe if there's some questions later. First, this sense of security also comes in a different way, which is that because of the wars, there is a huge amount of Asian diaspora that is spread throughout the world for better opportunity and also for safety and security. To give you an illustration, there are more Chinese diaspora than there are people living in France.
00:15:31.410 - 00:16:37.226, Speaker A: So just to give you an idea of just how large that scale is and of course you have Indian and you have Japanese and you have Korean, and all of them were pushed out into the world, but they still have connections back into their original sort of, I guess, countries and cultures. So, for instance, for those of you who might remember in the early days, the spread of Hotmail, which was the first free email service provider, happened because of Indians, because people in India needed to communicate with the Indians who were working in Silicon Valley, who were basically building Hotmail as an example. So those were the avenues in which growth of these platforms started to build across cultures. And we see this happening very much now, today, also in Crypto. Meaning that even if you're building a product for addressing the Asian market, you're not just addressing the market that is in Asia, you're addressing the market of Asians overseas who have become influential, who have more income, perhaps, but are also tied to that culture and tied to that understanding. So you can see this, for instance, in the NFT market, where Asian Americans, for instance, proportionately of the group are higher involved in crypto than perhaps other groups in America. All right, so Asian crypto hopspots I won't jump into that.
00:16:37.226 - 00:16:55.090, Speaker A: I've already discussed it. It's growing. You should pay attention to it. And thank you. All right, thank you. I would just take one question. Hi.
00:16:55.160 - 00:17:19.142, Speaker B: Thank you for the very interesting presentation. How do you see the adoption of crypto in Asia, for example, when we know that governance there is very tight, like from the government side, right? Like regulators there, they have a very strict grip control over the people. So it always have to be top down rather than bottom up like the rest of the world.
00:17:19.276 - 00:17:48.850, Speaker A: So our view is that regulation is generally a positive thing. I mean, obviously there can be very strict regulation versus more flexible, shall we say. But the reason why we think it's good is because it makes it legitimate. When you look at what's happening with the US. Ripple case aside, of course, which has been good overall, is that what the SEC has been doing is destabilizing crypto because they're not willing to put forward a regulation. So that means for most people is a barrier to mass adoption because they're like, is it legal? Should I do it? I don't know. Right.
00:17:48.850 - 00:18:31.018, Speaker A: But the moment you regulate it, no matter how tight you do it, you are acknowledging that it is real, that it is serious. So we think that is a positive. Then you have to look at the type of regulation that takes place. So, for instance, in the case of Hong Kong, we think the regulation is very positive because they've now allowed for retail trading for crypto. And by the way, the parameter in which you can get your tokens traded on retail in crypto is it just has to be listed on two major difficult I mean, it's not a hugely difficult parameter. If it gets listed on two major indexes, it means it has certain liquidity volume and certain parameters, which means to us, it's the pathway for Hong Kong to allow for retail trading for crypto for dozens, if not hundreds, over time. So they've got that structure.
00:18:31.018 - 00:18:58.230, Speaker A: Japan, as an example, is perhaps the only country in the world that allows for a legal IEO that is approved by the JFSA, which is the financial regulator. Again, most people don't know that you can actually go through an application. It's actually a little easier than your classic sort of reg offering. And then you can list a token and you can raise money from the token in a legal manner in Japan, for instance. So these are all things that happening in this market that people don't know because they're not in there. But they've already have those laws. And so to us, that's actually a positive.
00:18:58.230 - 00:19:00.020, Speaker A: Thank you.
