00:00:00.360 - 00:00:44.685, Speaker A: Hello, everybody. Welcome to another episode of the Index podcast where the three of us come together every couple of weeks to discuss on chain data chart crimes and metrics that move the crypto industry. And today we have a very special guest here, Thomas, head wizard at the Ethereum Foundation. And my other co hosts, of course are Denning Onchain, Corgette, Flashbots, Hildoby, Resident Data Hallsev at Dragonfly, and I am Boxer and I am the community powerhouse at Dune. Before we get started, nothing we say here should be relied upon as legal, financial, crypto or even life advice. We are acting independently of our respective professional roles here. And with that.
00:00:44.685 - 00:01:07.175, Speaker A: Hello again, Thomas. Yeah, for the listeners, Thomas and me, we're actually colleagues in a past life. So Thomas, Thomas worked at Dune a while back, but now, Thomas, you are at the Ethereum foundation and maybe if you could quickly kind of tell us what do you do there and what actually do researchers do?
00:01:07.255 - 00:01:48.585, Speaker B: Well, DEF is structured in like teams, so I'm part of the robust Incentives group. Our rig, which is mostly focused on crypto economics, game theory, mechanism design around the protocol. So I joined that particular team. There are like many other teams. There is cryptography team, consensus and R and D team. So there are many different teams. I joined that rig and what I did at first is coming in from data angle, I guess, which was also related to my past Dune experience and some of the stuff I did during my PhD too.
00:01:48.585 - 00:02:30.893, Speaker B: But yeah, I worked closer to data at first and with a big focus, I guess on MEV and pbs. But then I started to shift my interest a bit more towards consensus and a bit of. More of a protocol design approach. And now, yeah, my time is basically usually split between collaborations with academia and we write papers and. Yeah, and the other part is like much closer to protocol upgrades. Like what. How can we get that research and actually like turn it into something that's implementable and that can be part of like the next fork on Ethereum.
00:02:30.893 - 00:03:10.115, Speaker B: So there is like this kind of dual tasks, which I like. And so for the latter part, I've been recently focused a lot on and inclusion lists, which we will talk about a lot today. But this part is like, yeah, much closer to the protocol upgrade part because we spent a lot of time, me and other folks on the research side of this, but now we feel like we reached the point where we are like kind of ready to try to push it and turn it into some SPECs and some EIPs and, and some actual implementations.
00:03:10.455 - 00:03:24.303, Speaker A: I see. And if you does the robust Incentives group. Do you kind of have a mission statement? Can you summarize in two sentences what your goal as a group inside of the Ethereum foundation would be?
00:03:24.479 - 00:04:02.515, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. Yeah. So it's all about crypto economics, game theory and mechanism design. Those are like the three things we focus on. So, so originally everything that touches like economics of the protocols, issuance, but also, yeah, rewards for all kind of tasks and tasks and duties that validators have to do. Everything that is in protocol and that touches incentives, that is the core of what we do. But we have like a super, super varied and mixed background and it goes from like very data focused to theoretical papers.
00:04:02.515 - 00:04:25.087, Speaker B: So it's quite broad in how we function. But yeah, the main topics I would say would be issuance, censorship, resistance and what we call block construction. So EPBs, execution, auctions, execution tickets, staking, MEV, all of these are like kind of the areas we focus on.
00:04:25.251 - 00:04:55.115, Speaker A: Okay, very interesting. And then I think for the listeners, your background in I think neuroscience is actually super interesting. So if you quickly want to walk us through, how do you actually end up at def? Because researcher is such a kind of vague term and it's like everyone at DEF is kind of a researcher. And like, it's so weird. Like, I don't know, like looking at it from the outside, I'm always like, why is everyone at the F a researcher? So if you could maybe just share something about your background and how that kind of uniquely qualifies you for that role.
00:04:55.855 - 00:05:58.185, Speaker B: Yeah, so first thing is like, we're not that many. There are not that many researchers at DEF. But yeah, for me, well, I did a PhD in computational neuroscience, which is, yeah, very far from crypto, but I was focusing on like a lot of network analysis. And I thought at the time when I was still doing my PhD, I thought, oh, what if I like take the tools I use like graph theoretical metrics and stuff like this, and I apply that to blockchain networks instead of applying it to brain networks. That was kind of the original idea and I started doing that on the side a bit like in daos and in multiple random projects for a while. And I thought it was cool and interesting. And then I reached the end of my PhD and I was like, okay, so should I keep going in academia in neuroscience or should I maybe like try something else? And I gave myself a year to just try something else and maybe go back to academia after.
00:05:58.185 - 00:06:48.157, Speaker B: And that's where, that's when I applied to Dune, actually. And so I was working at Dune for a While like so very close to data and blockchain data, obviously, which was great, but I did still miss the research part of it quite a lot. Like actually, you know, working with academics and like writing papers and like having a bit more time to research and go back to some of the things that I was familiar with during my Ph.D. and so, yeah, and then I joined DF. I applied. I mean, we talked with Barnaby, which is the team leader of the Roberson Centers group. Not about hiring at first, but I saw his talks and I thought it was super cool.
00:06:48.157 - 00:06:54.661, Speaker B: And then we were talking and then a position opened and I ended up working at df.
00:06:54.813 - 00:07:09.145, Speaker A: Great, thanks for sharing the background. I think from here on out, Denning, you are, you're most qualified in kind of our classic. This is a continuation of the MEV series. So obviously Denning. Denning is the expert here. So take it away, Denning.
00:07:09.815 - 00:07:47.727, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah. So we started doing this PBS or a MEV series of interview for like four episodes and we, we feel like we couldn't finish it without a episode on censorship resistance. So really happy that you're here to help us to also crack down this concept that being talked by everyone. So my first question is what does censorship listener mean to you or in general in a blockchain context? And same question to Vox and Dobby as well. Like, what does that mean to you? And also what does that mean in the different layer of the blockchain that we use, like to a user, to the apps, to RPC builder, Relay Validator.
00:07:47.831 - 00:08:58.101, Speaker B: For me, I guess the basic definition of censorship resistance in a blockchain context is like the chain should be neutral to transactions that come into and they want to make it on chain. As long as they are like, you know, paying enough fees, there shouldn't really be any other considerations or opinions from the infrastructure, like from the chain about what goes in or what goes. What doesn't go in. So yeah, I think basically it's like as long as the transaction is paying enough fees, so in Ethereum, on Ethereum, it's like the base fee, then any pending transaction should make it unchained eventually without other kind of considerations. And then I guess you can split it into two categories that we actually use a lot for the blockchain context, which is strong and weak censorship resistance. Strong censorship resistance is like, okay, a transaction is not able to make it down chain at all. And that's really hard for it to happen.
00:08:58.101 - 00:10:19.307, Speaker B: For example, on Ethereum, you need to have all actors like 100% of the validators for example, not to want to include that particular transaction, which is very hard to do. And then weak censorship resistance is mostly what we are going to talk about because it's a bit more what can happen in practice. It's just about one transaction that is censorable or being censored makes it unchained, but after a considerable significant delay compared to another transaction that would then be censored. So that's also I think a useful distinction to make. And then okay, maybe one last distinction is you can also distinguish between reasons you want new you may want to censor transaction. There could be like legislation or regulatory reasons, but also like economic reasons like I don't want that Oracle update to go through or I realize I can play timing games or like kind of pack my block in a more efficient way if I don't include some transactions. So these are like very different categories and somehow we are trying to capture all of it and make it resistant to most of most of the types of censorship that can happen.
00:10:19.491 - 00:10:27.535, Speaker C: So strong censorship resistance and weak censorship resistance sounds like a block level CR and a transaction level cr.
00:10:28.275 - 00:10:56.165, Speaker B: No, because strong censorship would mean like in any block, like a transaction cannot make it on chain. Like so it's over time. It's very like basically it doesn't go on chain week is just like it goes in but is delayed. So the distinction is not like blocking transaction, it's more like whether it actually is ever able to make it on chain or if it's just delay.
00:10:57.145 - 00:11:20.299, Speaker C: Right, I see. Yeah, I see. So I recall this discussion where basically if you have a set of different builders or different set of validators and they are decentralized enough and you know, some are censoring, some are not. Some people argue that it's not a problem because the transaction can't always make it there. It's just delayed. Yeah, right. So that will fit the second concept.
00:11:20.299 - 00:11:24.339, Speaker C: I see. What about you guys? Box and Dabi?
00:11:24.427 - 00:12:02.165, Speaker D: I think to add on like strong censorship resistance would be really bad and like a bad measure for like decentralized systems. It would be you know, like a, you know, like one way to measure that. It's not really as decentralized as maybe ideally it would be. Unless it is something that is massively, you know, has massive consensus around in terms of censorship. That's always has to always hard to assess, I guess. But ideally anything could make it on chain. And now software resistance, soft censorship resistance is definitely a problem, but definitely not as big as it of a deal.
00:12:02.165 - 00:12:09.521, Speaker D: But it can have some pretty Big impacts. And I think it's definitely worth looking into and researching.
00:12:09.713 - 00:13:14.933, Speaker A: I think there's a lot of interesting questions and discussion space here. Is it like should every transaction make it on chain? Should we sensor hacks? Is that something like how would you even recognize those hacks? I think which jurisdiction is a blockchain under? Because I think the most kind of famous historical example of transactions being censored is transactions that were related to tynadocache. So a lot of if you wanted to deposit something into tornado cash, a lot of I think at the time it was still just miners. I think that was like this was like pre merge, so it should just have been miners. They were not picking up those transactions. And then I think for time builders were also censoring transactions related to tornado stuff. So I think there's like a lot of interesting questions here and it's like how do you solve this as a system? And then I think also how do you model this game theoretically so that nobody is really kind of liable in a judicial sense? So I don't know.
00:13:14.933 - 00:13:40.875, Speaker A: I'm excited to dive into this. I think there's like very, there's a lot of nuance to this but in the end it's like yeah, if you want to do a transaction on the blockchain and you are, you don't have like super malicious intent and then it's like okay, who decides what is the malicious intent? But in the end like you should actually be able to have it included in the blockchain in a timely manner if you're willing to pay the fees for that. But yeah, just a lot of questions for me. I hope we can answer some of them.
00:13:41.575 - 00:14:23.061, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean the thing you said are kind of somewhat you know, conflicting with each other. Like so as towards Thomas definition, like it should be neutral and not have any opinion. So including even hacks, its code is law and so they should be passed through. But we would have a general consensus that it's bad for the ecosystem. And then another more specific example is what you mentioned as like OFAC sanction. And to just clarify that for the audience, OFAC means Office of Foreign Assets Control as I googled. And so there are a few cases of like, you know what OFAC doesn't like for example, when the Russia and Ukraine war started, there are many addresses like that's against Russia.
00:14:23.061 - 00:15:00.541, Speaker C: There's also Tornado cash example as you say, which they are concerned about. Like potentially people who are money laundering can use the Tornado cash type of service to mix their funds and be not be able to track and be basically regulated. So this, all these kind of thing actually resulted in a lot of like discussion, heated discussion in the PBS community. And so yeah, I mean I think the definition Thomas had was like pretty clear. It's because it's like OFAC's opinion is also like a regional government level kind of opinion that they are against. But like does Russia agree with that? I don't know. Right.
00:15:00.541 - 00:15:46.503, Speaker C: Like there are people who don't necessarily agree. So it's not quite neutral and specifically to some party's interests. So I guess like another question just to like finish the definition part is like why do we need to care about sensitive resistance? It's a kind of ridiculous question. Like I mentioned this I think before the recording and Thomas laughed and I think, I mean, I think it's an obvious question that we care about sensitive resistance for most of the Westerners. But to be honest, like I am a Chinese person. I grew up in China, like growing up unaware of all the opinions about like surveillance and censorship. You know, before I was 18 or before I got to abroad, I felt fine, like I was ha.
00:15:46.503 - 00:16:09.793, Speaker C: I was whatever happy was like the cameras in the public place. I was like, it's actually, it's a trade off between like security and safety and the government will not do anything towards me, who is a nobody. I changed my opinion afterwards. Right. Because it's like it's not about if they are doing something or did something to you in the past. It's like if they are able to. So I think, yeah, censorship resistance is important.
00:16:09.793 - 00:16:32.953, Speaker C: It's also somewhat a ideological kind of topic, I guess. But I guess to you guys, like, why do we care about sensitive resistance? What's the worst case scenario that can happen if we don't have it? There are also a meme on Twitter where people say, yeah, Ethereum haven't solved this, but have World of War 3 level like censorship resistance. So yeah, I wonder why EF researchers care so much about it.
00:16:33.049 - 00:17:25.605, Speaker B: So, okay, lots of cool, interesting things that were mentioned by you guys, I think. Yeah, one of the things that you guys all touched on is like that censorship resistance in a blockchain context is like very rooted in decentralization. Like the best kind of way to prevent censorship in the first place is kind of. Yeah, to have like a large number of independent parties that are like with different interests all around the world and that are all participating in and they all have a say in what should be included into blocks. And I think that's like the best way Basically to prevent censorship. And then why should we care about censorship resistance? I think, I mean opinions will vary on this because everyone has like a different experience. But yeah, I think of it the other way around.
00:17:25.605 - 00:18:31.025, Speaker B: Like what's the worst case scenario? I kind of think of it like what is the best case scenario? Best case scenario is we can actually provide something that doesn't exist yet for at least I don't think it actually does exist yet, which is like a very robust, credible, credibly neutral, like permissionless sensor resistance infrastructure that everyone can actually build on. So it would be, I think very valuable if we can provide this as an alternative to centralized service providers which are great when they work. I don't think. Yeah, I actually don't think sensor frame resistance is super needed when you assume people you are trusting are very well intentioned and everything works as you enter intent. I think it can even be like faster, more efficient. It can be nice when censorship resistance is crucial. It's like yeah, when you don't have access to well functioning services providers or maybe you can't or don't want to trust them.
00:18:31.025 - 00:18:39.421, Speaker B: So yeah, I think that's. Yeah, I think of it as best case scenario rather than what can happen in the worst case.
00:18:39.573 - 00:19:32.125, Speaker D: I also think there is like, if you look at the way technology evolves, we don't really know necessarily what blockchain will be used for in 10 years, what are going to be all the applications. We're starting to find a few stable coins and stuff like this, but it's constantly evolving and new things are coming on. So it would be kind of a throttling factor if some people could be like, hey, we don't want you to bring this new thing on chain because we want to stick it to the old pure way, the blockchain where up to now. So I kind of think the lack of censorship kind of helps accelerate growth and discovery of new potential use cases of blockchains. Which is, I think one of the reasons I'm building in this space is like, you know, the whole research aspect and what does it become? We don't really know, but let's experiment with it and let anyone do what they want on the blockchain and we'll see what sticks around.
00:19:32.425 - 00:20:43.211, Speaker A: I think for me, one kind of prominent example that sticks out in my memory is there was a freedom convoy or something like that in Canada during COVID in 2021 or two, I don't know, but somewhere during COVID and the Canadian government actually just froze the bank accounts of those People and it's like that's pretty insane. And all the technology in our life has such a centralizing function that's like should like, should the Canadian government be able to freeze the assets of people that just show like citizen. I don't know, like they descend from the government but like they were, they were not like looting places or like committing big crimes. So I don't know. I think that's like one thing where I'm like okay, if we were like Ethereum, the government chain or like if these networks were built in a manner where it's like ah yeah, of course we're going to listen to the governments and all the, all the validators and all the builders and all of that. They need to adhere to all the different world governments. And it's like okay, this is going to really kind of limit the options of things that we're going to do be able to do on chain.
00:20:43.211 - 00:21:34.165, Speaker A: It's also like a just a cluster of legislature that you'll have to like pay attention to. So it's like how can we actually design a system that just from the get go kind of like makes it so that we don't have to think about all of these things and that people can just actually keep self custody of the assets and like I don't know, USDC has a freeze function. It's like how, how can we not have a freeze function on the entire blockchain due to kind of censorship that you could implement on a, on a validator on a builder level just by, I mean the power of the different states. But yeah, it's, it's going to be a long way there. But I think like that, that kind of like centralization of technology and how do we fight back against those like centralizing forces where like they are kind of scary. I think that sticks out to me.
00:21:35.945 - 00:22:26.773, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah. Many examples probably in other countries, you know, in other side of the world to mention. But yeah, I guess like to expand on blockchain specific context. And there was this one thing that SMG group did that kind of raised a lot of attention or awareness about distance. So SMG actually did some kind of performance art kind of thing where they basically built a builder and they built a block that has zero transactions and they bribed the proposer for 0.05 east only and they got on chain and it's, I mean it kind of makes sense because as of today like Ethereum blocks value can vary like very fluctuatingly and then like usually on average the block can only Just worth of like 0.02 eth, which is like 50 bucks.
00:22:26.773 - 00:22:52.825, Speaker C: So I think it made a lot of sense with the point he's trying to make, which is like, yeah, you see, like it's pretty easy and cheap to like censor. Or you can say like, help the chain for like 12 seconds for one block. And if you want to do so, you can like do it for a much longer time with a fairly still manageable cost. So I think they kind of raised some debate in the community. What do you guys think of this thing?
00:22:54.415 - 00:23:36.047, Speaker D: You said you can do it for much longer for negligible costs, but for each block the cost is going to rise because the block builder is going to be on the other side. I've got MEV proposals that are accumulating and growing, maybe not exponentially, but really big. And the longer the halt, the more there's going to be discrepancies in arbitrage versus central exchanges. So there's this and then there's also the fact that what are the chances that SMG has another block is lined up to propose the next block as well? So it's like, wait, no, no. Sorry, I'm confused. No, my bad. Yeah, they can bribe.
00:23:36.047 - 00:23:51.275, Speaker D: But what I mean is like, yeah, bribery is going to rise to a point where eventually it doesn't make any kind of sense unless you really have huge incentives to censor. And that's another topic. But I think it quickly has diminishing returns.
00:23:52.775 - 00:23:53.647, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a good point.
00:23:53.671 - 00:24:50.315, Speaker B: Yeah, I agree. And yeah, if a huge spike arrives in the next block, then it becomes very costly to tensor. But I think the other point was not really about the cost itself. It was more about is at which you can just like within the current infrastructure, bribe someone to have your block included. And it was more. But like, you know, it was at the same time they released that paper about multiple proposals and some surface resistance and they were basically saying we need to have multiple parties that get inputs into the block. So you need to bribe multiple people to actually censor transactions, which is something we will go back to because we have inclusion list designs that also involve like multiple parties.
00:24:50.315 - 00:24:51.955, Speaker B: So yeah.
00:24:55.015 - 00:25:08.155, Speaker A: I wish they would have done this for longer and actually ran the experiment. Like how hard can they make the chain stutter or halt the chain if they were to do this for like a continued period of time.
00:25:11.375 - 00:25:13.719, Speaker B: Opportunities. Right, yeah, of course.
00:25:13.767 - 00:25:58.711, Speaker A: But like, I, I think the like, if you think about if I'm just sending DAI to someone, so like I. There's no priority fee there's like a very low priority transaction and then that that transaction can just sit in the mempool for like a really, really long time. If somebody continuously kind of in between like the MEV profitable blocks where the fee would be too high. Like if you would define something to build any block with 0 transactions until like a cost of 0.05, then in a day you can really decrease the amount of transaction throughput that the chain would have. Right. Because there's only in so many blocks there's MEV opportunities that get bit higher than 0.05.
00:25:58.711 - 00:26:49.837, Speaker A: I mean in general like it's very game theoretical because like if you do this more often, there would be more MEV opportunities that arise. So maybe the general pain, like I don't know, like where's the equilibrium? Like what's the real cost? So like I, I kind of wish that somebody would actually, would actually do this and just put it to the test to see what happens. But at the same time like that, like that would be quite the story. That would be a really interesting experiment to run and also not cheap. But in the end it's like if you don't like, if your system doesn't survive like any malicious actor, then what are we even building here? So I don't know. I think this is super interesting that this is possible. I think this is like it's cool in concept but it's really difficult to make any kind of statements afterwards.
00:26:49.837 - 00:26:55.961, Speaker A: It's just like oh yeah, this is a proof of concept. But what does this actually mean? Lots of implications to be explored.
00:26:56.153 - 00:27:13.365, Speaker D: Isn't like as impressive as it would be if you did it for a while. But I would love to see like simulation on, you know, how expensive is it? And I would guess just due to price discrepancies in like sextest arms, it would like fly into really, really high cost pretty quickly.
00:27:14.505 - 00:28:06.565, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. I think if you so first like transactions accumulate, right? Like they, they keep stacking up so all kinds of sandwiches and stuff like this also rises. You do miss a lot of sex arbitrage opportunities. So you have a lot of chances that the price actually deviates a lot from when the price stalled on the decks. And you know it's going to fluctuate and going to go quite far from the price on the dex. So I'm guessing after a few blocks it will actually be quite hard to maintain this low cost censorship for a few blocks in a row. We could definitely do simulations on this, but it doesn't sound very sustainable.
00:28:07.745 - 00:29:52.069, Speaker C: Yeah, but I Mean following the logic you guys have, it still have a point where it's probably worse for the chain without mbb, right? In a way you could also argue that the market volatility and the user adoption the level of activity also provided some security for Ethereum because there will always be MEB coming. Another example to put censorship resistance into blockchain context is the blob contention discussion. I guess right after Duncan upgrade in March this year block native was tweeting about the concern of like blob contention. It's a new word made of here but basically it means like now that after Duncan upgrade where L2Now is submitting their transaction confirmation to Ethereum L1 using the new data structure blob rather than call data which actually reduced the cost largely by 99%. But here's the thing which is like it's fairly cheap transaction but also takes a lot of like data sites for block builders to pack into the block. So the implication is that when the block builder build a block and they include blobs who are actually fairly large data sites in terms of the total size when they send it to relay, it will likely take slightly longer and more time cost for a relay to load the block content and try to do whatever simulation or validation. So then there is this concern that like the block builder who are highly economically incentivized or driven, they will try to avoid blobs transactions which effectively is causing censorship towards L2 transactions.
00:29:52.069 - 00:30:59.669, Speaker C: So then they were tweeting about high demand time of transaction the contention was up to like 300% plus which is basically I would say somewhat a. I would say like a market dynamics by nature. It's like when the market is so volatile and there's so many high value MEV transactions they pay so much high gas priority fee compared to them the L2 blobs gas is much lower. And sometimes I think you could argue block builder is not like really intentionally censoring them or dropping them out. It's just like low value transactions like a value transfer it has to wait in mempool as a pending transaction. Following the discussion I was looking at this dashboard, I built this dashboard and looking at these metrics where I was looking at basically for each builder breakdown how many blobs do they have in their blocks as like a percentage? Like what's the blob concentration for different builder. I did notice that I think some of the top strategical builders they were censoring the blobs or sense.
00:30:59.669 - 00:31:49.115, Speaker C: Yeah, you know like didn't have Blobs in their blocks for a bit. Titan was not including blobs but more because of a bug in the beginning. They started having blobs a few days after, after they fixed the bug. Penguin Builder was one of the obvious one that didn't include blobs for a while it was like 0% here. I think the current situation looks generally healthy where the the top two builder, Beaver and Tight End who are making up to 80 plus percent market share both have like a 60% ish blob percentage. And as also most of the other top builders. Yeah, I don't know if you guys have any opinion about this blob censorship concern or what's the current status quo? Like how is this debate settled?
00:31:49.235 - 00:32:45.735, Speaker B: Yeah, no, I think it's very important that we find some good solution for including blobs as well. And there are like some proposals we are already working on to have inclusion lists work with blobs. But yeah, at the limit. I think it's exactly what I was talking about when I was talking about economic censorship because it's basically okay, you want to exclude. Whether it's blobs or normal transactions is actually the same story. It's just that blobs are more like bandwidth consuming so you might be tempted to exclude them more than like normal transactions that don't add much. But it's exactly the same principle is like okay, can I wait a bit longer hoping some valuable transactions will come in and then send like smaller blocks so they can actually propagate quickly through the network and everyone can see it and it will be attested on.
00:32:45.735 - 00:33:17.729, Speaker B: So that's like the kind of trait of some people might be tempted to play with. And that's where censorship, resistance for academic reasons comes in. It's like we want people to be like ah, we saw these transactions, whether these are like normal or blocked transactions, so you have to include it and otherwise your block won't be valid. But I'll get into that when talking about inclusion lists. But yeah, I think it's a very good example of like why you might be tempted to not include some transactions for economic reasons.
00:33:17.847 - 00:33:55.171, Speaker D: I agree there should be maybe, I mean look into some research to prevent those behavior. But I think we're also approaching a state where now blobs are almost in every block or close to. We're reaching, we're close to the three blobs targets per block. But yeah, it doesn't seem like a big issue. But it is worth like keeping an eye on I guess and making sure nothing bad ever happens and it never goes too bad too far to the. To the wrong side of the.
00:33:55.323 - 00:35:10.835, Speaker C: So I guess like to talk about sensory resistance we must know what. What are the data we are looking at to bring to review the numbers. I actually have a chart crime so yeah so this website mavwatch.info I've I believe it was the first one came out when OFAC becomes such a concerned topic and I think it was useful for a bit until people realized there's a lot of nuances that kind of makes this thing doesn't really stand which is. So basically this website is trying to show across all the relays specifically how many of them are censoring or basically checking if there's OFAC transactions and they will throw it out. And so they would show this timeline charts where it looks pretty bad, really bad like for I guess like Ethereum where you would see like the. When the red goes above like 80% and this is when MEV Boost just launched and I think it was like getting reported whenever it goes beyond over 50% this was in August 2023 and I believe also you might have stopped updating because mapboost must have a higher percentage than what it's showing here.
00:35:10.835 - 00:36:00.475, Speaker C: A few things I have problems with for this website. One is if you read through their methodology it's pretty much saying that the way they're labeling the censorship percentage is by just checking for different relay entity which is like around six or seven if they are censoring or not based on public statement or whatever information you can gather. It's not really checking on a block or a transaction level if the transactions are really being thrown out. So they actually have a caveat here. It's like not all the blocks built by OFAC comply to relay are censoring. However all blocks built by OFI Relay will censor with non compliant transactions broadcast to the network. So really this is just like how to say approximation based on the labels.
00:36:00.475 - 00:36:47.359, Speaker C: And another thing is that it's emphasizing pretty much only on the relay end until you would realize actually it's a whole. If we review the MEV supply chain there's builder first who actually constructed block. They are the first one who have the right to censor transactions. If the block they submitted to relay doesn't have any transaction they want to include it's already censored then really doesn't even need to do anything about it. So Tony from EF who is another I believe a wizard and a researcher at ef he has produced a lot of nice data websites for PBS topics. The famous one including mapboost Pix. He started this website called Censorship Pix.
00:36:47.359 - 00:37:57.199, Speaker C: He actually has a series of websites which you can find on Pix info. And so here he listed out actually more parties where if you look at builders their sensor ring level is quite low. If you look at relays the sensoring is slightly higher because of mostly OFAC and on the validator side it's around 11% it's like lower as well. And he also had the methodology here specifying that he's looking at the entities blocks specifically on chain and see if they have a low percent of including the transaction. So this is like a much more practical way of actually labeling the data rather than just saying oh they said they're going to censor then I'm going to label it as censoring and also mention a different layer of censorship that's happening. And one thing to mention also when you look at different entities that's different from relay. Builders have other reasons to censor, not just only OFAC for really mostly because if they're operating in US they have to be US compliant and so they have to like do the OFAC censorship mostly.
00:37:57.199 - 00:38:40.285, Speaker C: But for builder it's possible they can censor out of their incentive, how to say economic incentive. If they see potentially competing searcher builders sextext flow they may not include it and include their own competing flow. So yeah once you look at multiple layers you would see a lot more issues rather than just ofac. So I guess like to conclude what's the current level of censorship resistance? It seemed like on the builder side we're pretty good right now. Although there actually also is a big drop. I believe this might be Beaver switching to non censoring. If anyone else have more info on this?
00:38:40.855 - 00:38:46.315, Speaker B: Yeah, that's it. That's one of the big dominant builders stopped censoring.
00:38:47.175 - 00:39:25.711, Speaker C: Right, right. And then validator seems to fairly low and then for relay it seemed like around like 50% just because where they are resided in terms of us or not. Cool. So I think we reviewed on the current list state of CR as well. The question next is what's next? What can we do to really improve sensors resistance? For this part I think Thomas have a shorter presentation that can share with us about the current proposals that's being considered in the community. If you want to share, feel free.
00:39:25.743 - 00:40:13.265, Speaker B: To start about just the data. MevWatch was also kind of not updated for a while. So I think that also plays into it and maybe just like a more general Comment on how hard it is to qualify someone as censoring or not is like even if you have like a list of addresses or transactions that are supposed to be censored, you still have to use heuristics to say what is the delay? After which I'm considering this transaction was actually censored, which is not like something there is no hard truth. Like it's. Is it like two blocks, three blocks? Like is it. Is it more like it's kind of. You have to use some approximations and some heuristics there anyways.
00:40:13.265 - 00:40:18.025, Speaker B: But I think like Tony's dashboard gives a very good picture of.
00:40:18.925 - 00:40:34.215, Speaker D: It's a similar problem to like reorgs and change finality, I guess where at which point you consider the chain final and how big could reorgs be? And you never really have a final answer, but you have good approximates based on history.
00:40:36.875 - 00:41:36.733, Speaker B: Well, no, I mean after the reorg ends you do have a number of blocks for which it was reorg. But yes, when it's going on, yes, you don't really know. And what you consider a reorg based on heuristics like ex ante is yes, it's difficult. You have to look at it like exposed and see like was it a reorg or not? Yeah, completely agree. So yeah, I'm going to talk a bit about some context and some of the work we have been doing on inclusion lists and you guys are like, yeah, very familiar with EPBS and PBS by now in general, I think because of the series. And I saw you guys had an episode with Burak about this, so I won't like spend too much time, but it is motivated by pbs, I guess. So yeah, Proposal builder separation was kind of introduced at the same time as the merge and the idea was very, very simple.
00:41:36.733 - 00:43:21.775, Speaker B: It's like we know there is a MV and we also know like you kind of need to use sophisticated strategies to extract some value when you want to reorder transactions within a block. And we don't really want validators or proposals to be sophisticated because then you create this kind of economies of scale of like the sophisticated validators will get more MEV and they can get more sophisticated or even like spin up new validators and then with economies of scale they will just like the validator set will be just become more and more centralized, which we really don't want for a lot of reasons, including censorship, resistance. So the idea was like, okay, we shield the validator set from this kind of centralizing force and instead we have this other Class of actors that are called builders that we know is going to be more sophisticated and more centralized. But that's fine because basically what they will do is compete between them in an auction to propose to build the most valuable blocks. And then the proposals can stay decentralized because all they will have to do is just select the highest bid, which is the highest value block, and that will determine the winner of the auction amongst builders. But they can stay decentralized because that's very easy for them to do. And builders will be more centralized and more sophisticated, but that's fine because they are not the actual validator set.
00:43:21.775 - 00:44:01.335, Speaker B: And so that actually worked out quite well because validators on Ethereum today are quite decentralized. There are lots of nodes and they are like all across the world. So it's pretty good. But what happened with builders is they actually got very, very centralized and very sophisticated. So now we have like two builders building 80% of all blocks basically. So that's not great because the barriers of entry are like really hard for other builders to come in. And so we have done some work on it with Danning actually and Burak as well.
00:44:01.335 - 00:45:35.297, Speaker B: But basically what it means is like we rely on two parties basically to uphold like the censorship resistance properties of the network, which we definitely don't want because if those two parties like decide they want to censor some kind of transactions for any reason tomorrow, then 80% of the blocks will be made by censoring entities, which we again don't want. And yeah, so in the data is also from Tony's dashboard you can see that the impact of just one of the very dominant builders that stopped censoring around July was huge. Like it went from basically like 60, 65% of blocks that are censored or like made by censoring builders from like under 20%. So it's good now because like there is not a lot of censorship you can say, but like how dependent you are on like so few entities is not desirable at all. So yeah, inclusion list is very, very easy as an idea. It's like you allow validators or proposals to specify a list of transactions that builders have to include in their blocks. So they will build their blocks as usual, but then they will have to include some transactions like another or like other parties decided on in their blocks for it to be valid.
00:45:35.297 - 00:46:26.713, Speaker B: Like otherwise like they can, they can propose the block and everything, but attesters just won't vote for it and it won't become canonical. So that's like the very basic idea. It's very easy to understand. Also didn't mention but like feel free to interrupt me anytime if you have questions and then you can. Okay, so this is very simple but it brings like a lot of different questions about like what are the properties of these inclusion lists? So the first one can be okay, where does the builder have to include these transactions from the inclusion list? Does it have to do. Does it have to do it like at the top of the block, at the end of the block, anywhere? Like it doesn't matter. So we have to specify this and it actually has like a lot of consequences because let's say we say top of block.
00:46:26.713 - 00:47:24.705, Speaker B: That's also where people are like competing to get their valuable transactions in like arbitrages and yeah, other sorts of very valuable transactions. So we don't really want this because that means the inclusion list will probably be crowded by transactions that are like, that are valuable and inclusion. This is supposed to be like for censorship resistance. So we expect like transactions, you know, pending in the public mempool. We don't really want like the space in the inclusion list to be taken by like MEV transactions. So that's one property. You can also say, okay, do the transactions from diligence get need to go in the same kind of, do they need to share block space with other like payload transactions, which is what we call conditional, or do they get like dedicated block space? So they are like a completely different mini block basically.
00:47:24.705 - 00:48:10.235, Speaker B: And in that case it's also interesting because if you make it like a different block, intuitively you are like, oh, it's great. Like they have guaranteed space, but you can also expect people will do exactly the same with regular blocks and outsource them and try to have the most valuable inclusion list build. And then it also defeats the purpose of censorship resistance. So you have to be quite careful about all this. Then you have spot versus forward. There was a design that was called Forward Inclusion Lists that was worked on a lot by Mike, but also Francesco, a lot of people I work with at def. And yeah, by the way, inclusionists have been worked on for like a while.
00:48:10.235 - 00:48:45.927, Speaker B: Like Francesco and Vitalik wrote about this more than two years ago now. So it's been a little while. But yeah, forward inclusion list. So that proposal was actually considered for inclusion in a fork and then got rejected for several reasons, but incompatibilities or like equivocation possibilities or stuff like this. I can get into it later if you want. But Forward is like Forward inclusion list is like one proposal of slot N minus one makes A list and that list constrains the next proposal. So for slot N it's very easy.
00:48:45.927 - 00:49:40.597, Speaker B: It's like one actor makes a list for another actor that comes next and it keeps going. So you don't make the list for yourself, which doesn't really make sense, but you make the list for the next proposer. And that was called forward inclusion list. And that was actually considered for inclusion in a Ethereum fork. But you can also have like spot or same slot inclusion list. So because forward inclusion lists have like this kind of delay of by definition delay of one slot, you can also say okay, the payload and the ias are built at the same time like in parallel. And then the IL is released a bit before the block proposer or producer or the builder has to release hits block so he can include it include those transactions in his payload before he actually gets to propose.
00:49:40.597 - 00:50:46.255, Speaker B: So those are like send slots or spot inclusion lists. And then you have who's making the list. You have like a single entity, like in the forward design. Or do you have multiple parties? Multiple parties is intuitively a lot better because now if you want to censor one transaction, you have to bribe every single member of that committee to censor it. Whereas single proposal you can actually just bribe the one guy and censor the transaction if you want to. And then yeah, you have questions like who's checking that transactions from the list were actually included in the payload? For us it's usually attestales they will just consider the block not valid if it doesn't satisfy the requirements of the inclusion list. And if you have multiple validators making inclusion lists, how do you actually merge these different transactions from different lists together? And then you have different approaches.
00:50:46.255 - 00:51:46.287, Speaker B: Usually you do some kind of union across all the inclusion list. So you have like a final kind of set of transactions. But then who decides what's that set? And then who like does anyone has have the right to reorder these transactions too and include in the payloads? All these questions are like, are like quite, quite interesting but like they have a lot of different consequences that you need to, to think of. So you have different proposals. We have been working on one in particular that I can present later, which is fossil. It's basically an inclusion list proposal but with multiple IL proposals. So if we go through all the properties, conditional inclusion lists, so it's shared block space, transactions can be included anywhere in block.
00:51:46.287 - 00:53:02.541, Speaker B: And so these two properties like conditional and anywhere and block is like basically you don't impose too much, too many constraints on the builder because otherwise he will be very tempted to just buy some bribe il committee members or even try to become one IELTS committee member and try to kind of take advantage of the fact that there is an IELTS committee to go around those constraints. So there is still like one builder or one proposal that can rearrange the transactions as he wants but as long as he includes them. So like that's a property that's actually enforced. It's enforced by attesters of the next slot and it is built concurrently so it's in parallel as the block so it doesn't suffer on extra delay. It's kind of real time sensor flip resistance. You can definitely go more into it if you want but that's like the core idea and we want to. I mean the work I'm doing right now with the other folks of course is to try to push this and open an EIP for this so we can actually propose it for inclusion in one of the next upgrades and we have.
00:53:02.541 - 00:54:21.197, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean next steps. Fossil for blobs we discussed a bit about this. We have to whether it's compatible with like other upgrades or proposed upgrades like pbs whether we want to incentivize a committee member so to include some sort of transactions is also like a very interesting research question. For now we are like not incentivizing them. It's basically altruistic behavior. And yeah, we are still exploring a lot of different things like how do I actually interact with APS or PBS multi block mev yeah I talked about this but how much do we want to constrain builders? Is there last loop problem? Is it an actual problem that there is still one party that can reorder the transactions after as long as it includes the transactions from the illustration and then I'd be also working on something cool that's further down the road probably. But anonymous ielts like can we hide the identity of people that are submitting the ielts so they don't expose their preferences or like the transactions they actually want to include in their list.
00:54:21.341 - 00:54:45.931, Speaker A: Thomas so in this fossil model that you guys are proposing can you walk us through like one concrete example of like how would it look like if some, if I want to deposit my money into a tornado like how would this transaction actually kind of flow through the transaction pipeline and how would we ensure that it actually ends up in the block? Can you draw an example like that?
00:54:46.123 - 00:55:19.059, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure, for sure. That's a good way to think about it. So you have your transaction, that transaction will be pending in the Public mempool. And so everyone can see it basically. And then you have a committee of let's say 16 parties. But it can be more like that's implementation details. And they are all going to see that transaction pending and you only need one of them to include that transaction in its list for it to be constraining the builder of this slot.
00:55:19.059 - 00:56:02.583, Speaker B: So it's a one out of N property. It's pretty nice because you only need one party to actually see the transaction and decide I want that transaction to be included because I saw it and it's pending in the mempool to be part of the inclusion list. And then the inclusion list has to be satisfied by the block builder or proposer, like anyone who is actually building the block for its block to be valid. So that's kind of what's nice about this. It's like okay, imagine you don't want that transaction to make it at all. Then you have to go to all 16 members and say please, I need to give you money. So you don't actually include that transaction in your list because I really don't want it to go unchained.
00:56:02.583 - 00:56:11.255, Speaker B: So that makes it a lot harder. And that's basically on which basis would.
00:56:11.295 - 00:56:23.505, Speaker A: The committee pick transactions from a public mempool? Would it just be time constraint? Like this has been in here for 40 minutes. Maybe we should give this a go or what's the mechanism?
00:56:24.085 - 00:56:57.755, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a super good question. I think we. So the first idea was very by default, like order by priority fees, just like do a done ordering like this. But we actually want to include like encourage like many different rules. Like so there could be one that orders by priority fees, another one by time pending in the main pool. So we can like by having these different rules we can actually make it much harder for anyone to try and game the thing because everyone will have different criteria. So it's actually valuable to have different strategies.
00:56:57.755 - 00:57:32.775, Speaker B: But I mean the very simple example is just like very basic ordering by priority phase. But you can also think of very other various other strategies. I'm sure clients will implement some of them. Again those are not supposed to be valuable transactions. So it's nice because you can just take these transactions and include the ones you think is going to help the network the most. You won't like probably won't benefit from it, but it is like some kind of very important part of what you're doing as a validator.
00:57:34.395 - 00:58:05.025, Speaker A: Yeah. And you're saying this committee that would kind of make sure that the transactions actually Land in the block. They would do this as an altruistic function for the network. So who do you actually is this just something like MEV Boost where every validator or every altruistically motivated validator can just also run this module? Or how do you imagine that logistical implementation of this function to work?
00:58:05.845 - 00:58:32.195, Speaker B: So that's in protocol. That is like the validator by default. So mevboost is still like a sidecar, right? Like you can opt in or not, but it's not in protocol. It's still out of protocol pbs. This will be like part of the actual Ethereum protocol that you have to run. So it wouldn't be like opt in or optional. Of course you can try to modify your client or do all sorts of things, but it would be enforced by default, basically.
00:58:32.195 - 00:59:15.535, Speaker B: And then the altruistic part is very interesting. I think we were thinking of mechanisms to reward. For example, you can say, okay, we want transactions that are not included by a lot of people to be included more than others, because maybe those are the censorable ones. So you can share the fees for a given transaction across the members that include it. So if you are the only one to include it, you get all the fees, but if everyone includes it, it's split into 16. And you can think of stuff like this. But the reason why we didn't implement it yet is because it actually gets very tricky when there is congestion.
00:59:15.535 - 01:00:00.263, Speaker B: So when blocks get full and then you can get into super weird cases where if fees go to IL committee members and not to builders, then as a builder you might be incentivized to include transactions that are paying lower fees. But because, just because you know, these fees won't get to you in the first place. So it gets like very tricky. And we are like still researching it actively, but it's a very nice topic. We also think it might just work like people in the network are usually acting honestly that's what we rely on. If we don't have an honest majority, then everything kind of crumbles. But.
01:00:00.263 - 01:00:09.795, Speaker B: So yeah, the first version will be without rewards, but we are like researching it super actively to see. But it's also like an interesting question itself.
01:00:10.135 - 01:00:40.285, Speaker D: The altruistic part is very interesting, the one of N model. But then it also has me thinking maybe there's a tipping point where there's more incentives to be bribed than to actually be to be altruistic. And everyone kind of colludes with the block builders again. And we're right back to the problem we had in the first place. So yeah, how would you envision preventing that from happening?
01:00:41.425 - 01:01:13.027, Speaker B: Yeah, so I mean, yeah, if all 16 committee members collude and there is not one of them that is actually willing to act honestly, then it falls apart. But one of them is one of the strongest guarantees you can have. It's not a matter of the assumption. It's not 2/3. I think it's pretty good. But yeah, I think one way to prevent this will be to actually have rewards. So it tries to compensate for the fact that you can actually bribe or use boost things.
01:01:13.027 - 01:01:57.775, Speaker B: The only thing that's very important. The other thing that's very important to say is there is no incentive to try to get your transaction in a blog via the IL compared to just submitting into the builder. So there is no real incentive for people to bribe IL committee members to include their transactions. Because since the block builder still can reorder transactions and if the block is full, he can include the transactions he wants. Like there is basically, if you want your transaction to get in, you just need to submit it via the public mempool and that will get you good guarantees that it will be included.
01:01:58.235 - 01:02:34.669, Speaker A: Yeah, that's true. As long as the ordering is by priority fee. Right. Otherwise I could kind of get cheap transactions into blocks. Like if we, if we're in a period where block space is very kind of sought after and I would usually have to pay a high priority fee to just get into the block at all, then if we were to do this time thing of like, hey, this has been sitting here for 40 minutes, then I could maybe get a slightly cheaper transaction into it. But if, as long as you order by priority fees, it would kind of. And like the circumstances for that to be true are like very, very, very rare in the real world.
01:02:34.669 - 01:02:40.355, Speaker A: But just game theoretically, if you sort by priority fees, then then that would help too.
01:02:41.095 - 01:03:33.449, Speaker B: Yeah, no, that's right. And I think the congestion part is something we have to be very careful of because it happens sometimes blocks get congested and that's when you want to make sure you give enough freedom to the builder so that he still has the liberty of including his transactions in priority if he wants to. Otherwise like, it gets very messy and you very rapidly have a competition between the IL and the block space, the normal block space, which again you don't really want because if there is an opportunity to crowd that IL with MEV transactions or transactions you think are more valuable, people are going to take it. So that's one of the very core design philosophies behind it and the block.
01:03:33.497 - 01:03:42.369, Speaker D: Builders can see the transaction details that are included in the aisle. Right. They have full vision. Okay. Okay.
01:03:42.457 - 01:04:20.431, Speaker B: Yeah. And the only rule is like you have to include it for your block to be valid as long as the block is not full. And that's basically it. And what's cool is like I mean the proposal or the blog builder obviously can see the transactions but so can everyone else. And that's how the attestators are like ah, we also saw it so he needs to include it. That's kind of like the mechanism here. Like you compare the views of everyone and like every attester is checking, he must have seen this and he didn't include it.
01:04:20.431 - 01:04:33.819, Speaker B: So I'm not going to vote for his blog or like okay, like we have the same view of everything and the proposer or the builder actually included every transaction's ISO to so that's good. And he said he included it in its payload so it's good.
01:04:33.947 - 01:04:39.011, Speaker D: Would you get slashed maybe or what are the penalties for not including inclusion?
01:04:39.043 - 01:04:47.259, Speaker B: List your block just doesn't make it like attestors don't vote for it so it never becomes an anemical so but.
01:04:47.347 - 01:05:22.145, Speaker C: Also like I still don't know how you define a full block because there's always could be more transaction pending rather than the block space allow. And so you see the tornado cash transaction in the mempool doesn't mean it needs to be included if you have like say priority ordering. How to say rule. Right. And so it sounds like the validators needs to also even run like a block simulation algorithm to know okay by priority. It's like how can you define that transaction was supposed to be included in this full block size.
01:05:23.725 - 01:05:53.025, Speaker B: Yeah. So the IL proposers or like the members of the committee actually send out their list of transactions. So like it's very, very clear like what transactions need to be included. Like every so 16 people, they make their own local list of transactions, they all send it and the proposal has to include the union of all these transactions. So it's you know, it's not just like a mempool thing or like everyone. No, it's like very clear the set of transactions that needs to be included by the proposal.
01:05:54.285 - 01:05:59.397, Speaker C: Okay, but then you also said like the builder has the last look so they can decide to not or they.
01:05:59.421 - 01:06:40.539, Speaker B: Can decide no, they have to include every transaction. They can reorder them like the set of transactions is fixed and it's very clear they have to include them but they can include them anywhere in the block like there is no restriction on ordering in fossil and then they have to include it if the block is not full. So if you know the block is at capacity and 30 million gas, then you can leave some transactions out from the IL and not be penalized. Like that's like the only condition in which you can like not include some transactions. But otherwise you have to include every transaction that is part of the doesn't.
01:06:40.587 - 01:06:56.495, Speaker C: Matter how much the inclusion list transaction pay like, because like so that I can exploit the inclusion list by just like sending zero gas fee kind of tornado cash transaction whenever I need to do transfer. And I will be included for sure.
01:06:58.915 - 01:07:39.815, Speaker B: I mean if it's zero gas and it's mostly ordered by priority fee, then you might not be included very rapidly. The idea is like, yes, hopefully you will get included at some point because we do want everyone to be included. And priority fee is not a determining factor of whether you get included or not. It's like as long as you pay the base fee then you are supposed to be included. And if, I mean one of the rules is to order by priority fees, then if you pay 0 fee, yes, you might not be included because other transactions will be in the list and you won't just because people have decided to order by priority.
01:07:41.355 - 01:07:58.535, Speaker C: Okay, so like the committee needs to have some kind of like either ordering algorithm or deciding, okay, this transaction in the inclusion list must be included in the next block or you might be included later. Like they will have to have some decision on that. Like they. So to check against the builder.
01:07:59.085 - 01:08:22.245, Speaker B: Yeah, the committee is responsible for making the list in the first place. What's also kind of nice is every 12 seconds there is a new committee. So those are randomly chosen validators. So if that committee by any chance is malicious or whatever, there's a whole new set of people that is actually responsible for including transactions in the next block. So that's also kind of nice.
01:08:22.285 - 01:08:31.935, Speaker C: It's like a refresh and curious why it's 16. Is that a number calculated based on like the number of total validators, et cetera?
01:08:33.795 - 01:09:32.828, Speaker B: No, it was so it's more like what, okay, so what inclusion list mostly consume is bandwidth because you have to get these lists of transactions across proposals and everything. And so it was like how many transactions do we want in? What is the kind of size of objects we are comfortable like passing through the network? So 16 is like 8 kilobytes per inclusion list. And yeah, so you get like mostly around like one blob worth of data of bandwidth when you actually get all these objects together, which is fine. So that was mostly like sort of the calculation here. It can be changed, you know, like when devs or clients like actually experiment with it and like maybe it can be turned up or down, but like it was a. Yeah. Brief calculation we made.
01:09:32.828 - 01:09:41.344, Speaker B: So we can have like as many transactions as possible and as many proposals as possible without actually like being a huge cost to work in terms of bandwidth.
01:09:42.815 - 01:09:49.635, Speaker D: When could we expect this EIP to be available? Do you have some like ETAs? Maybe?
01:09:49.935 - 01:10:08.675, Speaker B: Yeah, very soon, like in, I would say like before DEFCON is the kind of order of idea. So it should be very soon. If it's a bit later, like don't quote me on this but like it's going to be very soon. Yeah.
01:10:08.985 - 01:10:15.965, Speaker A: Okay, wait, that's the EIP being kind of published and then like it's the fork that actually.
01:10:16.385 - 01:10:22.685, Speaker B: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's opening the aip. No, no, no. That's so long your process.
01:10:23.825 - 01:10:38.669, Speaker A: Yeah, I think we all excited for a sec there. If I look at the faces of dang Adobe, we're both like, oh, what the hell. But okay, what's the like that's like another year or what do you figure?
01:10:38.837 - 01:11:25.915, Speaker B: I mean that's not really up to me at all this point. It's more about what the community decides and if devs and people are excited generally and then it's all about trying. Everyone thinks there are a lot of upgrades and they're all important as a matter of how much of a priority people think this is. I do hope there will be quite a good turn up and like people will get excited because it's something that has been discussed and again and again. And you know, there was a previous proposal that was like rejected for like technical things but like that was still like generally agreed upon and this one is I think strictly better. So yeah, I think there's a good chance.
01:11:27.865 - 01:11:40.405, Speaker C: Nice. And I'm curious like what I. There's There were many like EPBs related things were being proposed and I'm curious what are the next thing after inclusion list if they can be shipped?
01:11:42.825 - 01:12:39.349, Speaker B: Generally like I guess like rank of things but I mean I guess it's like an AIP and it's open, like it's actually an open IP and it's up for discussion and Poachers and Terence have been very active on this. Terence has also helped a lot with the specs on Fossil. But yeah, I think one fun thing is also to see how the next upgrades can be compatible with each other. So we've been working with people working on ages and things or things we think might be included to see what are the synergies. Can we actually combine stuff make it a bit cleaner like do they work together and those include EPBs against abstraction, APS proposals, all of this peer DAs data availability I guess last a few.
01:12:39.397 - 01:13:24.275, Speaker C: Questions to just the curious about your general comments of the current development among the ecosystem. I feel like this year, the recent year the hot topic has been like pre confirmation there was launch of commit boost and then it was like base roll up shared sequencing among L2eigenlayer as restaking service and roller boost recently with unichain I'm curious, I'm just throwing a bunch of words here but I'm curious among all these development in the community of Ethereum ecosystem are any of these things are obviously conflicting with CR or compatible or like raising concern about cr? Yeah.
01:13:27.215 - 01:14:41.185, Speaker B: Yeah. I mean there was a lot of different things so let's go with I think like all the proposals that potentially centralize or act as a centralizing force to the validator set are somewhat a threat like because you know more centralized validator set means like the kind of thing we rely on right now with fossil and inclusion is like we are taking people from this decentralized validator set to actually have a say and constrain the more like sophisticated builders. If the validators in the first place actually get more centralized then I mean the whole thing falls apart. So it's kind of very important I think to really make sure validators are like keep acting as kind of a dumb pipe or we don't ask too much from them. There are some cool nuances we can make. At the end of the day even proposal, block proposal or execution proposal might be okay to actually give to a more sophisticated set of actors. What we really want to protect is attesting.
01:14:41.185 - 01:15:33.011, Speaker B: So the attestation part and the proposal part are like very different parts and now they are all bundled up like validators do everything but you can also think of ways to that's kind of aps it's called a tester proposal separation to like shield kind of the same idea but like shield attest from centralizing forces that might come and that are very specific to block proposal. So it's like kind of remove even further the attester part of the pipeline so they stay completely decentralized and so maybe the proposal can be a bit more centralized but that will be fine because the actual important part of everyone coming to consensus to say whether the block was valid and we all agree on something will be still decentralized and.
01:15:33.203 - 01:15:51.315, Speaker D: Sophisticated once you, you're done with this EIP and it's mostly out of your hands. What are you excited about working on next? Is there any specific topic you're interested in in terms of protocol research or anything you want to dive into?
01:15:52.855 - 01:16:31.641, Speaker B: Yeah, so right now I'm really deep into this so I'm trying to focus a bit. I also think all the extensions are kind of cool. Like fossil for blobs is like a very obvious thing to work on. You know the reward mechanism is also like something I'm interested in. So like things like that like anonymous inclusion list are like super, super cool. I collaborated with the EF cryptography and that was like extremely nice to learn some new things. And I think the idea of like, you know, protecting the identity of the set of participants can be also like very valuable for inclusionists.
01:16:31.641 - 01:17:37.351, Speaker B: So stuff like this I think I'm kind of excited about. I think the more general like, okay, I think we are at a stage where we have like a cool idea of different components and now it's all about trying to make it work together to get like this kind of global picture of how the network will work with all these new cool features added. Now we are like okay, we have an idea about this, we have an idea about DAs, we have an idea about maybe EPBs. How do we actually make it fit together so it's not just like it doesn't look like a bunch of features added together but like more of a coherent picture of like who. What does the actually like yeah, high level picture look like? It's something I'm very excited for about. And then in our group we have a bunch of people so Gaspar and mostly are working on issuance. That's been like another very big topic and we have to get moving on these two.
01:17:37.351 - 01:18:23.125, Speaker B: So that's very top of mind as well. APS and then I also like. So Barnaby had a post about rainbow staking which is like what is the role of future of staking? Can you have like different tiers of stakers? How would that work? I think that's also very interesting. That will allow some validators to do some tasks and some others to do others. And those sets to have very different properties based on what we actually want. Like is it economic security, is it censorship, resistance? Those are like, those can be actually different set of sets of people. So this is also like a cool thing we are working on.
01:18:23.125 - 01:18:42.845, Speaker B: Yeah. And PLDES is also Something I'm getting into now because I'm getting into it, like trying to understand how it fits with the fossil. But it's also super cool to look how this evolves and how we can actually scale blobs by a large factor.
01:18:43.145 - 01:19:40.945, Speaker C: I guess you already touch upon my question that I'm going to ask, but yeah, you mentioned like there's many projects going on but I'm curious like what are, what, what is the future of Ethereum look like? I guess like the big question or like Ethereum 3.0 or like from outside we know that the EF is committed to or like Ethereum is committed to a roadmap where like home staking is the future. And I think in the past we kind of chose L2 as the sharding or scaling solution. But like recently there has been debates and like people are saying, oh, L2 is broken, broken because now incentive by incentive aligned with Ethereum once they have a token themselves, etc and Justin is busy debating like Solana people because. And then people are like, yeah, we need the high performance for Ethereum as well. We need a big block, faster block time. So I'm curious, like what, what's, what's the take from EF side on, on this? Or like what's the actual like the one big thing that you guys think is originally to be solved?
01:19:42.335 - 01:20:49.457, Speaker B: Yeah, so I no take from the EF side but a personal take because I like it's actually like very, very true that everyone has very different opinions even within the of like EF maybe like sit on one of the extremes. Like I, I think scaling is cool but you have a lot of centralized systems that work really well and that scale like crazy. So you can use these if you want. Like I think what we have with Ethereum is extremely valuable which is like solostaker and actual decentralized set of validators and that everyone can run a validator at home. I think it's like something like not a lot of networks have and that's actually very valuable. So for me like the main value of Ethereum resides in its ability to keep scaling while maintaining these properties. And it's the challenge because every time you see a cool new efficient scaling solution, you might be tempted to go for it.
01:20:49.457 - 01:21:34.473, Speaker B: And then you look at it a bit more and you're like, wait, okay, then it means no sort of stakeholders, right? Because there is no way people can actually afford all over the world to run a box to like meet this requirement. So like, and for me, yeah, I do think there are Very different opinions on this. But like for me I would rather like keep the solo stakers and scale a bit less than go full on scaling and lose this kind of property. Also like it is very differentiating. It's very unique to Ethereum, I think and we need to be careful about like preserving this. But again, it's very personal take like I think there is value in scaling the L1. There is value in like having more throughput via blogs for sure.
01:21:34.473 - 01:21:40.965, Speaker B: I just want to make sure we don't lose like something that we acquired along the years and that is very valuable.
01:21:41.345 - 01:22:31.785, Speaker A: All right, interesting. I think we need a rainbow map of solostakers to differentiate them because I think that's where a lot of the contention actually or like it feels like on my timeline, that's where a lot of the contention is, which is like should you be able to run this on like an Arduino on like a PC from 2005 or should we actually kind of like can you say people should have a modern kind of gaming PC or something? And that's the requirement. But that's a whole other episode when that topic becomes relevant. We might have you on if you pivot to that after this. We'll see. Yeah, I think this was a super interesting conversation about censorship resistance. Thanks for sharing your thoughts and your work on this.
01:22:31.785 - 01:22:51.587, Speaker A: As a citizen of the Ethereum ecosystem, I am thankful. Good luck getting this EIP to the final stage or actually into the network. Probably really exciting for you will be the first EIP that you worked on that could make it to mainnet eventually, right?
01:22:51.771 - 01:22:52.575, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:22:52.875 - 01:23:10.935, Speaker A: All right. Certainly exciting. Not many people can write that on their resume, but yeah. Thank you so much for coming on. Thomas. You have listened to the Index podcast. Tell all your friends about this and I think we'll see most of you in Bangkok.
01:23:10.935 - 01:23:13.627, Speaker A: All right everyone, bye bye.
01:23:13.811 - 01:23:15.783, Speaker B: Thanks a lot guys. It was super nice.
01:23:15.839 - 01:23:16.287, Speaker C: Thank you.
01:23:16.351 - 01:23:36.799, Speaker B: Bye bye. Cherry Picking Liar.
01:23:36.927 - 01:23:37.935, Speaker A: We call them out.
01:23:38.055 - 01:23:43.585, Speaker B: Shark Cliff, Index Podcast, Crypto Game Fire.
