00:00:05.200 - 00:00:07.010, Speaker A: Ray, welcome to validated.
00:00:07.470 - 00:00:09.902, Speaker B: Hey, Austin, thank you so much for having me here.
00:00:10.006 - 00:00:12.038, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks for coming on today.
00:00:12.174 - 00:00:14.742, Speaker B: So huge fan of the show. Huge fan of the show.
00:00:14.846 - 00:00:29.368, Speaker A: Glad to hear it. Glad to hear it. Huge fan of audios. So be a good one. I'm excited to talk to you today, in part because I haven't actually talked to you that much over the years. I know reneal pretty well. We've worked together on a bunch of stuff before.
00:00:29.368 - 00:01:21.500, Speaker A: You've obviously been with Audius since the start. So really excited to dive in on this conversation today. There's a whole bunch of stuff I want to cover, some of the old history of how Audius got started on that sort of migration to Solana, which was sort of a very long process, but I think a very thoughtful and well thought out process of what components of Audius are still on Ethereum, what components are on Solana, how that sort of interplay and migration worked. But I want to start out with the original thesis and vision for Audius and how that's kind of changed over the years because you guys are a very, if not the first, I would say one of the first non inherently financial blockchain applications that is still around.
00:01:21.880 - 00:02:25.712, Speaker B: Great, great question. There's a lot of ways to go with that, but I think maybe to start off what audius is. Audius is a decentralized music marketplace, and thats basically been true since day one. Weve changed how we think about a lot of the problems that we deal with and work on, and now more than ever have a lot more deep relationships with partners in the music industry at large, which is pretty incredible for a crypto project in general, theres a lot of stuff going on in music, in the web two space, in the web3 space. But in particular, being sort of a dinosaur, as you alluded in the space, has led us build really strong relationships with a lot of partners. And that's really where we're able to kind of take this idea of a music marketplace and uplevel it and working with labels and partners and publishers and performance rights organizations and kind of all the rest of the music industry at large. But to answer the question of, like, why does something like audius exist? And what is the mission of it is that we see that in music, the evolution of time, especially with how we see dsps today, the Spotifys, the apple musics and so on and so.
00:02:25.736 - 00:02:28.952, Speaker A: Forth, have built many layers of digital.
00:02:29.016 - 00:03:35.988, Speaker B: Streaming platforms, yes, or digital service provider streaming platforms. You can think about it the same way over time, we've seen just layers and layers of black boxes being built between the artist and the fan that have pulled them further and further apart. And we really see the technology of blockchain as a whole, crypto being a piece of that. But blockchain in general is being the biggest unlock from a technical perspective, that we've ever seen in this space before. And that can bring in an unprecedented level of openness and transparency and direct relationship between artists and fan that you just really can't get anywhere else. And with that, we think we can give artists a bigger say and a lot more control in how they choose to monetize in a marketplace, how they choose to find their fans, whether that is anything from, hey, I want to charge $5,000 for my latest album release and only drop it in the Bermuda triangle for one week and then remove it or do something as normal as like, hey, I want to let people subscribe to me and listen to content that I upload for the sort of a couple of dollars, $10 a month that is expected elsewhere. And really, blockchain is a big unlock in that.
00:03:35.988 - 00:04:28.006, Speaker B: And as time has gone on, we've really taken our time being patient and thoughtful, with Ux being the number one priority of what we're doing. And I think some of this information is public and you can check out our public dashboard for it. We have north of 4 million monthly active users these days, but the majority of those users don't understand anything about the tech. And that's been really our bread and butter is you don't necessarily need to be a crypto native person to enjoy the openness and benefits of what something like blockchain can give to music. And as time has gone on, we've obviously moved, like you mentioned, from a lot of things, from ethereum to Solana, or we even waited to launch a lot of things until something like Solana existed. And in general, Solana tends to get a decent amount of flak from some parts of the crypto industry being like, oh, that's not how you do it. It has to be much more like Ethereum.
00:04:28.006 - 00:04:38.166, Speaker B: That's the only way to do things. And for us, we really care if it works for users. And that's what we've been focused on. And that's why we've moved some things to Solana. And I'm happy to talk about that more as we keep going here.
00:04:38.278 - 00:05:30.410, Speaker A: So I want to kind of start back with something that you said, which is that there's a lot of black boxes out there in the music industry. I think if you talked to the black boxes in their early days, they would say, no, no, no, we're not an opaque black box that siphons off revenue from artists. We are a distribution platform, giving them access in ways they never got before to a global market. And we're actually giving them a higher percentage of payouts than when they bought cds. And I think it's one of those things where very few people see themselves as the problem when you're talking to them, they're seeing themselves as adding value in certain places. And so I kind of want to go into a little bit of that relationship that exists. I mean, I think what most people know today about music streaming is artists are making less money in streaming than they used to make.
00:05:30.410 - 00:05:55.048, Speaker A: Both either in the early days of streaming or through cd sales. And in exchange, they're making much more money on tour, but they're going on tour much more. So walk me through a little bit of how audius is set up, both from a philosophical standpoint, a technical standpoint, and maybe an economic standpoint, to do something different than the Spotify and the apple musics and the titles of the world.
00:05:55.104 - 00:06:16.676, Speaker B: Totally. Yeah, you started with a really interesting point there in that, you know, kind of this road to hell is paved with good intentions. Right? Like, everyone is trying to help everyone. And, you know, artists big and small, you know, especially big, need teams. There is no doubt about that. Like, it is impossible as a musician to manage everything yourself at some scale. I mean, we see that with technology, of course, all the time.
00:06:16.676 - 00:06:53.920, Speaker B: But, you know, that extends very directly to the music industry. And I think, you know, what's, what's kind of become the trend recently with this sort of hyper focus on superfans as kind of a way to combat that. The value that carries in streaming is close to zero. There's a really excellent book by Stephen Witt about the title of the book is how music became free. Pretty much the modern world. Consumers who listen to music have gotten so used to things being cheap and instant and cheap, to the point where really no one's making much money on streaming. And of course, yes, people are getting pushed to tour more.
00:06:53.920 - 00:07:18.416, Speaker B: People are looking for physical and, you know, five digital and, you know, other ways of merchandising themselves and merchandising their brand in order to make money. Um, what's. What's really happened recently, because there are so many venues for that, is, it's very overwhelming for, for an artist. Like, we've. We've heard this feedback a lot from artists we work with that. It's like, you know, what's going to get me committed to using a new platform? Am I going to have to manage all of my releases myself? Like the answer, it can't be yes to that. Like, we're, we're far past that.
00:07:18.416 - 00:08:03.736, Speaker B: People want automated tools to handle all this and so on and so forth. So what does, to your bigger question of, like, what does audius do that's different? To not be one of these players in this road to hell, so to speak, is that we think by introducing something like the blockchain and a decentralized music protocol under the hood, we make all of the data open. And that's very different from how it works today because how it might work right now is like, at the end of the month, Spotify sums up all of the things that they have accounted for in terms of revenue. There's a bunch of hurdles that they go through. There's revenue pool based things, there's streaming based things, there's various label cuts. All of that is handled behind the scenes. And believe it or not, most of this is done over SF two P file transfers today.
00:08:03.736 - 00:08:46.010, Speaker B: It's so outdated for the way that we as consumers. Spotify is an amazing product. Don't get me wrong, I use Spotify myself. You can get any song that you want in the entire universe at your fingertips in a second. But what's happening on the backend is zero transparency. I think that's really what the long term plan is for audiences to really become a clearinghouse and data broker of understanding how data in music works and making that open access so that the players who participate in it, they can't really seek out backdoor ways of introducing what they're trying to do. They actually have to confront the fact that the information is there and let the market work itself out in that sense.
00:08:46.010 - 00:09:11.280, Speaker B: And there's a lot of benefits that we see with that. And I think the biggest peril I could draw, certainly for the listeners of validated is a lot of this show talks about Defi and what is the relationship of defi and traditional finance. And I think that's very similar with what music is. And Audius case, I haven't heard this term before. Maybe I'll try to coin it, but trad Mew or trad music is maybe the way we'd like to see our role as trying to change up the game.
00:09:11.320 - 00:09:13.020, Speaker A: But classical music?
00:09:13.200 - 00:09:37.612, Speaker B: Classical music, well, there's a whole Apple app for that now. The apple music classical thing is actually really sweet. I don't know if anyone's check that out. Yeah, but music is similar, and the behind the scenes settlement layer is convoluted and complicated. And you as a fan and you as an artist really never see any of that. And that's really what we think we can change. And it's a long game to play.
00:09:37.612 - 00:09:53.460, Speaker B: This takes a lot of time and takes a long time to build things. And really, our focus has been pretty much on the UX side to bring attention to this before we end up designing the whole universe and no one's using it. So that's been our strategy.
00:09:53.620 - 00:10:57.590, Speaker A: I want to get into a lot of the technical details and that stuff as well, but I want to hang on this philosophy and market for a minute because I think this is really key for folks to understand. So one of the things I think that is fascinating is the difference between the K pop industry and the us music industry. Because the K pop industry is very intentionally created by brand directors. The performers are obviously tremendous in terms of what they're able to do, but they're not necessarily the creative control behind the music they make. A lot of that belongs to the creative director of the various group that they're creating. There's something more akin to the way actors are in Hollywood, where they don't necessarily control the movies they're in, but they obviously have exceptional performances within that. I don't want anyone in the K pop world to get mad at me, but there is a very data driven artistic process there which is coming to the United States and coming to the wider music industry, certainly.
00:10:57.590 - 00:11:38.652, Speaker A: But I think we would sort of. We have this idea that Taylor Swift is not a data driven artist. And of course, Taylor Swift is a deeply data driven artist, but there's that sort of at least veneer of a different type of authenticity, even among our superstars nowadays. So I'm kind of curious how many artists are responding to this idea that we can now get much more data of the people who are actually choosing to publish their music on audience. What is their sort of, their rationale and feedback? Because I think a lot of journalists would say, when we got more data about journalism, journalism actually got worse. Wow. Yeah.
00:11:38.676 - 00:12:59.830, Speaker B: This is a really fantastic question, and, uh, I think we're going to see more of this, especially with how easy creation has become recently, you know, with. With all of the improvements in the AI landscape and all of the, uh, you know, just efficiencies in general in producing music, forgetting about AI, but even the, you know, digital audio workstation like the things Ableton's done in the last decade have been pretty incredible and lowered the barrier to entry to making music quite a lot. I think that our philosophy really at audience on this is that we want to serve the industry in the market, and we want to serve both the small and the large in that. So whether you are K pop and you are part of essentially a company that's producing the end product, or if you're an individual who sits in your bedroom and is able to use some of the tools that exist now to produce really high quality music, that you're equally given opportunity by the fact that the data is there and the access is there. And we do see over time that not everyone wants all of the data. And it's almost not really the point as an end artist, if you're small enough that it's sufficient for you to just see who's bought your music and have access to reach out to those fans and build that fandom, that might be enough. And maybe you don't need to know that the whole audience is architected in a way that is totally decentralized and that you could run a node yourself and actually have all the data and indexing it.
00:12:59.830 - 00:13:46.538, Speaker B: That would be really cool if you wanted to do that as a hobbyist. But that's really not the point of the overall mission, which is really to fit in this technology into the industry in a place where it can act as an unlock for big and small parties to make decisions on it. There's lots of schools of thought on whether this AI change is going to make music less good or lower quality. And I think at audience we don't really need to take a stance in that. But we do want to unlock the ability for people to use technology in whichever ways they see most effective to their own plan. And oftentimes an artist who has a cult following of 1000 users who are able to pay them is sufficient and that's what they want. And being able to own that fandom and be able to talk to those fans and work with those fans and understand the data, just about those fans is enough.
00:13:46.724 - 00:14:12.130, Speaker A: Yeah, so I'd love to get into that a little bit. You guys have, what, about a 4 million user base that's fairly active at this point? What are those people like? What's their relationship with artists? I'm sure some are just pure consumers, but walk me through a little bit about how the artist and listener relationship is both similar and different from other digital platforms.
00:14:12.310 - 00:14:29.578, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. So you can think of audius as more similar to Soundcloud and Bandcamp in the landscape of dsps. Over time, platforms like SoundCloud have become a little bit more Spotify looking than what they originally were. There were features on Soundcloud around communities and stuff maybe a decade or so ago.
00:14:29.674 - 00:14:36.410, Speaker A: Yeah, this was like the whole Apple music when it launched was like a social platform as well, and then that lasted like three months.
00:14:36.530 - 00:15:10.054, Speaker B: Yeah, we've seen that happen a lot. And I think part of that is because there's just this, like, massive gravity of how people have come to expect music today that is just very native. And for us, we don't want to deviate from that and stick to our principles of allowing people to build social relationships on a music platform. Music is inherently social. It may not be social in the scale of what Spotify does today. I think that's okay. You could build a Spotify like experience on top of audience, and you can build a vancamp like experience on top of audience.
00:15:10.054 - 00:15:36.116, Speaker B: And our product, a first party client, looks more like Bandcamp today. And our primary audience is independence. And a lot of folks are working on bringing on their catalog and connecting with fans. And we support messaging, and that messaging is decentralized and end to end encrypted, which is really awesome. And there's some really cool tech powering these things. But ultimately, in this new wave of music, becoming. A coworker of mine recently used the phrase zombie Internet.
00:15:36.116 - 00:16:05.250, Speaker B: There's a lot of stuff, I don't know if you've been on Pinterest recently. I certainly don't go on Pinterest very often, but when I do, a lot of content is AI generated now. And I think we're starting to see that in a lot of places where things are becoming a lot more sterile. To your point, before about journalism got worse when there was data, things are becoming sterile. And we kind of want audience to be open and free and in some senses kind of burning man esque, to bring out the social and human facet of what music is.
00:16:05.410 - 00:16:16.660, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's very, very interesting from a yemenite, like a philosophical and almost. You don't see many companies that are built around a burning man aesthetic.
00:16:18.400 - 00:16:23.944, Speaker B: Although in crypto you may see more than, I think, in a lot of traditional tech industries. Yeah.
00:16:24.072 - 00:16:43.990, Speaker A: So walk me through a little bit of, like, it seems like there's a lot of these different types of components that are a very different way to build a product, a very philosophically different way to approach these sorts of things. What about audience really requires blockchain technology or blockchain technology makes viable in a way that wouldn't be otherwise.
00:16:44.290 - 00:17:25.992, Speaker B: Totally. I think you mentioned this at the beginning of your first question, which is around what are the sort of economic incentives and the economic fabric of audience? And that really is important to us. We want to build a protocol that can withstand the test of time and withstand even our contributions as a contributing company to it, and be fully owned and operated by a community that are incentivized to do so. And so when we set out on building audience, everything that we did was decentralized first, always. And that was one of the reasons why it took a while to even get our first product out the door, because there are a lot of hard questions to ask. And you can think about audience in some ways as a layer one for music. Yeah, of course, we use Solana and we use Ethereum.
00:17:25.992 - 00:18:26.618, Speaker B: We're not a layer one blockchain, but we are trying to provide a this clearinghouse type model, this open transaction book of what's going on in music. And we felt we could only do that in a way where we weren't the sole party who was running all the infrastructure power that does exist today. There are entities that act as middlemen, that help dsps translate data to and from publishers and performance rights organizations, other players in the industry that exists today. But none of it is open in the way that something like economically incentivized crypto projects can be. And the way this works on audius today is we have a main governance protocol that lives on Mainnet, Ethereum, and on that node, operators who basically run our software are registering services and they're earning staked interest on a token that we have. That is how the base economic layer of audience works. And that says nothing about the user story.
00:18:26.618 - 00:19:07.760, Speaker B: Most of our users don't really know anything about Ethereum. They don't care about it. And that's where Solana has really come into the picture for us as a huge unlock, because that's where we built all of the cool social experiences and in product stuff and all the ways that you can monetize your music and control who has access to your music and do that all in a way that's very seamless, really. We build on blockchains, not to build on blockchains, but we want to build this open, sort of like record book of music. And the only way that we see possible to do that in the long run that will withstand the test of time is by building it on chain. And we're multi chain or chain agnostic. Or something like that, if you want to use some terminology.
00:19:07.760 - 00:19:22.292, Speaker B: But we want to pick the best tool for the job. And it's not like users who got comfortable with not having to log into their music player every time, like, know about session cookies and know all those details. Like that doesn't matter. Right? Like, the thing that matters is, like, what they're getting out of it. Yeah.
00:19:22.316 - 00:20:00.520, Speaker A: So let's get into a little bit of the tech. So I want to go through sort of two different user journeys here to use some very product marketing language here and product language. But let's start from the perspective of, like, I'm an artist and I've never used Audius before, but I want to get my music listed, I want to upload stuff. So not necessarily what buttons do I press, but what am I doing when I register? Where am I uploading music to? And then just sort of walk me through the technical journey that my Wav file takes.
00:20:00.680 - 00:20:24.642, Speaker B: Totally. Yeah, I love that you're uploading lossless too, with the Wav file. So, yeah, you come to Audius. You may use our first party client that lives at Audius Co. Or that is our apps on the Google Play and Apple app stores. And your first experience looks almost identical to web two, it's a username password login, or an email and password login. Behind the scenes, you are getting a wallet.
00:20:24.642 - 00:20:58.016, Speaker B: And we have a pretty cool setup for how that works. That wallet actually is an ethereum wallet because that's where we started. But the really interesting thing is behind the scenes of, from that, we're actually creating derived accounts on Solana for you to receive payouts in USDC to hold our native audio token on the Solana bridged asset through wormhole. And all this stuff is all happening behind the scenes. You don't care about it at all. You're busy signing up and picking what genres you want to follow and what artists you want to follow and what kinds of experience you want to have at the platform. Do you want to upload music first or you want to join as a fan? You go through that signup process, it looks and feels very web, too.
00:20:58.016 - 00:21:41.370, Speaker B: And that's done with high intention. It's very important that we do that because, again, most of our users don't really know anything. They hit Audius co because they hear about it from their favorite producer they're following, or their friend who also produces music, or they themselves have heard about it from some billboard article that's written about us. And they come in as a musician just wanting to use the product. All of this stuff behind the scenes is going on, creating a wallet for them, and they land on a page that says upload your music, and they go upload their music. What actually happens there is that they talk to mainnet Ethereum, which is where our governance and registration system lives, and they actually discover who are the node operators that are running on this is all happening behind the scenes. They're just looking at a pretty little upload dialogue.
00:21:41.370 - 00:22:12.746, Speaker B: They basically pick two different things. There's two node types that live within audience. One of them is this thing called the discovery node, which essentially is how you find content in audios, this search and explore type service. And the other one is this thing called the content node, which is where we store all of our files. So that to your question before is where the WAV file ends up being. But behind the scenes, you don't actually know about this file. You basically log in, you have a wallet behind the scenes, you're able to prove your identity to the network by cryptographically signing things.
00:22:12.746 - 00:22:41.110, Speaker B: And you send your WAV file to this one of these content nodes. The content node is earning on the protocol through the staking mechanism. They're happy to take your file and transcode it and make a streamable version of it and make a few other different copies, generate a preview if you want. And you specify like, hey, I want to make sure that whenever someone wants this song, they have to pay a dollar. And the standard payment in audience is actually USDC. And that's done also with intention. Yes, we have our own token, but you're not going to know anything if you don't know anything about crypto.
00:22:41.110 - 00:23:18.248, Speaker B: You land on an upload page and it's like, oh, you're going to make all this audio. You're going to be like, what does that actually mean? So you have audio. Exactly, right, right. So you say on that sort of upload form, hey, I want to charge people a dollar to access my content or let them stream it for free. Charge with a dollar to download the Wav file, the lossless original or master copy. I, as an artist, finish the upload form, I send my content to one of these content nodes, and then I publish the record that I did so onto the chain. And then that ends up being the wave the rest of the network indexes and discovers that content and makes it available to any other streamers.
00:23:18.248 - 00:23:54.182, Speaker B: And that's where that kind of discovery node type that I was talking about before comes into play. Basically, listening to ETH is listening to Solana. It's listening to some other communication layers that we have, and it's basically stitching together a picture of the universe so that someone can search across it. We use elasticsearch behind the scenes to power this, but that really just leads to a pretty seamless web two style interface where you upload a song, it's pay gated. Someone come along and buy it, and when they buy it, they pay you directly. In crypto, direct user to user, wallet to a wallet behind the scenes. And the sort of discovery nodes in the network and the content nodes in the network basically attest to, hey, a user should have access to this.
00:23:54.182 - 00:23:55.190, Speaker B: Let's serve it to them.
00:23:55.310 - 00:24:19.906, Speaker A: Yeah, it's funny, because I think if you came to audius today and you download the app, you sign in, you installed it, et cetera, you would think it's using web3 the same way. Like a game from 2022 is using web3, where it's like, oh, there's a sign in with wallet button, and I earn some tokens, but everything else is just running on AWS somewhere. But it sounds like that's really not the technology experience.
00:24:20.098 - 00:25:04.874, Speaker B: Yes, thank you for realizing that. And that's what I was trying to allude to before, in that our whole goal was build a decentralized first and do that always. We do take a good amount of academic rigor to how we think about this problem. And yes, it's so much easier. Hey, let's just make a giant s three bucket and let everyone put their files there and just serve it back with s three's version of gated link URL's and things like that. And our whole stance is that if this is going to stand the test of time and become this open block book, essentially for music, it needs to be operated this way and it needs to be run this way. We spent a lot of time sweating those details, and the content storage system itself has gone through many different iterations, and the one that we've landed on recently, I think has been a really awesome implementation in go.
00:25:04.874 - 00:25:31.920, Speaker B: And again, anyone could implement this thing however they want. There is a spec for it, we hope, in similar ways. I think pretty recently I was re listening to the validated episode where you guys had Syndica come on to talk about their validator client that they're building for Solana itself. And this is where we see, necessarily, music going. The Internet is a fundamental primitive of our lives, and there's no reason that music should not be treated as something that deserves its own protocol.
00:25:32.080 - 00:26:49.658, Speaker A: Yeah, there's so many questions I have off of just that statement alone. I am fascinated by the concept of protocolization, largely because almost no one's done it successfully yet. But it's a very interesting idea that there is something behind the scenes that becomes an audio protocol that is basically a royalty system that follows you everywhere. You are on the Internet right now. We have this very loose royalty system where I think Spotify famously has several billion dollars in an account somewhere that it doesn't know who it owes money to, but it knows it owes it to someone just because the royalty tracking system is very poor across music catalogs in general. But this idea that maybe I'm going to a streaming website, like a video streaming website, but I'm using a sample in my music, my video that comes from a song that's stored on Audius, and the music payment protocol can exist outside of the music app is something that really hasn't happened in the web two world today. But it's very similar to what teleport is doing for ride sharing.
00:26:49.658 - 00:27:18.052, Speaker A: It's that idea of the front end of teleport is in some ways the product, but the API product is the actual product. It's the ability for the Uber app to tie into the teleport protocol. You know, the local car ride sharing company in Texas can tie into the teleport protocol that when you open the app in New York, you can still hit the teleport network. Is that sort of what you guys are thinking of in terms of like, an audio protocol for the Internet over the long term?
00:27:18.196 - 00:27:49.954, Speaker B: It is. Exactly. And I think that's a great analogy. And if I'm to break the fourth wall a little bit and say, if there's anything that I want anyone listening to this episode of validated to get from, is that you should come build on Audius. We have an open protocol with open SDKs that you can use or rewrite to your liking and build whatever client interface on top of that. Recently, in the last, I would say, year to two years of work, we've been focused a lot on the monetary product. And that's more than just what we offer in our interface, which has a bunch of green buttons with dollar signs before it if you want to buy something.
00:27:49.954 - 00:28:45.912, Speaker B: But behind the scenes, there's this pretty robust system of proving access to be able to listen to certain content and using rsdks. If you want to spin up a client that focuses on one particular feature or one particular niche of music, I mean, we're seeing tons of that now with the vaults and the sunos. And there are lots of music apps that are taking pretty opinionated perspectives on how people should and can listen to music. We want to encourage that, and all you have to do is really just encode rules about how content should be accessed and then users can prove whether they satisfy those conditions or nothing. And that's as anything as simple as, hey, I sent one USDC to you and it showed up on chain, and we know that that happened across the audience network. So any app building it can just basically take your wallet address behind the scenes and prove like, yes, you should be able to stream this song, but it can get arbitrarily complicated. And that's really, I think, where the power of this model comes into play is that artists can choose how they want to monetize.
00:28:45.912 - 00:29:24.772, Speaker B: And that might look totally different artist to artist, and it might look totally different application. Application. And applications may choose to be like, hey, we only want to serve the drum and bass community, and we're going to build something very tailored to drum and bass, and we're going to have all these really interesting payment gates and restrictions of how you can access content or to take dubstep as a model. There's a huge community around this notion of dub plates and where you get your samples that you put into your dubstep songs and all that kind of stuff. And those custom experiences with arbitrary amount of on chain gating can happen. That's really where we see the power of a protocol existing because, yeah, we're fragmented across different ways of consuming music today. Cd sales are up in the last year.
00:29:24.772 - 00:29:39.804, Speaker B: It's crazy. I don't know where that came from. But we're not trying to take an opinion. We will with our first party client. But as a protocol, we really want this to just be the open record of how music works and let anyone build whatever kind of experience they want to build on top of that.
00:29:39.932 - 00:30:33.938, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a very interesting kind of vision for what this, this can be. Because one of the things, I have moved music services three times since I started the streaming era, from Spotify to Apple, then to tidal, and a lot of that's been driven by, I think, the quality of curation, which seems to get worse every year, and more incentivized financially every year. It's interesting to think about that perspective, that you could even have, like, curation modules that you pay for that plug into this experience where by building an open platform, it means there's not only more openness in terms of clients like you're talking about, but it means people can almost monetize the content indirectly in different ways, too. Like I could subscribe to a playlist curation service or something along those lines.
00:30:34.114 - 00:31:16.366, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I think it's resonant of your point earlier about journalism too. Like we just saw Pitchfork kind of get folded in little bit, and that was probably the best, at least if indie had the best curation in music that we've certainly seen in the last couple of decades. But yeah, to your point, exactly. There is nothing standing in the way of someone building a well monetized, well structured, well incentivized fandom around curation entirely. And we've had a lot of conversations about this internally, about some of the features that we have coming up that we're launching, that we're really excited about. But I can't wait for someone to take the audience protocol, user SDKs, and build a playlist forward curation experience that they're able to make money from.
00:31:16.366 - 00:31:55.400, Speaker B: And you know, people do pay for curation. People go to live shows like you mentioned before, and you know, DJ's are basically curators. They're extremely talented and oftentimes musicians themselves, but they're extremely good at reading their audience and playing music that resonates with them. And you know, to your point about live music being one of the major revenue sources now, like, you know that that exists because people need curation. People like curation and especially in this world of AI music and a lot of noise to signal, or signal to noise, whichever way you want to try the comparison, finding that signal is really important. And we do fundamentally believe that there is, at least in today's world, a necessarily human element to that.
00:31:55.520 - 00:33:04.086, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a really nice way to look at that and sort of a good value, positive statement for how we want this music industry to head. So I want to talk a little bit about the usage of the platform today, the artists that are on it, the growth you guys have experienced, where things are headed. But I want to start with that catalog experience and the artist experience when they're uploading music. So are you finding. These are Bandcamp and Soundcloud, I think, very famously became the b sides that you'd release your main music and you'd upload it to Spotify and Apple and tidal and YouTube and all the main platforms. And then there'd sort of be like, the fan extras would be on Soundcloud and maybe you went in or Bandcamp and you'd maybe go and you'd buy an album, but your primary experience was largely on other platforms, and it was almost like the superfans who were going and finding distribution in these other areas. Is that sort of the way you find artists are interacting with Audius? Are they doing audius exclusives? What's the type of music you're seeing actually uploaded?
00:33:04.268 - 00:34:03.224, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I think that generally is the bread and butter of where we operate today. It's mostly people who are putting exclusives or putting the b sides or putting the extra things that they think they can squeeze value out of onto a platform like Audius and likely posting it on things like Bandcamp and SoundCloud too, as well. One of the most interesting things that they've been doing recently is doing prereleases and publishing things to Audius and similar platforms before they go on Spotify and so on and so forth in order to build deeper relationships with their fans. And that has been a really cool, interesting, emergent product behavior. We've seen. One of the other things that's worked really well for us that's been a novel sort of feature offering is the ability to do these remix competitions where you upload files and StEM files and other pieces of content that you use to create your works yourself and then for your fans, who are also creators, for them to be able to use those things and participate in direct engagement.
00:34:03.224 - 00:34:57.762, Speaker B: And as an artist, there's nothing better than to build a superfan and have someone use your own source material to make music on top of it. That's a really great way to reach your audience. And so we've seen people do pay gated remix competitions where they would have to. The creator has to buy the original track and they get a download kit alongside that, and then they can re upload things and those get associated in a really cool way all publicly on chain and that you can see this sort of music ontology, so to speak, of where this remixed track came from, and the creators getting paid and building fandom out of that. So, to your original point, yes, we really do tend to thrive in this superfan arena, but in this sort of changing tides of how music and the Internet are going right now, we really want to bring in an unprecedented level of social into that. And a lot of the emergent behavior has kind of been in response to some of the things we've been putting out in the social space.
00:34:57.906 - 00:35:23.560, Speaker A: So from a growth perspective, is your goal to get audience to the place where it is the primary release, or do you think that the sort of what is missing in either the technology, stack the market, stack the landscape right now, the adoption of web3, knowledge of the platform that's keeping Audius from going from 4 million users to 400 million users.
00:35:24.420 - 00:36:02.330, Speaker B: Great question. Um, of course, there are some, you know, technical hurdles. I think the, the kind of good news for us is that the way we've built audius is that we don't necessarily need web3 adoption as a whole to skyrocket, for audience adoption to skyrocket. And that's, you know, really where we see, you know, anatoly certainly talks about this all the time of, like, how, you know, Solana is building a blockchain to build killer consumer applications. I don't think he says, oh, these are killer consumer web3 applications, he says, killer consumer applications. That's what we would like to have happen for audience, and obviously, 400 million users would be incredible. And that is what we have our eyes set on.
00:36:02.330 - 00:36:42.506, Speaker B: But that takes time. And that's why while we have been iterating on and shipping a lot of first party, independent, artists focused, fan relationship building features, we've also been building up really deep relationships with the music industry at large and working to get the catalog that does enable us to get the primary releases and stuff. So to use some of this sort of music industry lingo there, Audius is becoming a fully licensed music streaming platform. And that's very different from what audius started out as being this kind of scrappy web3 product. But it is necessary one in order to grow to be competitive with the DSP landscape that exists today.
00:36:42.618 - 00:37:18.610, Speaker A: Yeah. So how would that work? So, most of the traditional music industry runs on very complex systems of different types of royalties that all interplay. It makes the mortgage industry look transparent in terms of the level of different components involved in that. So give me a little bit of a sense of how a deeply, vertically integrated licensing regime can mesh with a decentralized protocol like audios. How do those two worlds come, if not close together, closer enough together?
00:37:18.990 - 00:38:36.142, Speaker B: Brilliant question. So imagine that we've done what we've done so far in building audius off the ground, and that it is a decentralized, node operated ecosystem of music metadata and music files. Now, in order to get content on from labels both big and small, typically the way this works in the music industry today is through this standard called DDex, which stands for digital data exchange. It really basically is giant XML files that have a bunch of metadata about music and either FTP or s three buckets that actually have the files, and those get ingested periodically by the likes of Spotify and Apple Music and so on and so forth. What we've done with that is built a really cool system where our lab screw very similar to how Solana is set up with a foundation and a labs entity. Our labs group is working on onboarding the sort of like traditional music partners onto the Audi's protocol by basically providing a white glove first hand experience of like, hey, we support DDEX and we will work with the existing systems to help onboard content into the audience catalog. But at the same time, we've built all of this tooling to be open source so that anyone could come in and be a distributor to Audius and they could generate their own DDEx compliant XML files that express their releases and push that all into the audius catalog.
00:38:36.142 - 00:39:30.700, Speaker B: So from the content ingestion side, we can enrich in the metadata that lives in the audience protocol by working with the existing standards that exist across the industry. Then on the backend side of it, the question is that you mentioned before all the revenue streams and rights holders and various things. Again, our labs group is working to onboard those partners into what audius is. But what's really cool about audius is that because the data lives on chain, and because the data is governed and controlled by this large network of node operators, anyone can build a service that can slice and dice the data in the ways that they want. And they have access, just as anyone else would, to the metadata of the catalog. And usually that metadata is what determines how things get paid out and how revenue gets collected. One of the really cool things that we've built on Solana in the last year or so is this thing that we've called the payment router, which is a obscenely simple on chain program.
00:39:30.700 - 00:40:20.856, Speaker B: We actually had it audited by neodymium, and the first thing they said to us is, why does this even need to be a program? So it's a great question, because all it is is you basically pass to the program, hey, I'm paying $1 for this track, and here are the splits for that track. And the program basically pays the people who are recipient splits. So it kind of acts as this conduit on chain to do the payout. And you could just send 50% to one wallet and 50% to the other wallet and totally not need it on chain program for it. The reason we built a program to do it is because, not to use the curse word centralization, but it adds a single point of entry in which payments flow through audience, and you can look it up in a program. You can see, hey, this is an audience payment that happened. And then anyone who's indexing can plug in a single address and all of a sudden index all the payments that happen, and they can get all the derivative payouts over time.
00:40:20.856 - 00:40:35.234, Speaker B: The hope is that we bring on the industry to work on top of audius and then deepen those integrations over time to the point where players both on the release side and on the usage side can understand that this is how you work with this data standard.
00:40:35.402 - 00:40:45.870, Speaker A: Yeah, I do want to hang on. The fact that there's probably 400 people at Spotify who just handle the payments and payout systems, and you've done it in a smart contract.
00:40:47.370 - 00:41:07.556, Speaker B: Thank you. That definitely means a lot. And it's only a 50 or 60 line smart contract. I mean, that's the beauty of Solana, too. In certain ways. It's a blessing and a curse, the way you specify accounts when you talk to programs, but it actually makes following data really easy and really user friendly, and that's really what we're out to do.
00:41:07.708 - 00:41:46.680, Speaker A: So let's fast forward a little bit to a future where maybe there's more traditional artist catalog work on Spotify. How does the payment work at that point? Because there's no sort of. At least the last time I poked around with audience seriously, which was a few months ago, there was no subscription system there, no monthly fee there. I assume that a bunch of these artists, while they may love to be on more platforms, they're not particularly excited to get audio tokens, and there's no ads currently. Right, so. So how does that sort of business side of it work when you're dealing with, like, you know, Sony and Universal?
00:41:47.190 - 00:42:13.406, Speaker B: Totally, yeah. Great, great question. I would say for the most part, we're still bootstrapping the whole, like, marketplace economics of what audius is. But the sort of, like, long term vision for how this goes is that, you know, on chain, there's a specification for how every single piece of content should be accessed. Maybe that specification is like, this belongs in a subscription. And, you know, our positioning is not like, hey, you're going to take a subscription. With the audius protocol at large, there's no reason we couldn't do something like that.
00:42:13.406 - 00:42:54.328, Speaker B: But I. There still exists a lot of monetary content that's done as singles, as one offs, as direct, Patreon style subscriptions to artists. And over time, we see that becoming the predominant way where there is most of the money in music. I think as far as money is concerned, the $10 a month for access to everything is not the biggest part of the pie. And we're seeing that with the rise of independence and just generally how much money lives in the super fandom and how much money lives in merchandising and touring and so on and so forth. Um, but you know, like we. There's no reason you couldn't build an ad supported platform on top of audience and use the revenue there and for yourself as like supporting whatever client you're building.
00:42:54.328 - 00:43:33.470, Speaker B: And then behind the scenes, like, you know, you're only accessing the free catalog or you're only accessing the subset of the catalog. You know, we really don't want to limit anything there as far, as far as how people decide to pay for and access content. But, you know, everything is really kind of honed in on this sort of access pattern where some payment has to happen. It's why we've chosen USDC mostly is the way people directly pay each other with a eventuality where a portion of that is kicked back to the rest of the network. Right now it takes place in the form of inflation, but the people who are running the network are earning on the audio token, which is essentially directly tied to how the network is growing overall.
00:43:33.630 - 00:44:12.192, Speaker A: Yeah, there's two things I'm thinking of. One is we just wrapped up an episode with the Sanctum folks, and so there's a lot of interesting models where I stake a certain amount of soul or ether or audio tokens, and the interest off of that actually pays for my subscriptions. For me, the other one that's interesting to think about is how much would I pay per month for access to a whole artists catalog? Maybe I don't need everything, but I would actually engage on maybe $1 a month to access the entire snarky puppy discography in flack or something like that.
00:44:12.296 - 00:45:07.394, Speaker B: Love snarky puppy. Yeah, I mean, I think there are plenty of fans who are like that, who would want the lossless version of every snarky puppy studio session that exists. Because, I mean, as far as quality goes, I don't think there's anything that beats that. I think that we've seen this on audience and we've seen evidence with other platforms like Patreon that even OnlyFans, we see that people are willing to pay subscription fees to individual creators. And I think overall we're moving much more towards this creator consumer economy rather than the like. There is one artist that everyone listens to that distributes through this one channel. I think it's going to become a lot more fragmented and I think trying to make sure that we build the best tools to lean into that is really our goal and let people figure out for themselves whether it is a better strategy in the starkey puppy case, for them to monetize off of flax directly to Austin or for them to decide to monetize elsewhere.
00:45:07.394 - 00:45:19.938, Speaker B: Mostly focus on doing tours and shows. And really we stand to empower the artists in basically taking control of their destiny and that, and figuring out what is the monetary model that works the best for them because it's not one size fits all, for sure.
00:45:19.994 - 00:45:58.040, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's. I'm looking forward to seeing what those sort of economic experiments look like in the future. I think there's a huge design space available for sort of taking these concepts of like, oh, can we stake something and get something in return? Or can we build a direct relationship with a creator, in this case the musician, through a platform like Audius. Yeah, I think there's a lot of interesting stuff to explore into the future there. Yeah, but Ray, before we let you go here, give folks a bit of an overview. If they're musicians, where do they start? If they're developers and want to, they're inspired to build some of this stuff, how can they get involved?
00:45:58.420 - 00:46:33.476, Speaker B: Awesome. Yeah, great way to close it out. If you are an artist or a fan of music, you know, I'm sure probably everyone who listens to this podcast is consuming music some way or another. If you're, you know, here listening, uh, go to audience co, make an account, check out some of the artists that are there selling things, listing things for free, hosting, remix competitions, um, definitely take a look there. And if you're a developer who's interested in building on this and building the next killer music app experience and have some great idea about the stuff we talked about today around, like, monetized playlists, go to docs, dot audius.org and take a look at our SDKs there. And I definitely reach out.
00:46:33.476 - 00:46:37.772, Speaker B: Join our discord if you have, you know, questions. We would love to help you build on what we're doing.
00:46:37.876 - 00:46:41.120, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, Ray, thank you for joining us today on Validated.
00:46:41.620 - 00:46:43.460, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you so much for having me, Austin.
