00:00:17.770 - 00:01:08.130, Speaker A: All right, thanks everybody. My name is Patrick. I am co founder of Hitfin. We we are an Ethereum company and our mission is to provide financial services on the Ethereum blockchain. Essentially, our offering is targeted for financial institutions, investors and fund managers who have financial assets that they are looking to trade on the blockchain. The assets that we're currently targeting are mainly derivatives as well as spot trading, which allows users to sell shares of their fund. And with our derivatives product, allows users to trade derivatives that are based on real world assets.
00:01:08.130 - 00:02:19.740, Speaker A: We support futures, options and other derivatives contracts as well as spot trading. The problem that we're solving is that in today's financial world, it takes several days to settle transactions and banks and other institutions incur high back office costs that are associated with derivatives trading. As we can see down below here, there's costs that involved in trade entry and reconciliation, reporting and compliance, as well as collateral management. And our platform aims to reduce many of those costs by using the Ethereum blockchain. And one of the advantages is that on our platform, trades are cleared bilaterally through the blockchain without the need to go through a clearinghouse or an exchange. And this allows participants to trade different kinds of financial products as well as have much faster settlement times. So for example, if you have a bank or a fund manager who wants to directly sell financial derivatives to their customers, they can do this through the Hitfin platform.
00:02:19.740 - 00:03:18.940, Speaker A: Some of the advantages of using the Ethereum blockchain, as many of you are probably aware, you have increased security, you have faster settlement times, and you have much broader access to users because anybody with an Internet connection can trade and can buy your assets. So for example, you can have an exchange traded fund that's issued on the Hitfin platform, that's represented on the Ethereum blockchain, anybody with Ethereum access can buy the fund. We also help our users with regulatory compliance. So for example, we provide KYC and AML services as well as if the user wants, we can also build in investor accreditation services. So just to kind of recap, these are kind of the current product offerings, derivatives trading. We build a nice rest API around smart contracts on Ethereum. We build a nice UI around them as well.
00:03:18.940 - 00:03:53.960, Speaker A: Same for spot trading. If you have a crypto asset today, we currently have a stable currency that's pecked to the US dollar that we developed as a Ethereum sub currency. So you can check us out at ww, hitfin.com. And if you'd like to learn more, if you'd like to get access to our UI for stable currency. Just go ahead and sign up or come find me somewhere around the conference. I'll be here all week and be happy to answer any questions. Here's just a quick screenshot of what a derivatives contract, for example, would look like.
00:03:53.960 - 00:04:43.574, Speaker A: And here's an example of what our UI looks like. So on the right you have kind of a contract management screen, kind of an account management screen that shows the user how much stable currency that they have, how much ether they have, and in this case you can see notifications that the user got based on their currency trade. Some of the interested parties that are interested in this kind of technology that we're in contact with. So please feel free to reach out and we'd love to talk to you if you'd like to learn more. And I see my time is up. So here's our contact information again, ww hitfin.com or please feel free to reach out through LinkedIn, Twitter or email.
00:04:43.574 - 00:04:45.300, Speaker A: Again, my name is Patrick, thanks for your time.
