00:00:06.570 - 00:00:22.942, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone. First of all, good morning. I'm still trying to wake up. I'm sure most of you guys are, too. Was most of this crowd, like, we're at who was at web three? I was just curious. Wow, that was a phenomenal event. Right? Like, I'm still trying to shake off.
00:00:22.942 - 00:00:52.560, Speaker A: And I actually submitted my slides very late because of the last minute knowledge I was just gaining. And I just had to submit it at one point because of all the discussions that were happening there. It was just so high caliber. So today I wanted to talk about protocol tokens. I know we can see these things as two different constructs, right? Like protocols, not tokens and tokens, not protocols. So I just wanted to kind of like a lot of this talk. It's a very 10,000 foot view.
00:00:52.560 - 00:01:41.062, Speaker A: A lot of this information is collated from my experience when I was living in New York. So just a quick background of me in general that I'm the co founder and CTo of a company called Paper Chain. As Dimitri expressed, we're creating like, a p two P marketplace around for music media companies how they can access their future cash flow. So last about four or five months ago, I started a token engineering NYC community when I saw the Berlin community really popping. And I've been leading the workshop series there and started to build a community. And we actually built a very strong community there. And there's a lot of sharing knowledge and contribution.
00:01:41.062 - 00:02:26.374, Speaker A: So a lot of the information that you will see here is a collation of my observation, being the organizer, and they're kind of like working with the moderators and the panelists there, et cetera. So I primarily work at the intersection of music technology and crypto. So another background is that I grew up in India and I lived in the United States. My last corporate job was probably as an engineering manager at a american company. And I pretty much called it quits to move formally into music industry. And then I came to Europe, and I haven't gone back since for a full time. But I discovered crypto by accident when I was looking at copyrights and something called unpaid and unclaimed royalties in the music industry.
00:02:26.374 - 00:03:17.370, Speaker A: And I have been really deep down the rabbit hole, and I've been exploring various different paradigms and applications that crypto actually unlocks. Lastly, I just moved to Germany about like a month ago. I live in Frankfurt. Given that I like music tech and crypto, I don't know why what I'm doing in Frankfurt. Right? So, without further ado, so we're going to talk just the overall agenda is that we're going to talk about protocols and tokens. Protocol tokens. We're going to touch upon this very infamous or pretty famous topic on frat protocol, the investment thesis, I guess, and the adoption challenges that we have as the industry and the community, and then what token models that we can use or where can we arrive to, to kind of unlock the larger potential that underlies.
00:03:17.370 - 00:04:37.480, Speaker A: So this is pretty much the gist, right? Like four years ago when the App Store was at the peak of this, we were like, yeah, you have an app for that. Pretty much anyone asking any question, the answer could have been like, you have an app for that. And we are arriving to that conclusion this year where you have a token for that. And if you see last year as the year of icos, where capital raising initiatives have been predominantly taken over last year, and this year is the year of build, I guess, right? Like we're building a lot of those protocols and most of the ideas are starting to materialize. So one of the things that I observe from last year is what were somewhere, some of dichotomies last year are turning into spectrums. What I mean by that is, especially when you look at something like a token last year, most of the questions and discussions were, are you a utility token? Are you a security token? If you ask that same question today, you'll probably rephrase it as like how utilitarian is your token? The same thing with decentralization. It's not like a binary statement, are you decentralized or not? But how decentralized are you, and where do you fall within that spectrum and what properties that you implement? Right.
00:04:37.480 - 00:06:09.918, Speaker A: So the main thing from here that I take is that we, as a community, we start to build a lot of knowledge, and we have these conferences like Web three, and there's a lot of sharing knowledge and contribution, cross contribution, and we're learning, we're figuring out these things as we go. And obviously designing token systems are extremely difficult. And having a structured thesis or a structured framework actually helps us actually capture ideas and then implement those and iterate on them. And that's been the biggest challenge as me, where I work predominantly on protocol architecture and token designs. So from the token engineering workshops in New York City, when we were discussing all these workshops, which end up being like 3 hours long and whiteboarding sessions, these are the main questions that we try to frame it around. The first thing is why do you need a token for that protocol that you design? And what token models do we have in our arsenal? That we can kind of start to leverage something that's existing, something that works, something that was verified, and what is a general architecture. So you have different agents, and if you have different behaviors on the network, how do we create those incentives, right? And then how do we extract that desired behaviors? And then finally, what kind of governance structures or security implementations that you can to kind of enforce some of those contain those parameters and behaviors.
00:06:09.918 - 00:07:49.538, Speaker A: So earlier this year, something that I worked on where we used this canvas quite a bit, this is like a work in progress pretty early, but if you see this is something I call a protocol canvas, and you can find that on GitHub, which is basically a mapping between users, the agents of the network, the role, and then you start capturing what value add, what's their role in the network, what incentives they need to kind of derive, extract that behavior through the network, and what token that you can design, how you can design that token is pretty much a byproduct of this ideation phase, right? So an interesting thing in this practice was that you don't already know all the players of your network going to be. So as you add, you kind of start maintaining this document. It's very much like a lean business model canvas, but it's more protocol token ideation phase kind of centric. So moving on to this is something I read earlier this year. Now I know this is an investment thesis, but as an engineer by trade, I read it completely differently. And funnily enough, when I moved to New York City, one of my roommate happens to be a vc in the crypto space, and our kitchen conversations would be around investment ideas versus engineering ideas for lasted four months long. So for those of you who are not familiar, the general thesis from an investment perspective is that when you look at the Web 2.0,
00:07:49.538 - 00:08:53.746, Speaker A: a lot of value that was captured was actually in the applications layer, because applications are built on this really thin stack of protocols, but it's actually reversed in blockchain world and crypto world, where the protocol is a shared data layer, right. It's a shared incentive layer, so you don't have to build everything from scratch. It's already available there. So your application stack is a very thin layer we were going to build on top of. So the value as an investment thesis was focused on protocols, but again, this was probably three or four years old. We know of very few protocols back then. Probably bitcoin was the predominantly the major one, and we had lesser examples probably of how we can tweak and grow and evolve those paradigms, right? So there was another interesting post by Union Square ventures, how the movement we see in the Internet is a cyclical phase, right? First came, it cycles between infrastructure and applications.
00:08:53.746 - 00:09:45.538, Speaker A: And what that means is that we create apps, and then there's infrastructure that's being built, and then there's props, more apps, and that really results in other protocols to be envisioned and created. One of the actual very interesting example is email, probably one of the most used applications that we use. It came before the SMTP protocol. It kind of makes us think, right, like, why was a protocol developed after an app was designed? Or how did the app was before the protocol? But the whole point of the protocol was that there were other apps. The design of the protocol was so that they can be apps built in a very quick way, and you can abstract a lot of that friction, but really capture the value of the underlying protocol. We see the same thing in crypto. Again, not my slide.
00:09:45.538 - 00:10:28.962, Speaker A: There's a huge Twitter discussion on BTC being an app. Don't quote me on this. So we see the same pattern going in crypto, right? We have infrastructure elements being built out, protocols being built out, and then you see different new age of apps sprouting from it. And we will be seeing this, a lot of this now, kind of put that in context with what we saw earlier. Last year was year of icos, and this year was the year of protocols. And perhaps the next year is the year of dapps, and then you'll see more protocols and more dapps, and the possibilities are going to get unlocked a lot more. So, for those of you in engineering, I'm sure this is quite familiar.
00:10:28.962 - 00:11:23.666, Speaker A: This is a very famous, it's called OSI model, which it's basically a blueprint of what Internet, the interoperability of Internet was built on. Right. Which is very interesting because you have these seven layers. The way it's designed is that every layer of the stack, it captures a certain set of value, but enables and unlocks another layer to be built on top, while you can abstract away the complexities of that underlying protocol. So, for example, when you build something on the data link layer, you don't have to worry about the physical layer. So when you're creating applications, you are abstracted away from all the concepts, most of the concepts, or most of the underlying things from the physical. Like as an application engineer, you don't care about nodes, you don't care about physical links between your data centers.
00:11:23.666 - 00:12:26.700, Speaker A: And that's because we have this model, and a lot of these technologies and businesses have built stack focused. And for a long time I actually thought when we built the Internet that we actually missed a layer called blockchain. Right. But I'm starting to see that it actually spreads across these as a medium and it kind of sits in parallel with a very different mindset, I guess. So if we were to kind of superimpose or kind of like see what the blockchain structure, again, a 10,000 foot view, very simplistically speaking, we're probably going to arrive at something like this. You have this ethereum or low level blockchain, then you have an incentive tokenization layer, right? And then a consensus layer, proof of something. And then you have protocols, a lot of these protocols that we've been seeing this year, which are on top, and then you have applications, APIs, oracles, marketplaces, and different kinds of users who interact with these Dapps and services.
00:12:26.700 - 00:13:47.138, Speaker A: So where we are right now, the talk is going to be focused on that protocol layer where it sits between the low level blockchain and the high level Dapps. This is what we're looking at, right? Look, we have users and we have Dapps and we have blockchain. And Dapps are literally the means, their user interface for extracting that value from the blockchain or understanding or conveying. So we need that medium and we see protocols built in here right between the Dapps and blockchain. But in reality, what we're seeing is that there's a whole bunch of protocols, right? If you create a DAP, you have a user, and perhaps you're sending an email, and that email is a decentralized protocol that's such a small function of your entire business. We as a DAP, or when we are building businesses on the DApps layer, you have marketing departments, you have customer experience, you have consumer experience, you have sales, you have a whole bunch of things, right? So these protocols are very at the low level and they unlock a lot of potential, actually. And the value of the protocol is actually captured and relayed in the form of tokens.
00:13:47.138 - 00:15:07.550, Speaker A: And each protocol has their own token because it's a different way to capture that value and different way to characterize it and then kind of relay it over. So what in essence we are seeing in this model is that when the users interact with the DAP and try to interact with, they are trying to use the blockchain technology that token transcends the friction of that token transcends across all the overlying DAP layers, pretty much. So really what we are seeing in here, when you actually see a large main net DAP right now in the current situation would be that a user would require a lot of tokens to interact with a DAP. So as an application developer and application architect, so when you're building this business around and you're creating a lot of this customer experience, user experience components, at the end of the day, I don't see us actually any company or all the companies actually having a page for each token that the user would want to have to kind of explain them how to use that token. And if you want to have any user experience, we are not the creators of token. You have to go there and ask kind of thing. I don't see that happening.
00:15:07.550 - 00:15:53.070, Speaker A: But my question is that here, this transcension happens because it's an ERC 20 token. The beauty of the ERC 20 token, if you look at the code, is that you're transferring from x to a, you're transferring value from x to a. The very nature of the ERC 20 token is that disintermediation. So that is baked into the token, that's baked into the protocol, that you are transferring value without any intermediary steps. But as a paradox, Daps are required. When you create a protocol, you need Dapps to actually get those network effects people talk about. And we need more user adoption and we need to grow as the industry.
00:15:53.070 - 00:17:01.374, Speaker A: So kind of diving deeper into that protocol stag is what we probably have here, right? We have this layer zero, what I call it's only something that's kind of more of a recent discovery as things like Lip p to P and that enable node and peer discovery. But you have layer one technologies that's like the blockchain zero low trust platforms. And then you have layer two technologies like you have state channels, encrypted storage plasma. And think of protocol extensible tooling that's like your developer tools, something that abstracts even further. You have web three parity, whole bunch of technologies there, and then browsers. So browsers are our way to interact with the Dapps, right? We have so many different wallets, metamask, you have status, and then finally the Dapps that enable that stack, this entire stack. So it's no secret that you will see the tokens being built in various different layers, but all of these tokens in various different layers, having various different characteristics, are expressed as a singular, they're expressed as only as an ERC 20 token.
00:17:01.374 - 00:17:55.870, Speaker A: Because again, regardless of where you lie on this layered stack, you are transferring value from entity x to entity y in a disintermediation fashion. So you are forcing that transfer of value without anything in between. So we have this friction, we have this adoption challenges, how do we get users on board? And there's a really nice article, I couldn't find it anymore. Someone did a UX study on how the curve is for actually new user to come on and set up their metamask and my wallet and actually start interacting with adapts. And most of the marketing techniques rely on a three click or 1.5 2nd attention span. And we are dealing with probably 15 step processes which requires a user jumping across the spectrum.
00:17:55.870 - 00:19:29.358, Speaker A: And then, so how do we actually kind of minimize that? Right? So as a DAP, and now the mindset now here is to shift your mindset to probably as a DAP, you're setting up a business, building on top of all these protocols that are capturing this value beautifully, right? Some of these examples that I'm going to show around, I'm a huge fan of and I'm very familiar and I've had first hand knowledge of working with them, discussing with them, and written some code on them. There are four questions we want to ask when we look at these protocols, right? What does a protocol do? What can be built on top of that stack? What business model exists for the protocol? And what business model options are available for anyone building on top of that protocol? Because these are the four critical things. Because if you're a protocol, your customer probably, or your end user is probably a DAP or an organization who's going to unlock and get the network effects. So Zero X protocol, I love the team, I absolutely love their stack, and I stole a lot of that code for my exercises and the patents and stuff. So what does the protocol do? Right? I'm sure a lot of you guys are familiar, you can build decentralized exchanges on top of it. You can transfer tokens from entity to entity bill b, and you can now even trade these in nfts, non fungible tokens. So as a relayer, so relayers are businesses or relayers or daps that you can build on top of the zero X stack.
00:19:29.358 - 00:20:17.454, Speaker A: So relayers are really the ones that are going out connecting the users and bringing. And if you see things like radar relay, they have a whole bunch of users. But when you look at what radar relays or any decks, in fact building on top of zero X, the business model is that you can collect fees in zero X token, which is the utility of that token right now, or you don't collect the fees at all. Or you can collect fees. I've learned this recently in ether itself. So you can collect the three ways you can collect fees in ether, you can collect fees in the zero X tokens or not collect fees. So my analysis here is that when you're creating the DAP, you have your own characteristics.
00:20:17.454 - 00:21:02.678, Speaker A: You are trying to create incentives and you're capturing those in your token as well. So when you build on top of this protocol, you cannot actually impose fees on your own token. So that's one business model that you cannot implement. So a lot of relayers that I'm seeing actually don't actually collect any token or any fees. So how do they sustain themselves? The patterns that you will start seeing is that they've raised funds with dev grants. A lot of these protocols, if you see they have a request for call for startups page where they want people to, hey, they want to help ideas come up, right? But the business model is what my comes in. How do we sustain, I mean, this stuff is not free, right? We put a lot of effort.
00:21:02.678 - 00:22:02.526, Speaker A: How do we attract the biggest talent and still sustain the development, sustain the business and ideas? So swap protocol, this is airswap, very similar to zero X, but not a lot of the trading that occurs also enables exchanges, decentralized exchanges that focuses on creating trading bots and larger institutions. And the inherent model is that there is no fees that you can impose if you build on top of that. Right. The only utility that I was able to kind of extract of air swap token is that you need a minimum ast to issue orders that you want to put on a Dex. So you have to have 100 tokens to kind of put that they themselves are building. Dapps and the business models that they unlock for themselves probably is around building custom dapps and custom solutions for larger solutions. So another protocol, live peer.
00:22:02.526 - 00:22:36.110, Speaker A: This is live peer protocol. Huge fan of these guys. They have probably the most fun crypto economics baked into their token. Basically it's a very flexible protocol and you can build a lot of things on top of it around live streaming broadcasting, particularly transcoders and broadcasting. Right. The design is that it involves high network participation and they're not on exchanges yet and they're looking at probabilistic micro payments and stuff like that. But still, if you build on top of this protocol, you are going to collect fees on this token.
00:22:36.110 - 00:24:16.122, Speaker A: And then finally, Dharma is something what paperchain is exploring heavily to kind of build on top of. These guys have a framework where you can build on top of their stack, but actually they have no token and you can collect fees in any ERC 20 token and you can collect fees and you can create issue debt instruments representing any ERC 721 tokens, which is extremely flexible for businesses to build on top of this because they can now impose their own token as a revenue stream, which is again quite interesting. So how do they sustain themselves? Right? How do they create a business model around to survive and go forward? So they have a red hat, a Linux kind of model, where they create a consultancy service, they want to create custom applications with the larger institutions. So that's the other stream that they're focusing on how they can build as a company. So the observation from all of this is that majority of protocols, their infrastructures, where there's a lot of code, a lot of low level components, is that they're relying on market liquidity as a sole business model to kind of bring in and sustain themselves. But the question is that can we do better? We are only tapping into the ERC 20, the only available economy token that I see it. So kind of putting all that collating those thoughts is that what we need probably is a flexible token model for DAP projects to abstract away all the underlying frictions of the underlying protocols, but also at the same time capturing and relaying the value of the protocols.
00:24:16.122 - 00:25:29.702, Speaker A: Therein lies our biggest challenge as a community, and therein lies our biggest challenge for how to get users to come onto our platforms to kind of like summarize the whole thing, right? So capture protocols value in token or have no token is what we are kind of trying to see. A lot of these apps building relay the protocol's value over the layers, transcend it, because sometimes governance and security and all those have to be captured in value and it has to be to the end user. So you have to probably transcend some of those characteristics and properties across promote network effects among dapps. How do we incentivize dapps to extract the value of your protocol so that they can sustain themselves? But not just having a developer grant, how do they create a business model? So having that flexibility is super important, right? So minimize friction for protocol token for taps. And lastly is that we need that flexibility, maybe even have a proxy wrap that token. And what we really need as a protocol designers is that we need businesses to build on top of it and have a flexible business model through the representation of that token. So perhaps what we are looking at is what we saw.
00:25:29.702 - 00:26:31.430, Speaker A: This, where we have multiple tokens across the spectrum needs to move to something like this, because the expectation when you come from that side of the user, is that why am I required to use 20 tokens that I collected to interact with one DAP? That's the question that we want to minimize too. So how do we even get there, right? That's been the mission that one of the things that I'm here jumping across conferences, conferences, I'm doing a lot of research and perhaps putting together an EIP proposal as the outcome of this. So the biggest question from all of this is ERC 20 token the right model when you're designing protocol. So maybe what we are going to look at in the future is something like this. When I create my protocol token, extract the value of the ERC 20 and then enable it for subscription plans, peg it to a euro token, and then create a proxy token out of that. We can't do all of this. I mean, I see a lot of these protocols that are largely and diverse.
00:26:31.430 - 00:27:03.458, Speaker A: We can capture them as a token engineering characteristics. When we are designing that, we can just implement it and maybe we have extract all that value and still convey the characteristics across the spectrum. So some of the things I found that were moving in that direction is these standards. EIP seven seven seven. That's a way you create authorities where you can spend tokens on your behalf. So it's actually one of the final stages, actually. So we may see this happening.
00:27:03.458 - 00:27:37.902, Speaker A: Release in the next few months, paying transfers and tokens instead of gas. When we get that standard out, we don't need ether in the wallets of users. Maybe we can do that abstraction as well. Lastly, subscription tokens are huge. Enables things like streaming services and access based economy instead of product based economy. Payment channels also give you an ability to intercept between a user and the payment interactions is a way to kind of create transaction fees in between. And there's this super important thing in Devcon that's happening.
00:27:37.902 - 00:28:25.358, Speaker A: Ethereum magicians Council. There's a dedicated ring on business models and subscription tokens that I'm participating as well. But really all of this put together, what we're moving towards, focus towards how we see a protocol token should be. So Chow is one of our first token engineering NYC speakers, and he says this perfectly, right. The last ICO boom was no doubt a byproduct of ERC 20 mechanism, right? And this is such a trivial thing that we've seen. We can unlock so many different things across the Ethereum landscape, and these things will happen in the future. And what would this unlock when we have b to b kind of tokens which we enable businesses to build on top and extract all this value.
00:28:25.358 - 00:28:38.580, Speaker A: What would that unlock is the biggest, most excited thing that I'm looking forward to. Finally. If you want to follow me, it's my Twitter handle, Danka. See you at Devcon four, I guess.
00:28:45.910 - 00:29:11.310, Speaker B: Thanks, Rahul. That was really inspiring. A lot of neurons firing in our brains, I'm assuming. It really reminded me like how we used to go about electronics engineering, where you have these electrons flowing, you convert them into voltages, currents, frequencies, and I think that's kind of where you see these tokens relaying. You have market makers, you have part of least resistance, which are highly liquidity markets, et cetera.
00:29:11.970 - 00:29:13.278, Speaker A: But I just want to open the.
00:29:13.284 - 00:29:16.414, Speaker B: Floor a bit for people here in the room.
00:29:16.612 - 00:29:17.166, Speaker A: Questions?
00:29:17.268 - 00:29:18.720, Speaker C: Let's start here.
00:29:19.890 - 00:29:44.822, Speaker D: Thank you very much for interesting presentation. My question is about you mentioned in your presentation mainly ethereum based tokens. But what about, let's say, stellar platform and stellar based tokens with transaction fees, very low transaction fees, and interaction between private blockchains like hyperledger and monetization, let's say, turning off stellar or whatever.
00:29:44.956 - 00:29:45.926, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:29:46.108 - 00:30:20.050, Speaker A: So I would say my research and scope is pretty much focused on the Ethereum landscape and tokens. And also I have a different philosophy when it comes to private and public blockchains. It's my reasoning between intranet and Internet kind of thing. And I haven't even dived into private blockchains yet. So probably I won't be able to answer that question, but I can probably have a discussion and kind of like see if we can have a chat around that. Sorry about that though.
00:30:20.200 - 00:30:28.040, Speaker B: An interesting protocol to look at is interledger, which trades to bridge the gap between this with atomic swaps. Any here?
00:30:28.570 - 00:30:48.346, Speaker E: Hi, how do you abstract away the friction? So there was a slide where you said that one of the challenges is abstracting away the friction of the token for the network. And I think that most of these tokens actually add friction. How do you do that? And can you define actually what does mean abstracting away?
00:30:48.448 - 00:31:36.314, Speaker A: Sure. So at the very nature of token is that it captures value, right? And it enables liquidity in form of economy or underlying asset representation or anything. And a token also introduce a small amount of friction. The more amount more tokens you have, the more friction you have in terms of user adoption and user experience. So my last slide, actually some of those EIP standards are focused on minimizing that friction or abstracting away that entire friction that you have as a taking on or using that token in general. So for example, when you come in, you pay Ethereum gas costs that would require the friction of you having Ethereum from a faucet or just buying yourself. But when you come into a DAP or system, maybe the incentives are that if you signed up you have 100 tokens, but there's no point.
00:31:36.314 - 00:32:00.130, Speaker A: When you signed up you got 100 tokens to use a DAP, but you still need ether to pay for your gas. And maybe one of the standards where you can pay gas in form of tokens is kind of like abstracting away or removing that friction. So it kind of unlocks these things. So we are on that journey. The first step is really acknowledging that there is friction, and acknowledging that we need to minimize these and acknowledging that we need more user adoption.
00:32:01.990 - 00:32:03.060, Speaker E: Yeah, sure.
00:32:05.690 - 00:32:13.590, Speaker B: Just trying to give a bit diversity in the room. Think of a bill of token for these things, like a bot. Anyone else?
00:32:13.660 - 00:32:15.720, Speaker A: Questions? Last question. Maybe.
00:32:19.210 - 00:32:46.610, Speaker C: You mentioned ERC 20 protocols. I have a different model in my mind. For me, always. Like an ERC 20 token usually is not a protocol, it's just a D app token, even though, I mean, a lot of icos were selling ERC 20 tokens, but they wanted to swap them to a protocol token. So for me, a protocol is like not linked to Ethereum or something. But you presented with something else.
00:32:46.680 - 00:33:27.118, Speaker A: Yeah. The more time I spend on this, I actually see a little more different. I think we see things like ERC 721 coming up, moving up the stack, and right now the ERC 20, that how we've been using is to really raise capital and transfer value. That's the only two properties that we are actually leveraging. But I think when it comes to the DAP layer, we need more properties, is that I don't see ERC 20 as a DAP token, but if you're in engineering, it's like you inherit some of those properties. So it'll always be at your core architecture of your token design. But you add more characteristics as you figure out.
00:33:27.118 - 00:34:08.406, Speaker A: For example, subscription tokens requires your token to be an ERC 20 token to unlock that subscription plans. So a lot of EIP proposals, if you actually start inspecting, it'll have a hierarchy of dependencies. So if you want to pass the standard, it actually requires EIP XYZ or AIP one, two, three, or something like that. The more higher you go above the stack towards the user, I think you will add a lot more token properties. In general, protocol has its own blockchain. Yeah. So the question was why it doesn't.
00:34:08.406 - 00:34:30.170, Speaker A: And protocols have their own blockchain and protocols have their own token. So a lot of this is focused on the stack between the zero level blockchain, like a layer one solutions, and the protocols built on top of those, which would mean they also inherit the token that was already existing. Right, and then it's between the DAP layer and that low level blockchain layer.
