00:00:18.570 - 00:01:40.830, Speaker A: Hello guys, nice to meet you. Acronym actually is not a startup as much of the company is presented here with. Acronyms is really big company with 800 employees in more than 20 offices around the world and millions of customers and business clients. Though it's still full of entrepreneurial spirit, Acronyms is well known as a provider of cloud and on premise becopper, disaster recovery solutions, data storage, file sync and share solutions. Of course, not all the 400 engineers are working on their blockchain products, though we apply a lot of efforts in this direction and I would like to share with you our vision to tell you about our achievements, use cases, and the lessons we've learned. Our first product is acronym notary. It's a platform that allows customers to store and exchange data in a safe manner with the guarantee of authenticity and integrity of this data.
00:01:40.830 - 00:03:30.450, Speaker A: You may argue that the immutability property of the blockchain is not in use, but what differs? A whole product, which Acronis notary is, and the feature is the set of interfaces and features that allows customers to solve their problems. Notary has a combination of unique features such as synchronization between nodes, advanced search of protected metadata, built in, verification of stored data, and high throughput algorithm. I will tell you in more details about it later. Basically, the blockchain the best applied for cases where multiple parties and multiple entities are involved, and especially when those entities do not completely trust each other and there is no trusted intermediary. That's why we think that our solution is best suit for consortium that needs to exchange data and sometimes big chunks of data that are impractical to store in a blockchain. You may argue that there is, for example, IPFs for that, right? But IPFS is good to share photos of your dog or your white papers, but when you deal with medical records and personal data, you would definitely prefer to deal with something more secure. So we found that our products works well with consortiums where data is shared between the parties.
00:03:30.450 - 00:04:30.144, Speaker A: Let me say a few words about features of the product. First, the certificate. Of course, when you anchor your file in a fingerprint of your data in the blockchain, it's not a new feature. Of course, every one of you knows about it. But what differs? Our certificate, our product, our notarization certificate allows you to verify authenticity of your file yourself by providing you with all the necessary information for this. And the certificate contains all the necessary information for this. And you can prove authenticity and integrity of the data, even though you would have stopped using our application.
00:04:30.144 - 00:05:25.410, Speaker A: So it could be done independently so verification could be done manually or by using the API we provide you. Verification could also be done independently by a third parties. Search another necessary feature is the search. As you know, it's blockchain and ethereum itself are not very good for this. So we provide this feature for you. Sometimes you need to know who and when uploaded the file to the storage, as well as you need to filter your data by date, time and status. For example, we developed this convenient user interface and rest API for this.
00:05:25.410 - 00:06:58.910, Speaker A: Another feature is synchronization. We found that in many cases, especially when private blockchains are used, parties wants to have this searchability on premises on their node. That's why we built this feature that allows users to synchronize metadata using Ethereum blockchain mechanisms optimization it's also not a big news for you that blockchains have a limited throughput and in case when you need to notarize a big amount of files, like thousand or million of files as we did in our use cases, this limit should not stop you. Moreover, it would be very costly with public blockchains if you would notarize each file in the blockchain. That's why we use Patricia Miracle tree structure with variable chunk size to solve this problem. So how does it work? There are two basic scenarios. The first one.
00:06:58.910 - 00:08:00.770, Speaker A: The second one is when you upload a file in a storage. The storage sends events to the acronym notary which in terms communicates with Ethereum blockchain and receives data from Ethereum blockchain, proving that the data was recorded. Then this metadata is stored in acronymta storage and distributed between the nodes. The second scenario is you can use this product with your own application. It is not necessary to use it with the storage. You can use your application and send events via rest API or MPQ to the notary storage. Then you can search and send verification requests to acronyms notary and to the blockchain.
00:08:00.770 - 00:09:11.090, Speaker A: How Ethereum is used here we use smart contracts for data protection events for synchronization, Merkel Patricia T for optimization of stored data and proof of work in the public blockchains and proof of authority in private blockchains. Acronym uses Ethereum and ethcore parity as the main blockchain components. The product is built using robust microservice architecture. Products can be deployed in the cloud, in the acronyms cloud or in Asia or on premises. Let me say a few words about use cases. Some of them are already in production, in the production stage, some still in a pilot stage. First, storage we found that there are several very good scenarios for it for this usage.
00:09:11.090 - 00:10:27.586, Speaker A: For example, it could be used for long term archiving, especially in the industries, in the industries which are heavily regulated, banking industry, healthcare. It also could be used for notarization of footage from security CCTV cameras. Another use case which is already in production mode, OpenPixel is an open source tracking software for mobile advertisement advertisers. Publishers and advertisement networks do not usually trust each other. If you probably face this problem already, it's industry when sometimes you download logs or your provider gives you logs and you do not really believe that this information was not altered. Our solution increases trust between parties by notarization of the logs. It guarantees that data was not manipulated afterwards.
00:10:27.586 - 00:11:28.786, Speaker A: And actually it's not for fun, it's for money, because this solution decreases transaction cost between parties. Smart contracts for a company for a holding company, this case is also in production mode. How it works there is a holding company which was developed by acquisition of different companies. That's why there is a zoo of different ERP systems within the holding company. And they need to integrate some features like they need to approve payments going from each company in the headquarter. Actually, they had two options. The first one is to hire consultancy company to integrate all the ERP systems.
00:11:28.786 - 00:12:25.530, Speaker A: It would be very costly and would take a long time. Another solution, it turned out to be very simple. The integration was completed within less than a month. ERP Systems was integrated using our notary feature. And what is more important, it allows all the companies to be sure that the data was not manipulated. The major takeaway from this use case is that usually big companies consist of several entities which do not completely trust each other. For example, each entity in the holding company always has its own CTO CEO who are responsible for P L and budget.
00:12:25.530 - 00:13:59.070, Speaker A: The last use case backend for bank consortium in Russia. Banks exchange information between each other, for example, information about people who tried to fraud them, or exchange information on credits issued to clients and their clients. Core the major takeaway from this use case is that usually companies in many industries have already found a way to arrange communication for major use cases like banks already have visa, Mastercard or Swift because they cannot live without payments. But when it comes to exchange information, in less important cases, like exchange information about fraudsters, they just cannot arrange consortiums because they would need to arrange company, elect a CEO, distribute shares, manage the company and so on. It's so cumbersome that no one is going to do it. And they also do not like to use a single provider to help them. That's why our solution can help big companies.
00:13:59.070 - 00:14:38.556, Speaker A: Not only big companies, in many industries. To arrange consortiums. It is very pleasant to show you smiling faces of our clients. Yes, I'm closing. And by the way, if someone wants to share your ideas or ask me equations, you can find me in the hall. Trading your questions or your ideas for these funny t shirts. I still have some you.
00:14:38.556 - 00:14:42.520, Speaker A: Thank you. Thank you very much, Victor. Much appreciated.
