00:00:00.410 - 00:00:46.230, Speaker A: So, harmonic motion imaging utilizes the physics behind the wave. The ultrasound wave propagates from the actual probe inside the tissue. And so far, from this conventional point of view, we're just using the reflections of that wave and generating a new image that shows us the underlying structure. What we are neglecting or ignoring is the fact that the wave, because it has a specific energy, it pushes on the actual tissues as it propagates. And that push is actually something that we can use. So what we do is that we amplify that. So instead of just letting the wave propagate itself, we're actually forcing it to focus in a specific region and then apply inoculations.
00:00:46.230 - 00:01:28.274, Speaker A: So we start vibrating that focus, and it's almost like tapping to the tissue remotely. So you're knocking on the tissue and you're listening to the different sounds, quote unquote, or the amplitude of that vibration. So something harder will have lower amplitude vibration compared to something softer. We're steering this modality for detection of tumors. As I said, typically, they're harder than surrounding tissue. So the specific challenge is making sure that we can detect disease early on the imaging side. So we're changing this type of waves inside the tissue to see which one we get as the best data that we can process with that algorithm.
00:01:28.274 - 00:02:39.530, Speaker A: So we not only work on the side of the processing, but we also work on the side of the acquisition and changing our images so that we can fit the best functional data. In the case of the therapeutics, exactly the same transducer, exactly the same system, generates thermal effects in the tissue, so it can burn the tissue at higher intensities non invasively, remotely, where you need it, within millimeters, especially, for example, in breast cancer, there's a lot of tumors, so just having less risky procedure available. Of course, pancreatic tumors are very difficult for abdominal surgeries, so we're looking at trans abdominal targeting of the pancreatic tumors, but we're also looking at the blood rain barrier for drug delivery to the regions most afflicted by diseases. We have the full spectrum of understanding the physics behind it, the physiology, and then adapting the process into the exact problem, because you can't just take something that works on. On the breast, let's say, and apply it in the heart. So we're very happy to be able to do this, especially Colombia, where they actually really embrace science and engineers.
