00:00:00.490 - 00:01:19.606, Speaker A: Hey everyone, I'm Rory, director of community at Chainlink Labs, and I'm here to talk to you about Chainlink staking and show you how to stake your link in v zero two. Chainlink Staking is a core initiative of Chainlink economics 20 that brings a new layer of crypto economic security to the Chainlink network. Staking enables ecosystem participants, such as node operators and community members to back the performance of Oracle services with stake link and earn rewards for helping secure the network. Chainlink Staking V Zero two takes learnings from the V Zero one release in December 2022 and builds upon its foundation. Staking V Zero two features greater flexibility for stakers via a new unbonding mechanism, improved security guarantees for Oracle services via the slashing of node operator stake, a more modular architecture to support future platform improvements, and a dynamic rewards mechanism to support external sources of rewards in the future. Chainlink Staking V Zero two will start with a nine day priority migration period on November 28, 2023, where existing v zero one can migrate their stake link and accrue rewards to v zero two with guaranteed access. After priority migration on December 7, those eligible for early access will have a four day opportunity to stake their link before general access.
00:01:19.606 - 00:02:12.838, Speaker A: Upon the launch of general access on December 11, anyone will be able to stake their link, provided the staking pool hasn't yet been filled. Note the staking pool is capped, so once the pool fills, you will only be able to stake once there is space available again. To follow along with this tutorial, you will need to connect a compatible web three wallet containing the link tokens you want to stake and some e tokens to pay for ethereum network fees. If you want to learn how to self custody your tokens in metamask or connect your hardware wallet to metamask, check the links in the description. Okay, I'm going to share my screen now to show you how to stake your link in v zero two using a preproduction build of the interface with placeholder values on the Ethereum, Sepolia, Testnet and Metamask. It might look slightly different from what you see on your screen, but don't worry, the process is the same. The first step is to navigate to staking chain link, which will lead you to this web page.
00:02:12.838 - 00:02:42.586, Speaker A: Next, you will have to connect your wallet. In this tutorial we'll be using metamask, but staking v zero two also supports Coinbase wallet and wallets that support wallet connect. Great, now we're connected. The next step is to make sure that you're on v zero two on the top right of the staking UI. If you are not, press on the drop down menu to switch it to version zero two. Next, you'll want to input the amount of link that you want to stake. If you want to stake all of the link in your wallet, press max.
00:02:42.586 - 00:03:24.414, Speaker A: After inputting the amount of link you want to stake, press the stake link button. After you read the chain link terms of service, press accept and continue your web three wallet should then pop up and ask you to confirm the staking transaction. After checking the transaction fee amount, press confirm. After signing the transaction on your web three wallet, you will need to wait until the transaction is confirmed. The transaction fee amount and time it takes to process depends upon the ethereum network at the time you are staking. Once you see transaction confirmed like you do on the screen right now, you're good to press continue. Congratulations, you successfully staked your link in Chainlink staking v zero two.
00:03:24.414 - 00:03:57.638, Speaker A: You can see your total staked amount right on the screen. You can press share on X to share your staking status on X, also known as Twitter or press finish. To see your confirmed details. We'll go ahead and press finish now. You should see the variable reward rate you'll be earning in staking v zero two, how much link you've staked and the remaining link allotment you have. If you wish to stake more link, note the variable reward rate depends on how full the community pool is, so you may see a different value than what is shown here. That's all for now.
00:03:57.638 - 00:04:02.360, Speaker A: Congratulations on successfully staking your link in Chainlink staking v zero two.
