00:00:00.090 - 00:00:40.330, Speaker A: Um hi, everyone. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. First headline Tether settles with NYAG for $18.5 million after an almost two year long investigation, the handing over of 2.5 million documents and USDT growing from a $2 billion to $35 billion market cap. Bit the next tether agreed to a settlement with the New York attorney general's office on Tuesday in regards to the 22 month inquiry into a possible cover up of $850,000,000 in losses by bitfinex. The NYAG will bring no charges as part of the settlement.
00:00:40.330 - 00:01:21.510, Speaker A: In a tweet thread, Tether claimed to, quote, admit no wrongdoing and said that there had been no finding that, quote, tether ever issued. Without backing, tether agreed to pay $18.5 million as part of the settlement and will submit quarterly reports on the composition of Tether's reserves to the NYAG for two years. New York Attorney General Letitia James was a bit harsher in her description of the settlement. In a press release, she said, quote, bitfinex and tether unlawfully covered up massive financial losses to keep their scheme going and protect their bottom lines. Tether's claims that its virtual currency was fully backed by US. Dollars at all times was a lie.
00:01:21.510 - 00:02:50.340, Speaker A: While it is too early to decide winners and losers of the Tether versus NYAG saga, it seems that both sides got what they wanted the New York Attorney general's office gets to be a quasi regulator of Tether, and Tether is allowed to continue functioning with only a minor fine. However, tether cannot serve New York citizens or businesses. Whether or not this ends up being worse for Tether or for New York, which is currently considered one of the financial capitals of the world, only time will tell. The settlement and resulting transparency should help resolve unfounded suspicions that issuance of Tether somehow artificially inflated the price of bitcoin. Dan Held, head of growth at Kraken, may have been correct in January when he wrote, quote, tether FUD fear, uncertainty and doubt is overblown. Next Headline BTC, Falters Square and MicroStrategy undeterred bitcoin reached a new all time high on Sunday at $58,367, and promptly dipped, dropping to below $45,000 by early Tuesday morning, a correction of roughly 20%. But these price swings likely don't phase corporations like MicroStrategy, which announced Tuesday that it had added another billion dollars in bitcoin to its books, bringing its total investment to 19,452 bitcoins, the equivalent of roughly four and a half billion dollars.
00:02:50.340 - 00:03:50.550, Speaker A: Square also purchased $170,000,000 in bitcoin this week, bringing its total investment in bitcoin to roughly 5% of its total assets. The company also reported selling $4.57 billion in bitcoins to customers through cash app in 2020 and revealed that 1 million customers purchased bitcoin for the first time in January 2021 alone. In other institutional news, asset manager Stoneridge is adding bitcoin to its diversified alternatives fund. Effective April 26. The fund will have exposure to bitcoin through put options on futures contracts, and in other bullish bitcoin news, the word bitcoin and its weekly Tweet volume hit a new high this month. Finally, in Quillette, Alex Glasseyne, the chief strategy officer at the Human Rights Foundation, published an op ed on how governments may not be able to stop bitcoin on a protocol level.
00:03:50.550 - 00:04:54.140, Speaker A: He also refutes a number of theories on how bitcoin could be stopped. He says, quote There is an enormous amount of speculation on the Internet about how bitcoin might be attacked, but few stop to think about why it hasn't already been destroyed. The answer is that there are political and economic incentives for more and more people to push the system forward and strengthen its security, and strong political, economic and technical disincentives that discourage attacks. If you have a normie friend who thinks that bitcoin might one day go down, this may be a great essay to show him or her. Next Headline DFI Roundup Decentralized exchange monthly volume hits an all time high of $65 billion on Thursday, just 24 days into February, surpassing last month's record of $61 billion. Average ETH gas fees hit a yearly high on Tuesday, with the average ERC 20 token transaction fee hitting $38.21, according to Bitinfocharts.com.
00:04:54.140 - 00:05:49.926, Speaker A: Ethereum L2 solutions were popular this week. Layer two solutions aim to provide reduced gas fees, lower latency and greater throughput, rather than putting every transaction on the Ethereum blockchain. The first solution decentralized Derivatives exchange dYdX is open for trading on Ethereum. Layer two scaling solution Starquare trading is currently limited, though a full public launch is expected in a few weeks. The exchange lists BTC, USD and ETH USD, perpetual contracts, lending and margin trading. Andreessen Horowitz is investing $25 million into Optimism, a startup focused on scaling the Ethereum network. Optimism began a soft launch of its product in January, partnering with DeFi protocol synthetix to begin testing its roll ups and the throughput and transaction speed.
00:05:49.926 - 00:07:02.334, Speaker A: Next Headline Ethereum Killers on the Prowl With high gas fees on Ethereum being highlighted this week, it's no surprise that would be ETH killers have been, well, killing it. BNB, the native token to the Binance smart chain jumped from forty dollars to three hundred dollars in just 20 days and now sits as the third largest cryptocurrency by market Cap Pancake Swap. A cloned uniswap DAP running on the Binance smart chain, which is Binance's competitor to Ethereum, is currently the number one Dex by number of unique wallets and just $3 billion behind uniswap in weekly volume. The recent popularity of BNB, however, has raised questions around the centralized nature of the chain and whether Binance's conflict of interest in having an Ethereum competitor might have accounted for its suspension of ETH and Ethereum based token withdrawals on Monday. Salana, another ethereum competitor has seen impressive growth this week with the sol token doubling from eight dollars to fourteen dollars as of press time. Thursday, Alameda Research announced a $40 million investment in Oxygen, a DFI prime brokerage that will launch on decentralized exchange serum. Sam.
00:07:02.334 - 00:08:36.020, Speaker A: Thankor to both serum and oxygen pointed to the speed and lower cost of the salana blockchain as reasons for choosing it. Next Headline Problems with traditional financial plumbing highlight potential in blockchain On Wednesday, an outage at the Federal Reserve resulted in settlement issues for many financial institutions, causing ACH and Fedwire delays at crypto exchanges. On the heels of the GameStop debacle, the DTCC, the main processor of US stock trades, released a white paper outlining a plan to reduce the settlement of trades from two days to one, also known as T Plus One. DTCC thinks it can accomplish this within two years, which in crypto time seems like an unbelievably long time away. Hear more about how such issues could be resolved by a blockchain based platform such as Paxo Settlement Service, which Paxo's CEO Charles Cascarilla discusses on this week's Unchained. However, blockchain technology continues to intrigue the government. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell announced that the Fed will be engaging the public on the topic of a digital dollar later this year, and SEC Commissioner Hester Purse gave a speech titled Rocket Emoji, Atomic Trading Rocket Emoji, which actually used real rocket emojis on the SEC website, urging federal regulators to, quote, be more proactive in embracing technology.
00:08:36.020 - 00:10:08.190, Speaker A: She specifically cited DeFi as an example, saying, quote DeFi's promises of democratization, open access, transparency, predictability and systemic resilience are alluring. She also noted distributed ledger technology has potential to improve the current financial infrastructure, mentioning that shortening the process for settling trades from T Plus Three to T plus One could decrease risk associated with open positions and reduce collateral demands. She referred to Robinhood's CEO Vlad Teno's testimony from last week, when he called for real time settlement of trades and said, quote after all, crypto transactions settle quickly and effectively. Without a central counterparty, smart contracts and distributed ledger technology could make the entire clearing and settlement process in the equity markets faster and more efficient. Next Headline Fallout from SEC lawsuit against Ripple continues in light of the SEC's lawsuit against enterprise blockchain firm Ripple and two of its executives, MoneyGram, a publicly traded remittance firm, has stopped using Ripple services. Ripple also made headlines this week by announcing a move to Wyoming News that was broken by Wyoming blockchain Whisperer and Avanti Bank CEO Caitlin Long. Next headline OKCoin Delists BCH and BSV Since exchanges make money on the trading of coins, no matter whether they are high quality or low quality coins, exchanges are typically incentivized to list as many assets as possible.
00:10:08.190 - 00:10:58.254, Speaker A: So it was surprising when crypto exchange OKCoin announced that trading of two forks of Bitcoin, which are known as Bitcoin Cash or BCH, and Bitcoin Satoshi's Vision, or BSV, will be suspended on the platform starting March 1. Both coins are variations on Bitcoin, each with a focus on larger block size limits and L2 solutions, respectively. OKCoin says it is a neutral platform and that it believes in allowing its customers to invest for themselves. But that based on the fact that the market caps of both coins are around 1% of Bitcoins. Quote the markets have cast their vote. Another factor that pushed it over the edge the recent decision by Craig Wright, a leader in the BSV community, who has claimed he is Satoshi Nagamoto, to enforce copyright claims to the Bitcoin white paper. Time for fun.
00:10:58.254 - 00:11:43.094, Speaker A: Bits. Fat Protocols strikes again. This fun bits is for all of those of you who remember the quiet days of 2016, when the Fat Protocol thesis was all the rage. The Fat Protocol thesis was the theory that in the crypto round of the Internet that protocols and their native twins would be worth more than applications built on top. This was in contrast to the original Internet, where protocols like Htvp and SMTP were worth very little. But the applications built on top, such as Google, Facebook and Amazon, became hugely valuable. Well, if you were wondering how that works out when you compare a seed investment in Coinbase to an investment in Bitcoin, at that same time, a site called Casebitcoin.com
00:11:43.094 - 00:12:15.030, Speaker A: has your back. It judges the seed investment in Coinbase to be around September twelveTH, 2012, and says that assuming a seed valuation of $10 million, Coinbase's valuation upon going public would need to exceed $47 billion. And with the way things are going right now for Coinbase, that looks like it's been locked up. All right, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Jeff and Coinbase's S One, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of this episode. Don't forget, we are now on YouTube. Subscribe to the Unchained podcast YouTube channel today.
00:12:15.030 - 00:12:23.730, Speaker A: Unconfirmed is produced by Me Laura Shin with Elf From, Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness, Mark Murdoch, Dan Edelbeck and the team at CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening.
