00:00:10.280 - 00:01:00.494, Speaker A: Hey, guys. So I'm Roscoe. I work on a project called Revoke Cache, which is a security focused project that allows you to manage your token approvals. And today I kind of want to share the story of how it got started and what crypto looked like back then, what it looks like today, and kind of what changed in crypto and exploits scams and sort of what revoke is doing around that. So let me take you back into 2019, when crypto was a lot smaller than it is today. I recently took the. Looked at the TVL back then, under half a billion, which, you know, looking back then, it was still really a lot.
00:01:00.494 - 00:01:58.164, Speaker A: But looking at today's figures, that's not too much. And, you know, Defi was coming. There were obviously a lot of things in development, but it really wasn't as big as it is today. And most things that we know today were still being developed, things like Aave and other big DeFi platforms. So in October of 2019, I attended Defcon five in Osaka, and there I met this guy, Paul Berg, the creator of Sableir, which is like a money streaming platform, and he gave his presentation about ERC 20 allowances, these token approvals, and basically how this is such a big part of all of Defi, really. Like, if you want to swap tokens, you have to approve your tokens. If you want to sell an NFT, you have to approve it on Opensea.
00:01:58.164 - 00:02:58.144, Speaker A: But how back then, at least we really didn't think about any of the risks associated with that. And I really got inspired by his talk. So three days after the, the conference, after this talk, I launched the first version of Revoke cache, which looked like this. So I took this screenshot pretty recently, so it looked maybe a little bit neater back then because there wasn't such a big amount of scam tokens and spam stuff in people's wallets. But yeah, super basic, just an overview of your token balances and all the approvals you had. But it was better than having nothing, right. And so over sort of the months that followed, I kind of improved a bit on it, added some additional features, and that was.
00:02:58.144 - 00:04:16.264, Speaker A: So that was in 2020. And then later, later that year. Of course, if you were around, you couldn't have missed Defi Summer, which is what for a lot of people was their introduction to Defi and to sort of yield and all these staking things. But also more to the risks of it all, there were plenty of forks of these food themed farms that most of which were like rug pools. So this is also really the point where a lot of people got introduced to the fact that you have to be really careful with what you do with your money. And while some projects, like, for example, this unicat, which was obviously a rug pool, also stole approved funds, most of them didn't really do anything with your token approvals, and it was mostly about your deposited funds that were at risk. So a lot of people, while they did get introduced to the idea that they had to be careful, the whole sort of risk about token approval still wasn't really ingrained in a lot of people's minds.
00:04:16.264 - 00:05:50.324, Speaker A: But then in February of 2021, I think this was the moment that really the sort of risk and the sort of danger of these approvals came to light for a lot of people with the four combo hack and four combo was this platform that allowed you to sort of chain together different DeFi transactions, and they got exploited and they didn't just lose the sort of the deposited money to the hacker, but also all of the approved funds just from the safety of people's wallets, I think a lot of people here are starting to realize there's a lot of, there are some dangers there. And of course, 2021 is also sort of the start of sort of the NFT hype. Of course, NFTs were a thing before that, but I think for a lot of people, 2021 is when that really took off. So obviously for nfTs, you have sort of the same concept. Like, if you want to sell an NFT on Opensea, you still have to give Opensea access to your NFTs. So also in 2021, I added support for nfts to the project. And at the same time, there was another big trend in crypto, where back in 2019 it was mostly ethereum in terms of smart contracts.
00:05:50.324 - 00:07:30.664, Speaker A: But nowadays, and in the past couple of years, we've seen that there's been a lot more other chains being used as well, other smart contract chains. So I really had to support all of that as well, because it's not up to me to figure out who should use what chain for their things. So in the meantime, and so eventually that that ended up in this whole new version of revoke cash that I released earlier this year that is more flexible into the future. If we go back to this first exploit that people experienced with their approved funds over the past years, that one big exploit turned into dozens of, with hundreds of millions of dollars in approved funds stolen from people's wallets. Most recently, there was the Sushiswap exploit in April. And I think that really demonstrated as well, that Sushiswap is an established brand, an established project in the space, but that does not make them immune to being exploited and having the smart contracts hacked. And because of these approvals, that also means that the funds actually in your wallet could be at risk as well.
00:07:30.664 - 00:08:53.118, Speaker A: So that kind of led to another, more like sort of evolution of what revoked cash can do with the exploit checker that we launched earlier this year as well, because there are so many exploits that happened. And every time something like this happens, you see all over Twitter, people are sharing this news with each other. They're saying, oh, check revoke cache, or check your approvals, or do this, do that. For a lot of people, it's not really clear what any of that means. This comes in as a sort of simple solution where people can just check in one click whether they're safe, because that's all they care about at that point. Am I safe or am I affected? And if I'm affected, what do I do about that? Right? And so on the one hand, we have all these sort of smart contract hacks and smart contract hacks. Some of them do have these approved funds at risk while others don't.
00:08:53.118 - 00:10:00.204, Speaker A: And of course, the ones that don't have it at risk, those have been even bigger in the past years. Billions stolen from smart contract hacks. I think earlier today, here was also a talk about bridges and how bridges were, I think, the most hacked thing in all of crypto. But at the same time, besides these smart contract hacks and these exploits, we've also seen huge rise in scams and phishing over the past years. And so when I created revoked cash back in 2019, this was not on my mind at all, really. Sort of the issue that I foresaw then was sort of what we just discussed about smart contract hacks. Even if it's an established contract, what if three years down the line it's still, still gets exploited somehow and then you still have all of these old token approvals lying around to these smart contracts.
00:10:00.204 - 00:10:57.694, Speaker A: You might be vulnerable. But then what I didn't foresee is all of this where crypto has grown so much in the past three years, there's so many more users, and also kind of perhaps nfts brought in also a new kind of user. That kind of. Yeah, like all of that sort of attention and all of that growth, of course, attracts cameras as well. And this is, this is an interesting one as well that we saw, I think, earlier this year, where Kevin Rose had over $1 million stolen from his wallet. Through one of these phishing websites. And well, while revoke cache, the sort of token approvals platform, it can definitely help with these kinds of cases.
00:10:57.694 - 00:12:14.920, Speaker A: It's not the full picture. So last year I developed a browser extension, the revoke browser extension, which kind of complements the token approvals platform by adding sort of warnings when you're about to, for example, give a token approval, but also certain other kinds of harmful actions, such as listing nfts for sale. Because one of these things, for example, what happened to Kevin Rose, is these phishing websites, they try to make you sign a message that essentially just puts all your approved nfts that you have approved to Opensea, put it all for sale for zero ETH, for example. So these kinds of things, this browser extension warns you for, and it's still up to the user to figure out what to do with that. So if you go to uniswap and you want to swap tokens and you get this pop up that says, hey, this website is asking you for an approval for your USDC. If that's what you're trying to swap, then it's pretty easy to figure out. Yeah, that makes sense.
00:12:14.920 - 00:13:03.974, Speaker A: That's what I'm trying to do. But if you're on, for example, an airdrop website, and then it asks you to approve all of your bored apes, then hopefully you'll be able to figure out that that is a scam just by having that extra pop up that makes you think twice. And the nice thing about the way this is set up as well is that out of the box, it works for every EVM chain. So again, it doesn't matter which chain you prefer to use. The important part is that you're able to stay safe. So I want to kind of finish this talk with a few tips about what I've seen in the past years and how to go about that. So as I mentioned before, there's kind of two things.
00:13:03.974 - 00:14:31.774, Speaker A: The first is smart contract hacks. I think one good way to protect against that is using revoke cache to limit your token approvals. So that in a lot of these smart contract hacks, people had approved these allowances, these approvals like a year earlier, two years earlier even, and then sometime down the line an exploit was discovered and they still lost their funds. So there usually in these cases is a lot of time to sort of revoke those approvals. If you are done using an app, like after you swap, after you've maybe withdrawn all of your stake tokens, that's probably a good time to just make sure that you don't have any sort of open permissions, open connections, but also, as we discussed before, there's a lot of smart contract hacks that don't actually concern these approved funds. So you also just have to be very careful about where you deposit your funds in the first place. And I think that's always a case by case basis, but something that has been around for years and has been audited and hopefully doesn't have any upgradable contracts, something like Uniswap is probably a lot safer to put your money in than something that just came around the corner.
00:14:31.774 - 00:15:28.064, Speaker A: Which again takes us back to DeFi summer when new forks of these liquidity providing things were popping up every week and people were losing a lot of money. And then there's the phishing scams. And again, one good thing to do is again, limit your token approvals, especially for things like Opensea and other NFC marketplaces. And that's again for the case. Like for example with Kevin Rose's exploit. The thing that these scammers do is they try to trick you into signing these marketplace listings, but they can only do that for the tokens that you have an approval for to these marketplaces. So if you don't have those in the first place, then your wallet is a little bit safer.
00:15:28.064 - 00:16:28.154, Speaker A: One other thing is using a hardware wallet and separating your assets between the hardware wallet and maybe a hot wallet. And for these kind of smart contract hacks, using a hardware wallet isn't really going to help you. But against phishing, it can definitely be that extra step that you need to not get phished. And then finally, there are several security focused browser extensions on the market, such as the one that I talked about from revoke cache, but also some others like wallet guard or pocket universe, which just have some different trade offs and you could even just use all of them together to just be double protected. Yeah, I think that's it. Thank you guys for your attention. So we have three minutes to the next turnover.
00:16:28.154 - 00:16:30.614, Speaker A: I can do one question really quick.
00:16:35.454 - 00:16:54.926, Speaker B: Thank you very much for the nice talk and also for the great product. I'm wondering, what's the future for the space? So for example, do you think that the uniswap permit mechanism solves this somehow, or is it just an incremental step? Maybe there are other things that are important and this is again related to what's next for revoke cache, where it is going as a product.
00:16:55.030 - 00:17:49.816, Speaker A: Thanks. Yeah, I think, yeah. So in some way pyramids can definitely help with this. So a few years ago I would have said yeah, you know, these sort of signature based allowances like these pyramids are great and it, you know that allows you to just basically set the right approval every time you make a swap on uniswap for example. So you don't ever have any leftover approvals ideally. But then what we saw with the phishing websites for example, a lot of people have this idea that signatures are somehow safer than transactions which is really not the case especially when you're looking at this kind of signature based approvals. So it comes with different trade off again.
00:17:49.816 - 00:18:17.294, Speaker A: But I think a lot of that also comes down to more education and you know having people understand that signatures are dangerous as well and a lot of other things about like safety. So I think that's also something that I want to focus on more for revoked Ash is providing more of that education and telling people more about how can they stay safe and what does an approval even mean and just all of that.
