00:00:04.890 - 00:00:44.410, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap ethereum hits an all time high as supply goes negative. Ethereum set an all time high price for ETH at $4,674.90 on Wednesday, according to Coin Gecko. That's a bit over ten times its price just a year ago. Coinciding with the eye rocketing price is a new trend concerning Ethereum's monetary policy. In August, Ethereum's issuance was changed due to the implementation of Ethereum Proposal 1559 during the London Hard Fork, which instituted a policy of burning ETH whenever network demand increases over a certain threshold.
00:00:44.410 - 00:01:50.426, Speaker A: According to the Block, this change in issuance, or the network's monetary policy has resulted in more ETH being burned than issued over the past week. Since October 26, Ethereum's net issuance is approximately negative 12,000 ETH, or $54 million. Ethereum is becoming a deflationary asset, making ETH more and more scarce with each day of negative issuance. Also this week, CME announced plans to launch microeather futures sized at one 10th of an Ether on December 6, adding an additional avenue for institutions to gain exposure to the price of ETH. The President's Working Group finally unveils its report on stablecoins on November 1. The President's Working Group published its muchanticipated report on Stablecoins. While admitting that stablecoins could, if well designed and appropriately regulated, offer faster, more inclusive and more efficient payment options, the PWG spent much of the report outlining their risks.
00:01:50.426 - 00:03:23.070, Speaker A: These include the loss of Peg due to stablecoin runs, payment system risks associated with blockchains, the systemic risk of a single stablecoin issuer, failing money laundering and terrorist financing. To address the risks, the PWG called for Congress to implement legislation and appropriate federal oversight, specifically regarding stablecoins. Notably, the PWG suggested stablecoin issuers be limited to insured depository institutions if Congress fails to act. The PWG said it would ask the Financial Stability Oversight Council, or FSOC, to designate stablecoins as a systemically important activity, which would permit federal agencies to establish risk management criteria concerning stablecoin backing. In the interim, the PWG urged regulators, such as the securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or FinCEN, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, to leverage their existing authority while Congress works to develop proper measures to regulate the asset class. In related news, Michael Sue, the Acting Controller of the Currency, announced that the Crypto Sprint between the Office of the Controller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has concluded and that the results will be communicated shortly. Sue hinted that the Crypto Sprint would help build a framework for regulating crypto banking activities.
00:03:23.070 - 00:04:49.820, Speaker A: Get ready for an ENS token. The Ethereum Name Service, the protocol behind ETH Domain Names, announced plans to launch a governance token this week, transforming the organization into a Dao. It first asked community members to step forward as governance delegates in charge of the Dow and then released the tokenomics of ENS users who registered and held an ENS domain before October 31 may claim ENS tokens. Starting November eigth, 50% of ENS tokens will be reserved for community treasury, 25% will go to a community AirDrop, and 25% will be reserved for core contributors. However, on Wednesday, Nick Johnson, the lead developer of ENS, informed the community that the AirDrop hit an obstacle in the form of AirDrop farming, despite the company writing a lengthy ethics policy for the core team about keeping AirDrop information quiet. It seems information about the ENS token drop leaked, allowing certain addresses to purchase and register a multitude of east domains ahead of the announcement, adversely affecting the distribution of tokens, said Johnson, quote we kept it need to know, but you'd be surprised how many people need to know ahead of the announcement. All it would take is one person chatting to a less scrupulous friend about vague details to give them a hint that this is worth trying.
00:04:49.820 - 00:06:02.462, Speaker A: Johnson said that ENS will be manually blacklisting 784 addresses from the token AirDrop in light of the farming 650. It's out of our hands now from the looks of it, the infrastructure bill, along with its provision 605 I, which requires parties to report Social Security numbers on trading partners for transactions over $10,000, amongst other information, will be passed in the House today, November 5. The provision, which Coins Center describes as unworkable and unconstitutional, would make not reporting on such an event a criminal felony, according to Abe Sutherland. In his appearance on Unchained in October, Jake Trevinsky, a lawyer and strategic advisor at Variant Fund, tweeted It's out of our hands now regarding actions to stop the bill from passing, he added Importantly, Nothing will happen right away. The crypto provisions don't go into effect until 2024. For fiscal year 2023 reporting, we can try to get them repealed or amended before then. Brian brooks, now CEO of bitfury, former binance us CEO and former acting head of the OCC.
00:06:02.462 - 00:06:50.910, Speaker A: Brian brooks has been hired as the new CEO of bitfury, a bitcoin mining company. Brooks is replacing Valeri Vavalov, who will stay on as chief vision officer as the company makes its way to a public listing, which it plans to do in less than twelve months. Brooks previously left Finance US after four months on the job, citing differences in strategic direction. Digital Currency Group raises $700 million at a $10 billion valuation. Digital Currency Group? The company behind Grayscale, Genesis, CoinDesk and others. Disclosure CoinDesk is a previous sponsor of My Shows, closed a 700 million dollar round this week at a valuation of $10 billion, as reported by the Wall Street Journal. The round was led by SoftBank Group's, Vision Fund Two and Latin America Fund.
00:06:50.910 - 00:07:50.830, Speaker A: GIC, Ribbon Capital and Alphabet Inc. Also participated. According to Dovemetrics, it was the fourth largest raise in crypto. Speaking of DCG, the bloc reported the company is looking to hire a team of financial advisors for a wealth management subsidiary centered around crypto millionaires, citing sources familiar with the situation. Additionally, it appears the SEC is taking a closer look at Grayscale's application to convert its flagship product, the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust, or GBTC, into an ETF. In a November 2 notice, the SEC said it was soliciting public feedback on the proposal. The Squid game token was a scam squid, a binance smart chain token based on the Netflix show Squid Game, saw its price rise over $2,000 per token before crashing to nearly zero after developers withdrew millions of dollars worth of crypto from the protocol and deleted all social media in an apparent rug pool.
00:07:50.830 - 00:08:32.080, Speaker A: As Eman Kunciar of Ava put it on Twitter. 99.99% drop on the Squid game token. I mean, what did you guys expect? There is nothing behind this coin except it stole its name from a popular show. According to Barons, an address was able to turn its nefariously acquired Squid into $3 million in BNB Finance announced that it had frozen and blacklisted wallets associated with the developers of Squid. However, since the developers used Tornado, a coin mixer, it is unclear if the blacklist will stop the devs from cashing in. Consensus shareholders to begin legal action against Joe Lubin and Consensus board.
00:08:32.080 - 00:09:25.570, Speaker A: A group of more than 15 shareholders in Ethereum software company Consensus AG intend to begin legal proceedings against its board of directors, one of whom is Ethereum cofounder Joseph Lubin over the formation of Consensus Software Inc. Or CSI, whose investors include J, p. Morgan, Mastercard and UBS. Their complaint centers around the transfer of intellectual property from the original Swiss firm to the new One, a Delaware incorporated entity established in June 2020. They contend that the valuation used for the transfer of assets was for tax purposes at a fraction of the market price and not for MNA. They also say it was made without independent oversight, as would be required under Swiss law. The legal action comes as Consensus is coming out of a few years of multiple rounds of layoffs and the restructuring that created CSI.
00:09:25.570 - 00:10:44.918, Speaker A: And just as it was said to be in talks to raise $250,000,000 and seeking a valuation of $3 billion, calling out MetaMask and Inferior, specifically, shareholder and former consensus employee Arthur Falls said in a press release no Ethereum stakeholder would ever agree to part with these two products, products they were instrumental in building for a combined value of $19 million. A Consensus spokesperson said in a statement we believe that these shareholders are confused on a number of key factual points. Two congressmen advocate for spot bitcoin ETF to SEC Congressman Tom Emmer and Darren Soto sent a bipartisan letter to SEC Chair Gary Gensler urging approval of a spot bitcoin ETF, saying since the SEC no longer has concerns with bitcoin futures ETFs. Given trading has begun for these products, then it presumably has changed its view about the underlying spot bitcoin market, because bitcoin futures are, by definition, a derivative of the underlying bitcoin spot market. Time for fun bits. The bitcoin white paper is a teenager. Halloween 2021 was the 13th anniversary of the publication of the bitcoin white paper penned by the anonymous Satoshi Nakamoto.
00:10:44.918 - 00:11:18.214, Speaker A: Bitcoin, a peer to peer electronic cash system laid the foundation for a new financial system. I've been working on a new electronic cash system that's fully peer to peer with no trusted third party, wrote Satoshi. In the original email containing the white paper. He, she, they described the various properties of what is now a multi trillion dollar asset class. Double spending is prevented with a peer to peer network, no, Mint or other trusted parties. Participants can be anonymous. New coins are made from HashCash style proof of work.
00:11:18.214 - 00:12:05.634, Speaker A: The proof of work for new coin generation also powers the network to prevent double spending and time for a second fun bits. Quentin Tarantino NFTs no longer a secret Quentin Tarantino, the famous film director, is minting six Uncut and never before seen scenes from Pulp Fiction. As NFTs on OpenSea, Tarantino is using secret network to publish the NFTs. As discussed on this week's Unchained, the privacy focused network allows for metadata to be private, meaning only the token holder will have access to the scenes. Tarantino will publish the 7th NFT at a formal auction house. Thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Nfcastle and the Lopovitz family's quest, be sure to check out the links in the show notes.
00:12:05.634 - 00:12:12.050, Speaker A: Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch and Daniel Ness. Thanks for listening.
