00:00:07.000 - 00:01:00.393, Speaker A: Welcome to Dune Partner Spotlight, an opportunity to learn about the amazing organization that we are working with at Dune. We're starting Visteris with a fast growing chain sei. SEI is a layer one blockchain that combines the development tools and liquidity of Ethereum with The performance of so SEI Labs was founded in 2021 by Jay Zhog and Jeff Feng. Jay is a former engineer at Robinhood where he witnessed the trading frenzy around GameStop and all the imposed restrictions that came with it. This is one of the reasons that drove them to build a new, more performant and transparent trading systems. Two years later, SEI Network officially launched. Now you might be familiar with SEI as the Cosmos Chain since they run on the Cosmos ecosystem with COSM WASM smart contract platform.
00:01:00.393 - 00:01:38.157, Speaker A: Well, there has been a major development for SEI that happened a few months ago in May when they released their v2 upgrade making SEI the first parallelized EVM chain. So what we know is that about 90% of all developers are working on EVM. No surprise. We know that Ethereum still dominates most of the developer mind share. However, we also know that EVM builders can sometimes face performance issues. Throughput is slow with only 50 transactions per second, and the fees for processing and validating can often be quite high. And that's really where SEI comes in.
00:01:38.157 - 00:02:43.795, Speaker A: They have one of the fastest throughput at 400 milliseconds, 28,000 transactions per second and one of the lowest fees. What I personally didn't realize with this major upgrade to their network is that anything possible on Ethereum can be done on sei. This means you can deploy the same already audited smart contracts and dapps from other EVM compatible chains to SEI without any code change like the Dune team. If you also attended EFCC in Brussels, there were a lot of interesting discussions around monolithic versus Modular blockchains. We're not going to get into the rabbit hole here of explaining the different blockchain architecture layers, but if SEI is able to achieve this technical milestone, it is thanks to their modular architecture and parallel execution. Simply put, on the Ethereum, virtual machine transactions are processed sequentially. This means longer processing times and higher cost when there are many transactions.
00:02:43.795 - 00:03:48.311, Speaker A: On the other side, parallelization enables multiple transactions to be executed at the same time. This means the blockchain executes more transactions per second and gas fees for users decrease as they are not bidding against one block to get their transactions included. It really seems like the design space for applications on SEI is pretty much endless Here are some of projects that really caught my attention when looking into this ecosystem. The first one is called Pallet Exchange. It is one of their own NFT trading platform. They also have an interesting app called Silo which offers liquid staking and they recently launched a $250,000 creator fund in partnership with Gitcoin to support high performance games. Another interesting project is a defi platform called YE Finance which generated over $65 million in TVL in their first six weeks.
00:03:48.311 - 00:04:13.965, Speaker A: If you want to dive more into this change and find more insight about SEIIs, you can go to the Source of Truth for All Crypto Dune. You'll be able to access all the EVM data of a SEI blockchain along with 60 other chains. This wraps our partner spotlight and we hope you enjoy this quick dive into sei. Don't forget to say less and let the data flow.
