00:00:00.170 - 00:00:11.840, Speaker A: Chris, how have you been? I've been well. I've been very, very well. I think we're starting to see a little bit of an increase in activity, slowly but surely. So that's always good.
00:00:12.530 - 00:00:23.758, Speaker B: When you say increase in activity, are you saying just in general like you're seeing from a market perspective, there are more addresses being created or what exactly are you looking at?
00:00:23.924 - 00:01:24.806, Speaker A: I think overall activity, but then also within projects and how they're conducting and thinking about the future as well. Because whenever the bear market initially hit, a lot of projects were just like, first thing is hunker down, kind of survive. But now it's expanding to where they're trying to think towards the future. And that can be collaboration, new use cases, new product, new V 34, whatever it may be. And ultimately that is because they're seeing some type of uptick within users, new addresses, whatever it may be. Like base is a great example to where they launch their blockchain, to a lot of fanfare, rightfully so, but also kind of reading the tea leaves, what that could be in the future if that blockchain really gets up and humming. Given Coinbase has what, like 100 million active users within their centralized exchange, and what that could mean for onboarding those users to a more d five native experience.
00:01:24.806 - 00:01:49.886, Speaker A: So it's kind of like the intersection of all those different things, which you weren't seeing that last year. It was just like, oh crap, how are we going to survive X, y and Z? But now you're starting to see sort of that productive aspect of a bear market to where it's focused on building the end user and not just about survival, or when token price go up. In the heart of bull market, you.
00:01:49.908 - 00:02:07.350, Speaker B: Mentioned base, which is a very interesting chain because they don't even have a token and they're doing phenomenal. And part of that may be due to brand recognition with Coinbase, of course. But are we learning that you don't necessarily need to have a token for a chain to exist and thrive?
00:02:07.690 - 00:03:09.682, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that was known already. It just was kind of flu in the face of existing powers that be. And quite frankly, VCs, because VCs want these alternative L1s and l two s that are cropping up that they're backing to have a token, because that is ultimately how they have an exit strategy, which is why you see so many of them, whereas base obviously doesn't need that. And they can just look simply at what are the use cases that we potentially have a competitive advantage to unlock. How can our own app chain expedite that and then fill in the blanks in between. So I mean, Brian Armstrong put out his blog or draft last week talking about these specific use cases which he's excited about. So I think whenever you have brand recognition and don't have to necessarily cater towards the powers that be, you can have success without a token.
00:03:09.682 - 00:03:40.530, Speaker A: But if you don't have a lot of those things backing you, I do think that it is required to have a token to be able to help that cold start process, especially if you are a new entrant looking to take on existing incumbents, whether that be from a blockchain perspective, like Ethereum obviously being the biggest one, or even if you're from the application side as well, which in any vertical you look at whether it's decentralized exchanges of Uniswap Ave and compound of lending, et cetera, et cetera.
00:03:40.870 - 00:04:09.900, Speaker B: Yeah, when I look at different chains and talking to different VCs, they're looking at different chains that are offering like brand new technology, modular chains, things that most people that when they look at coin market cap or just have like a surface level understanding are not necessarily seeing. Why do you think that is? Why are they looking at technology that isn't necessarily here yet?
00:04:12.050 - 00:05:13.498, Speaker A: I think there's probably two perspectives on it or two lines of thinking. One is that's, again, unfortunately that's where the money's at. So like to be able to say, oh well, we can build on this and we can build on that. If you look from an infrastructure perspective and if you talk to a lot of, I don't know how it is, but a lot of VCs that I was just having conversations with throughout this year, especially at the beginning of it, they all said the same exact thing where we're really only looking to invest in infrastructure plays right now because it's safer, but also it's differentiated X, Y and Z, which kind of doesn't make any sense when everyone is doing the same exact thing. It's not differentiated at all, but also at the same exact time. If everyone's funding infrastructure plays well, who's actually building on this infrastructure to give it value. And I think that is, it's a function of, that's a way to get a quick flip, in all honesty, from a money perspective or an investment perspective.
00:05:13.498 - 00:05:59.662, Speaker A: But also it's the fat protocol thesis that you have to invest. The lower on the stack you go, the bigger your reward is going to be as well. So that is where the money is ultimately going to flow. So I think there's a lot of that going on, but also the second time, also on the second hand, I think that people are trying to place their bets as to what they think the future is going to look like over the next, let's just call it twelve to 36 month cycle to where there are new use cases that potentially can be unlocked. I think there's a lot more low hanging fruit that we could be focusing on as an industry. But again, that's not where the money is made. It's made on the moonshot type play.
00:05:59.662 - 00:06:10.770, Speaker A: So I think you're seeing these respective players kind of place their bet as to where they think maybe the market or the use cases are going to go over this next time period.
00:06:11.430 - 00:06:58.900, Speaker B: In their defense, I guess if it's bear market and you have very strong infrastructure in place, then once the market does make a turn, then maybe some of these dapps don't have to rely on investment. They can bootstrap, self fund and now you have good infrastructure in place for them. So that could be a big reason why as well. But on the flip side of that, you're seeing a different chain come out. Seems like on a daily basis and when I talk to VCs, like wallets, they usually don't want to look at that anymore. But chains, they'll have a look. So at what point do we say, okay, we have enough chains now let's focus on building on top of these?
00:06:59.750 - 00:08:00.770, Speaker A: I don't know. I think it's a great question and I don't think we're going to find that out anytime soon in all honesty, because that is where the lower hanging fruit is from an investment perspective. I think it just comes down to what the next cycle really looks like. Because a big fallacy in my particular opinion is the build it and they will come approach. So it's like if we just build a chain and we funnel a bunch of money towards it, and they can have a semi successful token launch to where they can build out their treasury to have grant programs and builders and contributor programs, then don't worry about the apps, they'll come running. And if you look at the space that is especially not EVM compatible space, it's not really like that at all. That changes whenever the bull comes back rip roaring because teams and projects are also hedging their bets that the next thing that's going to blow up is going to be something that is not on an EVM compatible chain.
00:08:00.770 - 00:09:00.540, Speaker A: So they want to be the first to get there, which we saw in the last cycle where you just saw all these forks of other projects preexisting that went to these other chains. So to your question, I don't know whenever that tipping point will be, say like we have enough infrastructure, we need to focus on actual applications to build on this infrastructure will happen, but it will likely occur within the bull market. And then the next layer above that is, are these apps actually building something that is useful and can help move web3 forward into a mainstream use case? That is the biggest area of intersection that's most relevant for what we're doing at Rosie, but also for myself, just in general, it's nice that we have this new ecosystem, but we're just moving money in a circle at this particular point. At some point we have to expand out and have a greater utility to the broader world and community besides, just like the existing web3 natives or DFI, dgens or whatever it may be.
00:09:01.230 - 00:09:51.114, Speaker B: Yeah, and again, going back to my conversations when I talked to some of the VCs, they are very much interested in DeFI and they are looking at DeFI. But when I talk to a lot of the DeFi projects, not really seeing that, and I don't know if that speaks to the quality of those specific projects or maybe just lack of awareness around what they're doing, but a little bit of a disconnect there. But Chris, I want to kind of transition a little bit. I saw, and this was years ago, but you also were a contributor to Forbes magazine, you wrote an article about bitcoin, so you keep an eye out on what's happening on that side as well. What are your thoughts on grayscale and blackrock potentially coming into the space and just spot ETFs as a whole?
00:09:51.312 - 00:11:10.946, Speaker A: I think ultimately it's a matter of time. It's not if it's when this happens, and it will likely, from what we've seen historically, it'll likely be discounted. So right now we still see like news causing a pump and then it sort of bleeds down from there whenever the actual more money starts flowing. It will be the opposite way from what we saw, because I saw a little bit of that within 2020 to where the fundamentals of what you saw on bitcoin were dramatically different than what the sentiment and overall price action should have been. And it's not necessarily the case right now, although I don't keep a day to day eye on it for obvious reasons. But I think if you follow historical imperatives, it will likely be the opposite to where Blackrock will say, we're here, we're investing our clients capital or the ETF will say we're open for business, or whatever it may be, and it will be discounted, and it will really have a very muted effect on price because the market has seen so many false starts and stops, not just from price action, but also from approval side or regulatory side as well. So whenever that happens, that is whenever I really think it could get interesting.
00:11:10.946 - 00:11:57.394, Speaker A: Especially if that timing kind of coincides with the having occurring next year. And then if there's even an additional third sweetener on top of it, to where there is a full stated pause on interest rates rising, or even a slight back off pending some sort of broader economic issue occurring, which obviously I hope doesn't happen. That's whenever I think you're going to see things get really interesting in bitcoin, and then ultimately the greater digital asset market, because that still ultimately drives things. And that will be a clear sign that we're in the next phase, we're in the next bull cycle. And then what that will shake out and look like over the next twelve to 36 months is anyone's guess at that point.
00:11:57.592 - 00:12:04.100, Speaker B: Do you see a scenario where the digital asset market decouples from what bitcoin is doing?
00:12:05.050 - 00:12:35.290, Speaker A: Not anytime soon. Yeah, it's not anytime soon. In my opinion. There would need to be some level of maturation for the market for me to believe that. And what I mean by that is there's still ghost chain. So EOS still trades, still trades, still worth money and still gets approved for stuff. Litecoin is still a thing, and all these other things that on face value, it likely should not exist.
00:12:35.290 - 00:13:48.390, Speaker A: As many detractors of the market says, like, oh, 90% of the token should go to zero, blah, blah, blah, x, y and z don't believe in all of that, but there should be some kind of normalization or visible maturation of the market. Whenever that starts to happen, I think you can begin to see that decoupling of what bitcoin does versus what the rest of the market does. And that's whenever the broader use cases will start to stand on their own head. To where ethereum, it's more about what is the overall financial system of DFI or web3 doing? Is it healthy? Is earnings growing and x, y and z? And then all these separate subsegments and verticals within it, what does that look like? So it will really start to be more reflective of what you would see in a traditional equity market from that side of the house. Whereas bitcoin only falls on the store of value, more macro driven I think we're a little bit away from that. But depending upon how the maturation plays out, it could be conceivable that it could happen within the next 36 months. But again, who knows? No one has a crystal ball.
00:13:48.390 - 00:13:54.840, Speaker A: But, yeah, that's what I would want to see before. I think, realistically, that could start happening.
00:13:55.530 - 00:14:13.138, Speaker B: As someone that's building in Defi, I'm curious to know, how did you get to that point? Did you start with bitcoin and fell in love with what's happening there and kind of had this went down the rabbit hole, or how did you transition from bitcoin to looking at some of these other assets?
00:14:13.334 - 00:15:27.718, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it's a very similar story to a lot of people that I'm sure you've had a chance to speak with and myself as well. It's that blockchain is like 21 flavors, like 21 scoops of ICE cream. There's something for everyone. Whether you're coming from a tech perspective, from a finance economic, what have you, there's going to be something in there that will speak to you, and then you'll go down this rabbit hole, and just for weeks and weeks or months and months, just looking more and more. And I was no different and started out on bitcoin, but then ultimately expanded over to Ethereum and potential areas that that could unlock. And then as DeFi really started to take hold, that's whenever it got my attention saying, okay, this is where the puck is at now, and that is amazing, but where can the puck go towards in the future so that it truly can have an opportunity to maybe displace the existing financial system, or, at bare minimum, really have a strong hand in reshaping it for the future. So bitcoin came on my radar at the beginning of 2017, late 2016, and then the natural progress kind of took hold from there.
00:15:27.718 - 00:16:01.280, Speaker A: My background is within finance, traditional credit, technology, business, so it all kind of circled that. And being able to see what happened in DeFi, obviously from an over collateralized perspective, and being a reform banker myself, that got all my sorts of gears kind of turning to think about, okay, well, we've got all this data and x, Y, and Z. What could that look like? And how maybe that could be set up to usher in new use cases that weren't seen at that time within?
00:16:02.210 - 00:16:08.100, Speaker B: So, and based on your expertise, where do you see the future of Defi going?
00:16:09.430 - 00:17:26.394, Speaker A: Ultimately, it is likely going to have a stronger hand in influencing what finance is going to look like in the future. I think whenever people started they thought it had the ability to displace the existing financial system. I no longer think that that's going to be possible, but having a strong hand in shaping it and also probably disrupting it and causing a lot of things that middle layers and middle persons and all these other areas that don't, quite frankly, need to exist, I think it's going to leave a lasting mark on the financial system for the positive. How long it's going to take to get there is the greater question, because in 2021, whenever we started Rosie, we were firmly like, yes, under collateralized lending is the future and this is how we can do it. And a lot of people back then kind of, it was sexy for a hot second, and then it just sort of faded out. Now you fast forward to almost through the end of 2023 or getting close. We're a little bit closer to that, but not really.
00:17:26.394 - 00:18:27.614, Speaker A: And it's not for a lack of hard pushing on the rosie side, it's just timing. The bear market didn't help, but also maturation as well, and vested interest from the existing sort of incumbents that are out there. So I think ultimately Defi will look a little bit more like what you see in the real world. It has to, to be able to have truly a mainstream appeal and adoption vector, and it will also have some sort of lasting impact on what finance looks like. And that is going to be removing layer upon layer of redundancy and middle person and all these other things that will ultimately create a better and cheaper offering towards the end user, as long as they have an Internet connection, no matter where they're at in the world. The question is, how long does it take to get there? And typically from what my time in the trenches, it'll be a little bit longer than what we hope and like.
00:18:27.652 - 00:18:48.934, Speaker B: Unfortunately, one of the things that caught my attention on your site was this whole credit oracle. Let's start with the basics in terms of what an oracle is for anybody listening that may not necessarily know, and then why do you feel like a credit oracle needs to be just in.
00:18:48.972 - 00:20:08.318, Speaker A: DeFi as a whole, for sure. So at a super easy level, an oracle is an ability to obtain a price feed in preference for being a smart contract, so it can be done in an automatic way through code. So the biggest oracle networks that are out there right now are price feeds that are being given to a myriad of applications or protocols so that they can receive price information on a real time basis as to the value of the assets that are being used within the protocol, whether that is real time prices for swapping on Dexes or lending, most poignantly for what's the value of the collateral asset that we have staked against a loan, knowing that if it drops beneath a certain threshold, we need to liquidate that collateral so that we can make sure that the protocol doesn't incur any bad debt and can maintain the solvency of the overall protocol. So that is the primary function of what oracles do in DFI 1.0, and it is an invaluable function and effort to that existing infrastructure. DFI 2.0 should leverage what works.
00:20:08.318 - 00:21:11.662, Speaker A: We don't always need to recreate the wheel, but we do sometimes need to think outside the box. And that's where Rosify's oracle network really comes into play. And why that is needed is if you look at DFI lending, and I'll just talk about that segment since it's the lowest hanging fruit, but there's applications and applicability to a variety of other web3 segments. If you look at DFI lending, it's a one size fits all sort of approach to where everyone gets the same exact cookie cutter terms. No matter what you've gone, how much assets you have in your wallet, how well you've managed risk, all these different things that you typically receive in the real world. So if you've got a good credit score, you've been responsible, you'll have a lower borrow rate, you'll maybe even get perks and rebates from your credit card provider in terms of like boosted cash back because they want to keep you happy, you're a power user, but also they know you're not going to default on the loan as well. None of that exists.
00:21:11.662 - 00:21:58.130, Speaker A: There's no user level customization within DeFi right now, and we don't need to jump to that. We just need to be able to jump to being able to have users express greater needs, like customization of the needs that they want and protocols be able to match it. So if a user, based upon their credit score, wants a lower borrow rate or a higher LTV up to a certain threshold, they should be able to do that. And that's what the Oracle network is meant to be able to offer a reliable and predictable data feed on granular credit data for any address across the EVM compatible universe, as simply as they get the Ethereum price right now from Chainlink.
00:21:59.190 - 00:22:26.822, Speaker B: So in a way, it's the same way a bank would assess the level of risk that they're willing to take on when it comes to their customers, and maybe for some customers they would provide more of an incentive to come and bank with them. Right. If you open up a bank account you might get, I don't know, $600 or there's like different rewards like that. So you're essentially taking that type of concept but applying it to DFI. Am I understanding that correctly?
00:22:26.966 - 00:23:33.882, Speaker A: 100%. So there is no more competitive space right now in web3 than lending. And there's no greater tier of protocols from a small to mid or even new upstart that struggle to really hit any sort of meaningful traction because lenders and borrowers, they're not going to just go to any random protocol, especially if it has light liquidity attached to it. So there needs to be this differentiation piece to be able to stand out and want to attract new users and depositors and borrowers. And because it's this one size fits all sort of box or bucket, because there hasn't been an oracle system like Rosie's built yet, you can't do really? So you understood it perfectly. Correct. And it's the ability to stand out for the protocol so that they can compete on a more level playing field against the Goliath, but also at the same exact time better serve your clients too.
00:23:33.882 - 00:24:18.800, Speaker A: So it becomes a win win by serving the users better with something that they're ultimately going to find value. What we've been saying a lot recently is users need the ability to monetize their on chain history. And like the credit score and the Oracle network that allows that, provides that functionality to these protocols, that's exactly what it does. And that's no different than what you see in the real world. And if we can get to that aspect, that is a really great launching pad for a bunch of new unique use cases that can come out of DFI 2.0, especially within this next bull cycle, which hopefully will be kicking off within the next six to twelve months.
00:24:19.650 - 00:24:33.140, Speaker B: Yeah. Now in the traditional world, at least in the United States, we have the Social Security number. So your credit score attached to that. What does that look like in Defi? Is it just your wallet address?
00:24:33.990 - 00:25:34.774, Speaker A: So I think it will have various different versions of it in all honesty. So we focus solely on, on chain data. So we don't look at anything off chain, no Kyc, X, Y and Z. We look at it solely from that blockchain native perspective. Where have you gone, what have you done and who have you interacted with across EVM compatible chains? Principally from a bad actor, a fraud perspective. So have you interacted with any known phishing hacks exploits addresses. Also, like what other transactional information can we deduce? Like if you trade a whole bunch or speculate a whole bunch, are you actually making money? Is there some capacity to serve as debt? And then also, have you borrowed from DeFi previously as well? There's no better precursor predictor of future performance sometimes from this perspective of seeing what you've done in the past as well.
00:25:34.774 - 00:26:55.650, Speaker A: So that is the only data that we look at whenever we're generating these credit and reputation scores. But that can easily be married with some sort of zero knowledge KYC or gitcoin passport to let users know that it's a human and non civil and whatever all these other did providers that have spun up, it will take a variety of different variations or different versions. But I think ultimately it starts with what we've built, because all of that other stuff can bolt on ever so easy. Like if you've got a zero knowledge KYC, that's awesome. But what does that have to do with what they've done on chain? And how do we know whether or not they've been reckless or responsible on chain now that we have that? Those other areas I think will get a lot more useful, especially with players like base and Coinbase sniffing around to where they can offer their own KYC solution that can be attached to what users are already doing on their centralized exchange and being able to map that over to the DeFi world, that is where it gets really interesting as well. So in short, there's no one size fits all for what that will look like in DeFi, it will most likely take a variety of different versions.
00:26:56.070 - 00:27:10.598, Speaker B: And so you're providing the data, but as a DeFi protocol, let's say if I'm a core contributor, I can make the decision in terms of the level of risk that I'm willing to take on.
00:27:10.764 - 00:28:25.440, Speaker A: Is that correct? From a user perspective, if you've got a great credit score, and let's just say the protocol offers you 90% LTV, you can choose to max that sucker out. Or if you're a great credit score and they're saying, hey, normal borrow rate is 3% right now for your asset, but we'll offer you 1.25% because we want you to keep using us or use us more, you can go with that perspective as well. So again, having that expressibility of what makes most sense for you, and then from the protocol side as well, you can have that data and ultimately do what makes most sense for whatever core KPI you're looking to drive. Is it additional revenue, but not necessarily running afoul of the LTV parameters that have maybe been put forth by gauntlet or chaos or whatever it may be, then great, you can target on your borrow rate. If you're looking to differentiate yourself from LTVs, great. Then you can offer different isolated pools for credit provider or credit scores that boost that up based upon knowing they're likely great credits.
00:28:25.440 - 00:29:28.114, Speaker A: Or you can say like, oh well, we already have a liquidity mining program, so if these are our power users or people that we want to attract, why don't we just allocate X amount of tokens that we are just going to shill out to randos, to these people that we already know are going to be super profitable and beneficial for our platform and growth there as well. So there's a lot of variation and customization that can go on both sides. But that's the whole point, is that you can create a better offering and it doesn't necessarily need to buck the existing trend. It just can be an innovation that bolts on top of what's already there. And then we can talk about really cool use cases on the next step of like, okay, well, how do we actually get to under collateralize credit? And can that be fulfilled in the real world? Through credit card providers like Mastercard or Visa and all these other really cool use cases. But it's got to start somewhere. And this is the first building block and pillar we're trying to put together.
00:29:28.114 - 00:29:34.922, Speaker A: And then hopefully we'll be able to get to the fun stuff where Defi really starts to hit into the mainstream.
00:29:35.086 - 00:29:44.950, Speaker B: Are we at a point where we're able to distinguish between which protocols have more responsible lenders and borrowers versus not so responsible?
00:29:45.770 - 00:29:55.500, Speaker A: Yeah, that's relatively, you can simply look at the addresses, the borrowers that are within that pool and then you can just simply do.
00:29:57.390 - 00:29:57.946, Speaker B: What is it?
00:29:57.968 - 00:31:08.142, Speaker A: A distribution of the overall borrowers as well. And that will constantly change. But typically what you see, it's not as set in stone as like what's the newest degenny? Lending protocol. So like Abercadabra was one like that for a while and before that it was cream and all these other things, those are going to have set in stone degen type behaviors where that is where people go to hardcore speculate and get liquidated, like the AAves compounds and others that are a bit more responsible. It will fluctuate based upon the types of borrowers that are in the pool, but then also the market conditions as well. But we put out at the beginning of this, I think at the end of 2021, a long, long, long time ago, we put out sort of like a credit risk white paper where we did exactly that, where we talked about our methodology for producing this credit score. And we looked at Ave and compound's historical, like the historical distribution of their borrowers and through our credit score, what they could have done from a minimization of risk, but then also an increase of revenue as well had they been able to leverage our credit scores.
00:31:08.142 - 00:31:50.282, Speaker A: This is back in 2021 to let you know. But that's exactly what it did. And it came out that ave was more risky on average than what compound than compound was. And if you look at sort of like where they both have stayed at, where they were and where they've stayed at, it makes sense because compound is a far more conservative. They have less assets available. They're typically less aggressive on LTVs, whereas aave has eaten up market share. So there's a trade off by offering more assets, by maybe being a bit more aggressive, expanding into different markets with go stablecoin and et cetera, et cetera.
00:31:50.282 - 00:32:15.974, Speaker A: But we did that a long time ago, and it was just one of those things that sort of got pushed to the side through vested interests and all these other things as well. And it's like we're hopeful that now is the time because everyone is starting to see the possibilities of this technology, but again, slow shinings of maturation of the market as a whole as well.
00:32:16.172 - 00:32:29.770, Speaker B: Do you see a world where this type of oracle or just this data can be applied to, I don't know, like decentralized exchanges? Is that something that can easily be created?
00:32:30.190 - 00:33:24.922, Speaker A: So I made the analogy with blockchain being 21 flavors. Like, the credit scoring is 21 flavors as well. It really just depends on what you're looking to do as well. So from a dex perspective, are you looking to find your most active swappers, your most reputable depositors, like LPs, whatnot, what KPI are you trying to drive? And by sort of integrating with the credit score, Oracle, you don't just get a credit score. You can get an entire readout of different granular level data, which you can then parse for your own use cases or have some semblance of underwriting yourself as well. So it's not just the score, there's also data attached to it as well. And then you can plug and play whatever sort of KPI you're looking to target.
00:33:24.922 - 00:34:23.662, Speaker A: Do you want to eat market share? Do you want to be safer? Do you want to be differentiated, whatever it may be. But then also, if you're a web3 messaging app, shouldn't you have some kind of spam filter on people that are sending and receiving messages? Like if someone sends me a message through Gmail or anything like that, or XMTP, I would like to know what the history of this particular address is that is sending me a message just to understand whether or not I should even remotely engage with them. Ods are. I'm likely not going to, but having that additional piece of information is really helpful from a safety perspective. But then also, if they're recommending we do a partnership or whatever it may be, I also want to know kind of where they've gone and what they've done. Have they interacted with bad actors previously? Then that's a full stop. So again, the use cases are endless.
00:34:23.662 - 00:34:46.520, Speaker A: It just comes down to the projects and protocols really taking the effort to integrate with us so that they can offer a superior and safer product to their end users, that's ultimately going to benefit them because their product will be stickier, they'll make more revenue in X, Y and Z.
00:34:47.290 - 00:34:55.258, Speaker B: Really interesting stuff, Chris. If I'm a builder, where can I learn more about Rosie and just connect with you as a whole?
00:34:55.424 - 00:35:29.414, Speaker A: So follow us on Twitter, it's just at roci. And then also please join the Discord group as well to be able to hear about announcements and X, Y and Z. We do the same exact thing on Twitter, but it's a bit more customized within our discord community. If you on our Twitter profile page, there's just a link to our discord and you can just join from there. But yeah, those are the two primary areas. And anytime we post updates of blogs or press releases or anything like that, we always post on Twitter as well.
00:35:29.452 - 00:35:33.910, Speaker B: But yeah, great. Chris, any parting thoughts for the listeners?
00:35:36.810 - 00:36:36.154, Speaker A: Keep showing up because what I can say is there's very few people in this space that are in it for the right reasons and have been there for a while and the right reason. So, like Mikhail and I, our paths crossed in, I think it was in 2022, right before we were getting ready to launch V, one of the Rosie Five protocol. And there's countless stories and examples of people that our paths did interact with. And it just like what they did or where they're at now is just entirely different. So the fact that he is still here, but also at the same exact time expanding out and trying to create value and opportunities for different founders and builders within the space, I think is invaluable. And also the same exact time you get a chance to learn something that you may not have known. And learning bear markets are the best time for learning as well.
00:36:36.154 - 00:36:55.440, Speaker A: So parting shots or thoughts would just be like, keep showing up to the podcast because I do appreciate you having me on. But also, at the end of the day, I do look at you as one of the positive people that are within the space, and that's not always compliments that you get a chance to pay forward.
00:36:55.810 - 00:37:08.662, Speaker B: I appreciate those kind words, Chris. It was a real pleasure having you on and just learning about credit oracles and specifically what you're working on at Rosie Fi. We'll have to do this again sometime soon. Can't wait.
00:37:08.716 - 00:37:10.660, Speaker A: I appreciate you having me on. Thank you so much.
