00:00:00.090 - 00:00:53.198, Speaker A: Much so it's my great pleasure here to present our work on building a modular storage layer, especially solve some particular issues on top of Ethereum, the latest update that is EIP 4844. So first of all, a quick introduction of myself. I have been working in this space since 2018. I was a software engineer at Facebook, Google, working on distributed file systems and high performance systems. Very active in Ethereum ecosystem. So I've published tons of articles, ideas in the Ethereum research and magician, and also author a couple of eips. And so my primary interest is in Ethereum data availability technologies and layer two.
00:00:53.198 - 00:02:29.340, Speaker A: And so I also received multiple supports from Ethereum foundation, including the Vitali's personal grant on cross layer two bridge and data availability sampling research. And lastly is a story itself. So first of all, why we need Ethereum storage solutions, as we already have a couple of like Falcoin Re, they are running pretty well these days. And one thing is motivated by the future Ethereum upgrade where the data availability technology will bring a large amount of data on chain. So one key upgrade is EIP 4844 that is part of the Cancun, which is the first upgrade to support data availability. And so what is data availability is a way we are able to scale the Ethereum data publication in using a lot of advanced cryptographic primitives. So here is the roadmap that I captured from Vitalix tree at the end of last year, where there's a plan for the search which is going to support 100,000 transactions per second on top of Ethereum and where the core technology here is data availability, including EIP 44 four and full DA that is planned in the next couple of years.
00:02:29.340 - 00:04:19.914, Speaker A: So what is EIp 44? It is introduced a new type of transaction of Ethereum which the transaction can include new object called binary large objects which has 128 kb size and it is not be able to access by the EVM itself, but its hash. The commitment is available on chain, so that with some advanced cryptography, for example data availability sampling, this consensus can prove that the data corresponding to this commitment is available on chain in their data availability network, rather than access each byte of the data that is available in core data. So in this way, Ethereum is able to scale dramatically in the future through DA which can create about 50 terabytes of data per year on top of Ethereum network. That is more than ten times more data that can be generated by current Ethereum network. But the one feature that we found in EIP 44, four spec that was draft about two years ago, is that because there's a large amount of data that now can be published on chain. So where is to store this data, especially in a blockchain from our bitcoin. Ethereum is expected to store all the data from Genesis, but this creates significant storage burden for all the validators.
00:04:19.914 - 00:06:51.690, Speaker A: Imagine 50 terabytes per year for each validators, which means that we have to run a validator with maybe tens or hundreds of terabytes, which is definitely exceeding a lot of capacity of those validated nodes. In order to solve this problem, the effiance solution in the protocol is we're going to discard or prune those data once it's published on chain after 18 days. And this is the first time the Ethereum protocol to voluntarily disclose those data once it has been published in a couple of days. So this is the specification that is merged in the Ethereum specification, repo and actually this data expiration issue applies to all the data availability networks, including celestia which maintains data for one couple of months, and also egg and DA which they would like to prune the data after 14 days. And so this pruning actually create a new issue, or a new fundamental issue of future blockchain, especially for layer twos, is that if they would like to derive the latest states of security from Ethereum, only of Ethereum, then it has to rely some additional assumption or additional trust, because unlike current these days, those data will be discarded in 18 days and such plan is already scheduled in next month on March 13. So when we observe such problem about two years ago, one idea come up with my mind is that it's possible to extend those data availability so that we are able to incentivize large amount of storage node that natively running on top of Ethereum network as Shupa said, and store those data with much much longer time, potentially forever. With this feature, we are able to offer a lot of unique things to Ethereum.
00:06:51.690 - 00:08:18.380, Speaker A: First, it can offer much better layer two security for all those ZK roll ups, including Obstac, Polygon and others. So we have already integrated our system into Obstac. And second is that with much longer storage solutions, we are able to offer much much cheaper storage solutions with large, large amount of on chain data, including NFT images, autonomous worlds and AI model itself. With these technologies we are able to upload the AI model which can be a couple gigabytes and verify its result with the promotes as input and tell the corresponding output is correct and which enable a lot of applications that was not possible before. So that's the basic motivation of its storage. It's a modular long term data availability layer building on top of Ethereum current called short term data availability layer which is built on top of EIP 44 four, et cetera. And first of all, we are a modular ones so that it can be easily plugging into the current Ethereum virtual machine and the networks so that we do not require any protocol upgrade except DA itself.
00:08:18.380 - 00:09:43.574, Speaker A: And second, with some enhancement of the token metrics, we are able to achieve a very high and permanent availability of those data that was originally published on top of Ethereum and Discard in 18 days. And lastly, we are able to scale the capacity or storage capacity of Ethereum from a few terabytes, now can easily reach two petabytes of data, which means that we are able to upload a large amount of data that was not possible before. How we are able to achieve those features there are two major innovations that we invented during the development of Asus storage. The first thing is to build an unchained streaming storage fee distribution. Why? Because there's a huge misalignment of the storage incentivized system on existing Ethereum network. All the storage fee, for example, for the asset store, auto store fee is distributed to the proposer in one time, while all other nodes validators. For nodes, there's no any incentive or penalty to store the data.
00:09:43.574 - 00:10:58.270, Speaker A: So there's a huge storage misalignment between the cost and incentive. We at the first one fix the problem on top of Ethereum by receive an upfront storage payment from user and then distributed those fees to those storage providers over time, as long as they can prove that they really store this data over the time using our snark based storage proof algorithms. And these algorithms actually is our next innovation, which is to be able to verify those we call data availability sampling over time with a very, very efficient verifier. And for this research is exactly the one that received the support from Ethereum foundation. So here is an overview of isostory network. It has two major components. One is a storage storage contract which allows any applications to call a put method and say hey, I want to store this data and this blob in their layer two network.
00:10:58.270 - 00:12:37.946, Speaker A: And also it will pay a very small amount of storage fee in terms of easer so that it will be distributed to the storage providers over time. The second thing is a story layer two network, which is a permissionless network with a bunch of nodes that store the corresponding blocked data once it receive the data and upload and download the data from the Ethereum layer one. It will perform the data availability sampling over chai so that they're able to prove the local storage that they store over chai. Even though the data will be pruned after 18 days. When there's a proof that is successfully created, a story provider will submit corresponding proof to the onchain Ethereum smart contract that is deployed by us and once such verification is successful, then the corresponding storage fee will be distributed to the corresponding storage provider to reward the time and number of the data that is stored by this node. Here is the roadmap of SS storage so in the last year we have a lot of major achievement. One is that we are the first place at Ethereum Addicon super demo and we raised 7 million at 100 mil and for this year we have a lot of planned launched.
00:12:37.946 - 00:13:54.070, Speaker A: The first one is we have fully integrated with EIP 44 four and we are going to launch our public testnet shortly. So we have an application of our public testnet at our booth. So feel free to come and fill in your information and we will invite you guys to participate in our testnet and experiment all these innovations. And so this is the integration part with EIP 44. We have worked closely with Ethereum foundation core developers and potentially crash one or two the internal devnet during the stress test phase and we have be able to run the full network when the Ethereum launch is internal devnet that is twelve. Right now it's public testnet that is Napoleon and Holoski and also we have some third party community member that are able to come up with no improve their local storage by themselves. An ace of storage can be more than a long term data availability layer of Ethereum thanks to smart contract and programmability.
00:13:54.070 - 00:15:06.430, Speaker A: Acer storage can do more than just a static file storage system. It's essentially a database with key value interfaces. This enables a lot of dynamic website applications rather than static ones that we can found these days like Filecoin RV. Another interesting differences of Easter storage is that it's fully integrated with Ethereum development stack. As a developer I only need to have easer know how to use Easter wallet as smart contract and then I can easily store all the data I would like to store and organize by smart contract on Ethereum. So this will be significantly reduced the learning curve of all the developers and users to use its storage. We also propose a web three access protocol which is a decentralized HTTP protocol to access those data that is on chain and be hosted by the smart contract.
00:15:06.430 - 00:16:03.330, Speaker A: So the smart contract can define the corresponding logic to display those dynamic data that is uploaded by the users rather than a static ones. And with this we are able to, especially together with Ethereum scalability roadmap on computation that's currently a tools. We are able to deploy a lot of applications, for example decentralized social network, even YouTube or decentralized gaming. Everything now is able to on chain, including the front end. So there are a couple of interesting applications that can be enabled by Acer storage and the new access protocol. Here I just give a highlight of fully on chain AI. So with Acer storage now we are able to upload a large amount of AI model, for example potentially three or 4gb of data that is on chain.
00:16:03.330 - 00:17:06.950, Speaker A: We can further be able to verify the inference on chain given the AI model that we have published in storage. And so that we can tell given a promote and the corresponding outputs, we can tell that this is the correct answer by the AI model, which is impossible before. And also this is powered by OPML optimistic machine learning developed by Aura. And this has some new applications with AI and this is two of some. I'm pretty glad to play with them. One is using large language model as the game engine, so that now we are able to use large model and compose all those elements so that you can come up with more complicated things. And all this composition, the sequence of composition are available and verified by chain.
00:17:06.950 - 00:18:05.046, Speaker A: There are some more advanced things now we are able to deploy a tax based DNd on chain so that we are able to build a fully on chain autonomous world on top of ethereum network. So this is pretty much all I have. So many thanks for attending my today's talk. So if you have any interest both in running a node of the network or would like to deploy application on top of ease storage or web three access protocol, feel free to reach me at QC underscore Qizhou and I'm looking forward to see the new web three world there. Thank you very much. I can also answer a couple of questions. Any questions? Hi, thank you for your presentation.
00:18:05.046 - 00:19:24.162, Speaker A: Can you talk a little bit more about the pricing, like the cost of running like a YouTube video or streaming using the service? That's a great question. So the question is about the price to, for example, store video or some large amount data, right? So the price actually is not limited by it's a story itself. It's most limited by Ethereum gas because the transaction itself need to carry the base gas price gas that's 21,000 and a couple of gas to quota contract to basically index the data that I would like to store on chain. So for that part, I think in general, you can imagine we just take two as a store to store all this data that is on chain and which takes about $1 to dollar according to current gas price. And there's a further improvement of this storage price is to be able to deploy ISA storage on layer two. So that is a storage is layer three as a storage layer. And in that cases, because the gas price is significantly reduced, the price of storage will be reduced to one to the about 100.
00:19:24.162 - 00:20:05.600, Speaker A: That's our current estimation, especially according to the example obstacle or Apichon's gas price metering. And so this is something that now we can achieve compared to layer one, gas prices deploying on layer one that will about one to the 1000 and deploy on layer two that will one to the 100,000 versus Ethereum storage native storage. So that is the single, maybe single sentence description of the price. Any other questions? One more question.
00:20:08.130 - 00:20:20.690, Speaker B: So for people who want to retrieve their data, so for people who want to retrieve their data, do they have to pay the gas fee for that as well? So how do you retrieve data for retrieving the data? Do they have to pay the gas fee?
00:20:21.270 - 00:21:16.146, Speaker A: Do they need to pay gas fee to retrieve the data? Okay, that's not a great question. So you can imagine Issa storage is a superset of Ethereum, which means that all the retrieval market of ISA storage can derive existing retrieval market of Ethereum. In general Ethereum there are a couple of retrieval market. One way is that I run alone by myself, so that I can retrieve everything I need, or I can use Ethereum alchemy, which will provide some tiers of the retrieval ability in terms of how many requests I would like to make. All these things. Similar things can be applied to east storage, even though it's a bit centralized way. There's another interesting thing that we are working is to enable fully decentralized access protocol that work together with Ethereum network.
00:21:16.146 - 00:22:18.920, Speaker A: So Ethereum portal Network is Ethereum sub project, foundation sub project that is able to enable decentralized JSON RPC by building DHT network similar to ipfs, but only the data that is verified on chain. So not any garbage data on ipfs, it has to be verified on chain. So with that we are able to also offer this kind of a decentralized assets network together with the blobs that is introduced by EIP 44 and access by the application. So there are a couple of ways, but thanks to Ethereum itself, the network itself, we can just borrow the best practice of all these retrieval markets instead of inventing something new and need to be that better tested over time. All right, thank you so much, Chi. That was a great. Can we give it up for Chi from eat storage? Thank you very much.
