00:00:00.520 - 00:00:29.944, Speaker A: Hey, sny, how's it going? How are you doing? All right. All right. Did you do ice skating, hockey today? No, just. Just plain, plain work. Nice. Yeah. Well, I mean, it sounds like we got a decent amount of folks today.
00:00:29.944 - 00:01:11.550, Speaker A: Yeah, this is. So we're back to regular schedule because we had the last two weekends we'd had you and Andre and then Kane and Fernando from Balancer, those sort of two founder series. And so we're back at it. Just general discussion on all things Defi. Sounds like it's been a while and a lot of things have progressed last couple of weeks. Yeah, I think there's quite interesting stuff, stuff going on. I mean, in general, the space is moving quite forward, I guess.
00:01:11.550 - 00:01:48.260, Speaker A: Everyone seemed to be a bit heads down, building something, and a lot of interesting new things coming out. A lot of new people, a lot of newcomers. A lot of newcomers. Like, I don't know, is it the. They kind of think that the NFT craze is a bit onboarding more new users and they're ending up into Defi as well or something, but we see more new addresses coming in, so it's. It's quite interesting. Yeah, I've noticed that, too.
00:01:48.260 - 00:02:24.282, Speaker A: I mean, you probably see it from your perspective, but just monitoring dashboards of new users. I do think that NFTs perhaps may be the biggest or one of the biggest funnels for new users into DeFi, which is great. I mean, ultimately, people, you're tapping a different audio, different sort of user base, and I think the infrastructure has come such a long way. Look, a lot of, by the way, as everyone joins, like, this is just general discussion. So just rules for the room. Like, there's no objects, no talking about when moon or price. This is just to talk about all things Defi.
00:02:24.282 - 00:03:13.220, Speaker A: So if you want to talk and you want to come upstage, please raise your hand and we'll bring you up. But, yeah, Sonny, just going back to your point, I feel like it was Justin Lau who had mentioned, like, he got asked the question, like, so obviously there's a lot of buzz on nfts, and so why is this time different versus 2017? And he made a good point, which I found interesting, which is artists and creators have really gotten the tight end of the stick during COVID There's no concerts, there's no venues. And so really they need to get more creative. Plus, also, from your standpoint, you can probably, you know this better than anyone is. There's just much, much more infrastructure, like, in order to get onboarded on crypto to it's much easier than 2017, I feel. Yddeh and so that certainly helps as users, like, try to interact with crypto. It's just much easier these days.
00:03:13.220 - 00:04:01.772, Speaker A: Yeah, I definitely agree. I mean, there's definitely more time for people to look into the space. And the fact that Covid has changed a lot of lives at the moment then, especially creators and why we see like the music industry looking into defies. I mean, there's definitely like no gigs at the moment. And, you know, there's of course, live streaming, but at the end of the day, this is a kind of like a new opportunity. And same for, same for actually more for the artists themselves. You know, the art, art scene, there's no museums, no galleries open.
00:04:01.772 - 00:04:58.086, Speaker A: So pretty much if you want to express, you have to do it online. And the fact that what Defi has been doing very well, it's practically has been able to provide this kind of like ownership of finance and direct access and increasing that capital that people have. And now with nfts, you know, even like you could, you can share your, and express your work in places like Instagram and their hands. But what, what I think it's, with nfts, what it's interesting is that it does have this, this kind of like a value aspect, you know, and ownership, ownership value. And for creators, it's, it's a way to, it's a way to get paid, you know, for their work. And I think that's something that's driving like a lot of attention now. And as you mentioned, the geeks, geeks going off and.
00:04:58.086 - 00:05:41.976, Speaker A: Yeah, so, yeah, I think for, you know, as I've tried to explain, like bitcoin and then ethereum to so many people over the years, it's really hard for them to understand it, especially in the US where like, they don't kind of, you know, if you live in Argentina and some of these places like bitcoin is like the, the safe haven, if you will. But understanding digital scarcity is really hard for people because you've never had it, right. It's sort of like a new paradigm and I think collectibles kind of really, people can understand that much, much easier, I think. So if anything, I'm excited. I don't want to talk about entities all day because I think people are, I mean, there's a lot of hype, I guess. But for me it's really interesting because I think it will kind of ingrain the concept of what is digital, true digital scarcity, right. For people.
00:05:41.976 - 00:06:20.338, Speaker A: And then ultimately the nice journey about crypto is, it really forces you to then question all of the assumptions that you've sort of taken for granted. You know, it's interesting because so many people don't understand how very basic things work. Right. And money is perhaps one of those that is taken for granted. And it's surprising when you kind of try to, when people go through this journey of understanding crypto, they really begin to question these hard health assumptions about what money is and how it works. And, you know, for me, it's, it's kind of easier to understand from an NFT standpoint what that actually means. So I'm excited from that standpoint.
00:06:20.338 - 00:06:32.818, Speaker A: But anyways, we have new folks up here. We have David. Hey, David. And Kevin and Aisha. Oh, David left. But if you guys want to introduce yourselves, feel free to do that. Thanks, Santi.
00:06:32.818 - 00:06:58.722, Speaker A: Go ahead, Aisha. Hi, guys. I'm Aisha. I'm at ledger Prime. I just actually wanted to bring up a point very quickly before I forget. No speculation, no market projections or anything, but we have seen a rise in exchange accounts in past one month alone or so. We're trying to get data around.
00:06:58.722 - 00:08:10.880, Speaker A: Does it have to do with the, around of the hype round of nfts and the regular, you know, publishing media or so trying to get together data around it? But one thing we've seen is also volume growth on Ethereum. So kind of exciting, but I actually wanted to bring this up that we've started to see a flow because of, probably because of nfcs. Yeah, I mean, I would say definitely. Like, there is way more addresses now, you know, new addresses and then before, and there is, of course, a congestion comes when we all are using the DeFi protocols. And everything that is in not just defi, but everything that is in Ethereum. And I think, like, the NFT rise definitely has bringden brought a lot of new users. But I think what's happening with Defi is it's steadily growing all the time, and there's more and more people that are talking about Defi and experimenting.
00:08:10.880 - 00:09:11.512, Speaker A: There's more institutional interests at the moment. I think it's definitely now expanding. There isn't similar increase that we saw in activity during the DeFi summer and so forth. But I think now it's kind of like a steady growth, which is something actually healthy at the moment. What do you think, Santiago? Yeah, well, it's certainly, I look at the composition of PayPal, so they process all of their volume through itbit, which is an exchange. If you look at that, the composition has been roughly between 60 40 or 70 30 between bitcoin and ethereum. But you're right, Ash, I think as people try to use and interact with nfts, a lot of them, if you want to use opensea and rarible and foundation, you have to have Eth.
00:09:11.512 - 00:09:35.408, Speaker A: And that was, I guess, if we talk about news that was noteworthy this week, two that I think are pretty interesting. One is Jack selling his first tweet through this. What's the name of the. It's vcent or something like that. Exactly. Cent. So that's pretty noteworthy because obviously Jack has been, you know, he's been early in bitcoin, he's a proponent of bitcoin, but it's been sort of silent on Ethereum.
00:09:35.408 - 00:10:16.290, Speaker A: And so that just gives you an indication of, you know, for him, he, he had to have, I think owns Eth by virtue of that. So people got excited about that. And the second big piece of news that I'd love to discuss at some point in this room is obviously EIP 1559. It's been discussed forever, and I think it's one of the biggest drivers and catalysts in Ethereum as it really ties the value, value accrual when it comes to increased network demand. And I think it's been one of the most interesting developments in Ethereum. And finally, I think Tim, who's been leading the charge there, said that there's a consensus between the community and miners to have it as part of the London upgrade. So those two are perhaps really big news.
00:10:16.290 - 00:10:58.480, Speaker A: The second one, probably more impactful than the first. But yeah, I don't know, Stani or Kevin, if you guys want to comment on, I think EIP 1559, for anyone that doesn't know about it, would love to touch on that a little bit, if you guys want. Sure. Hey everyone, I'm Kevin from Gitcoin. And Gitcoin is just a place where you can get coins if you're a software developer working for the open Internet. EIP 1559 people are excited about because it's reforming the gas markets on the Ethereum mainnet. EIP 1559 is actually live on the filecoin network right now, and they're having success with it.
00:10:58.480 - 00:11:39.696, Speaker A: So I'm hopeful that it'll be successful in the Ethereum. Mainnet does two things to my knowledge. One, it makes the gas prices a little bit more stable. So basically you can have a little bit more confidence that your transaction is going to confirm within a certain amount of time. And then the second thing that it does, which is actually really important to Ethereum's value long term is that it burns the base fee, every block of transaction fees. So basically every block to ETH is minted. And there are anywhere from one ETH to 15 eth of transaction fees based off of the transactions that were minted into the block.
00:11:39.696 - 00:12:31.832, Speaker A: And EIP 1559 will burn a percentage or all of the transaction fees on Ethereum. And as long as the Ethereum blocks continue to be full, then that fee, the amount burned, is likely to be more than the amount minted. So this means that Ethereum now has one of the scarcest monetary, the monetary policies with the least inflation or the most deflation of any of the major crypto networks. And so if you look at the price of something as the supply and the demand of it, well, the demand for ETH as an asset keeps going up and now the supply is going to start deflating. So people are kind of thinking that this is going to make the Ethereum network super valuable thing and potentially even sounder money than bitcoin, because it's now deflationary. It doesn't just have a $21 million cap, it's actually deflating over time. So that's my understanding of EIP 1559.
00:12:31.832 - 00:13:44.480, Speaker A: Anything I missed? Ayesha Santiago or Sonny, that it's coming out in July, I think, and I think that, that it, it couldn't be, it couldn't have been time twelve. So even if you were to project it like an NFT summer, I think like, that's going to give the Ethereum, not calling a chain more here, but, you know, the recognition that it deserves and has worked on over the years. But I think it's timed really well. I agree on the, it changes the economics quite a lot. So, I mean, in bitcoin network, I mean, there is this sound money narrative and the deflation decreases over time, the inflation. And here in Ethereum, you actually might have deflation as well in certain blocks. So I think it's really fascinating to actually see how it will work.
00:13:44.480 - 00:15:00.578, Speaker A: I think it changes a bit the economics that we have seen previously. And for me, it's very, very interesting to see, like how it will, like how the economics will be then adjusted. You know, how, how much there should be rewards per block. And how do you adjust that on a later stage, you know, based on like how much there is burned transactions and, you know, whether there's too much of a burning because, you know, it definitely creates scarcity, but scarcity on, on a, you know, because in one way you could see scarcity, the same way as you will see now in crude oil, right? So like every, every second, every moment, there's like less and less oil, so it becomes pricier. But with ethereum, it's quite different. It's more like a, you know, having, taking energy from, you know, from the sun, so the energy is available, but then, you know, just adjust, like, how much you're taking in and how much there's inputs and outputs. So I think in that sense, it's quite fascinating because you have scarcity, but you have control over how much there should be scarcity.
00:15:00.578 - 00:15:39.612, Speaker A: And I see it as some way, even what we would have in interest rate markets, negative rates. So let's say that when you want to have lower cost of capital, you basically set negative interest rates and increase the demand, and then on the other side, you could do the reverse. So let's say if there's too much, if there's too much market activity, you can increase interest rates. So. And interest rates are pricing. So I think it's interesting to see, like, how, how this will work when it's live. Yeah, yeah.
00:15:39.612 - 00:16:58.238, Speaker A: One of the things to understand, I think, for me, is so as ethereum is grown in popularity, it has become a little bit more complicated to estimate, like, the appropriate gas fees that you need to execute a transaction or get it through the mempool. And sometimes that leads to confirmation delays that we've all seen. And so I think EIP 1559, the idea behind it is to solve some of that issues of really, how do you calculate and kind of codify the economics of, of the gas fee? So the approach is different in the sense that users, there's a sort of base fee that says algorithmically calculated each transaction. And then on top of that, you can tip in order, you can tip the miner if you want the transaction to be processed faster. So it almost, I guess what you're trying to optimize is whenever you want to get a transaction approved in a specific block, it needs to be picked up by miner and sort of calculating fees. My understanding is, in the current environment, has grown to be more suboptimal. And so this idea is to really kind of like servers, how they try to manage peak load, like peak to trough.
00:16:58.238 - 00:17:21.890, Speaker A: Like, you need to manage these periods of congestion and not congestion. Like. This whole proposal aims to just bring more efficiency in the fee market of Ethereum. Hi, David. Welcome up. Hey, Santiago. Hey, Stani.
00:17:21.890 - 00:17:56.770, Speaker A: Hi, guys. So, look, I'm co founder at first supply company. We take operational data, we aggregate it, we shape it, we hash it, to ledger and we use that data to deploy funds. So supply chain finance focused on food, agri and chemicals as well. So typically at the enterprise scale. So yeah, that's what I do. Fans since 2013, I really like the technical speak.
00:17:56.770 - 00:18:34.380, Speaker A: I like the theme around NFT hype and kind of stepping back and thinking what it is. But I think there's also, look, I think what's happening is we're seeing deficiencies in traditional kind of models of capturing value. There's information asymmetry and standardized kind of models or traditional models or models with historical baggage. So art dealer. The art dealer, right. So NFTs and artheminal artwork is just peer to peer and capture may not be peer to peer, but it's more peer to peer where more of the fat is actually more distributed between the creator and the ultimate user. Right.
00:18:34.380 - 00:19:09.306, Speaker A: I think a big story that. So I'm always looking at commercial outcomes in the real world. You guys are a lot of smart guys addressing the technical issues and it's beautiful. But I think there's actually been a really big story which I think will translate into another use case for DeFi, which is last week's crash of Greensill Capital. So I work in supply chain finance and what I'm seeing here is there's a centralized information asymmetry type of play going on. Right. Where I don't know if you guys are familiar with that.
00:19:09.306 - 00:19:50.228, Speaker A: That was like the big story in finance this year in supply chain finance, particularly in Australia, where I am. Right. And I think that's going to lead into a very large kind of, you know, what's basically happened is that I don't know if you guys are aware of reverse factoring, but they're taking accounts payable and or receivable, in this case, payable. They were paying them out smaller. You pay a discount and your, and your invoices get paid early. They were bundling them together, selling them to Credit Suisse. And the credit risk insurer kind of pulled, pulled out, wouldn't insure.
00:19:50.228 - 00:20:34.048, Speaker A: Right. So Credit Suisse wouldn't take them either. And there was a lot of dodgy dealing. I think that's a gigantic opportunity, real world opportunity for Defi. Stani, I've emailed you, we texted on LinkedIn. I actually think there is this sleeping giant in terms of DeFi currently being deployed for margin trading and or margin trading or speculatory activities. But I think there's, this real world is crying out for the opportunity to deploy these liquidity pools against real assets, high quality assets, because we see dodgy dealings or kind of old boys.
00:20:34.048 - 00:21:22.394, Speaker A: Kind of same problem that we're seeing in bithdemeral, bitcoin, addressing peer to peer store of value in currency, nfts and art, and now decentralized finance. And ultimately, could we use these liquidity pools to replace banks or people acting as banks? So I don't know if who's aware of the greensol story. It's been the biggest thing, right? And it's been affecting guys in Germany, UK, Australia. Yeah, that's all I've got. I think I just see that as a gigantic, gigantic sleeping giant in terms of saying, hey, this is a use case for Defi, and thanks for letting me have my long winded kind of chat. Thank you, mate. Yeah, definitely.
00:21:22.394 - 00:22:01.054, Speaker A: I think, Sunny, you were able to comment on this, but there's been attempts of like a few companies out there that are trying to bring like real world assets into these money markets, like centrifuge and a few others. There are some like structural, I think, considerations there. But yeah, generally speaking, like what I get really excited about, I guess, pure, pure. When you think about like how Defi works today is mostly like on chain. Like, it's crypto native assets, like digital assets. So like, it's very easy to infer. And, you know, when you have a certain smart contract logic, like there's, there's no risk of.
00:22:01.054 - 00:22:44.816, Speaker A: I guess the big issue with like real world assets, I think is just like, like the oracle problem of sorts is like, who's monitoring this? Who's verifying it that these receivables exist and counterparty risk and all that stuff like that. That's where like atoms meet bits, which is a little bit more complicated. That's what I do. So currently we deploy fiat, right? We work with different lenders, banks and non banks, right? So to give you the size, this isn't a bragging sort of thing. Last quarter we originated 200 million, right, in accounts payable and receivable primarily to the ag sector, right? And what you see is traditional kind of lenders. I don't know if you guys are familiar with loan to value ratios. They get maxed out.
00:22:44.816 - 00:23:18.482, Speaker A: Then people go to non bank lenders, right? And that's really high interest rates. I mean, to the end user, even these historically low rates, it's like, it can be like ten, six, all the way up to 15%, right? So that's what my company does. We take that, the supply chain data, and we make it, you know, we glue it all together so any asset can have a narrative. Right. And so I use that with traditional financing sources. I just see it as a big kind of defi, like. Yeah, as a potential defi opportunity.
00:23:18.482 - 00:23:50.982, Speaker A: I see these liquidity pools, I think the quality of the deployments, the yield that's generated on it. I don't know if I was an institutional, if I would choose to deploy there. I think there's an opportunity for both crypto native funds, but as well as institutionals getting in to actually be. It's interesting to be able to. Again, I am a supply chain data company serving as data layer to make risk or understanding operations digestible to the financial sector. Right. That's what I do.
00:23:50.982 - 00:24:14.480, Speaker A: That's my space. So I see that there's an opportunity on the funding side. Right? The lender side. Yeah, that's. That's my take, but sorry to cut you off, Santiago. Yeah, you know what? Like, that's the thing. Like, we're pretty much focusing on getting liquidity into DeFi, but there's so much more.
00:24:14.480 - 00:24:50.958, Speaker A: Even, like, once you have this liquidity, as actually you said, and utilizing that liquidity in getting it into the traditional finance and traditional commercial environment, I mean, that's something that will happen, I think, next. So I think, like, being able to create some sort of credit network over decentralized finance, let's say, totally, mate. Totally. Yeah, yeah. Imagine if. Imagine if there's, there's just one entity that is getting. Getting credit from DeFi, and everyone is trusting that entity.
00:24:50.958 - 00:25:47.494, Speaker A: And that entity could then underwrite, let's say, could give credit further, let's say, part of the credit, to consider credit market part two, let's say some other the market, and let's say one part to supply chain finance against receivables. So I guess, like, what we're trying to solve is that when we look at the credit networks now, they're trying to solve, like, this individual getting credit from DeFi and so forth. But what might be also interesting, if we have one big on chain balance sheet that is actually taking credit, let's say, from aave and other lending protocols and whatever, you get liquidity and without any collateral, basically with some sort of wall, and then just kind of like, where to put the. And mate. You're exactly right. I'll share with you a little bit of secret sauce in terms of the model. Right.
00:25:47.494 - 00:26:03.638, Speaker A: The data is securing the trade because we're not taking any real world assets. Right. So if you talk about banks say that they fund against cash flows, cash flows are really durable. They're predictable. We have data around loss rates. Right. Loss rates are extremely low.
00:26:03.638 - 00:26:24.240, Speaker A: Right. I actually think what's missing is an exchange or a pool, plus governance, plus an originator, plus an auditor. That structure plus compliance. That person that puts that together will win. Right. So you have to have, again, compliance, governance structure, good yield, quality, and then you have multiple risk profiles. Right.
00:26:24.240 - 00:26:39.872, Speaker A: And then, yeah, I mean, I think that's what institutional is missing. Right. Like institutional, they're just. Bitcoin is very simplistic, but even with crypto native, right. If you could choose the quality based on the transparency, I've got to quantify risk. So that's called credit risk assessment. Right.
00:26:39.872 - 00:27:12.564, Speaker A: If we professionalize that and kind of, you know, probably, you know, centralize that in that defi authority that is actually saying, okay, we'll pull from this liquidity pool. That's interesting. Whoever gets that right wins. Hey, we got two other folks. Hey, Nick. Yas, how's it going, guys? Hey, what's going on? Are we going in order or we. Well, no, go for it.
00:27:12.564 - 00:29:00.440, Speaker A: All right, well, yeah, I'll go then. So I think we can all agree that recently, over the last at least three months, we've seen sort of some traction with like the l two s or side chains and even some, some cross chains with just these, these bridges, right? And get one, those networks starting to grow, getting some traction, getting some liquidity there and then the bridges to get there from ethereum. And you could, I would even put like secret networks into that. So these bridge liquidity programs that I see starting up, how do you see those sort of expanding as we sort of enter this cross chain or multilayer future? And how does something like, for instance, an aave spring up on one of those sort of l two s or other non ethereum chains? Like what? What are we looking for? Is it just like TVL and then now we've got enough? Or is it, are there more technical challenges? You know, just looking for some insight there because I found it very interesting that I see, I see these like, l two s and side chains as like little towns that are springing up, right? And Ethereum is like the big city that people go to. And as we get more and more economic activity within these little towns, and you get more and more like daps on there and other people just living and building in that ecosystem, there's still going to be a massive need for that bridge liquidity. How do you see that growing? And is that part of the defi narrative in the coming future somehow? Yeah. Interesting.
00:29:00.440 - 00:29:27.182, Speaker A: Go ahead, sonny. No, go ahead, Santiago. Yeah, I was going to say it's an interesting question because, yeah, you're right. Like, in theory, if you have every single dap on a specific l two, then it's no different than having everything in l one. Like, there will be perhaps a state of the world where there's a lot of congestion. We're starting to see, like, a duopoly or, like, three or four different l two s. I think in a steady state, you're probably going to see two or three.
00:29:27.182 - 00:29:44.966, Speaker A: So right now you have, I guess, three, in my estimation. You have optimism. You have synthetix and uniswap and a few other teams exploring. You have starkware. So you have. That's built by. And so that's, like, diversify and Dydx and a few other immutable x built on top of that.
00:29:44.966 - 00:30:04.024, Speaker A: And then you have arbitram, I believe, by off chain labs. And so these three, in my mind, are kind of the, like, the farthest along, if you will. 1 second, Santiago, sorry to interrupt and not. I have no incentive in asking this, but you don't see, like, matic or polygon as part of that. That's true. No, that's it. I'm glad you brought up.
00:30:04.024 - 00:30:36.890, Speaker A: I thought I was missing one. Yes, yes. A lot of activity there, too. So my view is that, like, so right now, there would probably be a lot of opportunity to, like, connect l two s to l one s. I call them relayers. There might be a better term for this, but essentially, like, a liquidity provider or someone that can make the hop from l two to l one, and if you wanted to go to another l two much faster. And so I would suspect that that would present a very interesting economic opportunity for someone to provide that service.
00:30:36.890 - 00:31:13.246, Speaker A: Starkware has a great post called defi pools that sort of inspired my thinking on this. You should check it out. And I think the. I would think that there's the analogy that you made around, like, urban development is interesting. Yeah. Like, Manhattan might be the l one, and you have Brooklyn and queens and Hoboken, and ultimately, like, there's a lot of commuting between this during the day. And so providing those, building those highways is probably going to be an interesting opportunity for someone to provide it might not be a perfect analogy, but I guess, hopefully that personalized.
00:31:13.246 - 00:32:09.628, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. I think. I think in a similar manner that, you know, you. You kind of do not need to have all the, you know, you don't need to live in the same city. You know, if you have various, you know, if you want to create, let's say some, some sort of application that needs a lot of transactions, maybe, maybe it might be that you don't need to be in the layer one, but you could actually be in some sort of like L2 or another, like a side chain when you can transact more with less security, but you still have security. You're not running a database. I mean, once when you have decentralized node system and then you can then still use, nothing stops you building an application that uses various different chains for various different purposes.
00:32:09.628 - 00:32:56.970, Speaker A: And you know, if you, if you have a lot of value that you want to actually store in layer one, you could use that. Or, you know, there's, there's kind of like this question whether NFT that is minted, let's say in layer one or L2 is, is equally the same word, you know, when you actually mint it. But also there is like a question. There's like discussion on like the actual, like how much security you need to have on whatever you are trying to transact. You know, for example, sending payments, small amount payments. It doesn't need maybe layer one type of verification, but when you want to store value, you know, then you, then you might need. So I think we'll probably be in a multi layer and multi chain ecosystem quite soon.
00:32:56.970 - 00:33:12.214, Speaker A: Yeah. Do you see, um. Oh, sorry, I lost my train of thought. I was, I was listening to you talking. I. Someone can go, I guess. Nick.
00:33:12.214 - 00:34:45.840, Speaker A: Like, how do you guys think about for maker, like l two strategy? I appreciate you're kind of more on the Oracle side, but how do you, how do you guys think through it? Yeah, just a warning. I'm using clubhouse from the car, so I'm not sure if everything's going to work. So feel free to tell me if stuff is weird, but for the most part, I think we're more inclined to wait it out a little bit. We've definitely been dabbling with different components, so the governance stuff is going to probably be built on optimism, right? We just did some oracle stuff on starkware, but when it comes to core protocol, I don't think that maker is one of those protocols that really benefits from being the first mover to l two or from being one of the first movers to l two. Because we rely so much on liquidity, right, for users to basically write, to deposit their tokens into the protocol that if we go too soon and there's not enough liquidity, we'd actually be stunting our growth rather than actually getting any of the benefits. So I think it's going to be, what is the phrase? First slowly, then suddenly? I'm pretty sure everyone's kind of playing this game of chicken. I remember my question, and this is maybe it's more philosophical.
00:34:45.840 - 00:35:32.880, Speaker A: I don't even know if it's right or wrong. Side chain and l two, what's the delineation? Is it semantics? How does everyone here view that? Because I've had many different debates about whether they're the same. Like, for instance, is matic an l two and a side chain? Or is it either or, or optimism or what have you? So at least I delineate them based off of their security model. Right. So if you have native kind of security, right, on your own little chain, like that's a side chain, right. Versus if you derive your security from the base chain, from the l one, that to me is indicative of an l two. I agree with you.
00:35:32.880 - 00:36:10.930, Speaker A: So that's exactly what you said was my argument until I was in a room. And they basically said that because you can bridge over to, say, a side chain, as you and I agree is defined, that that's the security model. The bridge over into a side chain, like, say, Xdai. Right. Versus something like, say any sort of roll up, which is gets its basically like fraud proofs on l one. Right. And they were saying that, well, they're just smart contracts, so they're the same.
00:36:10.930 - 00:36:41.450, Speaker A: And everyone, like, most people in a room are like. No, like, there's like, they're all l two s and they're all, you know, like, all of them are l two s and side chains. They were trying to use them interchangeably. So I just thought it was interesting. I didn't know if anyone here felt any, any different. Can I, can I quickly hop in? Is that cool? Sure. Yeah.
00:36:41.450 - 00:36:59.050, Speaker A: So look, from an l two perspective again, I think interoperability with tradfi offerings, for example, like day to day, I work with Mastercard. Yes. They have a closed kind of. They've got a closed. It's a permission ledger. Right. That, that's what's captured.
00:36:59.050 - 00:37:16.156, Speaker A: But the ability to link to your defi. Right. And then you're talking about oracle problem and all that sort of stuff. I think it's the openness to link with current defi, whether or not they're the best application. Like, okay, yes. Hyperledger board. Boring, right.
00:37:16.156 - 00:37:38.180, Speaker A: Or Corda. It may be boring, but hooking into tradfi, where there is a lot of muscle in terms of adoption, I think is pretty critical. Yeah. I mean, I can appreciate the technical challenge. There's two ways to look at it. Or it could be the technical challenge. I don't think that's the actual challenge.
00:37:38.180 - 00:37:58.904, Speaker A: I think the challenge is kind of chasm crossing right to mainstream and getting. How do you actually recruit. Recruit traditional finance? Right. Because I mean, look, there's even like, again, I can only speak for Mastercard because I'm close to them. There's a whole digital assets offering. There's a whole kind of, you know, whether it's PayPal or Mastercard or whatever. Right.
00:37:58.904 - 00:38:28.410, Speaker A: I think it's the ability to hook into those, into the traditional finance kind of offerings. Right. And even if it isn't the best technical execution, it's because they already have captured, like, they have a customer base. Right. So those are my thoughts. One of the things that I've been thinking about lately is, so I was a judge in Solana's like, defi hackathon this week, and it was interesting because, look, I mean, I'm not a maximalist. Like, I love Ethereum.
00:38:28.410 - 00:39:21.738, Speaker A: I think that's where most developers are. That's where we make most of our investments. But it was interesting because as we were going through the list of a lot of these competitors or like a lot of these DeFi projects, a lot of it was like copying, like you saw, like the Eva, the Aave equivalent on Solana and the maker equivalent and stuff like that. But then there was an interesting question by someone. One of the judges says, what are some of the applications that can be built on perhaps a higher throughput, faster, like a cheaper l one that just haven't been possible in Ethereum because, because of the scaling limitations. So maybe a question for everyone here, like, what are some of the use cases in DeFi that don't exist today in Ethereum? Because you think that it's just been hard from a. It's just very expensive and it doesn't support it.
00:39:21.738 - 00:40:00.192, Speaker A: Whereas we could see maybe not an exact replica of DeFi and other l one s, but perhaps just different use cases that spring up more easily in something like Solana or Polkadot, if you will. I don't know if anyone has a view on that. I thought I would have some questions. So actually I have. The funny thing is, you brought this topic up and I was going to bring it up in a few minutes. I wasn't a judge, but we looked at those companies, right? And internally, I mean, we're a fund, so we have a very, like, neutral opinion on almost everything. Sorry, my kid is singing muffin man, I'd have to hide myself.
00:40:00.192 - 00:40:36.004, Speaker A: So. But the thing is, so after, like, you know, a quick deep dive, yeah, all basically ethereum copies. But the only justification that one of our analysts came up was this options product. And he said, let's talk to them. Maybe they're a bit more scalable and can, you know, can justify if their transaction speed is faster than the other ones. That's about it. That was the only thing that, you know, we could justify, like, in talking to them, otherwise.
00:40:36.004 - 00:41:52.470, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. Replicas, I think something that requires, like, a lot of, like a high frequency, you know, some sort of, like a what from our perspective is interesting will be swaps, interest rate swaps. So that's something that, where you might want to do it quite frequently and the margins are quite smaller. So you might want to transact very frequently, but you don't want to pay on each transaction, let's say $50, to swap from one, let's say stable coin yield to another, stable coin yield, and vice versa. So that is something. But also, it might be that you could, the thing what Santiago brought up about Solana is that it really opens new opportunities. Maybe there is applications where you might have financial transactioning and other kind of data where you want to ensure this trust us environment.
00:41:52.470 - 00:42:40.560, Speaker A: You could do something similar with normal, just database sharing, but something where you can actually build a network. So something where you can build something permission in a permissionless fashion. Everyone can join and transact in value and have high frequency. I mean, it could be even, like, in just normal applications that have some sort of financial part of it. Yeah, I was thinking, like, there's one that was building, actually two that were building flashlights. And for me, flashlights could be a little bit expensive at times. They are probably executed only when, like, the arbitrage, obviously, the cost of running them is less than whatever you're arbing.
00:42:40.560 - 00:43:48.216, Speaker A: And so, for instance, like on Aave, right. A lot of what I see is sometimes, like, when you go from variable to fixed rate, sometimes, like, the calculus that goes in my head is like, is it actually worth the transaction cost? And it depends on the balance that you have, right. If you're borrowing $10,000 and you can save 25 basis points, but the transaction fee is like $500, it doesn't actually make sense to do it. But if you're borrowing like a couple million bucks, then it does. Cause you're gonna be saving. So for me, that's where I thought, well, you could probably see like an order of magnitude more flash loans and some like Solana because it's actually just much cheaper to execute them. And so it becomes from a volume perspective you could see way more flash zones in Solana that perhaps what you could, what you're seeing Ethereum, the one thing I've seen on, and I haven't seen it, but I've at least heard Hoskinson discussing a lot, is the existence of natives tokens compared to tokens on say Ethereum, which are essentially smart contracts defined, right? So tokens on Ethereum don't get the same treatment as if ETh on Ethereum, right.
00:43:48.216 - 00:45:05.176, Speaker A: So my feeling is that when Cardano starts probably enabling, you know, starts bringing out these tools that developers can go on there, that maybe we'll gain some flexibility with the fact that you'll have native assets on Cardano with their own ledger not necessarily bound to what AdA is doing. So, and my assumption is that because you don't need this sort of overhead and some may call it an inefficiency of a smart contract to define a token on Ethereum that could yield to cheaper transactions and more flexibility and what sort of products and services you build like whether it's defi specific or in other areas, like even say nfts. Yep, we got a couple more, three more folks in the room. So if you guys want to introduce yourselves or bring some discussion points, feel free to do that. Miguel or Lior or Mustafa. Yeah, I just wanted to, I was dming David and I guess my only point is I'm not an expert. I come from academic cryptography.
00:45:05.176 - 00:46:12.288, Speaker A: I have some background I'm working on AI Hilla called me to this and she strongly recommends you guys. But I'm beginning to see that there is definitely, I know several people from, from Goldman, from other, like you know, Rehai up, like one of those ex CEO of Goldman and other people who are beginning to look into this with great detail. So there's growing, of course it's not news, but like, you know, there's growing institutional interest in getting this right. But so I think what David's point is crucial, right? Like how do we institutionalize defi if that even makes sense, but do you have to, right, like, and I was just, as you guys were talking about this, I was trying to model this in my head as, okay, well you might, you know the main issue with, with all this stuff is risk, right? Like there's structural risk, there's contra risk protocol, risk volatility. But whatever there's risk, there might be a counterparty that is willing to take this risk just from a traditional finance perspective. Right. So, I don't know.
00:46:12.288 - 00:46:49.898, Speaker A: I just wanted to ask you guys, like, okay, like, I'm sure there are derivatives. Again, I'm not an expert. I'm sure there are derivatives, right? And swaps and all these sort of novel contracts to be able to hedge against this gigantic volatility risks. So I don't know, especially David, how do you see that growing? Or is there enough liquidity now to be able to have enough counterparties to be able to hedge these risks? I guess my question, can I add to it because. Oh, yes. So we're a hedge fund. Yes.
00:46:49.898 - 00:47:41.576, Speaker A: Trust me when I say this, but there's going to be a huge shift of liquidity towards defi in the upcoming months. A lot of it has to do with the bond yield curve. And this is something that Santi actually converted me on a couple of weeks ago. He was like, you know, we don't really need institutions when we can build a $1 trillion industry ourselves. Sorry, sorry for my background noise, but, yeah, I think, like, as much of institutional involvement there is about to come in months to come for where us particularly is headed. I think we'll see a lot more DHAI activity from the institutional perspective. Yeah, I mean, I'm not, like.
00:47:41.576 - 00:48:14.090, Speaker A: I don't know if it's just me, my skeptical view, but I'm not, like, entirely sold on this idea of, like, bringing real world assets. I get that it's a massive opportunity. I've just, for whatever reason, struggled to see it really take off just immediately, whereas I get more excited about just more. More crypto native applications. Like, okay, like, could you bring on. And could JP Morgan execute a mortgage using Aave? Yeah, absolutely. Sure.
00:48:14.090 - 00:48:39.940, Speaker A: But. But, you know, but, Santiago, like, you know, say derivative, right? Like, can I. Can I buy options on this stuff? Right? Like, and those markets are way bigger, so, yeah, there you go. Right? Build some CDo's on. Is that a good idea? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So that's a really good point. Bringing on, like, fractionalized mortgages and, like, security token offerings, to me, just start, like, there's a lot of, like, limitations to that.
00:48:39.940 - 00:49:16.574, Speaker A: Where I get more excited is what you just said, which is, you think about what would happen to Robinhood and this idea of, like, value at risk, and no one knows how it's calculated, presumably. And there's all this, like, ambiguity or, like, credit default swaps or collateralized debt obligations. Like, all these derivative products that exist in traditional finance have some sort of, like. Like, bad cache attached to them because they. People think that they caused the financial crisis in like 2008, which is not the case. The instrument itself is not the problem. The problem is that you don't have a lot of transparency to infer how much exposure institutions have.
00:49:16.574 - 00:49:35.900, Speaker A: And the settlement is a huge problem. It was for Robin Hood. It is for so many institutions. Like, the fact that we continue to have t plus two, t plus three settlement is almost embarrassing in a world where like everything just happens just much faster. That's what I get excited about. So like synthetic, like synthetic platform, like, I agree. And then I disagree as well.
00:49:35.900 - 00:50:01.590, Speaker A: I think, like, from my perspective, my real world, like this is. This is a pessimist perspective. This is exactly how someone who's in credit risk would think. They would think, okay, utilization or, you know, arbitrage or margin trading is low quality risk is low quality debt. So if I was funding someone else's debt, I just wouldn't do it. It's too risky. And people do it all the time.
00:50:01.590 - 00:50:34.480, Speaker A: I think that's a technophiles kind of. It's like day to day. I sell to massive farms, right? Massive farms and food producers, they don't give a crap about how you implement it. I do not think it's a technical problem. Right. Where I come from is I am at the coal face with different types of food producers primarily, and chemicals producers looking for liquidity, like. And I'm happy to take this offline another time with anyone who wants to chat.
00:50:34.480 - 00:51:11.934, Speaker A: But they're crying out like, you know, prime rate in Australia, 0.1, right? I see clients unsecured, working capital lines of credit. 10.6 is the cheapest for livestock purchasing. Eleven, you know, eleven, up to 15% depending on what the perceived risk is, right? So I don't think it's a technical. I think there's a lot of smart technical people trying to solve the wrong problem. If you want to get to mainstream adoption, you know, I mean, guys, I want to bring up one thing that in Defi, particularly, especially if you're trading derivatives, everything is fully collateralized.
00:51:11.934 - 00:52:06.284, Speaker A: And just Santiago's point, like, you know, with on chain settlement, you know, with coming being in place, then we don't even have to worry about the t one s and t two s. When an asset is fully collateralized, there's on chain settlement. So I think for mainstream adoption, that's the biggest case itself. I would also add to that, Aisha, as far as mainstream is that the smart contracts themselves, right? These protocols, these Defi, Dapps, whatever you want to call them, they're super transparent. Right. And someone already cited that transparency is really, I think it was Santiago that said transparency is already, like, the biggest issue with, you know, a lot of what goes on in traditional finance. So just the fact that, you know, ethereum or any other network that implements these things can say, look, this is what is, this is the input.
00:52:06.284 - 00:53:02.502, Speaker A: These are the outputs. Right. We're already light years ahead of anything going on in traditional finance now as far as, like, real world crossover, I still feel like we have so much we can build in this sort of alternative financial system, build horizontally, horizontally and vertically, that whatever's going on and, like, tied to real world assets, I feel like it's going to, it's, it's really still on a back burner, you know, and not to call, like, Stani out or anything, but, like, Ave had that whole announcement with something about, like, real estate or something. And that's, I'm sure it's being worked on, but look at the progress that goes on, on Aave, like, outside of that and, like, where any of that news is, you know, well, Nick, could you. Not to put you on the spot, but if there's anyone, a team that's looked at this a lot, I mean, you're in the oracle team at Maker. How do you guys. We're going to centrifuge in some of these companies.
00:53:02.502 - 00:54:14.432, Speaker A: What is your perspective on bringing real world assets and collateralizing them? And how do you guys think about the risk? And look, I mean, Stanley, you're a lawyer, too, so I hear you. That in theory, a contract, you could use smart contracts and it's recognized by law, and so there's some enforceability. It gets messier when you do cross border stuff, but, I mean, you two are perhaps the best kind of suited to it. How do you think about, like, the challenges associated with rural oil assets? Yeah, yeah. So I think we just make it kind of like, I agree with Santiago that, like, it's, it's way more fascinating maybe to create, like, crypto native. Crypto native instruments and crypto native assets because of the fact that you don't have to deal with the legal wrappers and the legacy kind of systems. And that is a big advantage when you don't have to deal with.
00:54:14.432 - 00:55:36.390, Speaker A: But the fact is there's a lot of value in traditional word, traditional finance, for example, when it comes to real estate and any other kind of, like, objects. And I think the issue is that when we look at all of these projects that are looking into solving this issue, they are somehow approaching it in a way that is like they try to solve the whole thing at the same time. And I think when it comes to tokenization, how you should actually tokenize value, because it's quite simple. You just ensure some sort of custody of asset. And once you have the custody, you create a token that represents whatever you have in custody, and then you get it into the network. Now, the thing is that when it comes to real estate, we're trying tokenize in each and every jurisdiction and trying to make it a bit of like cross border systems. And I think that the most successful projects at the moment, they just pick one particular jurisdiction, one area, and they start to tokenize those things and they try to do it in a more like a fund way.
00:55:36.390 - 00:57:14.564, Speaker A: So let's say you have a fund that buys property somewhere in, let's say, Detroit, then those shares of the fund are, then you have a cryptographic representation on ethereum, and then you can trade that on uniswap, uses a collateral in aave and whatnot. In our case, I guess this is the way to do it, because the same way us dollar is tokenized, I mean, it's just one jurisdiction, which is us and kind of nothing too widely in the beginning. In our case, I think what has been slowing us down, well, I will not say slowing down, because it's just like the next thing we had to build is this whitelisted permissioned market. So that means that these folks who are issuing, let's say, and tokenizing real estate or whatnot, they might have certain requirements for those who can participate into the money markets and depositing those collaterals and borrowing liquidity against. So we had to add this whitelisting functionality where the market managers who are selected, for example, by the governance, let's say, if it's realty, money market selected realty, who then? Whitelists and blacklists, the depositors, the borrowers and even the liquidators if it comes to that. And this allows Stani, you're so, you're so right, it hurts. You know, like the, it's like, it's not a technical problem, but the compliance and governance piece is not the fun.
00:57:14.564 - 00:57:57.720, Speaker A: It's not fun, right? It's not, but that's what's actually lacking. Yeah, I think people should always like, kind of try to, you know, try to just post push innovation and, you know, there is always a legal issue for everything. You know, you could, it's just like how much you can take that, you know, legal risk against the innovation. So how much value you're bringing, that is what Defi, Defi and Broadway Ethereum space has been doing for years. And I think that's the thing. And also, like, we're tokenizing always, like, the most difficult things, you know, the most regulated things, but there's a bunch of things that can be tokenized that is stress regulated. And those are good places to start with.
00:57:57.720 - 00:59:34.696, Speaker A: So do you expect to see, because we already have, like, regulatory arbitrage, right? Do you expect to see that geographical areas or countries that are far, have far less regulation or likely to amend whatever their regulations are to use the benefits of something like Defi, do you see that actually having any global impact, like, say, over a five to ten year period? Like, I think we would all agree that the United States and Sec, because of just not even necessarily the rules, the lack of clarity, you know, play that forward five to ten years. How does that work in another jurisdiction where they have far less regulation or quicker to adjust their policies and then they can take advantage of the benefits of, you know, the efficiencies and lack of overhead of, like, just the general Defi idea. Really hard to say because in some places, like Singapore, where you have regulation that, you know, it's flexible. We see a lot of progress there. Founders are going there with, there's a lot of good projects there. But, you know, also I think, like, the innovation comes where, where the smart people are. I don't think, like, I mean, if you, if you live in, let's say in, in a place where you always lived and you are an innovator and you don't care about moving, you just don't move, you know, and, and at least, like, I feel that way, you know, you could, like, that's what's cool about Defi.
00:59:34.696 - 01:00:20.500, Speaker A: You could build from anywhere, you know, and you just need to find a good setup. And I'm not sure if, let's say there's a country. I mean, this happened in the past where Switzerland seemed to be the place to go to do ethereum things. And at the end of the day, it's not the place where the most ethereum startups are at the moment. It's actually way more wider spread. So I don't think you could do regulatory arbitrage, but I don't know how much actually impact it will have in the site. When you look at the whole picture, what is regulatory arbitrage? It's basically simple terms.
01:00:20.500 - 01:00:49.594, Speaker A: Yeah, you select jurisdictions which are most favorable for your, whatever you're trying to achieve. So that's regulatory arbitrage. So you're trying to find a place where. Where the regulation is favoring you. Let me give an extreme example that doesn't probably exist, right. If you wanted to tokenize your house, right. We know that would, like, Stani was just talking through just what that is.
01:00:49.594 - 01:01:08.192, Speaker A: Right. Like, what you would have to do. But say some jurisdiction was just basically gave you like, bare minimum, like super, like think like MVP. So that a DeFi protocol could do that. Some, like, there's hundreds. Like, I don't know how many countries. Maybe there's two, like 200 or so.
01:01:08.192 - 01:01:32.450, Speaker A: Like, some of them enable you to just almost do it. Like very turnkey. That's what I'm talking about. Yeah, like sandboxes. You know, you might have regulatory sandboxes. I mean, the FCA has those in the UK and I mean, globally, there's. I mean, there's even like, in some states in us, you know, sandboxes where you can try things out.
01:01:32.450 - 01:02:01.726, Speaker A: But, yeah, I mean, some things you can't move. I mean, if you have property in New York, you know, it's there in a way. I mean, there's. It becomes quite challenging. And I mean, the whole legal aspect is another, like, big kind of discussion. But what's important to think always is that, like, you know, there's always regulatory certainty and it's just like, important way important thing to do things. Right.
01:02:01.726 - 01:02:42.868, Speaker A: You know, if you have something that, that is really innovative, you just have to go and build that thing and, you know, and make it like, as, like, as compliant as possible. But sometimes, you know, there is a big area that, that is unknown gray area, and then it's. It's very hard. But it doesn't. Doesn't necessarily mean that you should stop building things that make people's lives better, easier, more efficient, and, you know, has, like, very, lost a very big net, kind of like a game for everyone. Everyone, like, in everyone around. But I.
01:02:42.868 - 01:03:18.486, Speaker A: Yeah, it's quite. It's challenging, like, when it comes to regulation and. Yeah, yeah. Like, I ultimately think that you're right, Stanley. Like, you know, you look at Uber, for instance, just to put on a different example outside of crypto, like, ultimately, Travis and the team, like, they bumped into so many regulatory issues, but, but I think they reached the pivotal point in there in really pushing forward, like, this idea of ride sharing, where they faced a lot of scrutiny, a lot of challenges from local jurisdictions and syndicates like the taxi syndicates. But ultimately, the consumer was the one that prevailed here. And it always, I think, does over a certain period of time.
01:03:18.486 - 01:03:49.550, Speaker A: If you're providing much, much more value to the consumer, which I think, by the way, Defi does in this case then, and it continue to do so, then that I think ultimately triumphs over anything. And I think regulators at some point understand that, you know, this is what I think is faster, better, cheaper. Now, there are still risks with Defi. There needs to be better, like consumer protection. Not everyone should be margining or doing lever long stuff like that. That's an issue. I do appreciate that and we can do a better job of like doing that.
01:03:49.550 - 01:04:56.940, Speaker A: But, you know, this kind of open permissionless systems. But by and large, I think that, sunny, you're right. Like at the end of the day, like someone using Aave and getting access to credit and they know and they understand how it works. And like that service that is bringing so much more consumer surplus in the economy and the financial world, I mean, you just can't compete against that. I understand there needs to be a different regulatory framework, but it's not from my perspective, it doesn't, you know, a lot of the thinking goes, okay, here's how we regulate traditional finance. Well, let's try to understand how to use that and regulate deFi. And I think the more interesting exercise is appreciating the technology, which I think regulators at least in the US have done a good job of like observing and understanding how this works and then saying, well, it's probably going to require like new, different types of regulation to, you know, certainly protect consumers and make sure that, you know, everyone in the system is, is acting correctly and incentivized and, you know, like the extremes I think don't work, which is no regulation in DeFi.
01:04:56.940 - 01:05:29.102, Speaker A: The other extreme is use the existing frameworks in Defi. I think we need to come into some sort of middle ground of being creative. And that's the hope, I think. Yeah. Hi, guys. I was going to say on the topic of regulation, I hear a lot of people bring up the SEC when it comes to Defi. I think at least in the US treasury and FinCEN are probably going to be bigger issues down the line.
01:05:29.102 - 01:06:26.282, Speaker A: If I had to guess, when you lack the KYC, you're moving significant amounts of money. And if you take, I think, I think regulators recognize the token sales. But what's new of DeFi is again, permissionless money moving around. So I do think there's different kind of regulators on the horizon versus what Ethereum saw in, you know, 2017 of the icos. One of the questions I did have, I'm very interested to hear, especially from people building in the space, is how do you, how do you measure and quantify your smart contract risk within your applications? And I asked this because we're so, we're starting to look at these applications. They're very interesting. I think institutional players are interested in interacting with them, but when it comes to the technology and operational risk of smart contracts.
01:06:26.282 - 01:07:14.776, Speaker A: And an example I'll give is a uniswap transaction, just, you know, swapping a, let's say, ERC 20 for something else that's extremely complex. And there's, I think there's like four or five external transactions and then, you know, ten to 15 internal transactions. I'm curious if, if that comes to mind when people are billing these applications or if a lot of it's copy paste. And if it's copy paste, that makes me nervous. So, Liam, that's actually what I do. So, in real assets for the ag space, like quantifying risk by type of vertical asset lifecycle, previous credit history, all that sort of stuff. I mean, for a cow, but it's not for a cow, it's for tons of cows.
01:07:14.776 - 01:07:55.632, Speaker A: So, I mean, a mid sized client will be financing something like a million for a week, right. And I need to be able to go to, not only on initial credit risk assessment, but on continuous data flows, being able to say, okay, we've got visibility and exposure isn't six and twelve months. It's like we actually disperse on a card. Totally different topic. Your exposure is 51 or 60 days, right. And we have, you know, we constantly have data around the operational health because that's what I did initially about supply chain finance saying, okay, well, I'll give you an example of not non flat data, right. You can be, if you're an avocado producer, horticultural producer, this is real, we do this now, you can have the same volumes pumping through, right.
01:07:55.632 - 01:08:37.080, Speaker A: And you look healthy. But if you actually look at, okay, operational data, this is straight from machines, right? Graders. If you have a hailstorm or a windstorm and it marks up the. An avocado, for example, right? And this isn't just an avocado, it's for hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of avocados, right? You can have the same volume, but if it goes from a premium to a marked product, which is a grade one or two, well, then that will, that, that goes to guacamole, right? And you could see the value of that. You know, those, the cohort of real assets drop 60, 70, 80%. Right. So I think that gets done in isolation.
01:08:37.080 - 01:08:56.852, Speaker A: I mean, not isolation. That's done on a, you know, in my own layer, too. Right. And it's captured on another permission ledger. I think it's that bridge to defi pools of capital and exactly what you're saying about compliance, like a lot of people don't get, mate, you will go to jail, you will get your license pulled. No one will fund you on your next round. If you're actually.
01:08:56.852 - 01:09:34.573, Speaker A: If, you know, if you. If you're a company with funding, looking to raise a's, b's, c's, you just can't, you know, like, you'll get away with it for a while, but you will never get institutional buy in, right? So, look, I think that that gets done with people. I think there'll be a lot of people who have vertical specific expertise and chops in the place, in that specific space, because that's what I do. I talk banks into saying, okay, well, you know, it's not that risky. No defaults, etc. Etc, etcetera. And then, you know, not really dumbing it down, but giving a simple, dimensionless kind of score, saying, hey, this is risky.
01:09:34.573 - 01:09:51.395, Speaker A: You know, today I'll forward you 60% of the payables, right? Or 100. And, yeah, I think that's. What about. Go ahead. Oh, sorry. Go ahead. Liam, I was so.
01:09:51.395 - 01:10:58.150, Speaker A: Yeah, so I was going to say, I mean, when I go talk to clients about this and they say, I heard about, this is very interesting, reducing middlemen with code at a high level. And then we want to break down what that, you know, code is doing. And I'm not a developer messed around with Ethereum years ago, but when, you know, we break down a transaction and then they say, what's wrapped ether? And what if wrapped ether fails? Then does this entire system of money legos falls apart? That's the part that I think there's hesitation, and I don't see that hesitation from the industry, because, again, even what happened with binance smart chain, which I've been following here and there seems like a lot of that is copy and pasting. And I just doubt that people that, you know, are now custodying millions of dollars are doing copy and paste for this code. I just. I struggle to see institutions being comfortable with that until the smart contract risk is able to be quantified. So, yeah, that.
01:10:58.150 - 01:11:38.092, Speaker A: That's something I'm very interested in. Now, I got a question for Stani. Is aave building a version that will run on l two? And if so, what's the timeline? And for a user, would it be like migrating funds from version one to version two? Or do we need to, would we need to wrap our assets to get them onto this L2 version? Yes, the version two is live. Uh, it's been for, from December. December. I mean. Sorry, are you building on L2, a L2 solution? I'm a user.
01:11:38.092 - 01:12:00.518, Speaker A: I'm just struggling with. Fees are killing me. Yeah, yeah, I understand. So, so uh, the, the thing is that, yeah, there is, there is L2s that we are now looking into. And also, uh. So, so I think like for us, what's quite fascinating is optimism, of course. Like that's, that is something we're looking into now.
01:12:00.518 - 01:12:54.810, Speaker A: And at the same time also the, we're looking into zero knowledge proofs in as well. And for example, the CK sync is quite fascinating. But also we are looking into polygon and actually the a tokens, the, that's part of the AavE ecosystem. They actually ported the a tokens into matic, so actually can hold matic a tokens and earn yield, and then you can claim them and come back, back into the layer one. So that's kind of working partially, but we're looking like actually deploying infrastructures, those L2s and side chains and so forth. They would have their own kind of like a lending infrastructure. So that is coming quite soon, actually.
01:12:54.810 - 01:13:21.352, Speaker A: So you guys are actively, it's like on the roadmap to build an l two version that would have lower fees. Yeah, it's already, I mean, it's already in testing, so. Awesome, awesome. I can't wait. I'm psyched. Thank you. Hey guys, got a couple of topics here that I've been thinking about on my own side here while listening to everybody, maybe I'll give a couple of words, just I guess, for context.
01:13:21.352 - 01:13:49.890, Speaker A: My name is Leor Masica. I run a European VC called Eden block. We invest really early in blockchain related businesses, but also obviously crypto networks. I really appreciate the conversation so far. I've been thinking about a few topics to bring up to the rest of the people here while we're thinking about the future of DeFi and also the future of finance together, so. Right. A couple of things that we can all agree on is that DeFi created something special.
01:13:49.890 - 01:14:27.324, Speaker A: Right. We're all here because it did. The industry is exploding. We're talking about an incredible amount of yield generating assets. In a sense. In my mind, DeFi was kind of the last step for Ethereum to reach something that resembles real product market fitzhen and I think obviously the growth from here is going to be super interesting. But more importantly, while the numbers speak for themselves, I think that a large part of the speculative value creation and obviously the crazy valuations that we're seeing in markets today is linked to governance tokens, obviously.
01:14:27.324 - 01:15:39.314, Speaker A: And actually, I'm happy that Tamlin's here because we had a nice chat about this last night. But I actually thought it could be interesting to get people's stake here on chain governance. And obviously it's evolution in the last few years. But also, I guess, Stani, your thoughts on the market's experimentation with essentially creating markets not only around assets, which is what we know how to do around, and we've done in DeFi for quite some time, but obviously around the governance and these financial protocols. And an easier, but sometimes dangerous question that I like to ask Defi founders specifically, is crypto governance today undervalued or overvalued, in your opinion? Undervalued, I would say. I mean, because if you look at what governance tokens are governing, especially when you look at the other governance, there is underlying protocol that is holding value roughly like 5 billion at the moment. And also it's not holding only value, but also distribution on that liquidity and that user base at the same time.
01:15:39.314 - 01:16:38.956, Speaker A: So it definitely, like, is a valuable instrument to govern something in a very decent, decentralized fashion. I just think we don't put enough work into governance. There could be way more tools and innovation. Completely agree. And I think, like, we will see pretty much more. I think the challenge is that, for example, we have to focus mostly on the product, like the main product, the protocol, because that is where we are attracting liquidity with the algorithms that we have. And then it comes to governance, which is a part of the protocol that, that, that kind of like makes it possible to, to create something that we have now so we can, you know, that if we want to change the code or change interest rate models, you know, we have a process for that.
01:16:38.956 - 01:17:16.478, Speaker A: And the, the value that is locked in the, in the protocol isn't like something that we kind of like, can affect. So, like, the governance is a very, very important part. But I just think that there is just less attention from the protocol builders at the moment. Sure. Just to add to that. So I think if you think about it, we don't really understand the value of voting because people vote and that's fine. But I mean, we have tor here in the room, which I'd love to bring up because they've thought a lot about how to do the biggest problem that I see in governance is governance attacks.
01:17:16.478 - 01:17:48.498, Speaker A: And right when you are voting on a particular interest rate or just making changes to these protocols, as the more value gets transacted in these systems, there is a higher risk, in my estimation of collusion, of governance attacks, of actual threats, if you're voting in one direction or the other. So, Tor, I mean, you guys think of divide as a pretty interesting way of like voting and protecting votes. I think so. We'd love to, like, hear your take on governance as it relates to the security. Security aspect of it. Well, yeah, I was actually going to say. So for context.
01:17:48.498 - 01:18:35.120, Speaker A: I work on secret network, which is a layer one chain. We're based on tendermint delegated proof of stake. So we have protocol level governance for the protocol, and then built on top of that, you can issue tokens on the network which are privacy preserving. So we actually have like these layers of governance, which has made the design really, really challenging because you want the protocol to have underlying security as a smart contract platform, the way that you would have to think about the security properties of ETH and the stability of ETH. And then the individual applications built on the network also need to have their own individual governance. So we have token launching, that's privacy preserving for secret swap, which is our Amm, or the first Amm anyway. Then there's another one for Siena network, which is a different AMM and lending protocol.
01:18:35.120 - 01:19:31.720, Speaker A: And those are privacy preserving governance. Those are intended as application layer governance tokens, where if you are interacting with those token contracts and staking them, your votes can be private, you can have bribery resistant voting because your interactions with the contracts are encrypted. But at the protocol level, that governance is public. And there's something to be said for having public governance of the underlying protocol, where you want that level of stability and transparency. When you have developers then relying on it to build their own applications, then at the application layer, you might want the ability to have further experimentation with governance structures. Like each application is going to have its own governance model, it's going to have its own distribution. There's even the stuff that I've seen with committee structures within the tendermint space, where certain committees will govern certain aspects of the protocol and not others, and it'll be a different group, group of governors for that aspect of the protocol.
01:19:31.720 - 01:20:58.228, Speaker A: So it's an excellent question. We just always have to, like, when we're asking the question, sort of define at what level are we doing this? If your entire application, you know, that's all you're thinking about, and you're thinking about governance for that application, great. But if you're also having to think about what is the governance of the underlying protocol that's securing it, which is common in the cosmos tendermint universe, then these get to be very complex questions. And screwing something up at a lower layer can definitely impact governance at the higher. And perhaps I could layer on another question here to Utor and Stani and Santiago. What do you guys think about simplifying governance? Do you guys think that governance today is easy enough to work with, or even the interfaces are, you could say, accessible enough? One might say that obviously governance is still in diapers and we're still learning. But I think something that I've been really thinking about and researching more and more is just how can we simplify and actually incentivize governance on large scales? Because ultimately that's what true decentralization really stands for, doesn't it? Yeah, I mean, the question is whether you want a representative democracy or like a true democracy, and you're saying like, does everybody using the application have the same sort of insight or stake to be able to govern certain aspects of the protocol.
01:20:58.228 - 01:22:14.784, Speaker A: Does having too much participation in governance raise the attack surface for on chain governance, which can be pretty substantial if you allow too many things to be controlled directly on chain? I definitely think from a UX perspective, there's a lot of improvements that can be made and should be made, and then participation rates for a lot of protocols. Protocols are very, very low and they just end up getting dominated by the largest holders of whatever underlying governance token, which can oftentimes be the team that built the product themselves. And when that's happening, they don't have much incentive to decentralize that governance. So maybe there's some argument to be made for things like implementing quadratic voting and governance to incentivize more democratic participation. It just completely depends on the application. I definitely think some applications that benefit from broader participation and the more critical, like the more high stakes the outcome of your governance decision, the more I lean towards sort of having this representative model. Do you, do you think that just broadly speaking with like governance tokens, that there's right now, and maybe it's because it's early, it's so early in the space that there's more value in the power to govern versus actually wielding that power? Right.
01:22:14.784 - 01:22:36.340, Speaker A: And that sort of, you see through with certain levels of engagement. Interesting. I will say that I. People get very excited. People get very excited about the potential for governance tokens. Yeah, exactly. Govern something.
01:22:36.340 - 01:23:04.640, Speaker A: That's definitely true. Many of them never do. Or someday they'll be purported to capture value in ways that there's other tokens that they're not governable. And you can't change the fact or the way in which they capture value. There's also regulatory considerations. I don't know. I think that it's definitely concerning if people are only thinking of the value of governance tokens in terms of what they might do one day when already struggling with participation rates.
01:23:04.640 - 01:23:39.568, Speaker A: But that said, this idea of community ownership is immensely critical to web3. Yeah, it's a good question. Tor or like Liore. I think it depends on the protocol. Like, look, Ethereum doesn't have governance, but I guess there are constituents within the system that carry a lot of weight. We were talking about EIP 1559. There needs to be some soft governance where people go around and be like, you need to make sure the miners are on board and other stakeholders onboard, otherwise you run the risk of a fork.
01:23:39.568 - 01:24:26.946, Speaker A: And so that's always like a risk in these protocols, right. If you don't have enough support, then people just going to abandon the system. But for other protocols, I think of maker, for instance, is it realistic to assume that MKR holders should be voting on things that perhaps may be better, maybe better. Like market driven approaches, but like, look at Aave, right? I think Aave does a good job where you have a risk team that is, their sole focus is understanding the type of collateral. And if certain collateral types should be onboarded, I don't necessarily think that should be left up for governance. I think that should be perhaps a committee that understands that, and then it could be voted upon. But when you think about Maker, and look, I think Maker is the backbone of DeFi in so many respects.
01:24:26.946 - 01:25:06.636, Speaker A: But is it realistic to have MKR holders constantly be voting in the stability fees? My thinking would be it's just better that the market kind of determines the rate based on supply and demand. Who elects the committee? Yeah, yeah, it's interesting. So many interesting questions. What, Santiago, you were saying kind of like, doesn't make sense, going all the time there and just adjusting the. Because if you think about it, like, in Aave, there's also, like, the pricing is also voted by the governance. Same for maker. In Maker's example, it's the stability fee.
01:25:06.636 - 01:25:36.660, Speaker A: So it's fixed parameter to something. But how it's done in Aave, it's pretty much like a curve. Like a. No, actually not a curve, but it's a pricing based on utilization ratio. So let's say if utilization is 80%, then the interest rate spikes. So there is a slope there. So it's up to the governance, but the mathematics are handling quite a lot of parts on that.
01:25:36.660 - 01:26:36.844, Speaker A: But it's really hard to get people to vote, especially with the current user experiences. And I do agree that there is a lot of work to do to do there. At Aave, we're working at the moment quite a lot on actually deploying a new governance dashboard where you can, of course, delegate the voting power and separately, the proposition power to someone. But there's also candidates that you can scroll and look like who are getting those delegations, leaderboards, and also a view where you can submit actual proposal, like a simple proposal, which is parameters change. So if you want to change those risk parameters, and I agree with Santiago that there should be special committees. So I think what we're doing now is we have global voting on things that should not need, like a. Necessarily, like, global, global decision making.
01:26:36.844 - 01:27:21.836, Speaker A: So you could give mandate to specialists in a committee. Let's say you could have 20 professionals selected by the governance who are risk specialists with different kinds of backgrounds. And in that committee, you don't need to have only the professionals, but, you know, there could be just members of, like, members who have gotten a lot of delegations. So I definitely agree that's something that could be the future. I think, you know, one of the things that I think crypto generally needs more of is political scientists and game theorists as well. You know, I think if you study, like, political systems, you know, I think representative democracies work well with. With good oversight.
01:27:21.836 - 01:28:15.858, Speaker A: And I think that's where I think blockchains are pretty interesting because you have, for instance, you elect gauntlet as an example to come up with that are. I'm not sure if Tarun's in the room, but they're very good at understanding risks and modeling those out. I mean, they're very well equipped to kind of set the parameters of what the LTV should be and what maybe the utilization curve should look like, and then it comes up for voting. But I think that, to me, feels a much more scalable system that you actually have the right experts that are elected. And then once that is determined, if, for whatever reason, gauntlet introduces a very bad proposal that has some repercussions on the system, then it's very easy to infer, hey, look, it was gauntlet that proposed this. These are the people that voted for it, and they can get slashed, or they can get penalized. And so the level of accountability in blockchains is much, much higher than in traditional systems because there's more transparency and there's more information.
01:28:15.858 - 01:28:56.602, Speaker A: So I'm actually quite. I'm positive in this idea that sunny is mentioning of representative electorates that, you know, that just are stewards of the protocol and put forth proposals. I think that could be actually. That could be actually a proposal you could do because, like, we've been thinking about, like, how, like, what to actually do because now we have the risk team at Aave, but, you know, there's so much more. If you could actually have, like, a wider risk statement committee and that could actually, like, handle the risk parameters and implement, that can be a cool proposal. Yeah. And then the risk, per, the risk team stakes are Aave.
01:28:56.602 - 01:29:14.710, Speaker A: And if. If shit hits the fan, pardon my french, then, then they lose that aave. They could slash right to backstop any losses for that particular money market, if you will. It's practically skin in the game. Yeah, exactly. By the way, I need to go, but you guys continued. It's been pretty interesting and it's just get started.
01:29:14.710 - 01:29:46.052, Speaker A: Interesting discussion. Thank you. All right, sonny, have a good night. Thank you. Bye bye bye. Santiago, I just wanted to ask your opinion on what you're just saying there. Do you think that it needs to be a sort of architected, like, committee sort of situation, or do you think that actually, over time, people kind of self select into that? You mean like creating these committees? Yeah, basically.
01:29:46.052 - 01:31:06.422, Speaker A: Like it's human nature and maybe it's to your point of we need more political scientists and game theorists and maybe sort of a human psychologist potentially. But, like, I'm curious, like, if a system does have global voting, if people just sort of naturally gravitate and select towards forming their own committees, and whether that's whether we can rely on that or whether we need to sort of architect sort of committee system? Yeah, it's a good question. Tamil, I'm not particularly sure. Like, I think we've seen certain protocols, like synthetix, take a more progressive decentralization route where initially it's somewhat centralized, and then slowly you hand over the reins to very active community members that have built some reputation and goodwill in the system and are credible and subject matter experts. But I think there is somewhat of a tension between product development and pushing out updates versus having just a pure decentralized organism that, you know, initially it's perhaps hard. I mean, think about for Vega, right? You guys are building. Like, how do you think about maybe perhaps initially you have most the team is probably the best equipped to kind of put forward proposals.
01:31:06.422 - 01:32:00.090, Speaker A: But over time, you can envision market makers and the different stakeholders system, have a good grasp on how the system works and have enough skin in the game where they can be good stewards and like representatives of the system. I don't know if that makes sense. Yeah, no, totally. And I'm just wondering if that can just almost happen organically. Like should, like, should we be able to expect that the community will sort of follow the leaders? Let's say there's, I have a perspective on this because of what's happened in our ecosystem. The other ecosystem I know has like an interesting committee structure where it's not always we're talking about, like, you can have committees, you can have guilds, you can have these different structures for your protocol or for your application. And they could have like very informal power rather than formal control of on chain governance parameters, but they're still self selecting into elevated positions in the community.
01:32:00.090 - 01:32:43.300, Speaker A: And what I might think is that first, these start as sort of off chain, informal models of self organization. Like we have community committees, we have an awareness committee, education committee, development committee, infrastructure security, et cetera. These don't have any formal control of on chain parameters beyond the existing on chain governance, which is, you know, that's not subdivided, that's not fractal. That's just sort of universal democratic governance of the protocol. But after people self select into these committees and there's leadership emerging, and it's obvious who's really doing the work and shipping the projects. And this is sort of off chain, you can then turn that into on chain systems that reflected the same sort of structures and the same sort of leadership. You formalize it after you've seen that it's working without the formalized system.
01:32:43.300 - 01:33:24.460, Speaker A: And then as you're doing that, obviously you have to think about from, again, now we're talking the game theory perspective. How do you turn these into on chain mechanics in such a way that you're not actually undoing the great work that was being done with these more informal off chain models? But I don't think that if you just create on chain mechanics that organically you're going to see leadership sort of emerge to take on these responsibilities. It's better to see these responsibilities sort of emerging in an informal context. And then you work to codify it in the network code or in the application layer, as your community and as your human resources will allow. Thanks. That's really helpful. And what is the purpose of codifying it into the on chain.
01:33:24.460 - 01:34:18.286, Speaker A: Occasionally there wouldn't be like, I'm not sure everything needs to be governable on chain. Again, we talked a little bit about governance attack surfaces if everything is governed on chain, and it just becomes easy to subvert portions of the. Or if just everything becomes, you know, very gamified on chain. And now people are like, gaming the chain to earn reputation, to earn more influence over certain governance decisions. That's a massive distraction and probably not the most efficient economic organization of a community, but in certain circumstance, it would be an efficient organization, and then you would have things on chain mostly so that it can sort of self govern autonomously. If there were good ways to do reputation systems over time where people are accruing reputation, that then became an input into, like, your weight over governance decisions on a particular committee topic or like that. That can work.
01:34:18.286 - 01:34:38.260, Speaker A: It just gets so complex. I just don't think it should be done most of the time. And also, there's some cryptography, like backwards in cryptography. Right. And identity based cryptography is very tough, and it relies on non standard assumptions. So be able to do what you just described is like. Is very hard.
01:34:38.260 - 01:35:36.716, Speaker A: Yeah, that's probably the hardest problem. Yeah, yeah. I guess, like, well, Kevin here has thought a lot about, I guess, like the, there's, for instance, Gitcoin uses quadratic voting. And some interesting, like when you think about, you know, how do you make, how do you infer, like, what is a good, who's behind the wallet? And are they good individuals or they're good persons and qualified? I think what we've seen as of late is protocols kind of being very creative and how you construct like a credit profile or a reputation profile of a particular wallet based on their, on chain activity, whether they're voting on other protocols, whether they're what their collateralization ratio, what they're, you know, which protocols are interacting with. So I think you can construct, you may not know the specific identity wallet, but you know, their behavior based on, on chain activity. And, and they're accountable for that. Right.
01:35:36.716 - 01:36:31.918, Speaker A: And so I think you could, you could, for instance, if you're tamil, if you're thinking about Vega, well, say that it's that wallet you can look at, well, how does this wallet vote on compound governance and yearn and badger? Or how much is he active in Gitcoin grants? And I think that gives you a pretty interesting picture of the woman behind a wallet or the institution behind a wallet. And so, you know, I think this idea of reputation and identity is important in governance because it ties back to like, you know, people care about their identity, they care about their reputation. So, you know, when in traditional political systems, right. I guess the problem that I see is a lot of people vote and politicians get elected, and then there's sort of like amnesia. Like, people don't care. There's no accountability. Politicians promise a lot of things.
01:36:31.918 - 01:37:31.634, Speaker A: There's no one that is actually like, you know, keeping tabs of are they accomplishing it or not? But in on chain governance, like, you actually can, there's a whole richness to a particular wallet that is, I think, something that could be explored. Yeah, I think that's really interesting. Something I've definitely been thinking about, like how you sort of build your reputation over time, but what you just highlighted there around, like, you know, building it across the ecosystem, basically, and then the accountability that is naturally going to follow you. It's very, very interesting stuff. Thank you, Santiago and everyone else. But, you know, Tamlin and Santiago, like, if they were to take Ethereum and make it completely private, right, they'll require fully homomorphic encryption, which is super slow, right? Like it's n to the fifth or something, you know, like, so there's, there seems to be a trade off. Now, there's no theorem that says that should be the case, right.
01:37:31.634 - 01:38:25.148, Speaker A: But I feel, I don't know, what do you guys think? Well, if you want to, if you want to try out a blockchain that's attempting to do fully privacy preserving smart contracts, not, not with fully homomorphic encryption and not zero knowledge stuff, but you can try our approach. I mean, we see our ecosystem is just like a giant sandbox for these kind of opportunities. It's like, what can you do with privacy preserving smart contracts? Like, what's the consequences for governance and reputation and things of that nature? Like, we don't know how well these things are going to work out. At the application layer, we want to see a lot of people experimenting. We just also don't want that to end up then screwing up the protocol layer. So at the protocol layer, things are transparent for governance to add to the stability of the protocol at the application layer, I would love to see more people kind of messing around with these types of structures. We have privacy preserving fungible tokens, non fungible tokens.
01:38:25.148 - 01:39:12.510, Speaker A: I want to see non transferable tokens, and people are making governance tokens. I just think the right solutions emerge through evolution, trial and error. The more things that get tried in the space, the more there's a chance that we're going to find something that ends up working, and the sooner we do it, sooner we find out that some of these models are just incredibly flawed and can never possibly work. But we have a fairly cheap ecosystem because we're not relying on extremely expensive software, cryptography. It's mostly enclave based. So I would love to see people start experimenting a little bit more. It's tangential to Ethereum, we're next door, but yeah, we like to think that we're helping Eth too, by trying to contribute to the experimental culture.
01:39:12.510 - 01:40:24.604, Speaker A: Yeah, well, Tor, that's interesting because like in a proof of stake environment, the stakes are a bit higher when there could be about like an attack on a particular validator in the system where I think, I mean, have you guys thought through that when it comes to like privacy and proof of stake systems, when you have like random voting, and I guess who's the one that uses like a round robin kind of approach, but like a random beacon of definity, and there's a randomness that sort of alleviates, like, the attack surface. But I mean, not to get too complex, but when you say this sort of got triggered by the idea that you just said, which is you guys are, you think you're helping you too. We're curious if you could like elaborate a little bit more on that, the way that things work. So we're a tendermint chain that's delegated proof of stake. So none of the privacy exists for the native coin of the network. The native coin of the network is secret, like the native coin for Ethereum is Ethereum. And the governance that happens at the protocol level is the same sort of governance that happens on other tendermint chains, which is pretty proved out, like, seems to be working in a lot of places.
01:40:24.604 - 01:40:54.950, Speaker A: It governs inflation parameters or community spend proposals and things of that nature. But all of the smart contracts that are deployed on the network are privacy preserving. They're being executed inside enclaves that are operated by the nodes. So at the application layer we have that privacy. So where I want to see the experimentation happen is at the application layer. We can start experimenting with that today. Even if you have a vision of a future where like, everything is like purely software cryptography based, which right now is super slow, super expensive, but maybe we're getting there in five to ten years.
01:40:54.950 - 01:41:40.170, Speaker A: We can be experimenting today on secret to see what kinds of structures work and don't work. When you introduce privacy to aspects of application governance or voting or auctions or things of that nature, and then we can apply those learnings to everything that's also being built in other ecosystems, regardless of what type of privacy solution you want to be using. Like, we just need to make it cheap to experiment. So I'll go ahead. Well, I was just going to sort of tie it together. So one question that I'm hope, I hope we'll be able to ask at some point looking at something like secret or other privacy networks and Defi is, you know, a lot of times when we talk about KYC, it's sort of like all encompassing. It's like this big basket of, like, we need to know everything about you.
01:41:40.170 - 01:42:47.140, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, maybe like the minimum amount of info you need is, is this person, um, a legal Us resident? Is this person right above 18? Is this a human, you know, like that? Like, those are the questions I'm hoping that we're able to start asking on these sort of privacy preserving networks, because that's really provides like the minimum amount of information you need to do for that transaction. You can, you can have whitelisting, and if so, if you have some sort of onboarding process whereby addresses get whitelisted before they can interact with certain contracts that are deployed on the network. Right. You can say that these applications can only function interacting with whitelisted addresses. These addresses are whitelisted based on some sort of off chain confirmation or KYC process, whatever is required. This is basically what we're exploring, but this should be done at the application layer, not at the protocol level. And then we should say the application should make the determination whether it can only function with whitelisted addresses, a certain type or a certain nature, versus saying no one can interact with the entire protocol unless they've undergone this off chain process of.
01:42:47.140 - 01:43:50.548, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a really good point, Tor. And we have Lewis here, but we were touching on regulation earlier, and I think this is what is most promising, which is you can verify certain things about KyC, about the sophistication of the user behind the wallet that could allow you to whitelist. And then it becomes, I think that, I think paves the way to have a more regulatory kind of compliant defi. And I'm not suggesting it's not that, but you know what I mean? Like you have if you can verify if a user is above 18 years old or has some level of sophistication to interact with the derivatives platform, and that somehow unlocks certain features of different protocols. And I mean, to me that feels like the kind of the way the future of Defi could evolve. Yeah, I want to echo that. I think it protects both sides when it comes to regulation, so it protects the application from I previous mentioned, like BSA, AML considerations.
01:43:50.548 - 01:44:32.624, Speaker A: But also on the other side, I think a big advantage is that it prevents honey pots. So I know I was involved in the ledger data leak and I was getting emails, text messages, and they have a lot more information than I thought they did. So if somehow the zero knowledge proofs. Not an expert, but I'd love to see more projects implementing those. And it sounds like those are coming out on the l two s, which is super exciting. Yeah. The only point I want to make about privacy, data privacy in these contexts is like public by default is not a model that works for this.
01:44:32.624 - 01:44:59.000, Speaker A: Only private by default is a model that works for this. If something is public, the wrong way to approach KYC is like you authenticate a user by forcing all of their information to be public to everybody who interacts with the protocol. And that's the public by default approach. It's like, yeah, you can pretty trivially verify information about that user, but literally everyone can identify that information about that user. And usually it's legally sensitive and not to be shared. Like it's PII. Like you, you cannot do that.
01:44:59.000 - 01:45:43.500, Speaker A: The private by default model, you know, once if something is private by default, you can still reveal it cheaply, but if something is public, it's impossible to make private again, like, not just like extremely expensive, usually impossible. So it really does need to be that everything is private by default. That that's kind of our approach with the protocol, that's our approach with the applications. It's not like you kind of like pick and choose, because once data is made public in any context where it's revealed to all users of the chain, it's, it's basically too late. So we need to be thinking about that, that type of access control and how we protect users in this process while still being able to ascertain things about their identity. And zero knowledge is not the only approach that works, but it's certainly something that's getting experimented with substantially in the ethereum ecosystem. So I'm very excited to see what comes out of it.
01:45:43.500 - 01:47:07.120, Speaker A: Yeah, we're seeing more and more, at least. I'm noticing more and more from the corporate and institution side and interest in digital identities, and there's lots of models there. You know, personally, I think digital identity is something that likely comes from the top down, because I can go, example I use, I can go to the running store down the street and get, you know, a car that says my name but it won't get me into certain government buildings, whereas my passport will get me a lot of other places. But I do think there's good innovation and definitely technology that can be taken from the startup and defi space. Probably helped to go again back to the, making regulators more comfortable. But what I think we'll end up seeing, though, is that if there isn't something that comes out of industry, then governments will step in and create some type of digital identity that may not be, quote, unquote, optimal for people that want to interact, but that digital identity will be very closely tied to interacting with the government money systems like central bank, digital currencies. So the, I don't have a good answer for digital identity, but I do think it's very important, increasingly important as more and more people are moving onto these systems.
01:47:07.120 - 01:48:01.870, Speaker A: Yeah. Hey, Tor, I want to go back to you about something that's on my mind around privacy. What are some of the applications that we haven't seen in Defi today? Because it's a very open system that you think are going to be flourishing in a privacy preserving environment like the secret network. Yeah, great question. I mean, even if we just had the same applications but they had better protections for users, I would be happy even if we had because, like, there's been a lot of talk on clubhouse and elsewhere about, like, miner extracted value and just how bad that is for, for users and front running on, on decentralized exchanges. So within, with encrypted contracts, it mitigates front running attacks because the miners themselves can't see the interactions with the contract before they're actually processed. So that's, that's the biggest innovation, I would say, from like, our defi ecosystem is introducing those types of protections.
01:48:01.870 - 01:49:10.340, Speaker A: But there's all sorts of things I'm excited for with, like, privacy preserving auctions that are like, you can pro, you can program the auctions to have privacy at any, at any layer of the auction, whether it's like privacy only for, you know, bidder and seller identity, if it's privacy for all of the bids, if the bids could be known only to the, to the bidders but not to the seller, or vice versa, which could also have implications for things like advertising auctions. Right. Which is already done with this model for digital advertising space, teas, and the link between NFTs and Defi. Like, there's a lot to be said for, like, having privacy for NFTs, private ownership, private metadata in order to be able to use non fungible tokens. But with like, defi infrastructure for liquidity or to use NFT as collateral within, like, if you want to be able to, like, use things that you own privately as collateral within a lending system, or have some sort of, like, privacy preserved reputation that you use to as an input to an on chain credit score. I mean, again, like, I. I just think that it's the experimentation that it unlocks.
01:49:10.340 - 01:49:40.312, Speaker A: It's a completely new design space. And it's not about having everything private, period. It's about what we call programmable privacy, like being able to pick and choose which aspects are private and which aspects are public. That was the point I was making around, like, the private by default model. A public by default model doesn't give you choice because it has to be public. There's no way to make it private. Again, a private by default model, when you can reveal information to certain parties, when it needs to be revealed under certain contexts and for certain time periods.
01:49:40.312 - 01:50:34.756, Speaker A: Now you've expanded the design space pretty substantially. I think the biggest implications will definitely be for, like, credit and lending and under collateralized lending, which is something stani and I talked about on here, like a few nights ago. He had some really exciting thoughts about it and said he had to go, but I'm sure he'll be thinking about this stuff very deeply in the near future. Yeah, no, it's fascinating. Luis, you wanted to say something? Oh, thank you, Santiago. Way back in the conversation, we were talking about real world assets, and I just wanted to note that I really share your skepticism and concern about trying to bring real world assets into the DeFi environment. And I think it includes some of the things that you identified.
01:50:34.756 - 01:52:28.928, Speaker A: But fundamentally, it really goes to the heart of centralization or decentralization and sort of adding back in trust parties the moment you have assets, whether they're mortgages or agricultural loans, as was noted before, any asset that. That touches the real world, you need to bring process, the traditional legal process, and you need to bring in physical agents to execute if someone is not repaying, someone needs to collect the loan, somebody needs to fund, potentially the litigation, somebody needs to make decisions about how to process all of those things. And it's really difficult or impossible to see how any of that happens without a high level of trust on third parties who may or may not perform as expected. I'm personally particularly concerned, having lived through the financial crisis as an unfortunately active participant in many ways of the traditional financial system, seeing people inverted or otherwise replicating asset backed commercial paper. Where we had, for those who know that market, it existed for the better part of 15 or 20 years without any great incident where banks provided credit at a very cheap rate on a very short term basis, 30 days turnover to fund typically accounts receivable that also were very short term term. And then in the credit boom, people started throwing everything, including the kitchen sink, into these vehicles and still funding them with very short term assets with limited liquidity. And that included a lot of real estate, of course, and other things.
01:52:28.928 - 01:53:23.230, Speaker A: And I'm seeing that kind of replicating now with short term loans that can be easily liquidated, funding long term assets. So that is a very, I can't say that there's no solutions to it, but, you know, it is a, it is concerning. My question was going to be around minor extractable value and that. So tor just, just hit that one. I think it's a great point, and I did want to see some conversation about that, but I think we've talked about that. I think maybe just the one thing I don't think we hit on the head is there was a great piece that I suspect many folks have read, published by paradigm research a week or two ago, I don't know, recently, relatively expressing some skepticism that EIP 1559 was really going to fundamentally change things. And I know, Tor, you explained that you had a different solution to MEV issues.
01:53:23.230 - 01:54:03.966, Speaker A: But I'm curious, Santiago or others, whether folks think that even if and when, I guess, now implemented 1559 before, fundamentally address the concerns that are raised or whether the, you know, the points paradigm made were, you know, valid. Before someone answers, I'm going to have some dinner. So, Santiago, thank you for having me up. I thought it was a very good, interesting discussion. Yep. Thanks, Alan. So, Lewis, before, before someone answers your question, I actually have a question for you, and I have a legal background.
01:54:03.966 - 01:55:15.008, Speaker A: I was at scattered Arps, like almost a decade ago at this point. So if these pools are KYC, because I spend a lot of my own personal time looking into this. These pools are, you know, KYC, okay, given that everyone has an identity on blockchain, you know, get, you get, you get to expose that one thing. The other thing is all of the assets are liquid, and an on chain funds that are providing liquidity are collateralized. Where do you think if, I mean, currently it's a $1 trillion market, but if we were to make it to 2 trillion, where do you think that regulations are regulators particularly, are going to have a problem with this? I think it's more of a bad actor play versus bad industry play. And that's something that we've been aware of Bitmex and, you know, the others. But why? Why do you think that the entire industry could have an issue with that? I'm not sure.
01:55:15.008 - 01:56:08.360, Speaker A: I said I thought the entire industry would have an issue with that. I was expressing concerns about the distinction between blockchain native assets and real world assets as a concern. But nevertheless, you ask a good question at a high level, which is we know that the SEC and other regulators are studying defi closely. The SEC has brought in a subject matter expert. Fincen and I, OFAC and others are all looking closely at this. And I think you're absolutely right, Ayesha, to say that the starting point are bad actors. And I think if we look at the history of enforcement in sort of what now seems kind of so staid and antiquated of the ICO market, you know, the enforcement actions started with self evidently bad actors and people committing fraud and misleading folks.
01:56:08.360 - 01:57:25.494, Speaker A: But it did, for better or worse, extend much further the regulatory interest into platforms that were never suggested to be affirmatively fraudulent, but simply not technically following the rules. So if there was a fraud, it was just not disclosing the fact that they were not following this explicit rules. And I guess what I would say is that, and my former colleague Gabriel Shapiro has commented on this recently as well, that in many ways this technology is sort of a regulatory, that is, it's just independent of the world of regulation. It functions on its own and its users are content to work with and live with the challenges of self executing economic arrangements. Regulators just don't like that, and they kind of can't stand the idea that people can take care of themselves. And so I think we're not going to see, I think we have more regulatory inquiries to come. And I think the gentleman from EY had made the point, which is absolutely right, that the BSA Bank Secrecy act, enforcement primarily, but not exclusively through FinCEN, is going to be an issue.
01:57:25.494 - 01:58:06.980, Speaker A: But I think even the SEC is going to be uncomfortable with markets that replicate and mirror highly regulated markets, but are not subject to any regulation, as is the CFTC, of course, which regulates derivatives. So I think we are going to get some concern. I think there may be waiting for someone, to your point, Ayesha, to be a bad actor and to clearly something to go wrong and then kind of pounce and start from there. So I guess my prejudice, I was just going to say, going back to Mev Lewis. Yeah, it's interesting because I don't think there's a perfect solution. I sort of agree with paradigm state. It is a hard problem.
01:58:06.980 - 01:58:56.872, Speaker A: It reminds me of, if you remember, I watched a great documentary last night about the flash crash that happened, I think, in 2010, I believe, or 2012. And so there are in traditional markets, right. The closer you are, like, you have fiber optic cables going directly to the exchange, right. So this idea of, like, there are certain players that have milliseconds of advantage to process the information, right. I think there's a rule that you, no matter how close you are to the exchange, the fiber optic cable needs to be like a certain distance. So they implemented that policy so that no one can have an advantage. Everyone needs to have at least, I think it's like something like 12 miles or something to the exchange, but no one could be closer.
01:58:56.872 - 02:00:02.740, Speaker A: And I think they set that arbitrary number so no one has an advantage in terms of time of getting the information. And so I don't know if it's a perfect analogy, but it's like, in my mind, even if you have that kind of parameter, there are still. There are still players in the system that have these massive data centers that are processing information milliseconds faster than others, and that gives them a structural advantage. And it's purely economical at that point because they spend hundreds of millions of dollars on these data centers to run their algos. And so I think, you know, where I'm going with all this is I think there will always be, in these systems, the, I guess the inherent problem of miners, like, they just have some sort of advantage, and they mev, I don't think ever can be kind of, could be, like, eradicated from the system. I don't think EIP 1559 accomplishes that. Does it somewhat alleviate that? Possibly.
02:00:02.740 - 02:00:53.194, Speaker A: I don't think we'll truly know for sure until it goes live. You're certainly right to say that. I guess the concern is there's some systemic risk that sort of undermines confidence, and I think it's in the community's interest to limit that. And it sounds like 1559 will at least go a long way to doing that. In a past life, I was a options and futures HFT and market maker, so I live traded the flash crash in 2010. There was really no amount of technical sophistication that would have stopped you from losing or making a lot of money that day because it was just so unforeseen. It was like kind of a black swan for people in the market.
02:00:53.194 - 02:01:38.762, Speaker A: People didn't know if the circuit breakers were going to go off or things were going to work correctly. I guess what I'm worried about in the DeFi space right now. Outside of, this is what this brings up for me, outside of like mev is just the more composability there is, the more risk there is of these types of unforeseen cascade events that bring the entire system to a complete standstill. And there's no way to protect against them in advance because they're just like. All we can do is foresee that there's high risk in the system because it is so composable. And the more composable it is, the greater the attack surface and the more liquidity and flash loans and things of that nature. We can know that disaster is more likely and not know exactly in what context it's going to occur.
02:01:38.762 - 02:02:22.448, Speaker A: And I think that risk is much higher in defi than it is in the legacy world and it's already a pretty high risk in the legacy world. So I'm, I'm a little nervous more about that. Like the miner extractable value is just kind of like a tax that constantly, everybody in the ecosystem has to pay because they're cool with the public by default model where miners do see the future. But I think I'm even more worried about like existential, like extinction events for DeFi that follow from like those types of composability triggered cascade events. I'm terrified. Yeah, no, I mean, Tor, that's, we think about that a lot. I mean you are only as strong as your weakest link.
02:02:22.448 - 02:03:09.552, Speaker A: And with a lot of these protocols interacting, composability is a double edged sword. So. Absolutely. I mean, I think we need better insurance model. I don't think we fully understand the surface area that is expanding across multiple dimensions. And yeah, I don't have an answer to that other than protocols like Nexus and maybe even off chain insurance solutions are quite necessary because the risks are very high and I think underappreciated in Defi. I just like to chip in here and say like yourself, Tor, I was actually an energy futures trader, an options trader for many years, which is a very, very volatile markets and you know, and also do this sort of stint in the HFT world.
02:03:09.552 - 02:04:35.356, Speaker A: And when we started designing Vega, it was very top of mind for us, like mind extractable value and also essentially the bullying of the markets basically and how you can sort of extract value basically from the market microstructure sort of issues rather than, you know, because of a real change in the market value. And so my sort of feel on this and I really agree with you guys that the composability adds risk here. But I also would say that I think it's sort of up to the protocols themselves to build in codified circuit breakers that are well understood, which is what we've done at Vega. And actually, we've also developed a sort of consensus layer, pre protocol widget, basically called Wendy, to sort of combat mine extractable value, because I don't think that obfuscating the information coming into the chain, like whether an order is a buy or a sell and for what price or whatever, is sufficient, because obviously, when the market's crashing, the market's crashing, you know what the orders are, and being able to sort of block stuff something is not ideal. But, yeah, basically, in summary, I think that we've got a long way to go with all of this, but I think this is the way we should be thinking about it. And each sort of protocol designer should be building into their protocol a lot of sort of. Sort of safety mechanisms.
02:04:35.356 - 02:05:32.190, Speaker A: Let's say, to combat this, I was actually thinking, and this will be my last thought, because, like Alan, I also eat dinner occasionally. But the move to this sort of multi chain model for DeFi actually introduces additional friction in the short term. Like, if we're looking at a model, whether there's multi chain assets or someone layer one and someone L2, in the ethereum view of the universe, or if there's just. If there's other liquidity protocols that utilize a bunch of base layer assets for cross chain liquidity, I mean, depending on the performance of these bridges, maybe there's some, like, natural circuit breakers involved with the addition of that friction. And maybe that's a. Maybe that's a good thing. But again, it's experimentation, right? I would like to see the stakes of experimentation be a little bit lower than just everybody getting excited about exactly how composable defi is and seeing exactly how much leverage, permissionless leverage, we can put in the system before it implodes.
02:05:32.190 - 02:05:55.350, Speaker A: That's not my idea of a good time. The things I'm least excited about are probably anything that allows for 50 x permissionless leverage that seems to be definitely more of a public bad than a public public good. That said, it would certainly be an incredible technical accomplishment, and it would lead to some further experimentation, and it would lead. Force us to create more robust solutions. So, I don't know. I love experiments. I just.
02:05:55.350 - 02:06:16.954, Speaker A: I don't want us all to die. Yeah, no, that's a good point, Tor. I think, I mean, we can close out the room for now. I think this is good discussion. I also had a hop soon. But Tor, I mean, I would echo your sentiment. Like, I think ultimately it's important to understand we're very early, we're all beta testers in this defi ecosystem, and so as a beta tester, you run risks of things breaking.
02:06:16.954 - 02:07:01.690, Speaker A: And so it's important to understand the level of risk. There's a reason why there's, there's a yield in the system, right? There's sort of a risk premium attached to all of this. And so it's important, you know, one of the things that maybe a topic for some other discussion is you talk about privacy by default, or I think insurance by default. We have insurance layered in at the point of sale, is something that I'm, I think is necessary because a lot of people don't, don't take that. Insurance is, in this system is like a flood insurance. You don't buy it until you get wrecked. And so if you just layer in insurance when you're depositing in a particular protocol or borrowing an aave, for instance, I think that will go a long way to, to protect users, but also to, to further experimentation.
02:07:01.690 - 02:07:39.322, Speaker A: So it's not a perfect solution. But I am excited to see relay protocols experiment with whitelisting and integrating with insurance providers like Nexus to protect users a little bit more. I liked Liam's suggestion of combining off chain insurance as well. I think combining off chain and on chain approaches is the answer for a lot of experimentation. In the short term, you just don't make everything so composable that you can bring down the whole system and you add just enough friction to allow us to continue to experiment. I think that off chain insurance is going to be critical as well. So thanks.
02:07:39.322 - 02:07:47.922, Speaker A: Thanks for moderating the room. Thanks for bringing me up. This was super, super insightful, guys. Thanks. We're good. Thanks, Sarah. All right, gents, well, we're in.
02:07:47.922 - 02:07:59.760, Speaker A: Ladies, thanks for joining. We'll have these every Saturday, but for now, I think this is a good discussion, and I hope everyone enjoys the rest of the weekend. Thanks, Anthea. Take care.
