00:00:00.320 - 00:00:33.197, Speaker A: Listen y'all, we are just a few days away from Permissionless 3 in Salt Lake City. It's Blockworks yearly Crypto Conference, one of the best in the whole industry, and this is a can't miss event if you're in the Solana world. There is a cracked lineup of Solana folks coming and we'll be doing a live taping of Lightspeed, which is going to be super good and I'd love to meet some of you Lightspeed listeners in person. So please, if you haven't registered yet, please consider attending. And we have a little gift for you. If you use the code LIGHTSPEED10 at checkout, you'll get 10% off. That's LIGHTSPEED10 for 10% off at checkout.
00:00:33.197 - 00:01:08.479, Speaker A: I'd love to see some of you there. Now let's get into the episode. If you like the Lightspeed podcast, then you need to subscribe to the Lightspeed newsletter. Written by a team, including yours truly and delivered to your email inbox daily. Lightspeed is your essential daily briefing on all things Solana, exclusive news, deep analysis and the latest trends, delivered in a way that's digestible and I think sometimes kind of funny. Stay ahead of the curve with the same insights that guide readers from Brevin, Howard, Gemini, Jito, CME Group, Solana Labs and Foundation, and many more. The link to sign up can be found in today's show notes or if you go to Blockworks Co.
00:01:08.479 - 00:01:47.115, Speaker A: Subscribe to the Lightspeed newsletter today. This episode is sponsored by SEI. The Parallel Execution EVM compatible layer 1 with subsecond finality incentives for users are coming to SEI this month from teams like DragonSwap. Start farming on SEI today by visiting DragonSwap app. We'll hear more from SEI later in the show. Hello and welcome back to Lightspeed, your home for curiosity driven conversations with and about the biggest players in Solana. I'm Jack Kubenek, your host, joined today by Arnold Lee, the co founder and CEO of Sphere.
00:01:47.115 - 00:02:05.715, Speaker A: Sphere is a Solana based payments company. I was sort of introduced to what you do as sort of an on and off ramp service, but I'm having you on today because I'm excited to talk about spherenet, which seems like maybe the next iteration, next vision of what Sphere is going to be. Arnold, thank you so much for coming on the pod.
00:02:06.495 - 00:02:14.353, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. Thanks for having me. I've been watching these for quite a while now, so super excited today while.
00:02:14.369 - 00:02:33.325, Speaker A: I was researching the episode, Arnold, you and I have spoken before on a quick call, but I learned that you are a hater of quick calls and I think I resonate with this a bit, but I wanted to hear you unpack this because I think this is discourse that kind of needs to happen in the crypto world. What's, what's your anti quick calls take?
00:02:33.865 - 00:02:52.015, Speaker B: Yeah, you know, everyone wants to do a quick call. They never end up being quick. I'm a strong believer in async text messages. You know, give me, give me the t, give me the body and I'll get back to it. I won't forget it. You won't forget it. We'll get it done.
00:02:52.015 - 00:02:58.731, Speaker B: Yeah, hopefully they ban quick calls. You know, I'm still praying out for that, but I guess we'll see.
00:02:58.803 - 00:03:36.101, Speaker A: Okay, well, look, I want to get into it a little bit. So at Breakpoint you had one of these five minute speeches they were doing, which was great, by the way. Thank you for that. Break point made my life a lot easier watching 5 minute talks instead of hour long talks. You at Breakpoint talked about spherenet, which seems to be, and I wrote it down here, a private and permissioned SVM shared account ledger for fintechs was what the Solana foundation put out. That's a bit of a mouthful. It seems like a new direction for sphere.
00:03:36.101 - 00:03:42.305, Speaker A: Can you just explain in like a couple sentences in layman's basic terms, what is Sphere net, what's it aiming to do?
00:03:43.005 - 00:04:49.625, Speaker B: Yeah, so it is a sandbox environment where people who do regulated things move other people's money, manage people's money, can come and find each other in a place where you know that everyone else who's participating is also regulated by someone you know. One of the great challenges as a fintech is going to different countries and you either have to raise a ton of money and spend a ton of time becoming regulated yourself in all these different countries, you know, there are like 160 of them. Or you try and find someone like you to act as a counterparty or partner in a different country. But the nature of this activity is that you have to be careful with people's data. It might be a competitive concern, or you might just not speak the same language. And I'm sure we'll get into why it has to be its own dedicated environment. But the TLDR is fintechs need to grow beyond just their home country.
00:04:49.625 - 00:05:16.585, Speaker B: There's no great way to do that in the regular world. And blockchains as a technology really useful for coordinating potential adversaries together. So those words are a mouthful. But they're very intentional because when you venture into this world, the semantics really start to matter because there's legal, I suppose, components involved. And one could argue that's what the law is.
00:05:16.705 - 00:05:25.671, Speaker A: What's different about what spherenet is going to be versus, I don't know, using Sphere's payment services just on the Solana blockchain as it exists today.
00:05:25.743 - 00:06:33.591, Speaker B: I think from the POV of most people, things don't really change. If you are a regulated fintech, you might be able to do a little bit more. You might be able to use functions that previously didn't exist, get some guarantees that previously didn't exist. But a good analogy is if we swapped out on our back end one database for another, no one would be able to tell. And that's sort of the aim here. But in terms of communicating that to our banking partners, your banking partners, regulatory agencies that oversee us, if there's ever a law enforcement escalation, we can communicate to them that, hey, we actually have this closed loop environment where we can find out information that might not normally exist. In the OG version of Sphere, it might not be possible to tell that, you know, this PUB key belongs to Jack, but within spherenet there is a path for us to figure out which one is yours or if a given PUB key is identified with you.
00:06:33.663 - 00:06:36.447, Speaker A: Does this come out of like the Solana token extensions?
00:06:36.551 - 00:06:53.525, Speaker B: The correct answer is yes and no. It is a token extension in that it leverages some of that code, but it isn't in the sense that there is no notion of a normal token program that is distinct from a token extension program. They're just both combined into one token program.
00:06:53.945 - 00:07:39.345, Speaker A: Okay. And so context, maybe for listeners, is that token extensions were sort of new features of Solana SPL tokens that were released, I think early 2024, if I'm not mistaken. And it allows for things like confidential transfers, like delegate authority, I guess, where you can freeze tokens. It basically is focused on compliance, letting institutions use Solana tokens. So that's some background there, I guess, while we're at just getting into specifics, because as far as I can tell, there's really not a lot out there on spherenet in the world. Like this will be one of the first times publicly. Maybe you talk about it more at length.
00:07:39.345 - 00:07:56.165, Speaker A: It said it was built in collaboration with Anza, which is the Solana developer shop working on the original Solana client. So just can you piece out what does that mean? Like, in what sense? Is it built collaboratively with Anza?
00:07:56.705 - 00:09:03.055, Speaker B: Yeah, and that's a good reminder that this is the first time we're getting into more of the weeds publicly. So I should remember to segment information somewhat as there will be more released over time. When we say collaborate with Anza, it means that using them as a resource for the components of the SVM that may not be as explored on mainnet. As an example, we're getting really into the weeds of cryptography because the holy grail right now is to figure out generalized, say ZK virtual machine compute. How can you do generalized operations leveraging ZK proofs or maybe some fancy MPC stuff. Anza has a bunch of amazing engineers who originally created Solana. In some sense, they are the documentation beyond just the code that is written for Solana as well as having some more.
00:09:03.055 - 00:09:48.925, Speaker B: Technically, it's recent, but in the grand scheme of things, they've been around for a minute hires who work on some of this more specialized extensions. If you check out the current Solana repo, you'll see PRs or you know, SIMDs that correspond to some of these folks who might be quote unquote, newer from Anza. And you know, I don't want to like identify specific names. I just say that we're leveraging them as a resource and you'll probably see more about our collaboration. Like today's, I guess Tuesday for me, maybe Monday for you. Some more news about it even this week.
00:09:50.495 - 00:10:01.555, Speaker A: Yeah, that's. You're. You're recording this in the middle of the night from, from where you are, right? That's, that's another. I was like, surely we can't record afternoon Eastern time. And you're like, it's fine, I'll be up till, you know.
00:10:01.855 - 00:10:16.965, Speaker B: Yeah. One thing they don't tell you about working, touching Fiat Systems is that for US dollars, the whole world runs on nine to five. And so despite being in Korea, I basically am up at least until 5:00pm.
00:10:17.505 - 00:10:45.705, Speaker A: Oh, yeah, I wouldn't have thought of that. That's, that's, that's unfortunate. But hopefully you're, I don't know, sleeping at some point. But, but okay, so going on the Sphere. Net website, all that you can see right now is you say like 14 jurisdictions, 25 billion in payments volume, 19 regulated entities. How has that all kind of come together? What's, what's been the process and sort of what are your plans as far as when Spherenet might go to Testnet, go to Mainnet, things like that?
00:10:46.365 - 00:10:53.821, Speaker B: Yeah. So there's some good news and bad news, I guess. Which one do you want to Hear first.
00:10:53.973 - 00:10:57.933, Speaker A: Oh man. Start with the good news. Got put on the spot. Start with the good news.
00:10:58.069 - 00:12:14.465, Speaker B: There you go. So the good news is that we started with customers like we started with the user. We didn't, you know, sit in isolation and theory craft our way to, hey, we should build this permissioned svm. We started off with our clients and vendors who tend to be these types of regulated fintechs. And you know, the endeavor for sphere pay, Sphere, the existing business has always been, you know, this technology can be so useful. How do we get more people within the real world to actually interact with it as consumers or as infrastructure providers? And over time you start to hear this wishlist of like, I wish I could abstract away all the different chains and needing to hold gas tokens on all these different chains, or I wish that compliance were baked in to a chain and I didn't really have to consider it from this spectrum of risk and someone just kind of handled it for me. We started to compile a wishlist and the way that we ended up on spherenet, as I'm sure we'll dig into, is realizing that a lot of these wishlist items would require its own dedicated environment.
00:12:14.465 - 00:13:51.465, Speaker B: As an example, if you're a regulated entity, say you're a money services business in the United States, your AML CFT policy to comply with the Bank Secrecy act usually dictates that you need to do due diligence on all of your counterparties because you know, the US Government doesn't want you to be interacting with like a, like a North Korea or an Iran unknowingly. And you know, there, there are more examples like these that I'm happy to get into, which might cause hesitation for someone to migrate the entirety of their existing business fully on chain after like a day or a week or a month, or as we would discover, even years. You really need to be able to communicate this to, you know, the banks that you use, the other fintechs that you interact with. And if you are a regulated entity, you'll usually have to do these regular examinations and explain it to those regulators. So it started because we talked to our clients, we figured out what they wanted, our vendors as well, because a lot of these, there's a lot of overlap, they're just in different places in the world and a lot of them became the first early adopters in some sense of spherenet and they continue to help us design it to this day because it solves their problem of scaling as a fintech. So the good news is that it's driven by the demands of the customer. We're not creating infrastructure for the sake of creating infrastructure.
00:13:51.465 - 00:14:56.499, Speaker B: The bad news, I suppose, is that this isn't really oriented towards the average crypto user. If Jack isn't running a regulated entity, Jack probably doesn't have much utility in interacting with this regulated sandbox. A testnet, a mainnet that the average individual could use likely never happens. But the initial versions where our early adopters and design partners are able to interact create transactions for it to be in a mainnet setting, we would need our licenses to hit and so I would tentatively say sometime in 2025 and I want to be cautious with more specifics I could tell you after the call and a version that people can play around with and just does basic accounting and tests the nested cryptography we're targeting for the end of this year.
00:14:56.667 - 00:15:22.921, Speaker A: The SEI network brought parallel execution to the EVM with their V2 update this past spring. Subsecond finality and massive throughput are now available to EVM developers everywhere on SEI's high performance layer. 1. Incentives for users are coming to SEI this month from teams like DragonSwap. Start farming on SEI today by visiting DragonSwap app. That's DragonSwap app. Thanks again to SEI for sponsoring today's episode.
00:15:22.921 - 00:16:22.235, Speaker A: Hearing that description, this to me rhymes a little bit with enterprise blockchain, which was, I don't know, like 7 years ago pre my days in crypto, but kind of this idea that, you know, large financial firms would benefit from having things like their supply chains on blockchain. And so you had IBM for instance launch a large blockchain. It was all private because it needed to be compliant and you know, corporations didn't actually want to have trade secrets or the prices they're paying for goods be recorded on public blockchains. None of this really worked out for a variety of reasons and enterprise blockchain is sort of a thing that's around but no one seems to take very seriously, at least in crypto media. So I don't know, like, do you. Is that an unfair comparison I'm making or like what would be different about spherenet from something like enterprise blockchain?
00:16:22.615 - 00:17:12.235, Speaker B: Yeah, no, I think it's very fair. We did a lot of homework in the history of permission chains and so I'd make like two high level comments. There are a lot of reasons you're talking about IBM trade lens, like specific reasons why we think that they may have struggled to get to a level of like a solana Ethereum, Bitcoin, et cetera. But as a more broad comment, I think it comes down to the recognition that permission blockchains in some sense are very successful or still successful. We just don't normally think of them as blockchains. The closest one to a blockchain would be like a ripple. Ripple is acting as a permission counterparty on Ripplenet.
00:17:12.235 - 00:18:33.829, Speaker B: We've seen surprisingly usage of Ripple with some of our clients because they are money transmitter in a bunch of different places. And to this day I don't know where it is on the top like coin market cap, but it has a surprising amount of strength compared to maybe a random say like roll up or something or random L1. So I want to caution the perception that all permission chains fail because there are some that have really lasted the test of time, although certainly are not at the level of like an Ethereum, a Solana, et cetera. But if you zoom out and you really reduce this down to first principles and you think of these technologies from a physics perspective, what is a blockchain? A blockchain is an append only distributed database. It uses cryptography to guarantee the append only the fidelity of the subsequent transactions. And there might be some nuance to that. We might not have had that version of a distributed database before, but this notion of shared account ledgers is really prevalent in the rest of fintech.
00:18:33.829 - 00:19:22.385, Speaker B: Like ACH is a closed loop shared account ledger. Fedwire is a closed loop shared account ledger. UPI pix, sepa, the list goes on. Venmo is another example of a closed loop shared account ledger. Now they might not have had tokens and they might not classically be within the realm of crypto Twitter, but if you take that perspective, then permission chains are actually a lot more prevalent than permissionless chains. They just don't always have this notion of like append only and they usually are guaranteed by cryptography. So that would be like the first comment.
00:19:22.385 - 00:20:14.659, Speaker B: I think the second comment is that it's really difficult to do this as a large corporation. The problem that IBM Trade Lens, you know, maybe they would disagree, but a lot of people seem to think that IBM Trade Lens ran into problems. A lot of these R3 permission chains, you could argue Hedera is another example. I'm sure again not to pick on anyone in particular. They are probably really successful in some sense still. But I think governance and the incentive for new participants to come in is always a tricky one when it's driven by a large corporate. And if you think about this from the POV of a company that's very large and creating an enterprise blockchain, usually it's driven by the digital assets division within that company.
00:20:14.659 - 00:21:05.251, Speaker B: That digital assets division is probably not very big. It's given a budget, it's one of many. That enterprise grew really big because it did a lot of normal things right. And it kind of doesn't make sense to bet your entire business on nascent technology, which hasn't demonstrated decades of usage and of pmf. So I think it's hard to say that anyone's really taken the whole leap and migrated the entirety of their business on chain. Even if you start to have a bunch of corporates to come together, the examples that come to mind are like a Hedera or like a Libra dm. How do you resolve differences between these corporates? We posit that it starts to resemble, and this is based on talking to some of these governance council members.
00:21:05.251 - 00:21:48.265, Speaker B: It starts to resemble like the world's largest board meeting, except that everyone comes from a different company. And it's very unclear, you know, if Google is disagreeing with Apple like the representatives from those companies. Like how do you actually come to an agreement? You kind of just say, okay, we'll revisit in a quarter and then everyone kind of forgets and it's not top of priority for them. Right. And certainly not top priority for the companies. So I'd say structurally it's kind of hard to do if you're already successful. What is required in adoption, again, if you just really reduce it down to the first principles, is for some people to decide to integrate it and to use it.
00:21:48.265 - 00:22:30.865, Speaker B: And necessarily that's most likely to happen through smaller organizations. But then you run into like a chicken and egg problem. Right? If just small organizations use it, then the network and aggregate doesn't have a ton of value. So how do you get around that? Our thesis is that you have to be very specific about the problem that you're solving. Ideally you understand that problem like really well yourself. So that way you don't get led astray with, you know, general purpose computer because then it starts to shroud the value proposition of doing this on a distributed database to begin with. And you know, we have seen attempts again in the Web2world, like historically.
00:22:30.865 - 00:23:23.705, Speaker B: Some examples are like Wise Air, Wallix, Revolut small companies initially that grew really large and solved what started off as a niche problem really well. And fundamentally they all used this notion of a closed loop shared account ledger. But it was a network where there was one participant as the main Counterparty which was the host themselves. So those are my thoughts on why spherenet is maybe different from previous attempts at permission chains. And I guess the backdrop of it is that we haven't seen a ton of startups that are oriented not towards big players because the great temptation is to go for the largest institutions in the world when you're catering towards something that could appeal to them. You know, if you get J.P. morgan, then you get everyone underneath J.P.
00:23:23.705 - 00:23:59.775, Speaker B: morgan, but the inherent trade off, the great temptation is that JP Morgan is also the least likely to need to use your thing in order to continue to be JP Morgan, and hence has the least to lose if they just decide not to use it. We're taking the opposite approach where maybe you don't want to start at retail because it increases the complexity exponentially from day one, but if you start somewhere in the middle, maybe they're nimble enough to start adopting it and also large enough where they would genuinely benefit from this being controlled as an environment.
00:24:00.115 - 00:24:46.521, Speaker A: I like that answer and I appreciate even the aside. Just about Ripple, which I haven't looked at Ripple's financials or anything, but it's just not a company that's in the news much. And I think that in crypto media there's maybe a bias towards interestingness. So, you know, if you come up with vape to earn, you'll, you'll get headlines for it, but it might not actually be a good business, whereas there's very good businesses that are very boring. I think Tether is one example. You know, there's lots of discourse about like, does like Tethers reserves, why isn't it releasing its audits, but at the end of the day it just prints money. It's a very, very good business with, with a pretty big moat and there's just not that much to say about it.
00:24:46.521 - 00:25:31.659, Speaker A: So it sort of gets structurally undercovered by crypto media maybe as far as how beneficial of a business it is. And some of those boring businesses actually make money, which is, you know, the point of a lot of the stuff people are building in crypto. So that's a point. Well said. And something I think about a fair bit is that crypto media maybe tends to overemphasize stuff that like seems interesting and novel or crazy as opposed to stuff that's pretty boring and you can only say so much about, but actually makes money. I guess maybe to just even dig a little deeper on that point. Specifically you said that sort of closed loop shared ledgers are just like a really big business.
00:25:31.659 - 00:26:26.231, Speaker A: Sector that maybe you don't think about or like permissioned blockchains are already existent in some way of thinking about them. Like crypto and blockchain could be integrated into this, but it wouldn't be maybe with tokens or the way that we currently think about crypto. So how in the background, I guess, do you think crypto should be? Should, should blockchain just be this kind of technological way to build a shared database that people can tap into and that should be the extent of what all this crypto stuff is? Or do you think that kind of the way that we currently maybe think about crypto as blockchains that anyone can access and are very forward about the fact that they are crypto and have these speculative tokens like which side I guess do you tend to think is going to win out in the end?
00:26:26.313 - 00:26:34.695, Speaker B: I was having a conversation about this with a friend earlier today. Like I don't know when you were born. 90 something?
00:26:35.155 - 00:26:35.911, Speaker A: 2,000?
00:26:36.079 - 00:27:18.631, Speaker B: 2,000. Oh, amazing. I'm a young, I was right in the middle of the 90s and I like, remember in like 2004, YouTube comes out. Like barely anyone's on the Internet. You know, like the average person, if you went on the street would not be on the Internet regularly. They might use it for like Yahoo or email or something. The culture really reminds me of crypto Twitter actually, where it's a little bit more degen, it's a little bit more Wild west, there's a little bit less like social pressure as like a policing force, social consensus, you know, then Facebook comes out, you know, the iPhone comes out, Instagram, Snapchat.
00:27:18.631 - 00:28:44.141, Speaker B: Eventually you get things like TikTok and then more normal regular people, average people, like statistically, not to make any implication, start to use it, start to use the Internet. And there's a pacification maybe of the culture on the Internet and that's what is required for it to go really mainstream. If you have philosophical bents that are by definition little bit more fringe, it's really hard to convince everyone else in the world to believe the same thing that you do. And sure, you know, there can be long term trends towards, you know, the younger generations now are like really into maybe a form of transparency that like is slightly strange maybe to like a boomer, hence the, you know, term like, okay, boomer and like the use of TikTok and some of the memes that you see from younger people these days. But it's really hard to convince everyone of what is again by definition more of a fringe philosophy. So I feel like the same thing is going to happen to crypto. And that distinction between crypto and blockchain I think is really important because what is crypto? And it's kind of like, what is the meaning of life? What is decentralization? There is no great definition.
00:28:44.141 - 00:29:16.079, Speaker B: People come up with any definition, and who are you to tell them that they're wrong? Right? Like it's decentralized. So I think it'd be really hard. And this is where, like, how, how our minds kind of worked. We really worked backwards from like, okay, you picture the world with everyone using this thing. What does that look like? Well, you need to get the experience of moving in and out of blockchains as they exist today. Really great. Which is why we created an on and off ramp and then we realized at size recurrently.
00:29:16.079 - 00:29:58.323, Speaker B: This is really hard. Especially with the events of the last few years, where currency account issuers, eg, the banks or the fintechs that wrap the banks, are de risking in response to some of the higher risk activity that you see on chain. It just becomes a lot harder to have that really seamless user experience where anyone can kind of like wire someone and then it shows up on chain and it kind of makes sense. In a permissionless environment, anyone can do anything. Anyone can join that permissionless environment. And that doesn't describe at all their behavior or their moral quality. So someone could do amazing things, great things, and someone could do bad things.
00:29:58.323 - 00:30:57.221, Speaker B: And you don't need a ton of bad apples to poison the perception of an industry or poison the perception of a technology. And I think that's kind of where we're at now, where the really useful stuff might get drowned out, to your point, by the more novel, crazy, interesting things. And it's not just people on crypto Twitter that see it. It's anyone who's using Google and maybe thinking about, oh, there's a lot of meme coins now happening on Solana. And they might Google a couple of tickers and be like, oh my God, this thing that's like a dog or like a cat and there's a hat on it is now worth a lot of money, like an insane amount of money. And it's hard to care as much about the maybe deeper harder tech or the more philosophically interesting tech. So my personal opinion is that necessarily this stuff needs to become a little bit more vanilla, maybe in some sense for it to really get to a mainstream scale the same way that the Internet did.
00:30:57.221 - 00:32:34.823, Speaker B: But I think in the next few decades, the ways that you really get that base layer, the foundation of infrastructure to support the 10X's in consumer, social or gaming or what have you open finance on blockchains as they exist today, you either need to give them a version that retrofits into their existing mental models and satiate some of the the concerns that they have about this technology, gets rid of the reputational or association risk in using this technology, give them a version that they can really understand and be okay with. The same way that like Facebook and Instagram and Snapchat were like more palatable ways for people to consume the Internet, Uber, etc. Or you just magically incept the entire economy on chain and that sounds a lot harder to do. Merchants like and you know, broadly, 8 billion people will need to be so enamored with some of the cultural roots of crypto that they're willing to take, you know, compromises in user experience, risk and more than anything, education, like learning what they should use, how to use it, staying up to date with like evolutions and the applications or the underlying networks. And I just don't really think that latter world is likely. I'll tldr my response to your answer. You can probably tell that I lean more towards this idea if there's 100% decentralized and 0% decentralized.
00:32:34.823 - 00:33:03.475, Speaker B: We went so far towards the overton window in response to the great financial crisis where we think that 100% decentralized is where the global maxima is. But I argue that is not formally proved. I argue that it's very possible that the global maxima is somewhere like. And I think functionally these blockchains are kind of like that now, even though, you know, it is plus EV and it is within the culture to talk about, you know, directionally us wanting to go more towards that 100%.
00:33:03.595 - 00:34:21.258, Speaker A: I think that some of those more money is decentralized or presuppositions that bitcoiners have about like the Federal Reserve or things like this don't necessarily resonate with non crypto people as much like it appeals to a very certain group with some priors. But things like payments where it's like, well, you know, like microtransactions are one that I like when friends of mine will be like what is crypto good for at all? It's like, well, things cost this much if you use stripe and then things cost this much if you use crypto. And yes, there's the on and off ramp problem obviously, but like it's just cheaper and that's Easy enough for anyone to wrap their mind around. So I guess to loop this conversation back a bit to Sphere Net. I remember speaking with Ben Mills, who runs Meso, another on and off ramp service, and he was formerly at Venmo, and he was talking about, you know, Venmo is really successful, but it's. It loses money, which is fascinating to me because it's such a big business. Especially, you know, in my circles, everyone uses Venmo, but it loses money because they abstract away all of these costs.
00:34:21.258 - 00:34:39.775, Speaker A: And traditional banking rails are just far too expensive. He described it as kind of putting lipstick on a pig. So something I'd like to hear you walk through as you're building out spherenet is what are the costs that are currently absorbed or abstracted away? And how is blockchain, I guess, either more efficient or cheaper.
00:34:40.555 - 00:35:24.257, Speaker B: First principles. What is the value of a payments network? What is the value of maybe doing it on a blockchain instead? And I think it really comes down to the time value of money. If you really try to get it down to the raw units of production. I think you see this general trend of payments getting cheaper. And I think crypto payments is like the extreme version of that. Why haven't we solved payments, crypto payments? There are a ton of reasons. One of the main ones is that it's really hard to create a sustainable business around it when the whole point is that this thing should basically cost nothing.
00:35:24.257 - 00:37:03.965, Speaker B: So how do you as a business have a meaningful moat and charging? I don't know, creating a nice front end so people don't have to just go to a wallet extension and copy and paste an address, et cetera. What is the marginal cost of that convenience? So when you think about the time value of money, there's a saying that I once tweeted about that all payments companies eventually become compliance and risk companies. And I've realized that the next extension of that is that all compliance and risk companies are essentially underwriting credit, which is to say that you have inventory in some form and it's not even just in payments. You could think about supply chain, you could think about market making broadly, but you have inventory, you're taking on inventory risk, and people are paying you for the service of holding that inventory. You know, a grocery store in some sense is benefiting off of the time value of money because they took on the inventory risk of holding, like, water bottles and like, I don't know, chips for you to buy. So spherenet, how do you create, like a sustainable economic model for its users? I think that in one key reminder is that there is certainly a ton of value capture that is occurring now through intermediaries. And you can just like add up the P and L or sorry, the balance sheets of public companies that are involved as intermediaries, whether banks or, you know, people who interact with card networks, networks themselves, et cetera.
00:37:03.965 - 00:39:05.695, Speaker B: I think though, that if you want to get to positive sum version of the world, it's worth thinking about where is there structural deadweight loss where there could be economic activity, but it doesn't happen because there's too much inbuilt friction that discourages that economic activity from happening to begin with. And could that potential surplus in aggregate really be enough, even at smaller margins, to make payments companies sustainable? The beauty of a blockchain is that the way that the transactions are submitted and eventually canonized in a block allows for opportunities for alternative forms of monetization that currently go towards like people who are really smart and can run really profitable bots in determining ordering. And I think that is a nice to have. It's an introduced economic efficiency that you can remit back to payments companies who are participating in the network. I think the bottom line though is that for this thing to be sustainable, where is it very unlikely that input cost does not eventually lead to like, does not eventually equal output price? And we thought about economics here, like durable goods that are like easily reproducible, the transaction cost ends up being low and we're like, oh my God, that's just blockchain, that's just crypto payments. And that's why it's so hard for you to stay competitive with someone else who could just fork your code or just write another front end and charge less than you and then you just both drive each other out of business. Regulation, I think is a nice moat because it has a lot of implied activity that does cost money and does take labor.
00:39:05.695 - 00:40:52.757, Speaker B: And that doesn't seem like it's going to go away anytime soon unless you have get rid of laws or like the licensing process becomes easier or you have agents that are able to abstract away some of the labor. But I think the root of it that we'll take principally for Spherenet and its users is that time value of money when you're considering all the different types of inventory that you could take as a payments company or that you could bid on as a payments company for say like order flow or sell order flow, I think that is what you can't really get rid of. Because no matter how good the technology becomes, no matter how plentiful the inventory becomes, you're still providing a fundamental unit of labor that is very close to time as like a scarce resource where you make money from doing it. And if I were to like smooth brain that a little bit, it is, it is always valuable for me to pay like it is always plus ev for me to pay someone else to do a task that I could do, but they're willing to do it for like cheap enough for me to want to pay them to do it. And the analogy for that in payments is like say holding like a foreign currency that you don't want to take the time to hedge against the pricing risk of that foreign currency. And it's a way that a lot of payments companies make money now. And I think the beauty of putting this within a blockchain environment is that the interaction to facilitate the purchase of that inventory, the purchase of the insurance on that inventory, the release of those funds, when people want to honor off ramp or just simply settle with each other becomes a lot more programmatic.
00:40:52.757 - 00:41:30.645, Speaker B: And I think the end state of this is that you'll have regionally focused payment providers who again are providing the time value of money in that they are specializing within the evolution of the local population and its laws and really just staying on top of providing a unique service for those people. Maybe like a company in Asia is just really good at mobile payments and they have an amazing user experience and amazing distribution edge with mobile payments. And maybe that just doesn't make sense in the United States where you have Venmo and Zelle and you would want to focus on something else instead. So hopefully that kind of answers your question.
00:41:31.145 - 00:41:38.057, Speaker A: Yeah. To maybe make it more specific, like what's like one or two concrete examples.
00:41:38.161 - 00:41:38.805, Speaker B: Of.
00:41:42.225 - 00:42:01.605, Speaker A: Payments applications that currently don't exist because of this kind of structural deadweight loss. You mentioned that you think maybe could exist in a world where we just use blockchain rails. Like what, what are concretely you think the most enticing things that could come to exist? Or is it just mystical and we'll have to see?
00:42:02.145 - 00:43:44.717, Speaker B: I think like a smooth brain version of this is if you come from a country where it's really hard to get foreign currency accounts such that like no one wants to give you a chance, say that you originally come from a country like Panama or Pakistan or something where you're historically considered high risk because people in that country laundered money or did bad things years ago, you don't ever even get into the door. There's no way for you to Prove to say a dollar account issuer that you are actually very legitimate and they should take a chance on you. The smoothest brain concrete version or rather example of a business that could uniquely be on spherenet is a fintech out of Panama who wants to do payments and they want to be able to do payments for people in Panama to send money in and out of Panama to the United States, to Canada, to Europe, what have you. That's really hard right now because they probably will get flagged as high risk by the time they find a counterparty or a banking partner in those regions. And it would be very difficult for them to operate at size because there will always be the suspicion that hey, since there was like you know, money laundering there decades ago, they are actually doing money laundering now. I think that, you know, another unique example, a concrete one is a global like it will be possible for people to do global payments without it taking a ton of money and time. Why do I think this? There are a lot of companies now that like ostensibly do global payments, but the, the truth is that it's really hard for any given company to be everywhere.
00:43:44.717 - 00:44:46.595, Speaker B: It's really hard for them to have inventory everywhere. It's really hard for them to not charge on top for maintaining this inventory, local manpower or infrastructure that's required to operate globally. Which is why a card network like Visa, MasterCard, American Express, the interchange fee is pretty high because they bit the bullet and set up infrastructure everywhere. So it's really hard for someone to come in and undercut them because it would take so much upfront for them to do so. I think that a world where someone wants to do global payments and it's very cheap and very fast and you don't have to worry about friction and funds getting stuck or latency or just things I suppose like going wrong and requiring extra time and money to escalate, which is what I would describe a lot of the current on off ramp experience. I think that goes away if you create the right regulated sandbox. So yeah, those would be my two concrete examples.
00:44:47.095 - 00:45:26.455, Speaker A: Yeah, that's helpful. And I guess going off of that you're speaking about maybe working more in emerging markets as one of the really interesting kind of use cases for Spherenet. To my understanding you spent maybe 2022, 2023 in Argentina, if that's right. The Sphere team worked a lot in Latin America or Argentina. I'm just curious like what were the learnings or how did that time spent down there? If I'm getting the story right, how did that time Kind of shape how you see sphere and sort of what you think the future of the business should be.
00:45:27.075 - 00:46:12.293, Speaker B: Yeah, we spent a little time in Argentina. I spent more of my time personally in like Brazil. We just came back from Costa Rica. A couple of our team is like either based out of Brazil or like a Mexico or they just bounce around Central America or maybe like a Chile. We were very lucky to recruit heavily from many of these affected countries that we now operate in. And what are the learnings like? I'd say like TLDR is that we're very lucky in the United States, maybe like uk, Europe, maybe parts of Asia, to have so much infrastructure, to have so much capital. It's like there is no Silicon Valley of like Ecuador.
00:46:12.293 - 00:46:57.399, Speaker B: Like, if you're a really smart person and like you want to raise money to build a company and service problems out there, it's like really, it's like kind of hard. You might not even speak English very well. So like, you try and pitch like a 16Z and it's like, oh, well, it's really hard to be as convincing As a kid who went to MIT and speaks English perfectly, the relative opportunity might not seem as good because they can hit developed markets really well. And you're trying to solve problems in Ecuador. So I guess that's one learning. We're very lucky to have all this infrastructure and there is this gap that absolutely seems to be getting better. The quality of living in both of these areas, whether Ecuador, maybe the U.S.
00:46:57.399 - 00:47:24.775, Speaker B: not to pick on Ecuador or the U.S. both places are getting better, but the relative gap doesn't seem to be getting that much better. I think there's a lot of demand for dollars. People are literally willing to go to jail for the world's reserve currency. And that's why so many parallel currency markets exist. Unique problems to solve, and it doesn't seem like they're going to get solved themselves. Makes crypto really exciting or, sorry, blockchain, really exciting as a technology.
00:47:24.775 - 00:48:15.215, Speaker B: And I think that it kind of like is a little irrational to focus on these markets if like your primary prerogative is to create a really amazing company. Because, you know, there are always great temptations of the larger markets, even within Latin America. Right. Like Brazil and Mexico are examples of two of the largest markets and hence maybe like Nicaragua is relatively underserved. So, yeah, I'd say those are our lessons. And of course it hits different, right? Like when you're helping an SME get access to what feels like a safe currency because it is the world's Reserve currency compared to maybe helping someone like a kid in New Jersey make 30% more money because he, you know, was able to buy this thing that helps him make money or something.
00:48:15.635 - 00:49:09.825, Speaker A: Let's conclude maybe on a different note, what was it like working with Iggy Azalea? Sphere has been sort of, I think, kind of the on off ramp thing for Mother. And a little backstory is I spoke to you, Arnold, a few months ago because I was working on a piece for the Lightspeed Newsletter about the Iggy Azaleas meme coin as sort of this novelty and celebrity meme coins that claimed that it wanted to be more than like a speculative overnight thing, which I guess has become the case. You know, I'm not the most fascinated by the Motherland online casino thing, but it does bear mention that, you know, Iggy Azalea is maybe one of the most long term celebrities to launch a meme coin. So I wanted to ask you, like, what was that like working with her team? What's the backstory of that, that whole partnership between Sphere and Mother?
00:49:10.525 - 00:49:51.185, Speaker B: Yeah, it was pretty serendipitous. A good mutual friend made the introduction and I was surprised by, I suppose, the professionalism of their team. They have a lot of different projects that they're working on, but there's like a core group of people who I was generally impressed by. Yeah, like maybe it's just like overall competency and execution ability. Yeah. For what it's worth, I haven't interacted directly with Iggy that much myself. I got a couple of voice notes and I did some back and forth in conversation.
00:49:51.185 - 00:50:27.077, Speaker B: I've talked to some of her partners more. So it does seem like they are taking this quite seriously. Which to your point, compared to many other like celebrity meme coin stuff maybe is a little surprising. Yet, you know, Iggy is doing a lot. There's Dream Vault, Unreal Mobile. Now you have Motherland. I'm not a prophet, so I don't want to predict the future, but I can minimally say that they do work pretty hard and they do try a lot of things.
00:50:27.077 - 00:50:48.525, Speaker B: And so I'm optimistic that there will be at least one thing that becomes a really awesome business over time. But again, I'm not like a prophet, so, you know, it has been cool interfacing with this person that I grew up watching YouTube videos with on.
00:50:48.605 - 00:51:22.265, Speaker A: So yeah, yeah, it's a funny like kind of timeline that it would have been difficult to predict that Iggy Azalea would randomly become this kind of celebrity who's, you know, Doing stuff in the crypto space in a. In a kind of serious way. Is she one of maybe your only clients in that kind of side of crypto, the, like, meme coin speculation side? Because it seems like Sphere, like a lot of this conversation has been about, I don't know, traditional businesses and money transfer and things like that.
00:51:23.365 - 00:51:56.007, Speaker B: Yeah, probably. Yeah, I think probably the only, or maybe one of a handful that are more in that side of crypto. To echo something that you said at the top. If it's boring, I'm super excited because it usually means that there's adverse selection, like inverse adverse selection. And you know what hasn't changed in thousands of years? People need to buy bananas. They need to send those bananas to different countries. You got to get it from point A to point B.
00:51:56.007 - 00:52:23.655, Speaker B: If you make it too complicated, I'm extremely suspicious and I wonder if there is organic bid downstream, if it's too complicated, out of most of our volume and, you know, merchants and I suppose energy. Yeah, I think she's one of a handful, but, yeah, they're pretty cracked, so I'm excited to see what they'll do.
00:52:24.035 - 00:52:56.615, Speaker A: You know, that's, that's maybe a good place to end it, Arnold, is that people need to buy bananas and they, you know, that's not going to change. But this has been a really fun conversation. It's been cool to hear your perspective and just get a little more detail on spherenet. Again, I think this is, you know, probably the most detailed account that exists out there right now. So very excited for Lightspeed listeners to get to see that and, yeah, excited to kind of just watch how the future unfolds for Sphere. Arnold, thank you so much for coming on Lightspeed.
00:52:57.195 - 00:53:08.535, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks so much for having me, Jack. Very fun combo and yeah, hopefully I'm able to come back and there's good news on the development of Sphere. Net and its usage.
00:53:09.035 - 00:53:35.165, Speaker A: Absolutely. All right, well, that is all the time we have for today, but this has been another episode of Lightspeed and we'll see you in the next one. Take care. This episode would not have been possible without the SEI network. Don't forget, user incentives are coming to SEI from teams like DragonSwap. Make sure to check out SEI today. You can start farming on SEI by visiting DragonSwap App SA.
