00:00:00.200 - 00:00:28.070, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Wii refuel, where we cap the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 28 March 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So another crazy 24 hours in the ethereum ecosystem. A bunch of stuff to get through today, but just wanted to kick off today's episode by kind of pointing out that fidelity has filed their s one for their ETH ETF. Now you can see here James Seifert basically put out this tweet with the filing of the s one.
00:00:28.070 - 00:01:23.906, Speaker A: Now for those of you who don't know, the 19 b four was already filed for Fidelity's Ethereum ETF, but the s one is the other form they have to file, and I believe that most of them have filed this form. Now there's a table here from James that basically shows that them being the ETF issuers or the prospective ETF issuers that filed their 19 b four s and the prospectus, which is the s one, has been filed by everyone except hash that hash decks, which is only one of the issuers here, but the rest of them have filed that. So they're all basically up to I guess like scratch. Now. I think that they still include staking though these things. And as I've discussed before on the refuel, when it comes to staking in these ETF's, I don't expect them to actually be, you know, be approved with staking on there. But it could be as simple as the SEC asks the issuers, hey, can you just remove staking from this and then we'll basically approve the ETH ETF's here.
00:01:23.906 - 00:01:50.954, Speaker A: So. Yeah, but I mean, you know, it's not huge news, obviously. It's just a kind of formality that fidelity has done here that every other issuer has done. But I think it just signals more and more that these issuers are not giving up on these ETF's, right? They're still kind of putting in their applications, putting in their, their kind of relevant forms that they have to. So there is still obviously a chance that these things are going to get approved on May 23. At least the issuers believe this. And I'm still at, you know, I think they're going to get approved by May 23.
00:01:50.954 - 00:02:44.730, Speaker A: But as you guys know, by mid April, if we don't really see any movement between the SEC and the issuers, I would pretty much lose, you know, most of my confidence in them being approved on May 23 to just based on the logistical kind of side of things the paperwork side of things. But one thing I do want to bring up as well here is something that I've spoken about before, and I won't spend too long on this. Cause I know I've spoken about the ETF's a lot on the refuel, obviously. But just one thing I wanna. I wanna kind of clarify and highlight here is that leading up to the BTC ETF, I mentioned that the SEC regretted how much of a circus it became, because it wasn't just all of the, I guess, like, attention that they had on them throughout the whole process. I think that the bulk of it was like, the three months leading up to the ETF's being approved, there was a lot of attention on them, a lot of attention on the back and forth, and basically creating the circus out of it. Right up until like the day before they got approved, when the SEC account was, a Twitter account was hacked, and obviously posted that the BTC ETF's would be approved.
00:02:44.730 - 00:03:31.922, Speaker A: And that was one day before January 10, before the actual approvals here. So I think that the SEC was embarrassed by that, of course. And they also hated how much of, you know, a circus it became, how much attention was on it. So there is an argument to be made that the reason that they're silent isn't necessarily because they're gonna deny these things, but it's because of the fact that they just don't want to put much attention on it because they regretted how much attention was put on the BTC ETF's. Now, I know that may sound a little bit tinfoil hattie, but if you wanted some kind of, I guess, like proof of this, I think Hester Peirce in her. In her kind of, I guess, like, post after the BTC ETF's were approved, she actually explicitly called this out and said that she was really disappointed with how much of a circus this process had become. So I think that, you know, it's not just a tinfoil hat conspiracy theory to believe this.
00:03:31.922 - 00:04:08.456, Speaker A: It really does make a lot of sense to me. So, but as I said, like, there is, I guess, like, need for back and forth between the SEC and the issuers, just based on logistics. And I think that they can only avoid the attention for so long because there are so many people watching this right now, there's so many eyeballs on it. Crypto people are generally very loud, obviously, you know, Larry Fink is doing things like putting. Sorry, Larry Fink and Blackrock, I should say, is doing things like putting their, you know, their new kind of tokenization funds on ethereum. So there is a lot of, I guess, like noise still being made. But maybe the SEC just doesn't want to contribute to that, you know, unless they have to, which could be happening in the next couple of weeks.
00:04:08.456 - 00:04:33.948, Speaker A: So we'll have to see how that one goes there. But speaking of Blackrock and Larry Fink, Larry Fink actually went on Fox, I believe, yesterday. I did a video interview here where he gave a few notes on a bunch of different things. And Evans six here on Twitter, basically, I guess, summarized his notes. So Larry believes that the market is not currently in a bubble. I believe he's talking about every market, like the stock market, you know, crypto markets, whatever, what have you. Not just the crypto markets.
00:04:33.948 - 00:04:57.188, Speaker A: He said productivity is increasing, most companies seeing positive earnings momentum. He's optimistic on this new type of drug. It takes a long term view, as always. And then he moved on to making comments about crypto where he said very bullish on the long term viability of BTC. I mean, of course he's going to say that he has a product to sell. Like even if he wasn't personally bullish on BTC, right. He wouldn't say he wasn't because he has a product to sell.
00:04:57.188 - 00:05:14.268, Speaker A: And I bit Blackrock's BTC. ETF is doing very well right now, so he's not going to say that he's bearish on it. So take that with a little bit of a grain of salt. And then he was also asked about the ETH ETF. And then he said, you know, we'll see if it gets approved or not. And he's not worried about the SEC. Now, some people kind of took issue with him saying, you know, we'll see here.
00:05:14.268 - 00:05:35.040, Speaker A: And they basically said, oh, well, that's Larry Fink saying it's basically denied, which I thought was strange because obviously he's not going to go on national television and say that he believes that, yes, it's going to get approved or no, it's not going to get approved because that's market moving there. Right. So he's not going to open himself up to any criticism around this. So really that was the only thing he could say. We'll see. Because we will see. Right.
00:05:35.040 - 00:05:59.832, Speaker A: He's not going to speculate openly on national television about this. And then also there was more talk about Ethan. Evan says here he, you know, Larry isn't worried if the SEC labels either security, because there, he thinks that there will still be an ETF. You know, you can still have an ETF. And that's obvious because, you know, securities have ETF's. I mean, being a security seems to be this thing that people hang over crypto assets as if it's going to be a death now. And it's not.
00:05:59.832 - 00:06:28.550, Speaker A: That's the thing. You know, I don't believe ETH is a security. Let me make that point clear. Obviously, it's a commodity, you know, and I guess a lot of, a lot of arguments to be made there around that. But in terms of, like, other crypto assets being securities, there's not an issue that, like, there's no issues with that. But the problem is, is that the SEC has not given any path for these assets to register as securities. And every time the teams try to do this or try to get clarity around this, you know, teams like Coinbase as well, the SEC basically stonewalls here.
00:06:28.550 - 00:06:58.990, Speaker A: So that is the heart of the issue. The issue is not that, you know, these things can be classified as securities because if you want to look at securities laws, the way they are written today, they're not written with, I guess, like, crypto in mind, but the way that they're written today in the US and the Howie test and all that. Right. A lot of these things definitely look like securities, I think, and a lot of the way that they're kind of distributed to various participants looks like, you know, securities transactions. But there's nothing wrong with that. But where the SEC takes issue is that they're unregistered. You know, they want people to come in and register all of this.
00:06:58.990 - 00:07:26.648, Speaker A: But again, the problem is, is that they've given no path for crypto companies to register. And they've been so hostile that crypto companies don't even want to try to register and then want to go through all the hoops that the SEC is going to put them through. So that is the heart of the issue. The issue is not that these things are going to be labeled securities, and because the stock market, they're all securities, and the stock market is absolutely massive, not just only in the US, but everywhere else. Right. So something being labeled as security is not a negative thing. It actually is a positive thing, I believe, for a lot of crypto assets.
00:07:26.648 - 00:08:04.970, Speaker A: If there was a path to register here, because it would mean that they would have a faster track to getting things like ETF's, to getting integrated within the tradfi system. So really, I think people have a very wrong view on security, on assets being securities and crypto assets being securities and how that would be, like, really bad for the particular crypto asset, it wouldn't. It would actually be like, fine. I mean, you know, I don't think it really changed much outside of basically giving more access to these assets for, for users. But obviously the issue becomes that for investors, I should say. But obviously the issue is that is the one that I just outlined. But again, I want to reiterate here that I don't personally believe that ETH is a security.
00:08:04.970 - 00:08:25.098, Speaker A: I don't feel like it satisfies the Howie test at all, really. And I believe that it is a commodity. But even in the worst case scenario, if the SEC wants to designate ETH as a security, don't really know how they would do that. I don't really know who that would go to for that. Like, it's a mess. Right. But if they wanted to do that, it wouldn't be any like a death now for, for ETH at all.
00:08:25.098 - 00:09:00.566, Speaker A: But then the problem arises that, well, exchanges like, you know, Coinbase and others who I'm going to talk about in a SEC with regards to their case against the SEC, are now trading in, you know, what the SEC deems to be unregistered securities in ETH. But the thing is, is that the SEC is already accusing Coinbase of trading unregistered securities and they listed a bunch of tokens off. They didn't list ETH, but they listed a bunch of other tokens off. So it would be the same thing here. And Coinbase hasn't, hasn't delisted these assets because they're not legally obligated to do this unless the SEC was to win. And the court rules against Coinbase. But for now, while Coinbase is still having that case with the SEC, they're not legally obligated to do that there.
00:09:00.566 - 00:09:29.304, Speaker A: But yeah, that's it on the Larry Fink comments. And this is a perfect segue into the next thing I want to talk about today, which was with regards to Coinbase. So I'm sure you've all seen this news by now. Basically, the judge in the Coinbase versus Sec case has ruled that the, the case, it can proceed to discovery. And what that means is basically she didn't just like outright throw the case. And that's what, you know, Coinbase appealed and basically said, well, not appeal, but they asked the court, like, you know, we believe this case is frivolous. Can you throw it out? This was never going to really work.
00:09:29.304 - 00:10:04.138, Speaker A: I mean, it was like a Hail Mary, basically. It was never going to happen there. Like the SEC brought their case against Coinbase. And the judge agreed that the case that they brought against Coinbase fits everything that it needs to fit in terms of, like, checking the boxes off. So there was no reason to throw the whole case out. And there is a good tweet here from Paul Greyl, Coinbase's chief legal officer, which you should check out. But to summarize basically what happened, the judge basically said that the SEC can continue to go after Coinbase or continue to argue their case against Coinbase in court over Coinbase trading unregistered securities and Coinbase having staking products, because obviously that was part of it as well.
00:10:04.138 - 00:10:36.786, Speaker A: But they can't go after them for their Coinbase wallet. And that was actually a huge win. So the judge threw out the Coinbase wallet portion of the case. And basically she said that because the Coinbase wallet is non custodial and because it is just a piece of software that Coinbase has made for users to use, and it's got nothing to do with Coinbase actually fulfilling those trades within the, within the wallet. Right. For example, in trading those assets, it doesn't fit into the, I guess, like, box of the case, of what the case should fit into if the SEC wants to go after Coinbase for these things here. So that was great to see.
00:10:36.786 - 00:11:09.722, Speaker A: But yeah, as I said, you can read Paul's tweet thread and there's a bunch of other takes I'm sure, sure you guys saw on Twitter there. But I do want to give some of my comments here on this broadly. Like, I'm not a lawyer, as you guys know, I'm not a legal expert or anything here, but if I was to put money on what the SEC could actually win on here, I would say that they would probably win on the staking products. And it's not just to eat staking products, but it's like all the staking products. Now, the reason I believe this is because the staking product itself doesn't matter if it's ETH or others, can itself be considered a securities transaction. Right. Or an unregistered securities transaction here.
00:11:09.722 - 00:11:43.850, Speaker A: And the reason why they could potentially win on the staking product is because they, it fits all four prongs of the Howie test. Now let's take a theorem staking on Coinbase, for example, and let's take all the four prongs. So the first prong is, is there reliance on the efforts of others? Well, yes, there is, because Coinbase is doing all the validating work if you stake with Coinbase. All right, so that fits the first prong, the second prong is that, is there an expectation of profits? Of course there is. Users who stake are expecting a yield, aka expecting profits from staking with Coinbase. Okay, so we fit the second prong now. And keep in mind, I'm playing devil's advocate here, guys.
00:11:43.850 - 00:12:18.196, Speaker A: Like, I don't necessarily agree with this, but I am playing devil's advocate to illustrate how the SEC could actually win on the staking product, but lose on everything else. So the third prong here is, are these people part of a common enterprise? This one's a bit looser, but it still fits where essentially that all of the Coinbase stakers are part of the same staking pool because they're all part of the Coinbase staking pool. Right. Then obviously not part of a common enterprise being, you know, with Ethereum. Because Ethereum, the network, can't enter into a, you know, a legal agreement or any kind of agreement with anyone because it's just like a network, essentially. It's just like a decentralized network of code. And we have protocol rules.
00:12:18.196 - 00:12:56.822, Speaker A: But in terms of, like, arguing that there is a common enterprise, well, there is, because Coinbase is running the. All of this stuff and all of the users that are staking with Coinbase are staking as part of that same infrastructure there. And then the fourth prong is that, is there an investment of money? Which again, is a weaker prong, but technically there is right there, you need to buy ETH in order to stake it. Now, the fourth prong, I think is like the weakest one here because you can argue, and again, I'm not a legal expert here, but I would expect some of these arguments to pop up. You could argue that there is no investment of money in the staking product itself. Users invest in ETH, the asset, then they use that asset to stake. They don't invest in the staking product.
00:12:56.822 - 00:13:25.754, Speaker A: Because, for example, if you were to invest in the staking product itself, you would argue that, okay, well, you buy coin to do that. You buy Coinbase's stock to do that, because you're deriving revenue from the efforts of Coinbase and all of their products. Whereas when you're buying ETH and then you stake it. Well, the thing is, is that you're buying ETH, the asset, which has got nothing to do with Coinbase. It's a free traded commodity on the open market. Um, so the investment of money is for Ethi asset. It is not for the staking product.
00:13:25.754 - 00:14:10.530, Speaker A: So I think that that prong is probably the weakest one here, as well as the common enterprise. But the other two are pretty clear cut to me. But for something to be considered a securities transaction or a security product, it has to meet all four of those prongs in the view of, I guess, like the SEC or in the view of a judge, if people sue the SEC over this or take the SEC to court. So, again, not a legal expert here, but just my understanding of how securities laws work and what the, I guess, like, arguments can be on either side here. But in terms of, like, this case, it is going ahead now to discovery. It's going to be years, guys, before this case gets resolved. It's actually, like, super annoying how long this is going to be, because you can imagine that, you know, in a couple of years time, the SEC is probably going to look completely different to what it looks like today, even in, like, a year's time.
00:14:10.530 - 00:14:46.970, Speaker A: Like, imagine, you know, with the presidential election going ahead this year. Imagine the Republicans win, and then Trump just fires Gensler, and then someone else comes along. Maybe they're pro crypto, maybe it's Hester that becomes the chief, and she just withdraws these cases altogether. She just withdraws the Coinbase case, withdraws the case against binance and Kraken, and then we don't have to worry about this anymore. That that can happen. Like, that is literally something that can happen within the next year or less, which is just crazy to me because it means that Coinbase is just wasting all this money, essentially, to defend these things when they don't, you know, that they shouldn't have to. But I'm glad Coinbase is doing it, because we need them to do this, because we can set precedence in the courts.
00:14:46.970 - 00:15:02.144, Speaker A: We can get more clarity around things. We can force the SEC to give answers here, but we know how the SEC is. Right. They're not. Not a fair player here, but, yeah, just wanted to kind of, I guess, bring that up there and. And I think it's really a nothing burger in terms of kind of news. I was.
00:15:02.144 - 00:15:29.896, Speaker A: I was kind of puzzled that the market sold off on this, given that there was no, like, win or loss for Coinbase or the SEC here. I mean, there really was a win for Coinbase, if I'm. And for, I guess, like, non custodial wallets and for Defi and for basically everything that we're building on chain, because the judge basically said that, well, this has nothing to do with a centralized company. This has nothing to do with Coinbase. So I'm throwing this out altogether. So that was the win that Coinbase had here. But in terms of the case itself, it's just going to discovery.
00:15:29.896 - 00:16:24.202, Speaker A: Now, what discovery is, is basically, you know, all the lawyers get all of the stuff that they need to get in order to present their arguments, all the information that they need to get in order to present their arguments for and against, of course. But if I, as I said, if this case goes through to when it actually, you know, finishes up and when it actually gets settled, in the end, I would say that it might be the case that Coinbase loses on the staking product, and that would mean that they would have to shut down their staking product like Kraken did for retail investors. And only institutional investors would be able to access that, or accredited investors, or non us investors, of course, would be able to access that product, which, you know, I kind of look at, and I know this might be a little bit, kind of funny to say, but it might be positive for the beacon chain because Coinbase is already such a large market share of staking. It's not like 14%. If they were forced to kill their retail staking arm, just like Kraken was, that's going to drop them down below 10% and even lower than that. And that was good. That's going to stifle their growth in the staking space here.
00:16:24.202 - 00:17:03.784, Speaker A: Now, I don't want the SEC to win on this, but as I mentioned, like it is, there is a very strong argument that can be made here around this, especially in light of the fact that Kraken, even though their staking product was actually distinctly different from coinbases, but it's even in the face of Kraken that basically folded and basically killed their staking product without even going to court over it. So it's going to be a long, drawn out battle. We're going to get clarity around things. Hopefully, it's going to be years of this, but I'll keep you guys updated on how this progresses. Or it could be that if the administration changes and Gensler's out, this, all these cases could just be thrown out altogether. It could be withdrawn by the SEC and then we don't have to worry about this anymore. At least that's my understanding of the whole kind of debacle here.
00:17:03.784 - 00:17:35.884, Speaker A: But anyway, we can go give Paul's tweet thread a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so this finally happened. We had inscriptions, spam on blobs. So I think I mentioned this, you know, this would happen, like, at least a year ago on the show where I was talking about the fact that, you know, when blobs go live and within, like, the short term, after bloms, blobs goes live, I expect there to be some kind of inscription spam, because it's just something people love to do, like they love their. These inscriptions things. And today we actually saw that happen on mainnet.
00:17:35.884 - 00:18:03.824, Speaker A: So there was a project that got spun up that was basically spamming blobs with inscriptions like transactions. And you can see here, Hill Dobby has a dashboard tracking this. And blob prices just skyrocketed. And we actually started burning ETH from blobs. You can see here that over the last day, 58 ETH was burned because of blobs, which is still, you know, a relatively small portion of the overall burn. But we hadn't had anywhere near this before. And of course, l two fees went up and everything like that because of this.
00:18:03.824 - 00:18:35.128, Speaker A: But essentially, it worked as intended in terms of the fee scaling here. But what didn't work as intended was that there was a bit of network stability issues here. And this was due to a myriad of different reasons. But I believe that the main reason was that one of the relays, I believe, blocks route, had a bug with regards to. I believe just something got to do with blobs. I might, I think I read that it had to do with the KZG part or commitment part of the blobs. So they had a bug where they were missing slots, essentially, missing blocks, essentially, which meant that network effectiveness came down.
00:18:35.128 - 00:19:03.176, Speaker A: But on top of that as well, because of the fact that there was just like, a rush of activity into blobs, I believe some of the clients hadn't really been optimized to deal with that yet. And some of the clients started missing attestations and missing blocks because of that. So there was a bit of, I guess, turbulence on the network here. And I actually woke up to all of this. I looked at it, and it was already resolved by the time I woke up. But what's really cool about this is the fact that we got our first stress test of blobs today. We actually got to see what happens when just a flood of traffic comes in two blobs.
00:19:03.176 - 00:19:51.148, Speaker A: We actually saw, you know, the fee market work as intended, and then the clients were able to gather some really great data in order to put out updates, and a lot of them actually put out updates to their clients. If you're a solar or home staker or you run any kind of I guess, infrastructure, even if it's just a full node and no validators, you should definitely check if the, I guess, clients that you're using have updates because they're all updating, they're all becoming more efficient, they're all going to be able to handle blobs in a much better way, which is, which is great to see there. Now, two comments I want to make here generally about things. One, this is why I hate that Mev boost is sidecar software, because it essentially means that the core devs have real, really like, not great visibility over the software that 95% of the network uses. And it has caused many issues throughout like the last couple of years since the merge in terms of network stability issues. Right. And this was an issue with the relay, is not with the builders.
00:19:51.148 - 00:20:14.592, Speaker A: And thankfully we are working on enshrining relays as part of the protocol, as part of epbs. So that's an issue that we've already been working on, which is great to see. And then, you know, builders, I think we're not, you know, we're not going to enshrine those in the protocol. We're essentially going to deal with the negative externalities of that, like censorship with inclusion lists. But that's all being worked on there. But the second thing here is, is the thing around. Around the clients themselves, right.
00:20:14.592 - 00:20:37.770, Speaker A: And around how the clients handle this themselves. You know, the clients, we're never going to be perfect from the get go. They're always being optimized. They're always kind of being worked on. And the fact that they have this data to work off now is really, really positive for them. And another thing that falls into this, maybe this is, can be considered a separate thing here. This is why I was generally against, or at least rather like not for increasing the gas limit, right.
00:20:37.770 - 00:21:29.548, Speaker A: Increasing the gas limit from 30 to 40 million at least over the short term. And I mean, there is multiple reasons why, but the number one reason for me was network stability, because we had just put an effective gas limit increase live on the network with blobs. And I wanted to see blobs stress tested more. I wanted to see the clients optimize more before we just put more load on the network with the gas limit increase. And honestly, if I had it my way, I would rather we just wait until we have like AIP, sorry, the Max Eb eIp in to the network before we raise the gas limit, because the network is already, I'm not going to say struggling, but it has so much load on it right now. And I don't want to lose, you know, the smaller stakers out there, the smaller validators out there, the smaller home node operators out there, just because we want to increase the gas limit from like 30 to 40 million, which in my in mind, as I've explained before, I don't think really is going to do anything material for users. I think we should be definitely focused on the L2 side of things.
00:21:29.548 - 00:22:10.488, Speaker A: But I'm all for increasing the gas limit after we deal with these issues and after we have a more stable network here and after we have the max ebeip in on top of the fact that, you know, we're going to be able to increase the gas limit like orders of magnitude once we have vertical trees and state expiry and statelessness. So there are paths to get there. But the thing is, is that Ethereum needs to optimize for network stability and reliability. Because ethereum is a chain of chains. It is not just one chain anymore. It's not just ethereum l one, it's a theorem l one plus everything else built on top, the L2s and the layer threes and whatever else we need to make sure that ethereum layer one remains reliable, always online 24/7 uptime for those chains because that is really the key value prop here of the world settlement layer. Right.
00:22:10.488 - 00:22:53.052, Speaker A: And nothing really negatively happened today besides a few missed blocks, blocks and slots here and attestations with the network today. There wasn't a lot loss of finality. I think that the, it almost got to potentially a loss of finality in terms of network participation because of the fact that we had those issues with the relayer and the client issues generally. But this is good, this is a really good stress test today. So if you want to check out some more information about this, you can check out Hill Dobby's blobs dashboard to see what it looks like on the inscription side of things. And you can also check out the ultrasound money website with regards to the blob burn here. All right, speaking of l two, fees base increased their gas target from, sorry, gas target by one point today to 3.75
00:22:53.052 - 00:23:15.316, Speaker A: mega gas per second. So you guys knew this was coming. I've been covering this on the refuel for the past week or so. And as Jesse says here, this gives 50% more capacity. And you can see the impact to fees. They started to sharply decline after the chains change. And then they said we'll monitor through end of week, then increase the five mega gas per second early next week if all looks well so this is based obviously scaling their execution side here.
00:23:15.316 - 00:23:51.442, Speaker A: It's got nothing to do with data blobs themselves separate to this. But this is based basically saying okay we see all this demand coming in and we're going to increase our gas limit from 30 million which was I guess like what it was to match main net and now up to 45 million and then finally going to I believe 60 million in early next week there which they're kind of like maybe, maybe 50 million I think, or 60 million something like that. But they're talking about it in like sorry, it is, yeah. So it is 50 million and it's 37.5 million right now. And they're talking about it in the respective of mega gas per second. Not, not the gas limit here which is just a different way of metering this here.
00:23:51.442 - 00:24:17.314, Speaker A: But you know this is great to see like I'm going to bring up the EIP, sorry, the grow the pie EIP 4844 cost tracker here. You can actually see this if you go to these trackers. Go to ERP 4844. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. You can see what the kind of fees look like on an hourly basis. So if I just get rid of like everything except base. Just to give you an illustration of what this looks like, you can see here that there is spikes in basis fees a lot just based on like I guess meme coin mania and stuff like that.
00:24:17.314 - 00:24:39.140, Speaker A: But you can see the other day their fees spiked up, you know, massively. Right. But these are just I guess general spikes of traffic. It's not like the norm, but the norm was like higher than average fees was like what the, you know, $20 to $0.40 for kind of the average fee here. But then once they scaled up you can see that this has dropped down again. So it's basically dropped down I think to about twenty cents and below here which is great.
00:24:39.140 - 00:25:03.308, Speaker A: I mean it's obviously going to come down even more than that. You can see that the median transaction cost is $0.03 whereas the average is $0.20. But that's, that's come down from where it was there, which is great. As, and as I just mentioned, base is going to be scaling even more early next week. They're going to be increasing it again by 50%, increasing their gas limit here. Now while I've got this kind of chart up here, I do want to discuss something that I've been thinking about a little bit.
00:25:03.308 - 00:25:54.176, Speaker A: Now it's an analogy that I want to use that isn't exactly kind of, I guess one to one or isn't the perfect analogy, but I think it really is a great way of explaining this stuff to people who may not be familiar with how, I guess, like on chain demand metering works. So let's just take a website, for example. So have you ever gone to a website that's being hit with a lot of traffic at once and then you're put into like a queue of sorts by their DDoS protection, like Cloudflare, for example. Right. And then you may not get into the site immediately, but you have like this Cloudflare page that pops up and basically says, hey, you know, you're in a queue essentially, and we're going to let you in in a moment. And it usually doesn't take long, but it's there. But then there are other examples of, well, of websites that if you're buying a ticket, for example, for a show, and there's a lot of demand for that, they'll put you in a queue essentially for that, right? And then they'll have things going on in the background to make sure that, you know, you're not able to spam, you're not overloading the servers, stuff like that.
00:25:54.176 - 00:27:09.158, Speaker A: And that'll typically be something that exists on a different server to where they're selling the tickets from, at least from my understanding of how it's done in web two. Now if we take this to web3, obviously because we're in the context of, I guess like financial transactions, we meet and we're in the context of having a distributed network, we meter these things not by traffic because we don't have a centralized way to do that, we meter them with fees. So essentially, obviously the way it works on ethereum l one is that there is a minimum fee that you have to pay, and then as the gas limit gets reached, which is basically the way to stop the chain from getting dosed, the fees go up, essentially. So it's basically a DoS mitigation vector in order to make sure that the chain doesn't just get ddos to death and also that the state doesn't grow like, you know, to stupid levels from, from spam and stuff like that. So that's the way we kind of meter it there. And the same is true for l two s, especially the evm l two s that are just copying l one, they meter it in the same way. So when you see spikes like this, these crazy spikes here, all this is showing you is that if we're using the web tool analogy here, there's a really popular kind of ticket that's just gone on sale, right, to a show that's just gone on sale in the web3 context, this would mean that there's a really popular meme coin that just kind of has some frenzy around it, right? But there is no, I guess, like, queue that you go into.
00:27:09.158 - 00:27:39.960, Speaker A: There's none of that. What the, what, what there is, is fees go up. So unless you want to pay $10 for a swap to ape into this meme coin, you're not going to open to that meme coin. But hey, if you wait a bit and then buy it, when swap fees go back down to $0.10, you'll be able to buy that meme coin there. But maybe that meme coin already went like ten x in price. And to use the web tool analogy again with, with the show tickets, eventually, when you get through the queue, there may be a thing where you can't buy the tickets that you want, or maybe you don't get front row, maybe you get some, you know, shitty seating somewhere else, or maybe you don't even get a ticket because they get sold out.
00:27:39.960 - 00:28:14.004, Speaker A: So, as I said, the analogy isn't exactly one to one, but it's just, it's just the same concept of supply and demand, really, at the end of the day. And being able to meter that supply and demand and being able to keep the network online and not, you know, not have it go offline from, from dos. And dealing with Dos or denial of service is a really big deal in web two. You know, they're not necessarily attacks. It's just that whenever traffic floods something, it can fall over for a myriad of different reasons. It can slow down. And this has been, you know, plaguing web two for decades until I think over the last few years, maybe the last five or so years, there's been a lot of advancements being made here.
00:28:14.004 - 00:28:42.708, Speaker A: And the Internet, you know, generally is pretty okay. And there, you know, you can't. It's really hard to, like, dos aside. Like, even if you're trying to do it on purpose, it's very hard to do that. And it's, it's not something that is an unsolved issue at this point, but when it comes to web3, and then you can kind of throw in the context of things like rpcs. RPCs work on the same kind of function as just web two APIs do, where essentially, if too many people are spamming the RPC, it could fall over. It could just, you know, crash or shut down because it can't handle the traffic.
00:28:42.708 - 00:29:13.670, Speaker A: And then essentially, you can't pay anything to get your transaction included because that RPC is just offline. Right. So that would be the more, I guess, like, better analogy here. That'll be the closer analogy is that when you're spamming your transactions against the RPC, it either has a choice of doing one or two. One of two things. I mean, it doesn't have a choice of falling over, but it can drop those transactions, which I, which is what I believe that a lot of Solana apps do, and Solana RPCs do. And just like the chain does in general, where that's why there's a lot of failed transactions there, it'll essentially drop it to mitigate spending spam.
00:29:13.670 - 00:29:44.866, Speaker A: It's like a quality of service thing that they do, which is not necessarily kind of, I guess, something that is a bad thing. But the problem with that becomes that users get frustrated. It's bad ux, right. And then if you run your own RPC, you can get around this. But then I think in the context of Solana, it's also at the chain level, not just at the RPC level, where essentially the lead eyes is, you know, there's a leader every 400 milliseconds, and there is no mempool. So it's essentially, you know, you're incentivized to kind of spam the chain to get your transaction in there. So it doesn't matter what RPC you're running, at least from my understanding of how that works.
00:29:44.866 - 00:30:11.210, Speaker A: I'm not trying to pick on any chain here, but essentially, it degrades the user experience and basis. Suffered from this as well. I believe they had some failed transactions, too. And ethereum l one suffers from this. Well, not so much in a post ERP 1559 world, because we obviously have a much better fee market. Before that, there was tons of dosing going on in terms of, like, in terms of, like, transactions failing, in terms of transactions getting stuck because the fear market was just really shitty. But in a 1559 world, it's a lot better.
00:30:11.210 - 00:30:45.934, Speaker A: It's not perfect, but it is a lot better there. So hopefully that explanation kind of rings true for you guys and explains a lot of stuff here. But I'm going to leave that one at that, because I've gone over time here, and there's one last thing I wanted to talk about, which was this, I guess, a little bit of a weird announcement that I saw from something called anime coin. So they approach, they're a project that has introduced something called anime Chain, which is a new chain that they're building with arbitrum and Azuki. So they basically describe here what they're. But they basically set the tone here that anime has, has never been bigger. And that's true.
00:30:45.934 - 00:31:23.636, Speaker A: I mean, I'm huge into anime and it really has never been bigger. It's become like a worldwide phenomenon at this point. And it is basically permeated every kind of point of culture in the world at this point. So essentially what anime chain wants to do is basically bring that all on chain, bring anime on chain and work with Izuki to do that. So they're doing this in collaboration with arbitrum that it's going to be, I believe, an orbit chain as part of the arbitram kind of ecosystem here. And they're going to be launching anime productions, games, physical products on anime chain, providing a blueprint for other top tier anime Eip to be built on chain here. So look, I don't have a strong opinion on this.
00:31:23.636 - 00:31:49.882, Speaker A: I mean, as I said, I love anime, but I don't know like the finer details of this. There's not many details just yet. You know, there's a, there's a points program you can sign up to right now. And Izuki is an NFT collection that's been around for a while. You guys know, I don't pay too close attention to this, but I do think it's interesting. And the reason why I think it's interesting is because it's something we haven't necessarily seen before. I think that, I think a lot of the issues people had with the NFT PFP kind of projects was that they didn't really go anywhere.
00:31:49.882 - 00:32:23.854, Speaker A: There was all these promises of ecosystems being built and they never really materialized. But now we may be seeing it actually materialize here. I know that bored apes is trying to do something as well, but they've been very slow and they've built, I think they've built like a little bit of a game or something, but they've been very slow there. Whereas something like anime chain, they're trying to take, I guess, a different approach here of bringing anime on chain and doing a bunch of stuff around that. So whether it works or not is another discussion. But I just wanted to put it on your radar there for you to check out and I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so there. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today.
00:32:23.854 - 00:32:31.324, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Scratch your newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
