00:00:01.280 - 00:00:27.212, Speaker A: Welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the show for crypto natives. Every week, we do short but in depth conversations with the most important builders and investors in crypto so you can filter through what's noise and stay ahead of the markets. I'm your host, Jason Choi. Nothing on this show should be construed as financial advice, and my guests, myself, and my employer may hold positions and assets discussed on the show. This episode is also brought to you by Paraswap and Solana, two of my favorite projects in Crypto. Stick around to learn more.
00:00:27.388 - 00:01:26.754, Speaker B: Today we have a very, very special guest, and it's Arthur from Defiance Capital. Now to give you guys a little background. Over the past years, there's been hundreds of crypto funds that were established, but not that many that achieved the early success that Defiance Capital has, and their fund launched earlier last year before a massive defi bull market. Investing early in projects like why earn Sushiswap before they became household defi names? But even before that, the founder, Arthur, based in Singapore, has placed multiple early bets into projects like Aave and Synthetix, long before Defi even became a mainstream term, if we could call it that at this point in time. So as the markets start to cool down a bit, I'm very curious about where this defines capital. Think we're headed? How are they allocating their capital and time and resources? And what is the secret sauce behind Arthur's continued streak of success in identifying successful projects early on? So I'm very stoked to have my friend Arthur, founder of Defiance Capital, finally make an appearance on the show. So welcome to the show.
00:01:28.254 - 00:01:35.874, Speaker C: Hi, everyone. This is Arthur from Defiance. Blockcrunch has always been my favorite podcast, so I'm glad to be here.
00:01:37.174 - 00:02:05.814, Speaker B: Yeah, thank you so much for supporting the show. And, Arthur, as you know, I have a lot of respect for you, and most people don't know this, but you've been investing and trading stocks and commodities since college before even finding crypto. I think many people in your shoes might have decided to join a crypto VC fund at that point, but you decided to take on the challenge of launching your own fund, which evolved into defiance capital today. So can you talk to us about that process? What convinced you that starting a fund was the right decision at that time?
00:02:07.954 - 00:03:32.426, Speaker C: Cool. Actually, I think that is also due to various circumstances. I think a big part of it is due to the success of my investment philosophy and strategy, and I think at that point of time, it's not that easy to find crypto funds that really believe that DeFi is the most obvious and biggest product market fit for crypto and public blockchain. When you look at it, most of the crypto fund, they are focusing on investing in layer one. In fact, for those listeners that were in since 2017, a very popular investment thesis that time was we only invest in layer one projects because that generated the most returns. And I just do not believe in that thesis at all. And, yeah, so, and my track record and investment in DeFi have paid off pretty well around, I think, before DeFi summer, it already done well, but after DeFi summer 2020, the return was just amazing, and it gives me sufficient capital to start defiance with the support of three arrows as well.
00:03:32.426 - 00:03:57.582, Speaker C: So I think that was the circumstances. There was no other fund that had. Not that many. I think there was a few, but not that many of them, with the investment philosophy and strategy that I'm fully aligned with. And I also reached a stage where I have sufficient backing and capital to launch my own fund. The time was right. So that lead to that decision and.
00:03:57.598 - 00:04:22.433, Speaker B: That fundamental strategy that you mentioned, that's really something that sets you guys aside. And I remember, in terms of projects, you were one of the first people to convince me about Aave before they were called Aave. And if you recall correctly, you were also one of the earlier supporters of Synthetix. So can you walk us through how do you identify these opportunities early on? And is there a process to how you decide which of these projects you want to place early? Big bets in?
00:04:23.533 - 00:05:55.584, Speaker C: Yes, I think the first one, which I always believe in, actually, before DeFi was even a household term, my biggest belief comes from the stable coin thesis. I think after the ICO bubble burst in 2018, everyone was searching for the real use cases in crypto. Unfortunately, most of the use cases of all this ICO, which they are trying to create some solution for certain industry, like Uber on blockchain, Spotify on blockchain, etcetera, all of them failed. The only one which I see working is a finance and base solution, and stablecoin was a big part of it, because I think that stablecoin usage was increasing during the bear market, and that led me to discovering synthetics, because they were initially a stablecoin protocol. And they are also one of the very few protocol at that time that have a pretty strong emphasis on the value accrual token holder, which is quite refreshing, because coming from someone who actually invested in some ICO and see it go to near zero, the biggest question is that there's no bottom, because why would anyone want to hold a token, and also the services wasn't ready yet. Even if the product or services is ready, there's no reason for people to buy the token just to use the services. It's just a very terrible UI UX, and people rather just use ETH, bitcoin or just stablecoin to pay for the services rather than the native token.
00:05:55.584 - 00:06:23.424, Speaker C: So that lead me to finding synthetics. And I think for Aave it's around early 2020 actually. I know Stani back in the 2019 San Francisco blockchain week, but that time compound really exists. I just been paying attention. But the execution have really impressed me in early 2020. So yeah, invested since then and it was actually post March crash. But what surprised me is obviously the TVL was still very small that time around.
00:06:23.424 - 00:07:20.494, Speaker C: Before the crash it was around 1020 million, but after the crash actually didn't come down, it still go up to around 30 million. So it shows me that the Ace product market failed, or buy a very young and early one. That convinced me to invest pretty sizable of my capital that time into Aave. So I think what similarity of both is, I think you need to look at the fundamentals for sure, but another thing you need to look at is the catalyst. So what is going to drive people to recognize this fundamental for synthetix? I think that at that point of time, there is actually an event driven play, which is they're actually gonna launch on EOS. That didn't happen in the end, but at that point in time, the community widely believed that it's gonna happen. It's been communicated for a while, and there will be a form of airdrop to the community.
00:07:20.494 - 00:08:11.784, Speaker C: So I think that catalyst actually will drive a significant price action to synthetics that time. That didn't happen. But what happened is during 2019, it's one of the very few community that have very few protocols that have gathered, a very strong community that believe in it, despite the bear market, and that can't be safe for most of the non bitcoin and ethereum project. So I think that if you are in synapse during 2019, it was a very magical moment where the only non bitcoin community and non ETH community that active and still really believe in it, aside from training as well. So I think that drove a lot of returns. And obviously, there's, I think the first one where people recognize that this kind of like a positive five year effect at play. Because if you can mint the SUSD using SNX, that actually creates some leverage as well.
00:08:11.784 - 00:09:05.154, Speaker C: And people can do a lot of things with this leverage, but that actually create a decent amount of wealth effect. So people actually, the wealth people are putting it into synthetix token, actually not locked. They actually can take some of it out to do other stuff. And I think that's actually very important because to a certain extent that allows some level of extra capital efficiency at play. And if you want to convince people to put the money into like a so called altcoin in 2019, I think that's a highly beneficial thing, that people at least can unlock some of their capital while still enjoying being invested in your projects. So I think those are the few catalysts that drove me to really make a heavy bet then I think for Aave, it was the fact that lending and borrowing was really growing quickly, that point of time. I look at Blockfi, I look at Celsius and Nexo, they are really one of the very few services that really thrive during the bear market.
00:09:05.154 - 00:09:35.506, Speaker C: And I know that lending and borrowing is going to be a big thing on defi and compound. Already proven the use cases and AavE just launched within two months, already have achieved a very rare exponential growth. At that time, there was no incentive at all. I think I will only kick off the incentive for usage very late, only two months ago, I think two or three months ago. So for the most of 2020, there was no incentive for using the protocol. It was very organic usage. And I think I've been talking to a team, they really impressed me.
00:09:35.506 - 00:09:54.014, Speaker C: They know what they're doing. Very, very strong execution, not just the founders, but also the engineers as well, the integration guy. So it's just overall a very great team, and I enjoy interacting with that really also drove me to make a big investment in Aave.
00:09:55.834 - 00:10:51.644, Speaker B: That's really interesting. It sounds like a lot of the process is kind of keeping an eye on qualitative things like the community and whether they're still around when most of the other communities have died out, and also the quantitative things, the trading volumes and the usage and the TVL and so on. My follow up question there is oftentimes with these fundamentals, like trading volumes on a decentralized exchange or borrowing volumes in a lending platform. The valuation either catches up really quickly or will catch up soon. So how do you balance between waiting long enough to gather enough data to support your conviction versus being too late to it? Because I think for VC's in this space, obviously they're on one end of it, they're super early, sometimes even before a product. But it sounds like for your approach is more about looking at actual traction and adoption and waiting for some of those metrics, but at what point does it become kind of too late and how do you balance that?
00:10:53.184 - 00:11:44.406, Speaker C: That's a great question, actually. I think that on different market, I wouldn't call it cycle, different market stage, you have to do it a little bit differently. I think I was quite fortunate that during most of the 2020, at least pre d five summer, it wasn't that difficult to wait for traction and then invest because that time market wasn't fomoing into anything. Even with traction, people are very cautious and careful, especially for non bitcoin stuff. Ethereum was ranging for the longest time ever. People wasn't sure that anything besides bitcoin cannot perform at all, so that it was easier. You can actually afford to wait for a few months and you can actually even wait for the price action to be positive first before you invest.
00:11:44.406 - 00:12:27.354, Speaker C: So for example, Abe, when I invest, they actually been rallying from the all time low in November 2019 to February 2020. So actually I already have like done like a four to five x for I even invested. And so I was like wondering, okay, is someone seeing something I'm not seeing? Because at that time, fire is actually quite impressive, although they come off from a very low market cap. But the fact that people are willing to invest in it and push it out five x means that somebody is saying something. So just something I didn't mention just now is actually there was a lot of on chain analysis involved. So this is part of the investment process that actually go really deep into the investment process. At that time, nonsense didn't really exist yet, I think.
00:12:27.354 - 00:13:06.004, Speaker C: So I rely on ether scan. I really go deep into each single major transaction bit holder to see who's been accumulating. What's the investment profile like? What other token do they use? So the dirty secret is people are actually, I wouldn't say lazy, but it's just very hard to split into that many wallets. So most people will end up just using two or three wallets for most of the big holdings. So it's quite easy to see, like, if this guy holds SNX, what other token does he hold? So if you see like a big ETH, well, it's also investing SNX or Aave. It actually shows some discount money and doing something that you. They usually did their homework.
00:13:06.004 - 00:13:50.374, Speaker C: So actually this usually a good signal and they've been pushing the price up because the fact is the market cap is so low, if they want to build a sizeable position, they will have to push the price up. So that's part of the investment process as well. I think that it was way easier back then to wait for traction before you invest. And even right now, I always like to tell my team and also myself that you want to be early but not too early. And actually usually that's where we sit. Recently, after the fund defiance was launched, we've been doing more and more venture stage because I think unfortunately the market has changed a fair bit. Like if you don't do the venture round right now, it's a lot harder for you to get in when the product already have attraction and usually launch at a few hundred million FTV.
00:13:50.374 - 00:14:14.948, Speaker C: That's unfortunately the market situation. But I think back then it's a lot easier. I think right now it's still possible, especially after this correction. There are some projects that are fair launched a community driven team. They're actually working hard. Like I think the builder never really give up, but the price have corrected significantly. I think especially there's some NFT project that are corrected more than 80% even for the DeFi project like Alpha.
00:14:14.948 - 00:14:52.862, Speaker C: And a few have also corrected more than 80% as well. So I think that actually gives them a lot more reasonable valuation to enter right now compared to like, let's say two months ago. Yeah, I think. I think right now, how I decided to be early and not too early is really more on a vertical side instead of actual. The fundamental product traction. We will look at which Defi product vertical or even NFT, which vertical that we think is a bit too early for the market. It's probably because the market is not mature or big enough to really adopt this product at scale or.
00:14:52.862 - 00:15:17.882, Speaker C: Yeah, or for various reasons. So for this vertical, we will place less bet. So example for Defi right now, I think the one that is most ready and most obvious that achieve product market fee is really lending and borrowing, which mostly are just rv and compound right now. And Dexus. So Dexus is ultra additive. Like, there's at least five to ten very legit team working on that. But the product market is proven.
00:15:17.882 - 00:15:35.844, Speaker C: Yeah. So these two are the most obvious one. Then there's a few other, like asset management, like the yield farming stuff. I put them in the same category. But beyond that all is still a bit early that you're not sure when is the next $10 billion movement is going to come for them.
00:15:37.144 - 00:16:37.804, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a really interesting point because I think there's two parts to it that you mentioned. There's part one which is identifying the fundamentals and gathering the data to understand whether there's actual adoption. And then the second part is the market timing, whether, whether we are in the right market to use this fundamental strategy, whether we're in a market where everyone is just investing in everything, regardless of fundamentals. And so I think the second part is really, really interesting, because it's hard to have a conviction that fundamentals will matter to crypto, especially back when you started, when the prices seem to just be completely irrational and random. Sometimes prices would react to maybe some news, and then it would get sold off after. There's not a real clear evidence that the price trades to the fundamentals, at least in the early stages of defi. So what gave you the conviction at that time that fundamentals will matter? And do you think moving forward in the long term, fundamentals will impact prices a lot more?
00:16:38.144 - 00:17:31.840, Speaker C: I actually would argue the reverse is actually sometimes more true. When I started, it's actually easier for fundamental to matters because there wasn't so much noise in the market. So market like, if you have some very positive factor, market will pay attention to it. Unlike the last three to six months, where it's a raging bull market, there are so many news, and sometimes you do not need a fundamental news to rally significantly. So people become nihilists. They think that fundamental doesn't matter because you have stuff that have no fundamental rally, even more. So why should you bother? Actually, I think in the early stage, which for most of the 2020 fundamentals actually did drive a pretty significant price action, at least from my experience, when you see some product having a significant traction, people talk about it.
00:17:31.840 - 00:18:05.516, Speaker C: The price action does follow because there's not that much other positive fundamentals happening in the space. So these positive fundamentals actually get surfaced to everyone's attention fairly quickly. And obviously, I think I put out a tweet a few days ago. Confidence is the memory of, and so that my belief doesn't come immediately, it actually comes from the validation of a few investments. It first comes from Synthetix. It took a while, actually, it took around six months for the thesis to play out. After that, it actually came from Kyber network.
00:18:05.516 - 00:18:48.714, Speaker C: So I was very bullish on Kyber network for a while, and actually it did very well on the early stage of bull market. But after a while, the Dexs space have become a lot more competitive. We have uniswap, we have balancer, etcetera. So they are still growing, but not as fast as other dexes. After that is aave, and after that, you have defined something happen, and then the compound, all these things that have widely used, they all done very well as well. I think during DeFi summer, what you have seen is the top DeFi protocol really are very recognized by the market and as a result will attach a very significant valuation. I think what impressed me the most is when compound launched a token.
00:18:48.714 - 00:19:27.260, Speaker C: I did not expect them to trade to a billion dollar valuation and the token price to hold up so well at that level despite a very aggressive emission schedule. But the fact that that happened actually convinced me that people cares about people care about people actually place a significant premium on the top Defi protocol that time. So I think that actually drove me to believe that fundamental matters. But I think as the times go on to the bull market, fundamentals still matters. But you do not need a good fundamental to have a strong price action anymore at the later stage of the bull market.
00:19:27.422 - 00:20:24.438, Speaker A: Now, before I continue, I'd love to share one of my favorite products in crypto with you. Now, whenever I want to trade a token, instead of going to uniswap sushiswap Bancor one x one to see where I can find the best quote, I just go to Paraswap to scan for the best price anywhere because periswap aggregates all the popular Ethereum dexs and saves me a ton of time and headache in finding where I can trade something for the best price and lets me trade in one place. Now, the cool thing is they've all also integrated with ledger live as well, meaning I can now swap at the best prices directly from my ledger wallet. So seriously, if you're a Defi trader and you're worried about the security risks of centralized exchanges, but you also don't want to scour dozens of dexs just to find the best price, you have to check out Paraswap. So head on over to Paraswap IO blockcrunch. I'd love to also talk about our sponsor, Solana, a high throughput layer one blockchain. Now, in the past few months, I've probably talked to two dozen teams building exciting new projects on Solana, and this is probably why.
00:20:24.438 - 00:20:58.548, Speaker A: First, it's incredibly fast, with 50,000 transactions per second, it's cheap, with average fees less than a cent per transaction. That means developers can deploy contracts cheaply and also not have to worry about their apps not being composable with others, as Solana does not use any type of sharding or fragmented L2 systems. Most importantly, Solana is censorship resistant, with over 950 validators today. So if you're interested in building fast, scalable blockchain applications, or want to test out the existing ecosystem of Defi applications and more, go to solana.com blockcrunch.
00:20:58.676 - 00:21:35.866, Speaker B: Earlier on, in a market when it's in the slow growth phase, a lot of the sophisticated investors are accumulating names that have a good potential moving forward. And I think that's why fundamentals seem to drive the price. But as we come to the parabolic face of the market, as you said, a lot of the random coins are rallying some of these meme coins. So how do you adjust to that face of the market? What do you do in a market where dogecoin is rallying immensely with seemingly no fundamentals? How do you react to that? Do you try to participate in some of the meme coins, or do you try to just focus on what has the fundamentals there?
00:21:35.970 - 00:22:16.354, Speaker C: I think, first of all, we just have to separate. Is that really purely meme driven? There are actually some underlying fundamental behind it. So I think we were sometimes a bit too quick to dismiss. All these are like a pure heart and beam, but sometimes they are fundamental behind it as well. So I think, for example, the BSC ecosystem does have a lot of fundamental behind it. Unfortunately, I think we were a little bit late to recognize it. We look at it initially, but I think it was actually investable, although that you have to be extremely careful on the BSC ecosystem stuff, because I think it's a bit of wow, worst.
00:22:16.354 - 00:23:07.104, Speaker C: So I think that BSC ecosystem does have a lot of fundamentals, but then there obviously are some stuff like dogecoin and shiba safe food. That's a pure hype and no fundamentals. And that was really driven by what they call mimetic investing, which happens in stock market as well. And I think how we can react to it is just, it depends on the money you are managing. I think when you're managing institutional level of capital, it's not really possible to really participate in that significantly. And also, I think the best action is usually not to play it, because, you know, it's a very retail burn, it can pop anytime. And if you invest in it, if you make money, I don't think you get a lot of support from your investor for doing such a risky move.
00:23:07.104 - 00:23:38.344, Speaker C: And if you lose money, it's definitely a very bad look on your fund and your mandate and your investment processes. So my way is not to participate in it. Yes, you miss out on a lot of returns, but as an investor, you need to know that you can't capture all the returns in the world. There is actually one. I would categorize it as not a very legit project. They have actually generated a significant return since I think, 2019, which is called hacks. I don't know it.
00:23:38.344 - 00:24:13.804, Speaker C: I don't think it's a legit project, but it has done very well. So the thing is, you just can't win everything in the world. You just really have to focus on what you really good at and what that you are comfortable with. So I think, yeah, it just, and it's like the stock market, right? Like you have s and P 500, you have the tech stocks, you have the value stocks, you have the various sectors. Then you also have a sector of meme coin. You just can't get the meme coin outperform, a lot of other stuff. But you can't expect people just because of this that just go and go and invest all their money into meme coin.
00:24:13.804 - 00:24:20.944, Speaker C: Just something that they have to recognize that it's not really suitable for a professional investment.
00:24:22.484 - 00:25:21.292, Speaker B: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense, because I do see a lot of strategy drift in a lot of fellow investors where they see these random coins starting to rally in a bull market and they get a immense sense of fomo and they want to participate in verticals that they're not familiar with or in strategies that are way too risky because they see these price charts and they end up often. More often than not, they end up being hurt. So I definitely agree on what you said there. And another topic that I really wanted to pick a brain on is bet sizing. This is something that I think you've been pretty vocal about on Twitter about having conviction in your sizing. I think crypto really runs the gamut, where you have people who risk it all on one bet. You have retail investors who put the entire portfolio into one coin, and then you have more diversified institutional funds, passive funds like bitwise, that have ten bets in their bitwise ten index.
00:25:21.292 - 00:25:56.380, Speaker B: And then you have more kind of similar portfolios that are quite similar to traditional equity portfolios in hedge funds, where you have 30, 40, 50 positions in a portfolio. So in terms of sizing a bet, when you notice a project like Aave, which you saw the fundamentals improving, the price increasing, and you have conviction in that, or even, maybe not even any, any type of project that you have a high conviction on, how do you approach sizing the bet initially, and do you scale them over time, and do you cut them down over time? Or do you kind of just build one position and try to hold it through an entire cycle so I think.
00:25:56.412 - 00:26:38.968, Speaker C: Sizing, I don't think there's right answer here. It depends on the returns you are targeting and the risk that you are comfortable with. I think that what everyone has realized right now is during the market correction, the correlation almost goes to one. It just. Everyone is dropping it just do drop harder than others. So what happened is bitcoin is usually dropped the lease when the market correction followed by ETH, and the rest usually will nuke a lot harder than bitcoin and ETH. So in that sense, if the downside is actually quite similar, you look at the defi sector, most of them have dropped more than 60%.
00:26:38.968 - 00:27:36.194, Speaker C: The world are 80%, but most of them have corrected 60% to 80% from the peak. So in that sense, unless you are trading very actively, you can always get out at the top. It's really best to be positioned for the strongest performer because the difference is during the increase, they were not the same alpha. During the rally it went up adding 20 times, but there are actually a lot of other defi coin that went up like less than two x during the q one. So on the up stage, on the rally stage, the performance are really uneven. But on a correction stage, it's actually pretty even. So in that sense, it actually pays to be concentrated if you are investing beyond bitcoin Ethereum, and you're comfortable having a significant part of your portfolio in a non bitcoin ETH position.
00:27:36.194 - 00:28:54.480, Speaker C: So, and in terms of sizing, I would say that a comfortable sizing where you can actually sufficient attention to really know deeply what is happening, know the team well, and have the confidence to put a significant bet. It's probably not more than five if you are like one, one person just running it, and probably not more than ten if you are small to medium sized fund, that will really allow you to have a full understanding of the protocol, that you will be comfortable putting up to 20% of your fund inside that specific protocol and projects. Because the confidence has to come from a strong, really good understanding of the team, what they are doing, the traction, the product market fee, and also their code quality. I think at a certain stage it makes sense to invest in one engineer as an investor, or let's just. You have one friend that's really strong at the solidity of the coast. To really help you look through all the projects. You don't have to go through every single line, but have to know that the practices, what's the architecture like, how much emphasis they pay to security? How's the document like? You actually work to go through all this thing to really have the strong confidence and conviction to places sizable bet.
00:28:54.480 - 00:29:15.844, Speaker C: But if you do this, you can't possibly do it for 50 project. That's a bit too much unless you have like a 50 to 100 person team. So I think in that sense, yeah, I think that you only have the confidence to play such a bet when you are understanding all the different aspect of the, of the protocol or project you're investing in.
00:29:17.184 - 00:30:18.724, Speaker B: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And that almost sounds like it's the investment cost, right? To. In order to build a big position, you have to be willing to put down some sunk costs in terms of due diligence. And even if you have a technical background, it might help to outsource some of the more deep dive technical due diligence to maybe audit firms and so on. And I think that definitely makes a lot of sense and in terms of how you adjust your thesis over time, because as you said, in different phases of the market, obviously defi could perform behave very, very differently. You have situations where one or two names rally 6100 x insane returns, and then you have faces of the market where all of them draw down by 60% to 80%. And it seems like a key part to really outperformance is being able to cycle your capital, at least for liquid strategies, being able to cycle your capital to the winning projects, and also getting out of the sector in time in order for you to survive or even buy back lower.
00:30:18.724 - 00:30:27.904, Speaker B: How do you kind of think about weathering that volatility as a fundamentals driven investor? And how do you think about portfolio turnover in that sense?
00:30:28.444 - 00:31:28.938, Speaker C: I think, again, there's no perfect answer to this. I think for us, I would say that, to be very frank, we wasn't the best in managing the volatility. I think for us, the way we do it is just that we accept the fact that because crypto can get multiple returns of what you can get from traditional asset class, even from the most profitable traditional investment, let's say a venture capital fund where you have a big illiquidity period like 510 years, that you can't take your money out, the highest return you can make is probably like 100% a year. That's usually like the top 1010 percent vc return. That, yeah, the IRR is 100% even for that. But crypto can give you multiples. I think for sophisticated investors, since 2019, most of them have generated more than 20 times of return.
00:31:28.938 - 00:32:09.750, Speaker C: If they are in since 2019 and never give up, their return have exceeded 20 times. So what I see is that crypto just accelerate the, the return cycle very significantly. So your return are generated in a much shorter amount of time, but you also experience the drawdown in a much shorter amount of time as well. And I think that's probably part of the trade off that you have to accept by being in the crypto. It's definitely very difficult. When you see a peak through bottom drawdown like a 60 or even 70%, it's extremely painful. But I think you just have to know that that come from the fact that you can enjoy a five to ten x return in one year.
00:32:09.750 - 00:32:58.824, Speaker C: If you venture beyond bitcoin and Eve, even if actually did a ten x in one year, if you come from last year like below 300, that investors then yeah, you get a ten x in one year as well. So I think that's really part of the trade off you have to accept. So our strategy, I think we really decide our investment decision based on the fundamental. I think in hindsight, for this market correction, it was not the best way to play it, because a lot of the Defi fundamentals actually looked great before the big correction. And it still looked pretty great after the correction until I think it only started to deteriorate around June where the DEXs volume start coming down. Because the market activity was low, people wasnt trading that much. But if you look at the lending and borrowing protocol, its actually still quite good.
00:32:58.824 - 00:33:36.024, Speaker C: The peak TVR was 21 billion. Right now it's around 17 to 18 ish, which is still very significant. Like price corrected by 60%, but the fundamental drop by around less than 20%. So yeah, there's definitely some disconnect there. So we would usually base our decision on the fundamental project. Like when we see some project getting like let's say five to 10 billion TvL, where the fundamental doesn't warrant it, we usually will trim our position that so it's a lot more micro and bottom up base, rather than like a top down base. I think that's our approach.
00:33:36.024 - 00:34:27.952, Speaker C: Probably not the best approach in most situations, but this is something that we are comfortable with. And I think how do we deal with the drawdown? Because coming from someone who actually holds some coins to zero before, I think I know the difference between people like to make it as a meme, like, oh, it's a productive asset, it will come back up. But actually, I think that is actually true. But you really need to have the confidence that you are really the asset you are holding, are the real productive asset that other market participants recognize as well, so for us, obviously, we went through the previous Michael, and also we have a very strong and sophisticated team doing the due diligence and research. So we have the confidence of knowing that stuff we hold are the stuff that other market participants recognize as a quality stuff. But if you're holding something that you are the only one recognizing that as the good stuff, then, yeah, it might go to zero. So yeah, I think there's a difference.
00:34:27.952 - 00:34:57.603, Speaker C: So for us, yeah, the stuff we are holding, that the product market fit is proven. It's just that how the market value is at a different stage, but we have a lot of confidence that it will come back up when the market is in a different phase. So that's how we are weathering the volatility. But it's definitely not for every investor or for every fund as well, because not everyone can take such a huge drawdown. But I think for us, our investors are comfortable with that, knowing the return that we can generate over the cycle.
00:34:58.543 - 00:36:07.924, Speaker B: That's really interesting, because it sounds like besides the objective factor of looking at fundamentals, looking at the adoption metrics, there's also the subjective factor of almost predicting if the rest of the market will view these assets the same way that you guys do. Because I think that that's really unique to crypto, because there's no strong consensus and valuation frameworks yet. It's really a bet on not just the fundamentals, but the fact that the market will respect fundamentals enough to price the asset the way that you guys are pricing it. So I thought that was really interesting, and I'm curious to dive deeper into this point about getting conviction behind that, because now, in a bear market, in an extended bear market, a lot of the fundamentals for DeFi would also deteriorate, because a lot of the revenues that are generated on DeFi protocols today are things like trading fees and borrowing volumes. And these things may come down as well during a bear market. So are you worried about this reflexivity and fundamentals where lowering prices lead to lower adoption, lead to lower prices and so on, this so called death spiral that people talk about, or do you not see that as really a big risk?
00:36:08.444 - 00:37:21.330, Speaker C: I think that is possible in terms of the dev spiral, but I think that really comes back to your conviction that I think there is a part of Defi, or censor crypto in general, that is reflexive, but there are also part of it. There are fundamental, inherent structural fundamentals where censorship, resistance, digital store value, let's say for bitcoin, those are the structural fundamental. Then there are also reflexive fundamentals, like more adoption lead to more people recognizing it as well. So I think you just have to recognize that which part of the value are driven by the reflexive fundamentals and which part of it is like a structural fundamentals that even without the reflexive divide, it's going to remain. So I think, for example, one way I would use is let's say look at Dex volume, right? The May was like a record month. I think Uniswap was consistently doing one to 2 billion a day. And that compared to the Q one number, which is like what I think three to five x increased.
00:37:21.330 - 00:38:02.726, Speaker C: So you have to recognize that a significant part of that is reflexive fundamentals. So my mental framework is to take out this kind of growth and really just move smooth it out. So I think what happened is during the previous volume growth period, I'll actually take the twelve month growth. And okay, let's say at a January you are doing let's say 1 million a day at May, okay, or let's say at okay, let's say, let's say we do December 12 month period, it's a longer period, we can smooth it out. And then you are doing like 50 million. And you look at the actual figure, you're pretty sporadic. Like you go to, let's say three five, then you come down suddenly in the last two, three months, you have an exponential growth as well.
00:38:02.726 - 00:38:47.494, Speaker C: So what I will usually do is I'll take this and even it out, normalize it to see, given the bombast of crypto, what is the average growth rate? So you can kind of know that. Let's say, okay, let's say on average, the organic growth is like 50% a month. But let's say for April may actually grow by 300%. So you know that a lot of that is actually reflexive fundamental, and you have to account for that as well. So in that case, I think that you just have to know what is the baseline fundamental that will exist without this reflexivity. And I think there's no right answer to it. You just have to use your own market sizing.
00:38:47.494 - 00:39:45.916, Speaker C: You look at the previous history, define the same damage history yet, but at I think there is at least one year already that you can actually build some baseline before the hype, before the crazy liquidity mining, what was the traction like? So these are the baseline fundamentals that you will have. So that's what we do. We look at, even though the flexibility, what kind of fundamental they will still achieve. So that's usually how we do it. And how do you really believe that fundamental matters? I think that it's also partially a market education process. And I don't usually talk about this, but I think this is also part of the reason I decided to become proactive on Twitter and also to be more vocal about my, what, what my view is, because I think that as a market participant, there's other market view I believe in and I do believe this is the right way to invest in the market. And I also want to get people to listen to this.
00:39:45.916 - 00:40:13.856, Speaker C: I mean, they might or might not agree with me. That's fine. But at least I want people to know that there is one guy that actually believe in this way of investing to the market and he has actually achieved something. So you might not even agree or disagree. It's actually, you can look at his view. And I think that I actually have to make more and more people agree that this is actually a decent way to invest in the market. And that actually helped to make the fundamental investing more recognizable as well.
00:40:13.856 - 00:41:08.382, Speaker C: So I think one of the projects I really like using right now, and we are also going to keep promoting that way of looking at it, is a token terminal. So they actually start to curate and put a lot of the DeFi protocol data into a very easily accessible way so you can view all the fundamentals in a very holistic and organized manner. And I think as this gets more and more popular, people are going to start to use fundamental as a way to invest in the project more and more. I do believe this is a trend. The trend has been there since 2019 and the last year spool market people start getting healed again. I think that's fine, but I think that over the long term, the trend is only going to accelerate. I think it's just that when you look at the stock market before the Benjamin Graham come up with the seminal book, it's called security analysis.
00:41:08.382 - 00:42:02.408, Speaker C: And then people don't even know how to value securities, which is stocks. I think after the depression until 1950 is a very meme coin and sentimental emotional based investing as well in the stock market until Benjamin Graham come up with a security analysis and then it catch on and value investing become a recognizable discipline. And then you have discounted cash flow model being developed, I think around also 50 to business school start teaching it. And then it's a process. It takes a while for the entire market to recognize this is the right way to invest in. It's not going to happen immediately. So I'm sure that when Benjamin Graham published a book, the market doesn't immediately switch to really believing fundamental investment is the right way to go.
00:42:02.408 - 00:42:15.004, Speaker C: It takes a while. I believe the same kind of evolution will happen to the crypto market as well. And as an early practitioner, you can actually gain alpha by doing that because you recognize something that the market are not seeing.
00:42:16.024 - 00:43:11.092, Speaker B: That's a great point, and I think that's why we connected so early on, because when we started Spartan back in 2018, our whole thesis was a fundamentals driven fund. I think a lot of your thoughts have definitely influenced how I think about DeFi as well, and folks like Chris Berniske with the book crypto assets, I think we're in a similar phase. As you mentioned, too, when Benjamin Graham wrote security analysis, and it came out and it affected how people invested in the stock market. So I definitely agree that investor education is a huge part of it. And this has been really fun to understand your process a bit more, which is something that I always wanted to do. And as we come to the final part of this discussion, Arthur, I wanted to kind of pick your brain on some of the things that, some of the lessons you learned along the way. So looking back now to when you started a fund or even back to when you first started investing, what are some blind spots or maybe things that you wish you had known before you started investing?
00:43:11.148 - 00:44:02.230, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a great question. In terms of blind spot, I think there are actually two blind spots. I think in the first stage, the blind spot was actually being too conservative. Like, I have to wait for all star align to invest in some projects, but you have to recognize at the early stage that you do not necessarily need to have all star online for market to really recognize and think that this project has a great potential. So, for example, Yun, I was fairly early, but actually for the first one day, I was skeptical. I was thinking that this is like a Yale farming staff and the yield aggregator, how sustainable yield aggregator is, etcetera. So I was actually a little bit late.
00:44:02.230 - 00:45:03.464, Speaker C: Not too late, but actually, if you know, because the admission schedule was extremely accelerated, missing out for one day actually already made a decent difference to the return. And obviously, you also have the code consent as well, but you could have immediately start diligence the code, if you feel comfortable enough, you could have went in and do the stuff or just buy the token directly. So I think that at the early stage, the blind spot is just that the market actually care most about the growth, then the value accrual. At least I think even until right now, that's the case. And myself and ourselves as a fund always care a lot about the token value accrual. But I think over the years we think that yes, market cares about it, but not as much as we think. People care a lot about the growth of the protocol and we will figure out how to distribute the revenue to the protocol or even the token holder later on.
00:45:03.464 - 00:45:33.254, Speaker C: The perfect example of it is uniswap. Until right now, the revenue doesn't accrue to the protocol or token holder at all. 100% of it go to LP and they are still the most valuable defi protocol out there. So I think that's a blind spot. At this stage, market care more about growth than value accrual. And the second blind spot I had was the retail. Unfortunately never learn.
00:45:33.254 - 00:46:25.266, Speaker C: And obviously, like what you have said as the market go to the ranging food market phase, a lot of the new participants and new entrants are not similar to the earlier. More veterans guys that have been there and went through some of the bear market know that, you know, there are some stuff that you might make some money, but it's best to avoid it. So the market as a result become extremely noise to signal ratio become very high. And I think that the blind spot was that. Yeah, I didn't recognize the market will get to that stage that quickly. And in a sense quite similar to the 2017 or 2018 phase where the retailers throwing money into anything because they have the history of making money without regarding what is it actually. So unfortunately, this still play out the same way.
00:46:25.266 - 00:46:51.360, Speaker C: I think that was one of the blind spot like so called stupidity thesis actually works. If you're really into this kind of thesis. I'm not, but it actually works. But you have to time it really well. You have to get into stuff like doge Shiba Inu at the right timing and really get out at the top. If you really have discount thesis, you just invest for that six months and you make the money and then you. You stop it for another one year.
00:46:51.360 - 00:47:43.734, Speaker C: That is probably a good investment strategy, but it's just not the way I would do it. Yeah, so I think that's probably one blind spot as well. And how fast I think that is also, it's not something I really want to see happen because I think it is discrediting a lot of the process the legitimate player has been doing. Actually, I'm sure as a fund manager yourself, VC's and a lot of other serious professionals working in the space, we actually spent a lot of time engaging with the more serious people, regulators, the media, to educate them about what crypto Defi is about. We always try to tell them the real legitimate story. Then you have a lot of this kind of random crap happening. It's actually discrediting a lot of the stuff we are trying to share with them and educate them about.
00:47:43.734 - 00:48:00.764, Speaker C: That always catches the most attention. Like we hear we are talking DeFi, the real adoption, yet they are saying that the dogecoin shiba inu safemoon going up a lot. And that's where all the retail are thinking about the new retail, unfortunately. So, yeah, I think that was a buy spot.
00:48:01.904 - 00:48:43.576, Speaker B: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And I definitely agree. I think the promotion of these meme coins and these kind of zero fundamentals coins are, is fun, but then it also ends up with a lot of people being hurt as they do eventually implode as they always do. And it does distract from the real work and I guess the quote unquote serious progress that's made in this space. I think there's a time and space for that, but it also takes discipline as an investor to not participate in those and just to focus on your edge and double down on the edge. And it sounds like for you guys, the edge is understanding the fundamentals and being contrarian when everyone else is disagreeing with you. And that has definitely paid out in some.
00:48:43.576 - 00:49:01.964, Speaker B: Some of your past bets. And this has been a really interesting discussion. I've always wanted to do this to dive deep into your process and understand your psychology as a fundamentals investor. So thank you so much once again for coming on the show and for people who want to follow you and understand what projects you guys are investing in, what are the best channels for them to do this?
00:49:04.584 - 00:49:30.852, Speaker C: I'm fanny at gift on Twitter. My Twitter handle is Arthur underscore x. Yeah, you can find me on Twitter. Pretty active there. And our website is defiance capital. Most of the protocol and investment we invested is up on our website, and I think going forward, we will publish our investment thesis a lot more regularly. Yeah.
00:49:30.852 - 00:49:31.904, Speaker C: So, yeah.
00:49:32.524 - 00:49:37.224, Speaker B: Yeah. Awesome. Well, thank you so much once again for coming on the show, Arthur. This has been really fun.
00:49:38.234 - 00:49:40.554, Speaker C: Yep. It's glad to be here.
