00:00:00.400 - 00:00:32.390, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taiki here. And in this video, I'll be going over the bearish case for solidly and solid x. So if you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below. None of this is financial advice, so I will say that I'm not like bearish solidly by any means. Right. I think it's interesting and I'll go over, I'll share my thoughts on it later. But I just wanted to make, you know, the bearish case for solidly this type of video, because I feel like, you know, if you just look social media, YouTube, Twitter, whatever, it feels like the public consensus for this project is bullish.
00:00:32.390 - 00:00:59.778, Speaker A: Because Andre bribing in wars. Right. And whenever the public consensus is bullish, even though I would, I would say like the majority of the public don't fully understand how solidly actually works, myself included. Right. I don't even fully understand how this works because first of all, the communication from the project, the documentation is pretty, pretty confusing. So, you know, whenever everyone thinks something is bullish, you just have to be careful. You just have to be careful.
00:00:59.778 - 00:01:23.324, Speaker A: And hopefully this video can, you know, give you some, I guess, opposing thoughts. Right. Because I feel like everyone has been saying this thing is bullish. And I don't particularly disagree, but, you know, you have to understand both sides of the argument in order for you to come up with like the most educated, like, for you to make like an educated decision. Right? So. Yeah. So seem to be the agenda of a video.
00:01:23.324 - 00:01:53.440, Speaker A: Let's get right into it. So you know what a solidly, it's a novel concept, right? At the end of the day, it's. It's an amm on phantom, right? They're trying to go cross string. I think avalanche is coming next, but that's not going to happen anytime soon. Right. So if you think about like valuing, like doing evaluation model for, for solidly, you have to come to an understanding that right now it's just an amm on the phantom ecosystem, right? People, it sounds like people like, think it's going to flip, like uniswap or something. I don't think that's going to happen.
00:01:53.440 - 00:02:35.048, Speaker A: You know, they're going to be like a cross chain Dex that introduces like this ve driving model with like the three, three mechanics to prevent. To prevent. To prevent you from being diluted. So let's kind of go over the tokenomics, right? So I think solidly is interesting because the weekly emissions that come out of the protocol, it's inversely related to the amount of people that lock their solid, right? So, you know, zooming in here, right? If 0% of the token is locked, right, for ve, then the weekly emission would be 2 million, right? Assuming that, you know, 2 million tokens emitted per day, or, sorry, per week. If 50% of the token is locked, then weekly emissions is a million. Right? It's half. If 100% is locked, then it's zero.
00:02:35.048 - 00:02:59.896, Speaker A: Right? So it's inversely, inversely related. Everyone locks. No emissions, no unlocks, then high emissions. So if you own the token, if you're farming a token, you're essentially incentivized to either just sell it or just, like, lock it up for a long period of time. And these ve tokens are nfts, right? Right. So that also kind of improves on the crv model, because whenever you lock up your crv for ve, CRB, you know, you can't. That's not transferable, right? It just, like.
00:02:59.896 - 00:04:00.954, Speaker A: It's just sitting on curve. But with, you know, solidly. Andre figured out that, okay, like, that's a pretty bad model, right? It kind of fixes the flaws of VeCRV, and through this NFT mechanism, it makes these ve, I guess, solid tokens actually liquid, right? Which I think is important to keep in mind as we get into, like, the later parts of the video when we discuss, like, solid x and oxdao, okay? And I believe. Yeah, so now this is important, right? This ve and three theory idea, it actually prevents you from being diluted, right? So if, you know, if there's a hypothetically a 5% supply increase, if you're actually, you know, ve your tokens, then your. Your holdings also increase by 5%. So if you lock up your tokens, you won't get diluted. And this is kind of different from the ohm model, right? Because with ohm, with the lump, Estelle, and the bonding mechanism, it actually dilutes you, right? If you three three and there was no bonding, then there's no dilution, right? I mean, there's, like, no new wealth being created, right, because everyone in the ecosystem gains the same amount of tokens.
00:04:00.954 - 00:04:56.836, Speaker A: So unless there's, like, new money coming in, you know, there's, like, no value being created, right? You just own more tokens. But with, you know, with 33 and ohm, there's, like, this modding thing where you can, like, buy home at a discount, you know, as long as you, like, wait three or five days or whatever, you know, so there's, like, a lot of dilution that happens with Olympus tao and its forks. But with ve 33, because there's no bonding, there's actually no that dilution, right? So that, you know, so it improves on I guess the flaws of just three three itself and ve, right, when it comes to CRB because with ve crv, like your tokens were not transferable, right. With the NfT thing you can transfer your tokens and you know, Olympusdao, right, people that stick were heavily diluted with three three. Sorry, with ve three three on solidly, there's no dilution, right? As long as you lock up your tokens. Yes. Yeah, same thing here, right? And you know it's nfts and I think the screenshot like a week ago.
00:04:56.836 - 00:05:29.148, Speaker A: So like maybe your tokens like lower, higher, I don't know. But you know, you can trade your ve three positions on pink swap. Yeah. Paint swap, dot finance. Okay, so what is the end goal of solidly, right? Because you know, there's a lot of hype, right? Everyone thinks it's like the best thing ever. Maybe it is the best thing ever. But you know, we kind of have to think about like the fundamentals and like what is it trying to achieve? Like what is it trying to achieve? So obviously I already talked about the flaws of Vec, RB and the flaws of the ohm, right? The bonding and the dilution aspect.
00:05:29.148 - 00:06:38.086, Speaker A: And there's like another flaw that Andre is trying to fix and it kind of goes over I guess like the X Sushi model, the VCRV model where if you just lock up your tokens, right? So for example, let's take sushi, for example, if you take sushi, right, and stake your sushi for ex sushi, you just earn like the protocol fees, right? It doesn't matter which token pairs earns fees, right? You just take your sushi, stake it and you earn freeze. But with the V 330 thing, he kind of changes up a little bit where, you know, it's still taking this I guess the sushi model where fees earned by the protocol goes to lockers. But, but the emission rater protocol should go to pools with the highest fees. And the VE 33 lockers decide which pools receive emissions. So essentially TLDR, let's simplify this thing. Essentially all the fees are going to go to lockers and the lockers decide where the emissions are going to go, right? So if you're locking the token, then it makes sense for you to give solid emissions to the trading pairs with the highest amount of fees, right? And if you lock up your solid tokens and you vote for something that received no fees, then you're not really going to receive fees. So that's kind of how you think about it.
00:06:38.086 - 00:07:24.386, Speaker A: Yeah. And I guess the problem with, like, VCRV is that you can, like, bribe particular token pairs that might not get any fees whatsoever, but, you know, that pool will still get emissions. But, you know, he's trying to fix upon that issue. And I think the bribing concept is interesting because I kind of think of this as like, democratizing emissions, right? If you think about like spooky swap, Trader Joe, essentially the team, right? The trader Joe team, the spooky swap team essentially determines where emissions go, right, for. And maybe there's like, some human element there, right? Maybe they make a mistake. Maybe some pairs that are no fees get, like, high rewards. And, you know, it kind of messes with, like, the tokenomic model of boo or Joe, but with solidly, because token holders are incentivized to give emissions to trading pairs that earn the highest fees.
00:07:24.386 - 00:08:15.226, Speaker A: Maybe that's going to create for better tokenomic structures, incentive structures. And, you know, at the end of the day, this is all an experiment, right? So maybe this thing fails, maybe it doesn't, but that's kind of what, you know, Andre is going for. And this kind of goes along with the ethos of crypto, right, where there's a lot of forking going on. You kind of look at, I mean, let's kind of take a look at like, you know, like tokenomic structures, right? It's just like with Olympus Dao, right? Ohm did something cool, and then like, a bunch of forks came up and then, you know, someone to zero, I guess most went to zero. And then there are like, still some that survived, right? And then with sushi swap, right? Sushi for uni introduced a token. Forced Uniswap to introduce token. And then there are a bunch of these other protocols that look at Sushi's successes, look at Sushi's failures and improves upon those tokenomics, right? So open source software, lots of forking, lots of innovation, lots of, I guess, improvements, right? Incremental improvements that happen over time.
00:08:15.226 - 00:08:45.722, Speaker A: And maybe this is the final model that makes sense. Maybe it's not. It's an experiment. We'll see, right? Let's just watch, you know, let's grab a bag of popcorn, eat from the sidelines as some degens look to farm these emissions. Yeah, so I think I already mentioned this. And also so you can kind of see, like, you know, Andre looked at the flaws of past tokenomic structures and he's trying to improve upon them. And also, you know, sorry, Andre created urine.
00:08:45.722 - 00:09:35.406, Speaker A: Right. Urine finance. And one of the issues that, you know, he, I guess has regrets with like how yarn operates is that I guess, like yield aggregators, like urine dot finance, it offers pretty good yields for, you know, like stakers, right? But how it earns yield for depositors is by essentially yearn taking, let's say bitcoin, for example, moving it around right, within the ecosystem, informing and dumping the tokens. So if you look at the wrapped bitcoin vault, the APY is super low right now, but it used to be like 1015 percent. But what it essentially does is it supplies and borrows bitcoin on screen. So it loops, right? Supply bitcoin, borrow bitcoin, supply bitcoin, borrow bitcoin, right? And it just farms and dumps the token. The scream token, right? And this is one of the reasons, like, you know, scream hasn't done that well prior to like the whole solid thing.
00:09:35.406 - 00:10:41.112, Speaker A: And it's kind of parasitic to the ecosystem, right? Because Uranus saying, hey, deposit your assets here and we'll farm and dump things for you, right. From a user perspective, that's fine, right? Because if you're bullish on bitcoin, maybe you want more bitcoin, but from like a defi, like, you know, ecosystem, like community perspective, maybe it's not that great. So how solidly is going to distribute emissions is by not forming and dumping the token, but it'll just literally give you the token, right? So if you vote for the scream FTM pair, right, then, like whenever you earn fees, you're going to receive scream in FTM, right? So obviously, like anyone can just like dump scream, right, if they wanted to. But hopefully, you know, maybe it'll reduce the cell pressure and maybe it's going to create a more fair, like more ethical equals some, I guess, right? So yeah, that's the idea. It sounds all grand and dandy, right? At least a concept. So no, like, what edge do they have actually on the competition, right? And how does value accrue to the token? So just an amm, right. It's going to allow for variable swaps and stable swaps, right? So it's going to, it's going to compete with curve, it's going to compete with spooky swap and you know, just any amm in the ecosystem.
00:10:41.112 - 00:11:16.412, Speaker A: So there's a 0.01% fee, right? So it's a very low fee and yeah, just think of them as curve and uni v two right? Like bundled together. The one problem I have with solely is that the user experience and the UI is like pretty confusing, right? And Andre often mentions like test and prod, right, because everything he does is an experiment, right? Like his goal is not to pump your bags. His goal is to innovate, experiment and see if it succeeds. Right? Like he doesn't care if you make money on this protocol. He's just trying to experiment and see if it works. And because it is, because it is an experiment, there's like a lot of bugs.
00:11:16.412 - 00:12:24.626, Speaker A: So I tweeted this, I forgot maybe. I think I did this last week, right? But someone in the community essentially tried to swap 24,000 USDC to FTM, which should be a liquid pair, right? I mean, USDC, the fandom, obviously. But when he did it, maybe he didn't read the UI properly or something, but he turned $24,000 into $600 at FTM, right? And I had to say, hey guys, like, hey, like, when you're using solidly, you have to be careful, right, because the UI, the UX is, it's not that great, it's not that clear, right? It doesn't give you a warning, right. If your swap is going to result in like a 90% loss of funds. So maybe don't swap on solidly just yet. And, you know, just really be really careful, right? And then, you know, I was kind of thinking about it, like, did I just have to warn people to not use an amm because they can incur like 95% slippage or something? That definitely doesn't feel right for me. Right? And, you know, because if solidly is supposed to be like the best amm ever and, you know, like, a guy like me has to warn people to like not use solidly, then, like, is it like, is the product ready? Right? Is the product even ready? Right, sure.
00:12:24.626 - 00:13:03.464, Speaker A: It has a lot bunch of TVL because a bunch of djns wants to farm this thing. But is the product ready? Right. Maybe the price is like too ahead of like the fundamentals, right. Maybe it's still like a test testing phase. And if you go to the GitHub repository and you look at issues, you know, everyone's like, hey, guys, like, I lost like 99% of my funds because I swapped incorrectly. And maybe this is like default of the users, right? Like maybe they should have read or maybe they should have been more careful. However, you know, I think it is an issue, right? I do think it's an issue, you know, and like I said, like Andre tests in prod right? I mean, everything he does an experiment, he doesn't care if you're, if these tokens go up.
00:13:03.464 - 00:13:41.374, Speaker A: So, you know, solidly is bound to have hiccups. You have to be careful. When I provided liquidity, I incurred some slippage, right? I did like USDC mem, and like, I lost some money. I'm like, what the hell is going on? Lots of user experience issues, lots of UI issues. But you know, let's assume that, you know, it gets fixed later and like, let's live in the utopian society where, you know, like solidly is back up and running, right? And let's keep going into the Deandre article. So he often talks about the Amm arena as quite saturated and they didn't want to launch an amm to compete with existing projects, right? So, you know, we're not going to compete with existing amms. Like our, the current amms can build on top of it, yada, yada, yada.
00:13:41.374 - 00:14:19.968, Speaker A: But if you think about it, like, if solely is locking up, like, way more TVL, like, where's that TVL coming from? Sure, some of that TVL is coming from Ethereum, avalanche, right? And the other chains. But if solidly is trying to be the number one decentralized exchange on Fantom, then obviously that's not good for the fundamentals of these other tokens. So if solidly is a success, then it's probably bearish. The fundamentals of booster and beats and maybe even curve. I mean, curve, like curve doesn't really care what happens on fandom, to be honest, because they're mainly on Ethereum. But for the fundamentals of these tokens, I don't think it's a good thing. The price of these tokens might go up because you need to buy booze beats to farm solid.
00:14:19.968 - 00:15:04.900, Speaker A: But, you know, once the emissions go down, there's gonna be less incentive to hold on to these tokens if solidly ends up being the number one exchange. Yeah, so, and you know, I think Andrey also said, yeah, it's not trying to compete and protocols can build on top of it, right? But if you think about it, like, why would anyone. So if solidly is the most liquid, like, why would anyone use spooky swap, right? When you can swap with like 0.1% fee, right? Like, why would you. Why would I use spooky swap or spirit swap or beats? Maybe it's like more capital efficient, but, you know, it's probably going to be better for users to swap on solidly. And maybe spooky swap can, like you know, route trades through, like, solidly, right? But at that, like, why would they, like, as a user, like, why would you. I think spooky charges like a 0.3%
00:15:04.900 - 00:15:29.450, Speaker A: fee or 0.2% fee, right? So, like, would you rather, you know, pay a point to 1% fee to, like, trade on spooky swap or pay. Or pay a 0.01% fee to trade on solidly? It doesn't really make any sense. So I think Andre just said, we're not trying to compete for the sake of, you know, being friendly. But, you know, at the end of the day, it's like, they're going to compete, right? They're going to compete. And it's probably bearish, the fundamentals of these tokens.
00:15:29.450 - 00:16:05.354, Speaker A: Okay, let's keep moving forward. Let's call. Let's talk about, I guess, the convex clones, like solid x oxl. Um, yeah, let's get over it. Um, and the cool thing about solid is that, you know, because of the anti dilution aspect, I feel free to pause this, um, if you want to redo it. But, uh, essentially, um, if you farm solid or you buy solid and you lock it up, you're not going to get diluted, right? So, um, kamikaze here said that, um. Or the thesis is that, you know, um, like, solid early on is more valuable than solid solid later on, right? Because you're not being diluted.
00:16:05.354 - 00:16:33.880, Speaker A: And I thought that was an interesting concept, right? So it's kind of. You can kind of think of this as, like, the time value of solid, right? There's often, like a time value of money, right? $100 now is worth more than $100, like next year, right? Etcetera. So maybe there's like, this concept of solid now is worth more than solid later. So maybe, you know, people are not, like, pricing this in, and maybe solid is undervalued, right? Who knows, right? Maybe. Maybe that's something to keep in mind. I. And also with the concept of time value of solid, you know, there's two.
00:16:33.880 - 00:17:15.940, Speaker A: I guess there's two main competitors, right? There's like, Solidx and there's Oxdao. I don't know what happened with Oxy, right? But they had to do the delay their launch, like three days or something, you know, like, what the hell is up with Oxd today? Like, literally nothing, right? Literally nothing. And, you know, Solidx, they had like, you know, a few days advantage, right? They had a head start. And if you think about it, like, Solidx, is it earning like 15% performance fee on all solid earned. Right? So, you know, if you think about the time value of solid, maybe Solidx is at a huge advantage over ox dollar just because they launched early and because solid early on is more, is worth more than solid later on. Maybe they're, they've. They've accumulated.
00:17:15.940 - 00:17:46.810, Speaker A: They've accumulated enough solid already to just be the winner in the solidly wars, right? Like we don't even know if there's gonna be a solidly wars, right? That's like a narrative that the community is pushing, but you know, it's something to keep in mind. Yeah, it just seemed they seem to be like front runners. If there is going to be a solid wars, I'm not really convinced there is going to be one. Right. I'll talk about that later. So for me, I'm just stable farming, right? I think it's too dangerous to like farm the sex token and these other tokens because they're super inflationary. The fundamentals are questionable.
00:17:46.810 - 00:18:23.180, Speaker A: So, you know, I mean, I just kind of did. I kind of, I'm like farming this just so I can experience it for myself. You know, I'm just going to grab popcorn, watch from the sidelines as a bunch of DJ's like, buy these tokens. And this is a very thought provoking post by disco defi, right? So I have no idea who this guy is, but he's very, very smart, right? Hands off to him. And I kind of already alluded to this, right? But the reason convex is so valuable is because of the flaws of the Ve Cr V model, right? Because. Because if you lock up your CRV, you can't do anything with it. So it makes no sense for an individual to lock up your CRV on curve.
00:18:23.180 - 00:19:16.292, Speaker A: It makes sense to just use convex because, you know, at least with CVX CRV, you know, you can kind of transfer and whatnot, right? So the convex actually has product market fit, right? There's demand for convex as services. However, you know, let's focus on this part here. Ve solid, right? It's transferable, it's, it's an NFC, right? So is there actual demand for like a convex colon, like solid x or oxl, right? Like if it's tradable, then there's no reason for an individual to like lock up your solid tokens for solid sex or something, right? Like you can just lock it in solidly gain yield and sell it when you want to, right? So maybe the best play right now is solid and not like Solid X, right? You know, the. I mean this, this is true for all communities. But, you know, if you think about, like, the. The bullish narratives that communities tend to spin up, you know, it's. You know, they just, like, make these narratives to make their bags more appealing.
00:19:16.292 - 00:19:29.076, Speaker A: Right. It's like, uh, solidly wars. Buy my bags. Right. And that's kind of how it works. And then, I mean, everyone does it, right. Um, it's kind of the crypto ethos, but, you know, you kind of have to be careful about, um, you know, assuming that solidx is going to be the best thing ever.
00:19:29.076 - 00:20:01.342, Speaker A: Assuming oxdao is going to be the best thing ever. Because maybe there's no demand for, like, a convex clone for solidly. Because, you know, I mean, there's only demand for convex because of the flaws of the VCRV model. So if Andre fixes the flaws of the VCRV model, then do you need a convex maybe, right? There's no way to know. I mean, this thing has been live for, like, less than a week. Who knows, right? It's something to keep in mind. But, you know, like, maybe the best thing you can do is, like, buy solid or something, right? Or farm solid and, like, not get too caught up in, like, the.
00:20:01.342 - 00:20:28.626, Speaker A: The entire, like, you know, the pump of mentals of, like, the sex token or whatever. Okay. So, you know, the very. I mean, I guess I already kind of gave the bearish case, but at least for solid x and the wrapper tokens. But, you know, I think the easiest case for the bearish case is, you know, I think the majority of people don't fully understand this thing, but everyone's bullish because it's Andre and bribing. Right? And the war. Oh, wars.
00:20:28.626 - 00:20:58.406, Speaker A: Buy my bags, right? In that type of market or in that type of. I guess. I don't know. I feel like I don't really have an edge, right? If I'm trying to be bullish this thing just because everybody's already bullish, right? So who the hell is buying after me, right? That's kind of how I think about it. So, you know, I think farming this thing is fine, right? I think farming it with stables or, like, FTM, USDC, stuff like that, right? Less volatile pairs. I think that's fine. But, you know, like, buying the farm tokens, right? I mean, they're all farm tokens.
00:20:58.406 - 00:21:51.834, Speaker A: Like, buying these farm tokens, I think it's pretty dangerous if you do the research, right? Maybe you've done more research, right? That's totally fine, right? I mean, it's your money. You can do whatever the hell you want, right? I'm just like some asian guy on the Internet, but that's kind of how I'm thinking about it. And yeah, also like, if you think about like the demand for the fees, right, or demand for solid, it's coming from the fees, right? Because you can lock up your solid and earn fees, but it's a 0.01% fee, right? So you're not actually going to be earning that many fees from. Because at the end of the day, solid solidly is a Dex on the phantom ecosystem, right? So if you think about like, you know, how many, how much people use phantom, right? There's like, I mean, I feel like a lot of people love phantom, right? Because like the Djinn aspect, rights, community driven. But if you think about like how much TVL is on phantom, right, it's less than, you know, other chains. I mean it's growing, right? It's growing, but it's not like, you know, ethereum level, right? It's not like ethereum level.
00:21:51.834 - 00:22:36.834, Speaker A: And you know, once the hype dies down, like, you know, will liquidity be loyal, right? Who knows? And even if like, you know, there's a bunch of activity, right, 0.1% per trade, like that's not that much money, right? If you think about it. So it's going to need ridiculous amounts of volume in order for solid token to have like a high valuation in my opinion. And maybe it gets there, right? But the point is, I think solidly success is kind of limited to Phantom's success. It's also limited like phantom scalability, right? Phantom. Phantom is a pre centralized chain, but it doesn't scale that well. I'm sure like you can like bid gas up like for like 2000, 3000 way, but from a user experience standpoint, like it's not that friendly, right? Like sometimes you have, you do a transaction, it's like a lock, it's pending and it doesn't go through.
00:22:36.834 - 00:23:12.420, Speaker A: I think the metamask integration isn't that great, which is fine, right? I mean, I think they're gonna expand it like avalanche and stuff and hopefully, you know, it just like keeps growing. But I feel like the sentiment around solidly is that it's gonna like replace uniswap and I'm gonna be like this number one Dex, it's gonna be the best thing ever. And I just don't think that's gonna be the case. And if it, I mean, even if it's gonna be the case, it's gonna take like, like a year to play out, right? So maybe you don't have to be, like, that bullish, like, right now, right? Maybe you can play, play the. Play, like, the long game, right. You don't have to be, you know, like, super bullish, like, immediately, right? Like, buy now. You don't have to do that, right? You really don't.
00:23:12.420 - 00:23:30.140, Speaker A: And also the bear case, right? This is an experiment, right? Andre doesn't really care if this fail succeeds. Right. I mean, obviously he wants this to succeed because, you know, he's putting his name behind it, and a lot of people have their money in it. But, you know, he's testing in production. Right? He's testing in production. Don't yolo your net worth on an experiment, right. Just don't do it.
00:23:30.140 - 00:23:57.374, Speaker A: Yeah. And like I mentioned, right? And this is like, a copy and paste of, like, the slide I made earlier on. But, you know, when public consensus is bullish, like, where's your edge, right? And you kind of have to be careful. And Andre definitely, right. He's not a social media guy. And I think when he partnered with Danny La to, like, launch this thing, I think his mindset right before the whole sifu thing was, okay, like, I am Andre. I am a developer.
00:23:57.374 - 00:24:11.570, Speaker A: I hate doing community relations. I hate doing marketing. I hate talking to people or, okay, sorry. Maybe he doesn't hate talking to people, but, you know, he doesn't like the marketing aspect. Right. So maybe I can just build solidly right behind the scenes, and then Danielle can just pump it for me. Right.
00:24:11.570 - 00:24:28.734, Speaker A: That's. Maybe that was his thing, but because of the whole Danielle thing, right. Then, you know, like, I'm not gonna talk about that. Like, now, Andre is kind of, like, the face of this project, but, you know, he's been taking a lot of heat with, like, the whole Ui. Ux feed. Sorry, ui and ux bugs. Like, you know, like, it's kind of confusing and whatnot.
00:24:28.734 - 00:24:46.982, Speaker A: Right. And, you know, he's kind of. I mean, I'm not taking any size, right. But, you know, he's kind of, like, you know, lashing out against bite masons, like, in the reaper form, right? And he's like, you know, like, they stole from the community. It feels like Andre is, like, kind of stressed, right. And I totally get it. Right.
00:24:46.982 - 00:25:09.098, Speaker A: I mean, being a public figure, it sucks, especially when, you know, people expect you to make money for them. Right. I feel like everyone expects, like, I feel like the mindset when it comes to solidly is, like, I'm gonna ape and hopefully make money. Right. It's not really trying to understand the technology it's trying. It's not really trying to understand the roadmap and, like, you know, like, why the technology is interesting. It's more like the ape.
00:25:09.098 - 00:25:27.928, Speaker A: The ape mentality. And I don't know what's going on. I'm not taking any sides. I just, like, wanted to share this, right? Because I do think it's interesting, right? Because Andre is the face of the project, and he deleted his Twitter because, you know, he hates a Twitter, I guess. So maybe it's a good look, maybe it's a bad look. Maybe he's building behind the scenes. But, you know, this is an experiment.
00:25:27.928 - 00:25:53.900, Speaker A: This is an experiment. Andre does experiments, okay? He doesn't care if this thing pumps, right? He literally does not care. You know, and, you know, also a warning, right? There are a bunch of scammers out there, right? There's this new Twitter account called Andre cronier 123. And he's claiming to be like. Like Andre, right? And he has, like, 6000 followers. But no, this is a scam account, right? So do not fall for these scam accounts. Andre does not have an alternate account.
00:25:53.900 - 00:26:23.916, Speaker A: He deleted his Twitter. He's probably gonna be quiet for some time now, right? Because he needs a break, right? He needs a mental health break, you know? Like, we should totally relate with that, right? And I think as crypto participants, we kind of just expect the devs, like, make people money, but, you know, devs are human, right? Just don't expect them to, like, pump our bags, you know, like Andre, right? He's been. Been building in Defi for, like, two years, or, like, I mean, crypto for, like, a very long time. So, you know, like, you know, he needs a break. He needs a break. And Anton, right, he works closely with Andre. He says that's not his account, right? So this is a scam.
00:26:23.916 - 00:26:47.750, Speaker A: This is a scam. Don't fall for it. I think this thing is going to launch a new project or, like, some new smart contract, and he's going to ask you for your money. Don't, like, don't fall for it, right? Please. There's too many scams in crypto. Okay, what about the bullish case? Right? Because I spent too much time, like, on the bearish case. And, yeah, I mean, you know, obviously the bullish case, you can, like, go on YouTube, there's, like, a bunch of different narratives.
00:26:47.750 - 00:27:17.986, Speaker A: But, you know, the way I think about it is that, you know, I think, you know, solidly kind of improves upon the tokenomics of other successful protocols, right? Namely Ohm curve, etcetera. And I like their design. I think I like their plans to go crossing. And I think the bull case is that it's going to replace sushiswap as a cross chain dex, right? Because sushi swap, I mean, it's probably going to zero at this point. I mean, not zero, but, you know, the token is going to just. It's a perpetual form token. It's always going to have TVL.
00:27:17.986 - 00:28:12.682, Speaker A: It's going to be a safe text to use, but in terms of, like, its fundamentals, right, and the tokenomic structure, it's not that great, right. Hopefully, someone takes over and fixes the tokenomics and whatnot, but, you know, not that great. I think the bullcase for solidly is that, you know, over time, it expands, right? So it goes to, it's on phantom, it goes to avalanche, it goes to Ethereum. It goes to, like, I don't know, like other AVM chains, right? And it becomes like a cross chain Dex with that locks up a lot of TVL with a sustainable tokenomics model. And if it, like, I don't know, accumulates like 10 billion Tvo across many ecosystems, you know, there's gonna be a lot of demand for solid, right? Because if you lock up solid, you know, you're not gonna get diluted and maybe those NFTs are going to be more valuable, right? So bold case, a better sushi slop, right? A better sushi slop. But, you know, this will probably play out over months, right? Like, I don't know if I included it here. Yeah, sorry I didn't include it here.
00:28:12.682 - 00:28:53.986, Speaker A: But, you know, Andre himself mentioned that, you know, avalanche is coming next for solidly, but, you know, like, that's not going to happen next week. It's not. It's probably not going to happen this month, maybe. Q two, Q three, who knows, right? It kind of depends on, like, where Andre's heads at and his, you know, and he's often mentioned that, like, he hates building and defi because everyone's so toxic. So, you know, just be aware that, you know, at the end of the day, this is an amm on the phantom ecosystem, right? So don't expect this thing to, like, flip uniswap or something, right? That's not going to happen anytime soon. Once they expand cross chain, maybe there's, like, more things to be excited for. But right now, you know, it's a farm token, at least.
00:28:53.986 - 00:29:26.444, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a farm token. It's got a lot to prove, right? It's got Ui issues. You got, it's got ux issues, you know, solid X O X. Now like is there demand for those protocols? Maybe not, right? Maybe not. You kind of have to think about these things, right? And that, you know, I think at the end of the day if you're farming I think it's totally fine, right? I think it's totally fine. But I just want people to be careful when you're buying these things because you know maybe everyone says it's bullish, right? But you know, like is it actually bullish? Not sure. Not sure.
00:29:26.444 - 00:30:31.770, Speaker A: So in conclusion, I like solidly, I think it can do well over a long period of time. In the short term I think there's too much euphoria and Solidx and OXL. I'm kind of, I'm questioning the tokenomics structure and if there's even product market Fitzhen. But you know, I mean in the phantom ecosystem there's like a bunch of tokens pumping, right? There's a lot, there's a lot of alpha to be had, right? If you're like pumping these tokens, I'm not doing this, right. But I think, you know, I think the majority of the alpha is like front running the pumps, right? For example, like let's, let's say token XYZ is about to have emissions, right? But it's currently 0% and then maybe next week it starts to get like 1000% APR. Well then there's going to be future demand for the token, right? So I think what a lot of people are doing is that it's front running the emissions, right? So people are buying the token expecting other people to buy the token later to farm with and then the early front runners, they're going to dump their token to those people and they're going to flip those tokens for a profit. So I think that's what, that's kind of what's happening.
00:30:31.770 - 00:31:31.700, Speaker A: I think that's where the majority of the money is made and also that's where the majority of the money is lost. So you know, if you're new to defi, I would be really careful with playing solidly in solid X if you're like trying to be like, if you're trying to position aggressively just because I think there's a lot of like, you know, Pvp aspects of like people front running and dumping and who knows, right? Who knows? Because like I mentioned, like I think this is like solidly is bearish for the fundamentals of like boo spirit and you know, those projects. But you know those tokens are going to pump because people need to buy boo to like, farm solidly, right? But if you think that the fundamentals are deteriorating over time, then you should expect the token to also deteriorate over time. It's just like short term price movements. It doesn't really give you the full picture of how strong the fundamentals are. So you have to think more critically about why are people buying and when are they going to dump. When are they going to dump? Because I think most phantom tokens, they're not pumping because they have strong fundamentals.
00:31:31.700 - 00:32:12.114, Speaker A: They're just pumping because people needed to farm. Nothing about the phantom, all coins have improved fundamentally, but the pump of mentals have improved because you need it to farm, right? So lots of, you know, sharks in the water, right? So just be careful. Like I mentioned earlier, like me, I'm just like, I have a bag of popcorn. I'm just like farming with stables, right? I'm just like eating, eating popcorn and we'll see, right? Maybe solid dumps so hard where I just like have to buy, right? Maybe solid x dumps so hard I just have to buy. You know, I don't care if I miss out on this, you know, I think you have. I think the time frame for this project is like pretty long, you know? So just be careful. Just be careful.
00:32:12.114 - 00:32:29.590, Speaker A: So thank you guys for watching. That's the end of the video. Let's go to the very top. Oh, sorry, I don't want to get. Yeah, so this is a bearish case. Doesn't mean I'm bearish, but just be careful, right? Just be careful because lots of, lots of narrative is being thrown out there. But I.
00:32:29.590 - 00:32:42.780, Speaker A: Lots of warning signs, definitely to be had. So thank you guys for watching. Hope you guys enjoyed the video. Let me know if I'm wrong in the comment section. If you dislike this video, feel free to dislike it. Unsubscribe, whatever. I really don't care.
00:32:42.780 - 00:32:44.240, Speaker A: And have fun farming out there.
