00:00:07.210 - 00:00:47.258, Speaker A: Okay. Hello everyone. My name is Peiman Womani. I am one of the co founders of Fairblock and actually I've done my graduate school in Uwaterloo Cryptography Lab and same for my co founder and couple of our team members. So it means a lot for us to be here. So while you are still in your 42nd attention span, I just want to summarize the key points that I really want to make. So probably you've already heard of private transfers like Tornado Cash, Zcash Penumbra, like Aztec and like ZK Roll ups and they are great.
00:00:47.258 - 00:02:22.118, Speaker A: But today I'm trying to talk more about other applications of privacy and talk about how privacy can actually enable more applications for users, how it can actually save you money, and tell about the fact that it doesn't necessarily mean like bad UX or trouble with IRS or also, the key point here is like pre execution privacy and threshold identity based encryption that we are building. So what's pre execution privacy first? So right now, all of the applications that we have like decentralized application that we have, the messages are public. So if you are sending a message, a vote for a Dao or if you are trading, everyone can see your transaction, the contents of your transaction before finalization and the inclusion of your transaction inside the block. So this is the heart of the problem for mev, france running and other stuff that is happening in DeFi and also it has limited couple of cool applications that we know for on chain applications like Sealbit auctions or private governance that a lot of people are talking about these days. So the idea is that right now we don't have any privacy before execution. The idea is that we want to protect transactions, the contents of the messages up to the point of execution. After that, everything should be transparent.
00:02:22.118 - 00:03:25.994, Speaker A: It's just for protecting you from exploits and also enabling applications. The basic idea is that we can encrypt the transaction contents in the user side in the front end and then once the inclusion and ordering and sequencing of the transactions are finalized, a threshold committee of like, it can be like, validators of the blockchain or Dao members. They can send their private key shares and a single private key can be generated which can decrypt all of the transactions and we can execute it right after that. So this means that all of the transactions will be encrypted, all of the contents will be protected and nobody has access in any way to the contents of your transaction before execution. So you can rest for this part because it's a little theoretical. But the idea that we are implementing is like identity based encryption. The classic idea is that right now probably you know about private keys and public keys using classic public key cryptography.
00:03:25.994 - 00:04:24.562, Speaker A: You should know the public key of the receiver party, right? Like, you know, like the public key is like some random address and then you encrypt your message for that specific public key. So the original idea of identity based encryption is that you can just without the knowledge of the receiver party, like any information about the receiver party, you can just encrypt some message for their email address, their IPS or their photos. And the receiver party right after that they can go talk to a centralized private key generator, authenticate themselves and get the private key. So this is called extraction. And then once you have the as the receiver party, you have extracted your own private key, you can decrypt it. So there is like the setup algorithm which after the setup algorithm we have the master secret key which is going to be used by the centralized private key generator to generate a single private key for all of the receiver parties. And there is a master public key for the whole system.
00:04:24.562 - 00:05:23.950, Speaker A: So you can encrypt transactions with the combination of the master public key and an ID for anyone. So using the master public key which is fixed and ID, that can be, I don't know, your photo, your IP or like your email address, we can encrypt transactions for the receiver parties and then the guy can ask the third party to extract a private key for themselves and it can decrypt using that. So this is the classic idea of IB, how we are using that. We are combining IV with ideas in multi party computation using DKG and other technologies like ZK, we have made it decentralized. So the centralized party that I was talking about for extraction of the private key right now using DKG is decentralized. So instead of asking one person to generate the private keys, a committee of validators can send their private key shares. And this is decentralized.
00:05:23.950 - 00:06:31.386, Speaker A: So this can be all of the validators of the blockchain and the ID which was email address or IP. This is the condition of decryption here the ID is block number or just simply the deadline for decryption. So you can encrypt a transaction for a specific deadline, you can encrypt it and say it should be decrypted in block 100. So we can have the idea of time like encryption using IB and TKG. So right now I'm going to briefly discuss a couple of the applications that we've enabled using IB and DKG. So the celebrity here is like mev, the bad part of mev, not like the good mev and arbitrage opportunities, the toxic mev and fraudstanding attacks that a lot of people have already heard of. The heart of problem is that when you send your trades on uniswap or something, other people can see your trades, they can put a buy order before your transaction and then right after execution of the original transaction, they can sell it.
00:06:31.386 - 00:07:24.934, Speaker A: So they can make some money because of your transaction, because of having some kind of insider knowledge about contents of your transaction and this is also called Sandwiching, you may heard of this kind of stuff. This is a really big market, it's like 1 billion market. Some part of it is coming out of normal retail users pockets and protocols. And it's been known that this is not good for UX. You should know about a lot of sleepage amounts and it may cause a lot of other complexities. So one of the problems to mitigate consequences of Mev and France running is by having pre execution privacy which can be built with IB and NPC, as I discussed. And the other idea that we've implemented is private governance and like the O's.
00:07:24.934 - 00:08:22.586, Speaker A: So the basic idea is that we can encrypt your votes, right? And your votes will be encrypted up to the point of the deadline or the voting. Nobody can see other people's vote, but everything will be transparent after the deadline. And once your votes are encrypted, we can send them to the blockchain on a smart contract in Ethereum or in Cosmos. And once everything is finalized, the deadline of voting, the gathering votes is finalized and nobody can vote anymore. All of the validators, all of the Dao members can send their private key shares and a threshold of them can be aggregated automatically to decrypt them and tally the results. And the results will be transparent. So why this is important is it can help with information symmetry, less bias and less censorship, like shorter voting periods.
00:08:22.586 - 00:09:44.950, Speaker A: And it may be helpful for mitigating a lot of social media dramas for governance proposals to make it more easy to understand and without all of these buzwords. Like there are a couple of examples here. So most of the time people don't do their homework and their research like in governance proposal, they just copy other influential faces, I don't know votes and this is good. There is also like off chain communication, but at least on on chain communication you can't just see what's the other people's decision. You should do your own research and then vote after that so the results will be slightly less influenced. The second point is that if you see that the voting result is already done and either you are on the winning side so you don't think that it's important to vote or you are in the losing side, so you think that your vote is not going to be counted, right? So for the winning scenario, if you don't vote, you may win the election by just 1% but the reality may be like 67% and in the losing side maybe you end up losing by 0.5%. So if you have voted, maybe the election was like in the other side.
00:09:44.950 - 00:10:29.526, Speaker A: Election result was in the other side. So this is exactly like political elections. In reality nobody can see your votes. Everything is like in the pockets. So we are basically making the pockets so other people cannot see your votes. And like the turkish election or other stuff. There is common strategy in crypto that major stakers and whalers they wait until the very last second for voting because they can influence their results if they vote and they wait and then sometimes it's possible to borrow some stake from other people and then just vote to just turn the results in the other way.
00:10:29.526 - 00:11:27.582, Speaker A: So using pre execution, privacy and cryptography we can prevent this kind of scenarios. The other application that we are excited about is like Seal bit actions and theoretically there is a lot of research and mechanism design research that talk about Seal bid actions. You may know it, I've heard of it as second price actions, victory actions. So basically second price actions is better for users because there is like financial incentive for all of the bidders to send their bids for their drill value of the asset. And there is a couple of implementations in the crypto space for example by a 16 Z but they are using some kind of just simple hashing. The problem is that if you want to hash your bit, you should reveal it yourself. So there is like two interactions.
00:11:27.582 - 00:12:57.030, Speaker A: But right now with our implementation, since there is a virtual network of decryption, you just encrypt it, send it and the decryption happens automatically after the deadline of the auction. So there is just a single interaction and in most of the other implementation in the space you need some kind of deposit. So if you don't reveal it, you should be slashed. But in this case you don't need any deposit because other people are going to decrypt it anyway. And yeah, I think example is like NFT marketplaces and Silveraductions for NFT marketplaces the good thing is that you cannot really hype the value of the NFT by asking your friend to submit a bid for like thousand ETHS for your, I don't know, ape and people will bid with something closer to the real value. This was the main ideas that we've explored but using the same infrastructure, exactly the same idea of encrypting messages and decrypting them after the time, like after the time deadline or after meeting a couple of conditions we can enable, we can get really creative and make other applications. The first idea is like randomness generation like as an Oracle service.
00:12:57.030 - 00:14:13.114, Speaker A: The idea is that the private key, the single private key that we are generating with IB, it can be effectively the source of randomness, right? And nobody the good thing is that even the last person who is sending their private key share cannot affect they cannot wait for the last second and send their private key shares to affect the final randomness like results. Because there is the private key, once the threshold of them send the private key, it's going to be the same private key even it doesn't matter if you are the last person and the other guy is the last person. So this is quite nice. It can be used for gaming and since the crypto is a big casino, so gambling is big part of it and you can use randomness for all of the gaming and other gambling application and it's also very important for some kind of fairness applications. There is also some more serious applications like private intents and limit orders. The idea is that you can encrypt your transaction and say that the decryption should only happen when some conditions on the market are going to be met. For example, we can say that when ETH meets 5000 USDC decrypt my transaction.
00:14:13.114 - 00:15:07.630, Speaker A: So this is very important for DEXes, decentralized exchanges and couple of other DeFi players that we can enable. The difference here is that the ID that I was talking about in IB here is not the time. You are not encrypting for 100 for decryption, you are encrypting for a price. And this is the idea and the last idea I know you're overwhelmed with a lot of these ideas, but the last idea is like censorship resistant roll up sequencing. So there is like a really big hype about shared sequencing right now. And the idea is that single sequencer can sequence all of the roll up transactions for, I don't know, for example, like arbitrary optimism and all of the roll up providers. There is a really good explanation for the reason of that.
00:15:07.630 - 00:15:58.318, Speaker A: For example, one of that is that we can have atomic cross chain transactions. And for this idea for shared sequencers and sequencers in general, they are good because they are decentralized. Nobody can censor your transaction based on your identity, your address. If someone like some black, some sequencer tries to censor you, other people can include your rollout transaction but they are still not fully censorship assistant because they can still censor you. They can have some kind of insider knowledge and censor all of the transactions based on the contents of transactions before sequencing. So the idea is that we can encrypt roll up transactions in the sequencing layer and once the sequencing is done, nobody has any knowledge about the contents of roll ups. They can execute it in the roll up site.
00:15:58.318 - 00:16:51.710, Speaker A: So we will be like fully censorship assistant because we are decentralized and also we have encrypted roll up transactions. To sum it up, I talk about the privacy. It's not just ZK roll ups and Zcash or Tornado cache. It can enable a couple of applications which is quite important for users. I know a lot of people doesn't actually care about, I don't know, privacy or data. But the key point here is in crypto there is a special space that privacy actually means more money for you, it means better applications, it means better value for users. So this is a very fantastic opportunity to build cryptographic libraries and build better applications even for the users who don't actually care about privacy.
00:16:51.710 - 00:17:31.706, Speaker A: And yeah, it doesn't necessarily mean you are going to be arrested to work on privacy. It's not like tornado cache necessarily, which is also important, but it's a safe area to work on privacy. And lastly, we are happy that we are building production ready cryptographic libraries like Threshold, identity based encryption and enable this kind of applications. Yeah, that's all. And please follow us on Twitter. We love talking to you guys more about these ideas. We love feedback them and we are also hiring.
00:17:31.706 - 00:17:34.700, Speaker A: So, yeah, thank you.
