00:00:00.200 - 00:01:03.853, Speaker A: To you about some of the work that I denied a couple of years ago during my PhD in Oxford. This is joint work with Ellen Byrne in Oxford and Panos Kbrakites from Amherst, Massachusetts. And so today I want to talk to you about the connection, how we use mathematical modeling to try and understand the connection between hypoxia cyber programming. So one of the hallmarks of cancer that we've seen yesterday and Thomas Organ introduced very well in aiding the growth and the dynamics of the tumor. As we have said many times in this meeting before, the tumor is cancer is a very complex multiscale ecosystem. What we know is that when we zoom in, not only we have heterogeneity, both in the microenvironment cells are exposed to as well as heterogeneity what the cells are doing themselves. One of the key aspects of the tumor microenvironment is oxygen levels, so nutrients.
00:01:03.853 - 00:01:57.061, Speaker A: The idea is that in tumors are like in normal tissues because of the imbalance between cell growth and consumption. We have the formation of region of extremely or pathologically low oxygen level that we usually call hypoxia. And in contrast we have also cells that are exposed to normal oxygen level, what we call physioxia. Why people have been interested a lot in hypoxia is that this is a very stressful situation for cells. What cancer is finding that it's used several mechanisms that cells have from development to try and adjust and survive this very extreme situation. Epoxy actually connects at the cell level to several of the roles of cancer that we have seen yesterday, like cell cycle dysregulation, VEGF reduction and angiogenesis. Downstream people are connected this to emt.
00:01:57.061 - 00:03:02.975, Speaker A: But what I want to focus about today is particularly the connection between hypoxia and stemness, this idea of differentiation, the differentiation of cells. The idea is that this cell level connection between cells reprogramming and the tumor microenvironment eventually we know affects the overall dynamics of the tumor as well as the response of patients to treatment. Really our general goal has been to try and understand, using mathematical modeling how hypoxia contributes to the tumor progression and also response to treatment. But since I have limited time today, I want to talk to you focus especially on the first part of this project which has been investigating the connection between oxygen level, hypoxia and cancer development in the absence of treatment. And so I'll divide my talk into three sections. I'll give a little bit about background about the biology. Then I'll move on to Present our modeling framework and some of the key results and analysis.
00:03:02.975 - 00:03:40.519, Speaker A: So about the biology and stemness. So this is associated, what people have found now 10 years ago, is that similarly to normal tissues, also tumors are hierarchical structure. We can identify cancer stem cells. These usually are maybe cells that are highly tumorigenic. So they're the one that basically are a pool of new cells and drive the growth of the tumor. And they're usually also highly resistant to treatment. Then cancer cells can differentiate into differentiated cells.
00:03:40.519 - 00:04:16.439, Speaker A: These are usually forming the bulk of the tumor and they're antiproliterate proliferative cells that however have final reproduction capacity. So eventually they become totally differentiated and the only thing that they can do is die. You can maybe call this senescence. We don't really know. But so the idea is that what people have proposed initially was these cancer cell hypotheses in which similarly to normal tissues, also cancer follow this development path. And so you have cancer stem cells that differentiate and eventually become terminally differentiated. And this is a one way project, a one way process.
00:04:16.439 - 00:05:33.175, Speaker A: But actually what they found is that cancer can inject these mechanisms and actually when exposed to the proper signal, it can differentiate one of the hallmark of cancer that we're seeing yesterday. And so go back into this state of high tumorogenic infinite proliferation capacity. And it's really when their exposed cells are exposed to environments such as hypopsia, these reprogramming can occur. And so our question has been like, given this general framework, so using a bottom up approach, given this biological understanding, can we draw some conclusion on how this affects the emergent dynamics of the tumor? To do that we use what we call phenotypic structure model that probably several of you have already heard about is a theoretical work. So we start with several simplification. We consider a slice of tissue that is oxygenated by A vessels. By assuming symmetries around X equals zero and homogeneity in the Y direction, we just simplify for the purpose of the initial analysis to a 1D case and I'll present all of the results in non dimensional variable for simplicity.
00:05:33.175 - 00:06:06.267, Speaker A: But so we start abstracting to simplify understand really how this mechanism and these biological C sorry. Is the oxygen level so produced by the maximum at the vessel fixed and then it diffuses as it's consumed, usually with form gradients. That's a great question. Sorry. And so this is going to be a function of space as well as time. And so at each location in space we have a collection of cells. So we can describe these by the number of cells.
00:06:06.267 - 00:06:58.385, Speaker A: But the key idea is that we have seen before, cells are not homogeneous, but they're structured by the level of stemness. Really the way in which we describe this system is by counting the number of cells that have a certain phenotype. We call this function the local phenotypic distribution at each location in space. For each value of this phenotype that goes from stem like cells to fully differentiated cells, describe, we count the number of cells that have the specific phenotype. And we want to describe how this function changes both in space as well as in time, and as a function of S. So how we describe the time evolution of this function? Well, we assume that cells can move. And for simplicity here we start with the simplest type of operator for movement, so cell diffusion in 1D.
00:06:58.385 - 00:07:39.389, Speaker A: Then we have of course that as we know, cancer cells can proliferate but also die. And so this is a key usual sync and source term, where one of the key aspect is that we include cell competition. And we assume that all cells compete with each other independently of their phenotype. And so this is kind of standard, kind of selection, type of mechanism, which is mediated also by oxygen. But then the key idea is that we want to describe how cells evolve along this phenotypic axis. And we have two key mechanisms. We assume that there is some random diffusion.
00:07:39.389 - 00:08:47.563, Speaker A: This is because at the phenotypic level there might be fluctuation or noise in our cells PA and then the key aspect is that we have this advection term and this capture the effect of the environment, so c our oxygen level on the behavior of the cells. So this is really where oxygen hypoxia mediated the cell reprogramming happens. And if we look at the form that we use for this function, we use probably the simplest form where we basically interpolate continuously from differentiation in a high oxygen level. So as you see the highly blue and then the differentiation in the region of hypoxia, so below a certain threshold of oxygen, cells kind of revert differentiation. And then we need to couple the evolution of the local phenotypic distribution to the oxygen concentration in the tissue. And so again here we assume that nutrients diffuse while they are consumed by the cell. And here we assume that the consumption is homogeneous.
00:08:47.563 - 00:09:26.211, Speaker A: And we have one of the key parameter here, which is this gamma naught that basically controls the consumption of oxygen by cells. And in some way this controls the level of spatial heterogeneity in the tissue. And so what we obtain is a system. Why is there a threshold? We just assume that when basically the consumption is constant and it just becomes zero below a certain threshold. So they consume oxygen at the constant level and then when it's too low they just stop consuming oxygen. This is used in previous work by the way. It would be proportional to see if it needs to go to zero at some point.
00:09:26.211 - 00:10:13.345, Speaker A: But yeah. So what we obtain is a system of couple nonlinear and non local PDEs for the evolution of the alternative distribution and oxygen, where we have highly nonlinearities in the dependence of the oxygen on the our advection function as well as proliferation. And then we have also competition when introducing a linearity. And the low locality comes from these integral terms and from the fact that we have an heterogeneous population. Okay. And of course we need to couple this with boundary condition, proper boundary condition and initial condition. So we can take some of the value of the parameters from the literature, as we usually do, and start running some simulation to understand what are the prediction of the model.
00:10:13.345 - 00:10:58.995, Speaker A: Here I'm showing you two different simulations. As you can see, on the left hand side we have two tumors. They both initially grow, but then eventually the red line, the one on the left goes towards extinction where the blue curve that represents the tumor on the right grows and eventually saturates to a carrying capacity. When we look at these structures on the x axis, we have axis space. So we see spatial heterogeneity in the distribution of the tissue. And we see that the type of cells that we observe. So the phenotypic composition is different in the highly oxygenated region compared to the poorly oxygenated region.
00:10:58.995 - 00:11:33.677, Speaker A: What's the difference between blue and red? The initial tumor burden. So all of the parameters are exactly the same. The only thing we are changing is the initial condition. So we see a little bit more cells on the right hand side compared to the left hand side. So this is a clear sign of multi stability. And so we investigate a little bit more what drives the multi stability in the system by using dynamical simulation. So now what I showed you, we parameterized the initial conditions, so a kind of homogeneous population of cells by the initial tumor borders.
00:11:33.677 - 00:12:23.385, Speaker A: So how many cells like I said, as well as the initial phenotype, the phenotype of the population. And so we can do this phase diagram which have the mass on the vertical axis and the phenotype on the horizontal axis. And what we find is that there is a clear dependence interplay between the mass and the initial phenotype in deciding what the ventral long term behavior of the system is. And particularly we find that for Any fixed S not so if we fix the initial composition of the tumor, then there is a critical mass above which the tumor fully developed. And below that mass the tumor goes to extinction. And what is key is that this critical mass depends on S. Not so it depends on how stem like the initial tumor is.
00:12:23.385 - 00:13:19.385, Speaker A: So if we have a highly stem like tumors, then this critical mass is very low. While we are, if we start with fully differentiated, already exhausted cells, no matter how many you put there, they would eventually go extinct, even a very high mass. So there is a dependence both on tumor burden as well as phenotypic composition on the long term behavior of the system. And if you think about it from the ecological perspective, what we call an allele effect. So the fact that we have this threshold mass to drive the formation of the tumor, but this allele effect is mediated by the telogenity, so the phenotypic composition of the tumor. And so we want to really understand a little bit more where this mechanism is coming, where this stability is coming from and whether it's something robust in our system, were we lucky, was actually something intrinsic. So we can.
00:13:19.385 - 00:13:52.603, Speaker A: But there are two key ingredients to have an early effect. First of all, we have to have stability of the trivial steady state. So the extinction in this case, we can study it analytically. And what we find is that there are two key parameters. There is one key parameter that decides the stability that drives the stability of the theorem steady state, which is V. I'll get back to you to it in a second. But then we see that this stability is independent from the consumption of oxygen.
00:13:52.603 - 00:15:04.505, Speaker A: This gamma naught and numerically we can find actually characterized the change in stability bifurcation that changes the stability of a trivial steady state, which is a transcritical bifurcation. And so just to remind you, V, the key parameter that decides the stability of the trivial steady state is basically develop the time scale at which differentiation, of course in high oxygen and gamma naught instead was our consumption of oxygen. And now we have to look at the non trivial steady state that needs to be stable as well to have this BIA stability switch. And we do that numerically using something called numerical bifurcation analysis. I'm happy to talk more about it, but this is a link to the paper where we describe it in more detail. So the key idea is that for different value of our consumption gamma naught, I can compute basically steady states on my system. So if we do gamma now to be large enough, what we find is that we have different regimes depending on the velocity of the differentiation.
00:15:04.505 - 00:16:02.265, Speaker A: So if we have, first of all we have that if V is sufficiently large, we have that extinction is possible. And that's what we have seen before. Then we have another branch of the solution, this mid branch between the yellow dot and the red dot. Instead of non bifurcation, which is basically a homogeneous tumors, that is basically spatially homogeneous and is composed mainly by fully differentiated cells, you would think about this as a non invasive tumor. Then we have another branch which is instead characterized by very high tumor burden and which is specially heterogeneous. And that's exactly what we observed in the simulations. We have that instead when we have and we see that basically the emergence of these two non trivial solutions is from a subtle node bifurcation.
00:16:02.265 - 00:16:59.905, Speaker A: But these two saddle node bifurcation eventually collapse into each other as a function of gamma naught. And what we find is that in the absence of oxygen heterogeneity, we just have two types of solution and we have that either the system is the trivial solution is stable, or we have a non trivial solution which is stable. So we do have a range of possible regime we can be in depending on the two parameter gamma naught and V plus the term is the number of solution and the type of solution that we observe. But what we find is that by doing curly dimension two bifurcation analysis, so by looking basically on how these two saddle nodes move in the parameter space, the largest area that you see is this light green. Unfortunately it's difficult to see because of the light. But this is the large range of parameter values that we observe. And this is exactly where the effect of course.
00:16:59.905 - 00:18:08.315, Speaker A: So we were not just lucky. It seems like for the large range of the biologically relevant timescale of the processes, we do observe this early effect. And so coming to the conclusion, I've showed you that the interplays between hypoxia and cancer cyber programming can give rise to very complex emergent dynamics in the tumor behavior. And especially we do observe that the long term behavior of the tumor is not the term determined only by the tumor initial tumor burden, so the tumor, but also its composition. And in work that I haven't had time to talk to you about today, we kind of use the model and introduce radiotherapy to see how this finding affects optimal strategies in terms of treatment. And what we find is that because of the interplay between the tumor burden and the composition of the tumor, treatment holidays can be sometimes effective. So giving more time in between doses can actually help us have a better outcome.
00:18:08.315 - 00:18:52.905, Speaker A: Looking at future work is what I would like to do during my time here at the field is that trying to use similar techniques and similar approaches to study to regulate in another of the hallmarks of cancer we talked about yesterday, which is senescence and trying to understand this pro anti tumor impact of senescence cells and see whether mathematics can tell us something about this paradox. And with that I'd like to conclude, thank my collaborators, my funding and if you want to chat, my office is 4:30. I always like to have a coffee and these are some references and I'm happy to take any question or discuss throughout the week. Thank you.
