00:00:00.640 - 00:00:26.886, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gui refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 9 July 2021. Alright everyone, we have a lot to get into today, but before we jump in to the news of the last 24 hours, I did want to just give a quick reminder that I'll be doing the next daily Gui Ama in the Discord channel tomorrow. So Saturday the 10 July. The times are listed here on the screen. 11:00 p.m. Australian Eastern Standard Time.
00:00:26.886 - 00:00:36.284, Speaker A: 03:00 p.m. Central European Standard Time. 09:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time in the US and 06:00 a.m. Pacific daylight time. Now. Eastern daylight time.
00:00:36.284 - 00:00:53.836, Speaker A: Sorry. 09:00 a.m. Eastern daylight time. And it will be recorded and uploaded to YouTube. If you can't make it, if you do want to answer, ask some questions for me to answer. You can either ask it live on the AMA, or if you can't make it, you can definitely drop your questions in the AMA series channel. In the Discord in Discord Channel.
00:00:53.836 - 00:01:19.194, Speaker A: And I'll be sure to answer those on the AMA. So yeah, just wanted to give a quick shout out there. Looking forward to seeing you all there, if you can make it. All right, so what has been blowing up crypto Twitter over the last 24 hours or so is this post from Edgar here. So basically, Edgar is someone who works on MeV, on Ethereum. He works with flashbots. He does a lot of different things and has been around for a little while, as far as I can see.
00:01:19.194 - 00:01:44.238, Speaker A: But today he dropped a repo, which is basically a link to essentially a piece of software that would allow miners to reorg the chain to extract Mev. Now, that might sound like, scary and nightmarish. I've seen people kind of saying stuff like, ethereum is broken, you know, this is going to kill Ethereum, blah, blah. Obviously, those kind of things are just like, way out there. That's not the truth. That is definitely not what's happening. And I think people just got ahead of themselves.
00:01:44.238 - 00:02:35.220, Speaker A: And there's so much misunderstanding around this that I'm probably going to spend the next 1015 minutes trying to go through it all and, you know, making it simple for you guys to understand so that you can kind of like, have an informed view on this. But anyway, so other than this kind of like software that Edgar released, I'm going to go through kind of like, what the implications of this are. Why I don't think we're going to be seeing mass reorgs due to this software and why. I think that a lot of people get it wrong and think that the only defense that we have in the kind of like for a blockchain or just like within the Ethereum blockchain, is the consensus layer, when there are actually four different layers that we have as lines of defense. And I'm going to go through those. But first, I wanted to give a quick recap as to what a chain reorg. So what a chain reorgan and ethereum is basically, basically the concept of the chain reorganizing itself due to a new block being found and another block being discarded.
00:02:35.220 - 00:03:37.230, Speaker A: Now, I'm going to kind of like dumb that down a little bit so that you can understand how this works. Essentially, when two miners independently mine a new block at roughly the same time, the network as a whole doesn't know which block to add to the longest chain. Now, in proof of work, we take the longest chain as kind of like the canonical chain here. So what ends up happening is that we need to wait until the next block is mined to, to know, you know, you know, what's the kind of longest chains going to be? Now, once the next block is mined, it will say, okay, well, it mined on either the first miners block or the second miners block. And then whichever block it wasn't mined on, that one will get reorgan out of the, out of the kind of chain, and that will become what we call an uncle block or an Omer block, which is the other terminology that has been used. That's essentially a stale block, one that wasn't included in the main canonical chain in Ethereum, we actually reward nodes for that. So if, if a miner, or a node, whatever you want to call it, mines an uncle block, they still get a little bit of ETH as a reward for doing so, because they still did the proof of work.
00:03:37.230 - 00:04:34.236, Speaker A: So that's basically the gist of it here. Now, the reason why this would be bad and how this applies to MeV is that with this new MeV tool that Edgar has published, he believes that it would give the miners the ability to essentially fight each other for an MEV opportunity. So what would happen is, as an example, chain Linkog is a pretty good example here. So let's say a protocol gets hacked for $100 million. Miners fight over the block by reorgang each other continuously. So progress halts for an undefined period of time, ETH price drops and centralized exchanges due to the hold Defi positions become under collateral, under collateralized, no liquidations can happen, and funds are lost. Now, this is the worst case kind of scenario with this kind of stuff, is that if it gets to a point where miners start fighting over the block where this protocol had hacked to basically reorgan, to essentially roll back that hack, or essentially to kind of like, extract some value out of that.
00:04:34.236 - 00:05:33.898, Speaker A: Now, the reason why this kind of stuff would, would work, or at least in theory could work, is because what, there was a comment here from crypto universalist who said that basically it's a 51% attack where the MEV provides the incentive for the collusion to happen between the miners. Now, obviously, a normal 51% attack requires massive collusion for little benefit. So it requires, like, all the mine, not all the miners, 51% of the mining hash power to collude, to attack the chain to do something. Now, the benefit is, is minimal, right? If you're not extracting MeV, if you're just trying to attack the network in some way, the benefit, the cost benefit is very minimal because you have to spend a lot of money to do this, and then you're not getting a lot out of it. Whereas with. And that means that the shelling point is not to collude, whereas this kind of tool would flip that shelling point to the. To where it will become more profitable to collude than continue on with the, the actual chain, because you'd be extracting the mev by reorgang the chain.
00:05:33.898 - 00:06:14.274, Speaker A: Now, this is all theoretical, right? And you can see, like, how this can be viewed as, like, really bad and as something that could, quote, unquote, kill a theory on. But this is all in just what could happen in theory, in practice. The Ethereum network, bitcoin network, any network, works very differently to this. And as I said earlier, there are four defenses against kind of these sorts of attacks. And Hasu, in this article called the onion model of blockchain security that he published in April of 2020. So, you know, over a year ago now, does a very good job of explaining this. So the onion model basically posits that, as I said, there's four kind of defenses here and four ways to secure that a blockchain is secured.
00:06:14.274 - 00:06:46.668, Speaker A: Now, this first graphic shows basically, you know, different layers. At layer zero, you have social guarantees. That is the social layer. That is the humans running all the code kind of coming together to agree on, on, you know, the rules of the network to keep them in place, to keep the, the kind of network going, and to react to any kind of like social level attacks. Number two. Sorry. And then layer one is economic guarantees, which he describes down here in his kind of post here, as the majority control attacks are unwilling to burn x percent of collateral.
00:06:46.668 - 00:07:12.478, Speaker A: So, for example, a 51% of attack is economic guarantees. Then you have the consensus guarantees at L2 here. Now, don't get confused, confused with the terminology. I'm just saying layer as like, as a term that I'm using. It doesn't refer to layer one and L2 as we typically know it. But, yeah, just don't get confused there. But L2 is the consensus guarantees, which Hasu describes as consensus attacks without kind of majority controls here.
00:07:12.478 - 00:07:42.576, Speaker A: So obviously miners trying to attack the chain or doing realgs or whatever, the kind of stuff that I was just describing. Then you have layer three, which is cryptographic guarantees, which is basically the guarantees against forgery and theft. So no printing coins from thin air. And all blocks must have a sufficient proof of work attached to them. No spending other people's coins. The digital signature scheme ensures that only the valid owner of a coin can spend it. And no retroactively changing the contents of old blocks.
00:07:42.576 - 00:08:17.380, Speaker A: Hash pointers ensure that an attacker has to change all blocks built on top of any old block he wants to change. So these four basically come together to act as the shield of a public blockchain, a four layered shield. And you can see in the second image, you can see the space of possible attacks gets narrower because obviously at the top with cryptographic guarantees, it's the attack space is much larger. Then you get to the second level there. The consensus guarantees the attack kind of space gets smaller from there. Uh, there's less. Less of an attack surface.
00:08:17.380 - 00:08:52.276, Speaker A: Then you go into economic guarantees, it gets even less. And then social guarantees. Now, I want to use an example that happened, uh, I think it happened a little while ago. Now, when CZ suggested that, or at least made a suggestion on Twitter that the bitcoin network should, uh, Reorg or should kind of like roll back a hack that happened on binance where a bunch of BTC was stolen. Now, as soon as he said that, right, the social layer kicked in. The social guarantees kicked in where literally everyone, you know, whether in the bitcoin camp or another camp, came together and said, no, that's not happening. That is not how this works.
00:08:52.276 - 00:09:09.428, Speaker A: You know, you were hacked. We're not going to roll back the chain for you, you know, blah, blah, blah. I'm sure a lot of you saw this happen. I think it was about a year ago now, maybe. But anyway, maybe even longer than that. I'm not sure exactly when it was, but that happened at one point, and then CZ quickly backtracked on that and kind of like said, oh, I was, it was a mistake. I didn't mean what I said.
00:09:09.428 - 00:09:44.274, Speaker A: Like, I would never suggest such a thing, blah, blah. So you can see that the social layer here is actually incredibly powerful and acts as like the final layer of defense and against, like, all these sorts of things. So, you know, and before even getting to that, you have to go through the other three. Now, CZ obviously didn't go through the other three. He skipped straight to the social layout, but he didn't have any miners on board willing to kind of like reorg the chain or anything like that. As far as I know, he hadn't contacted them or anything. Um, I know, I'm pretty sure binance runs a mining pool, but they don't have, like, much hash on it for bitcoin at least.
00:09:44.274 - 00:10:35.448, Speaker A: So, yeah, he went straight to the social a, and the social a completely rejected him, and he backtracked because of that. Now, obviously, he didn't have any power to do it anyway, but the social a still kicked in there. So taking, kind of taking it back to, I guess, like the MeV discussion and how I believe that this whole thing has been blown out of proportion is that the incentive for miners to fight each other and reorg the chain and start messing with the actual consensus of the chain is very, very, like, low, even with those MEV opportunities, because you have to consider the second order effects. Say the miners start attacking the chain, well, not attacking the chain, reorgang the chain to extract Mev from each other. Like, one miner sees that another miner was able to get this bunch of Mev, and they say, well, I'm going to reorg the chain because I want to steal that Mev from this other miner. Well, people are going to notice that straight away. They're going to see this playing out.
00:10:35.448 - 00:11:09.780, Speaker A: So there's a few things that are going to happen. If it's a mining pool, they're going to lose a lot of their hash because the social layer will kick in and start denouncing that mining pool. And a lot of miners will not want to be part of a pool that is essentially attacking the network, or at least exploiting the network in some sort of way. Secondly, they're attacking themselves because they are by kind of like attacking the chain, or at least attacking the health of the network. The ETH price is probably going to fall their investments in their mining hardware, which is mining ETH, right. They have a cost here to, this is going to fall and they're basically shooting themselves in the foot. So that's another thing to consider.
00:11:09.780 - 00:12:25.638, Speaker A: The third thing is that it becomes like a race to the bottom very, very, very quickly, where if miners are just continuously attacking each other, then people are going to stop transacting on the chain, and then there's going to be on the Ethereum chain eventually, and then the MeV that they're going to be able to extract is going to become very minimal because people will just be like, well, you know, I'm not going to do this on, on the chain if I know that my transactions are going to get basically completely destroyed or re auged and, and, you know, people are just going to leave the Ethereum ecosystem. So really it all comes back to them shooting themselves in the foot. And I really do believe that, uh, short term profit maximalism, if the miners decided to do this, would, would lead to catastrophic losses for them. And I don't think it's worth it. I think it's worth them just continuing to do the MeV as they normally do right now, through flashbots, not through real reorgang the chain. And I, and I believe that, you know, I guess, like as it gets closer to the merge, then things get interesting. So this is another point that I wanted to kind of consider here, is that when the ETH one to ETH two merger comes, I guess, like within view, say it's a couple months away from happening, that's when there is some cause for concern, because miners at that point are like, okay, well, I know in two months that I just say it's two months, right? I know in two months that my mining hardware is going to be useless.
00:12:25.638 - 00:12:48.840, Speaker A: There's going to be no more proof of work. I'm going to stop getting rewards. I'm going to stop getting all my mev that I'm getting through flushbots. So what's my incentive for not screwing with the chain? So I guess, like, the incentive is still the same things that I've outlined, but it becomes less and less of an incentive because they don't really care at this point. Now, that is a whole nother discussion. I don't want to get too much into and too deep into today. I don't think anyone has any answers for that.
00:12:48.840 - 00:13:28.460, Speaker A: I do think that miners are generally rational, even though I've kind of like, said in the past that, I mean, I think I've always said that minors are rational. I think when they were kicking a fuss about ERP 1559, I actually said that they were all talk. And I think that they were rational enough to realize that fighting against the consensus of the whole network and the whole kind of like community and social layer is actually bad for them. So you can take that as a recent example as well. So yeah, I think that the whole thing's just been blown out of complete proportion here. And there's a few other comments that I wanted to go through. Um, you know, Scooby truples had a good summary here with the real thing is, is basically people were saying to, to Edgar and saying in general that, oh, you know, you should never release this.
00:13:28.460 - 00:13:48.486, Speaker A: This is really bad. Um, you know, this is just encouraging people to attack the chain, blah, blah, blah, blah. And Scoopy says here, while it's happening, it's happening anyway. Solutions are already being worked on. Um, might be inconvenient, but not dooming. Ethereum gets better in the end by hardening against it. And I think this is just a general thing that implies to Mev, um, in, you know, I mean, Mev has been a big topic lately.
00:13:48.486 - 00:14:33.726, Speaker A: I've talked about it a lot on the refill before, but I think in general, this just applies to Mev. And then Hasu had a great little mini thread here where he kind of got into a little bit of a spat with Edgar, where he, where Edgar said if he didn't publish these tools, ethermine, and exploit them, ethermine would. Now, ethermine's a mining pool. And then Hazu says, if this was your real motivation for publishing the tools, you'd let ethermine do it once and then get wiped off the face of the earth because they lose all of their hash power. As it stands, I think you are only interested in your own profit. And then he goes on to like, kind of, um, um, kick Edgar a bit here where he says, you talk a big game when it's about centralization and Chainlink, but you seem to have no concern publishing tools that actively, uh, that are actively harmful to not just ethereum, but the entire crypto ecosystem. Accelerationism has a place, but it also has its limits.
00:14:33.726 - 00:15:04.684, Speaker A: And then Hazu has some, some other insights here, where he says, I used to think that anything that consensus algo allows should be tolerated, but many guarantees are ultimately socially enforced. Now, this goes back to his onion kind of example here, where he basically discusses the social guarantees here, which is the ultimate defense against everything if the other three things fail. Social guarantees are always there as the ultimate backstop. And this is the same for anything. I'm talking any layer one protocol, any layer to any app. It's always the social layer. People think that these things aren't affected by humans.
00:15:04.684 - 00:15:41.680, Speaker A: And bitcoiners have. Have been chanting this for a while, saying that, you know, no one can change the bitcoin monetary policy. For, as an example, I'm like, yes, they can. If everyone got together and said, well, we want to change it so that the bitcoin kind of hard cap is 22 million instead of 21 million, well, you bet your ass that's going to get changed, because everyone came together and changed it. There is nothing stopping the consensus rules from changing, except the social layer. At the end of the day, as the ultimate backstop, everything else can fail. But the social layer is there, and the social layer is what makes these things and makes these things valuable and what actually lends the ultimate security to blockchains.
00:15:41.680 - 00:16:07.920, Speaker A: So I think that's a really important point there. And then he goes on to say, Hasu goes on to say, that's why you see the psyops campaign right now, to make it seem like ryogs are secretly happening or will happen any day. Now. There's a class of people in the ecosystem who would stand to benefit financially and or intellectually if the concept of riots becomes normalized. And this indeed is at one possible outcome, but it's far from the only one. Miners can leave hostile pools. As I was discussing before, if a pool did this, they would lose their customers.
00:16:07.920 - 00:16:31.718, Speaker A: Flashbots can ban miners or searches, so the software can. Can kind of like kind of blacklist miners. If they're doing this, users apps can stop sending transactions to hostile pools. Again, that the user apply that I was talking about before, where people would just stop using the chain, because if this is happening, then, you know, everyone would come together and be like, you know, stop using the chain. You're just getting wrecked by. By the kind of these reorgs, whatever. Other miners can censor hostile miner blocks as well.
00:16:31.718 - 00:17:03.690, Speaker A: So there could be just like a rogue miner that just gets pushed out of the network altogether, or a rogue mining pool. And these are just some of the tools this community has to defend a line of no real games if they want to. Now, other than this, there was a few other things here. One from Georgios, where he says long reorgs are not possible in ETH two past the finality threshold. Short rearogues are hard because to corrupt the fork choice rule, you need to corrupt enough attestation. Attest test attested eight is as well. And then he recommends reading the ghost and Casper kind of paper here.
00:17:03.690 - 00:17:55.734, Speaker A: Now, this is a long technical paper published by a bunch of gigabrains. You can read it if you want to, but this kind of brings me to my next thing that I want to talk about is how ETH two actually solves a lot of these issues. And as Giorgio says, yeah, long reels are not possible past the finality threshold, which is, there was another comment here from Aldogo where you, where he says, you can't riot past two checkpoints deep in proof of stake in ETH two, which is the finality threshold. So checkpoints are every six ish minutes. So about twelve to 13 minutes of disruption is the worst that you would see, because you have that economic finality, where after two checkpoints, the chain becomes finalized, and you have the guarantee that if anything happens, then the finalized amounts, so the e stake essentially will get slashed if anyone tries to attack the network. So that's the economic finality that we're talking about. And then Aldogo says, most liquidations are our time banded.
00:17:55.734 - 00:18:41.448, Speaker A: So, actually, in proof of stake, it is much safer than proof of work, because you can't do infinite depth reorgs. So, I mean, I just, this is just another reason to move towards kind of proof of stake as fast as possible, and to get the merge done as fast as possible is to just defend against these sorts of things. So that's definitely kind of like how ETH two deals with it. And I think that's all the links I had for this today. But I hope that gives you, like a rundown of all the different moving parts to this, why it's not the end of the world for Ethereum, why this isn't going to lead to just like, constant reels of the chain, why there's a lot more to, I guess, like how blockchain secure themselves than just the mining layer. And as I pointed out in this, in this article here, there is literally four defense main defenses that we have. And really, most things don't get past the first couple.
00:18:41.448 - 00:19:26.574, Speaker A: I mean, to get to the social layer, you know, you don't have to go through the, through the front, right? You can go through the back, you can backdoor your way and go straight to the social layer, say, you know, you know, some core devs or whatever, and you go to them, be like, hey, I'm going to bribe you to put this change into the network. Um, you can do that. It doesn't have to be, uh, you know, you don't have to start at the top of the funnel or the side of the funnel here to go back in. But. But the thing is, is that those other guarantees stop most of the attacks from happening anyway. Right. If we didn't have cryptographical consensus guarantees or economic guarantees, then, uh, the chain would be very weak, and we'd also always have to rely on social guarantees, which would mean that the chain would pretty much, you know, it would, it would centralize, it would be unscalable, because you can't rely on social guarantees for everything.
00:19:26.574 - 00:19:51.624, Speaker A: And it would just literally look like another database. It wouldn't look like a distributed, decentralized blockchain. So, yeah, again, hopefully that's cleared up a lot of these things for you guys. Of course, all of this will be linked in the YouTube description. You can go check it out, read through the threads, learn a lot from the smartest people in this ecosystem. But the TL doctor here is basically not much to worry about, I believe. I think that miners are definitely rational.
00:19:51.624 - 00:20:30.764, Speaker A: I don't think they're going to shoot themselves in the put to extract some MEV and to fight each other for Mev, because they know, they're smart enough to know that if they start doing this, the ETH price is going to fall, network activity is going to go down, and people are going to start getting upset, and miners are either going to mining pools, are going to lose their customers, they're going to get banned from the flashbots, or at least blacklisted from flashbots, because flashbots is not a decentralized service. It is run by a group of people that are publishing the software, and they can put in a blacklist if they want to. So I just think that the risk is way too high. It's not really rational for miners to do this. So. Yeah, but it's going to be interesting to see how this plays out. Definitely.
00:20:30.764 - 00:20:55.576, Speaker A: MeV is still a very big area of research. It's definitely something that needs to be worked on and mitigated over time. You know, ETH two, it helps with the real kind of Mev aspect, but Mev in general is still going to exist in ETH two, it's still going to be a problem. It's still going to be something that we have to deal with. So we're going to deal with it, I think. But, yeah, I'm gonna leave it at that for now. I think I've just spoken about that for like, 15 minutes, so hopefully that clears the air.
00:20:55.576 - 00:21:14.752, Speaker A: I thought it was just very important to clear this up for everyone today, because I saw so many people talking about this, asking me about it. So, yeah, I'm gonna move on now to my next thing that I posted today, which is that I believe that both optimism and arbitrum's public maintenance will go live this month, or I will eat my hat. Now. My hat. I like my hat. I don't want to eat it. All right.
00:21:14.752 - 00:21:45.742, Speaker A: But I do think that they're both going live this month. And I'm not just basing this on some kind of, like, misguided belief. I'm basing this on a bunch of different things. So you can see here that this optimism PBR account, which is basically an account that just follows optimism, says that Uniswap has deployed v three to optimism's main net. And you can see this on the optimistic ethereum, ether scan like block Explorer. Here you can see that it was deployed about 17 hours ago. And then you can see here from transmissions eleven, there's an interface, uniswap on optimism.
00:21:45.742 - 00:22:08.716, Speaker A: And this is the contract that he's blurted out here. But obviously, this was leaked by this account. But basically, here's the interface of uniswap on optimism. And then you can see here, Cairo, naught, caro nuts, kiaro nuts. I think it's how you say it. Put out this link to the gateway for optimism where you can deposit or withdraw funds from the optimism mainnet here. So we have all this evidence and arbitram as well.
00:22:08.716 - 00:22:27.754, Speaker A: I mean, I don't believe that optimism is going to go live and arbitram won't follow, or the other way around. I believe these things are going to launch within days of each other because they are pretty much in competition with each other. Um, so, yeah, I I know I've said this so many times before. It's coming. It's coming soon. I cop shit for this in the, in the Discord channel. Um, you know, everyone's like, oh, my God.
00:22:27.754 - 00:23:25.378, Speaker A: You know, you've been saying it's coming soon for age, not just me, but just the ecosystem in general. Like, let's see some things on Mainnet. I do believe that these, both these things are going live in a public way on public mainnet this month, and I just can't wait to use both of them. And, you know, there were some questions on discord around, uh, kind of like, who's going to win? And I I basically answered that question with, I'm actually just going to bring up the discord here quickly. You can't see it on my screen, but I'll just get the, the kind of answers here. So it's basically, you know, nib asks any reason to prefer arbitrary to optimism or vice versa, and I basically answered by saying, I mean, I don't think there's any reason to prefer it, but essentially, what dictates the winners in the L2 space is going to be the same thing that dictates the winners in the layer one space. It's going to be the Dapps, right? The different applications on the L2s, the liquidity, the network effect that accrues the infrastructure that supports it, the uptime, the integrations, the decentralization, the security, the marketing community, token distribution, all of these things.
00:23:25.378 - 00:23:51.622, Speaker A: You can basically think of L2s, like layer ones, it's the same game where layer ones need all those things to boost up an ecosystem and so will L2s. So I don't think it's, there's going to be, and I don't think there's only going to be one winner. I think, as I've said multiple times, there's going to be a handful of L2s that win. But definitely it's going to be an interesting race to watch, for sure. So, yeah, just wanted to kind of like put that out there. We'll keep an eye on that. Hopefully it happens this month.
00:23:51.622 - 00:24:28.230, Speaker A: Uh, because I don't want to eat my hat. It's not very tasty. Uh uh, next up, we have a tweet from Steiny here who said that Aave is experimenting with NFT collaterals and looking to fit various NFT use cases for the launch. If you are working on a cool f two NFT project, dm me. So I mean, if you are working on a cool NFT project, DM Stani here. I really hope that, um, the top nfts are supported such as like crypto punks and the, and the bored apes and like the bunch of the other ones out there. I think the ones with the most liquid markets, or at least the easiest way to kind of liquidate things are going to be the, the ones that are going to be supported first.
00:24:28.230 - 00:25:26.894, Speaker A: I don't think that, you know, just your random NFT on kind of like opensea that no one really uses anymore, no one really cares about is going to be supported because there has to be ways to kind of like easily liquidate it if it's being used as collateral, but still really cool to see. I think this is like the next kind of, I guess, like evolution of money markets using these alternative assets as collateral, because for me, I mean, I'm a collateral maximum, sorry, I'm a utility coin maximus. I love holding things, and not just like coins or tokens, but like nfts that offer me extra utility because I want to put them to work, I want to do things with them. I don't want them just sitting in my wallet doing nothing because that's what Ethereum is all about, is he's making use of all these sorts of things. So yeah, cool to see Aave experimenting with this. And speaking of Aave, Zappa has launched an Aave integration where you can now deposit assets and earn interest on Zappa through the integration. And there's also a new quest for those of you doing the quest like I am every day, you can earn some extra exp to get you to level ten.
00:25:26.894 - 00:26:20.026, Speaker A: You have until I think like 24 July to get to level ten, which is the max level before the kind of on the quest kind of promotion runs out to get like your, your doggy NFT as well. So definitely go check this out. There's a guide linked here which I'll link in the YouTube description. So Mikhail, put out this blog, not blog post, this kind of GitHub link here, which basically has a merge mainnet readiness checklist. So you can actually go here and kind of keep a tabs on how kind of ready we are for the merge. Now, as I've said before, the merge, I'm not expecting until at least Q 120 22. So there's not like a lot, there's still a lot to do here, obviously on the consensus layer, which is the ETH two layer, the beacon chain, the execution layer which is ETH one, the kind of application layer, the consensus API here, the public facing documents and then a lot of testing testnets, obviously, and R and D.
00:26:20.026 - 00:26:57.132, Speaker A: So most research has actually been completed, but this is just things that are still left to dig deeper into. So if you want to keep track of the merge on your own, I will definitely be giving track of it as close as I can. But if you want to keep track of it on your own, you can check out this and keep track of like what gets ticked off, what gets merged into this kind of repo and things like that as well. So this will be linked in the YouTube description for you to go check out. So Jeremy Allaire, the co founder and CEO of Circle, announced that Circle is going public. So they're going to be publicly listed on the New York Stock exchange, trading under the ticker CRCL. Now you may be wondering why I'm talking about this company.
00:26:57.132 - 00:27:50.604, Speaker A: Well, they are the company that created USDC, the most popular stable coin on Ethereum, besides USDT, and one of the fastest growing, if not the fastest growing stable coins out there. So, I mean, it's funny because there was a bit of, I guess, back and forth about circle going public and some of their deck where they showed kind of like, I think it was like an investor deck or something. Their projection saying that the total addressable market for circle was like all of money, or for like, USDC was like, all of them, all money or something like that. But other than that, I mean, I think it's pretty cool that another crypto company is going public here. They're doing it via a SPAC, which seems to be all the rage these days. But, yeah, I mean, I don't see any reason for us DC growth to slow down at all. As I mentioned the other day, I think that USDC, if you're going to use a centralized, stable coin, you're much better off using USDC than USDT, because at least you have guarantees that this thing is audited and is based in the US.
00:27:50.604 - 00:28:15.784, Speaker A: It's. It's kind of adhering to compliance. And now they're publicly traded, or will be publicly traded or publicly listed. You're gonna have even more guarantees because this company will be even more regulated because from. From being public. And they'll have to publish very public kind of quarterly earnings reports and things like that, where you'll be able to see, like, the attestations to their balances for USDC and all that sort of stuff. So, yeah, I guess congrats to them on doing this.
00:28:15.784 - 00:28:56.362, Speaker A: And we're gonna see, I guess, like, what they kind of open up. I think that they're going to be valued at something like, well, I can't remember exactly what the number was here. I think it was. It was many billions of dollars where they'll be opening in terms of, like, market cap and valuation. But it'd be interesting to see how they go because, you know, for all the hype of Coinbase's launch, Coinbase hasn't been doing much lately. The stock, and I think, I mean, I explained this on the refuel when Coinbase launched, where I said that it's going to be so closely correlated to crypto prices because of the fact that Coinbase is, you know, fees and their revenue is like 90 plus percent transactional, which means it comes from trading fees on the exchange. Now, when the crypto market is in crab season, volumes go way way down.
00:28:56.362 - 00:29:32.606, Speaker A: Trading volumes go down, fees go down, revenue goes down. Right? So it tracks like that. So I'm curious, and I think that, I think Coinbase is kind of like IPO or, sorry, not IPO, but their direct listing marks, like the near top of the market or the local top of the market here. So it's going to be interesting to see how that stock reacts when the markets or crypto markets trend up again. And it's going to be interesting to see how the markets trade the circle company as well. So balancer has announced the launch of their stable pools. So stable pools make balancer protocol the first Amm with three types of pools, the weighted pools, stable pools, and element finance pools.
00:29:32.606 - 00:30:25.754, Speaker A: Now, I mean, you know, this is just a matter of time. Every Amm has their stable pools these days, you know, uniswap, curve m stable, and sushi swap, like all these sorts of things. But now balance is joining the fun here with their stable pools, not just for stable coins, but also for the wrapped bitcoin or the bitcoin derivatives on Ethereum or the tokenized versions of bitcoin, I should say so, yeah, if you're interested in liquidity providing, you should definitely go check this out. And also, I'm sure this will be integrated with all the decentralized exchange aggregators, so you'll probably get even better prices when trading between stable coins or trading between different versions of wrapped bitcoin or tokenized bitcoin or things like that as well. So Terrence from the prior labs team teased that the first beacon chain to Altair upgrade finalized. So this is on a test net. As you guys know, Altair is the first ETH two network upgrade going live very, very soon.
00:30:25.754 - 00:30:55.922, Speaker A: So this basically finalized. You know, I was explaining what finalize meant, meant before basically, you know, when kind of like two epics are done, it finalizes the chain, and that happens every twelve to 13 minutes. So he says there's more work to do. But congrats to all the clients on all the early success. So this means that all the clients are kind of in sync here. So nimbus Sigma prime, which is their lighthouse client tech, who from consensus and pro labs here with their prism client. So really, really cool to see this.
00:30:55.922 - 00:31:47.688, Speaker A: I'm excited to see the Altair upgrade go live very, very soon. So Nadar from Edge and node released an app yesterday, or a couple days ago now, and tutorial for building a metaverse marketplace combining Ethereum, Polygon and some of his favorite tech. So he's used a JavaScript JavaScript framework called Next JS styling by Tailwind CSS dev environment being hardhat, which is one of the most popular Ethereum dev environments or the most popular at this point. He used ethers J's as a, as an Ethereum library and file storage is on ipfs, which is really, really cool. So I mean, I talked a lot about the metaverse the other day on the refuel. I think that a truly decentralized marketplace for all these sorts of things is very much needed, and you can only do that by building it directly on a blockchain and by storing kind of these things on ipfs or other web3 enabled things like that as well. So cool to see this.
00:31:47.688 - 00:32:22.412, Speaker A: You can check out his project at this website here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. You can go check it out and see everything that he's done here and kind of like the stack that he's using for all you developers out there. So finally, Sam McPherson, who kind of is very involved with Makerdao, he works at smart contracts at Makerdao, says that Dyestats.com has now been updated to clarify the two important charts relating to Dai. Relating Dai to collateral. The left one is the total amount of collateral that is backing Dai, and the right is the die minted by collateral type. So you can see here that the collateral backing Dai is majority ETH still.
00:32:22.412 - 00:33:32.090, Speaker A: So it's not majority, I think about 50% ethan, about 25% USDC, or, sorry, about 25% psm USDC, which is the peg stability module. And then you can see that Dai generated by collateral, which there is the peg stability module, USDC, and then there is the ETH as kind of like the generation here. So how do I explain this? Maybe the easiest way I can explain is the reason why I think they made these changes, because people are getting confused that most of Dai was being backed up by USDC instead of backed up by ETH. Because you can generate Dai through the peg stability module, which is basically like a, I mean, I wouldn't call it like a stable pool, but it's a way to trade between DAi and USDC through the maker kind of platform. And you can generate Dai like that, but that Dai is still backed by ETH as the collateral, if that's, that's how I'm understanding it. So you can see here that, that by kind of like splitting these two charts out, you can see that the difference is that, yes, there is, there are majority of the dies being generated by the kind of like peg stability module here, but it is not being backed by it. So hopefully that explains it.
00:33:32.090 - 00:34:13.998, Speaker A: I mean, there's more kind of explanations in the thread here, but generally I think this is a really cool way of showing it. And I mean, Hasta brings up another great point here where he says only the right chart is relevant. Uh, well, I guess like a contrarian point where he says only the right chart is, is relevant because die is impacted by more than $1 of ETH because it can only be redeemed for $1 of Ethan emergency shutdown. So if USDC were frozen, 60% of the die would be unbacked, not 30% as the left chart implies. And then Sam says agree with the right chart being more important. But it's helpful to have both clear about what is being talked about. And Hasu says, what do you think the left chart could be useful for? It's useful for knowing how over collateralized Dai is and by which assets.
00:34:13.998 - 00:34:41.471, Speaker A: I'll admit my initial take on Stanley's post the other day was bad, but I think I prefer the updated labels instead of collateral backing Dai, which is not as precise as it is now. Okay, well, yeah, maybe I got it. I got a little bit wrong there. I think basically what he's saying here is that you can just basically see how over collateralized Dai is, you know, rather than kind of being backed directly by USDC or ETH or whatever. So yeah, I think I agree. The right charts probably all that matters. And maybe, you know, I guess there's a bit more nuance here, but I'm not going to get into the details now.
00:34:41.471 - 00:35:09.770, Speaker A: I've gone kind of like overtime on the refuel. But if you want to check out more of the comments, I'll link this YouTube link, this Lorette thread in the YouTube description and you can check it out and kind of, you know, get a, get a better feel for it and get a better explanation because I think people are still confused here. And you can see from the comments they, they are. But I think this still gives clarity around, around Dai, what's backing it and what, how it's being generated for sure. But on that note, that's it for today's episode, everyone. So thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:35:09.770 - 00:35:16.074, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
