00:00:01.690 - 00:01:07.006, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap crypto might have been debanked After I wrapped my interview with Jim, news broke on a few additional developments around crypto banking. The Blockchain Association, a leading crypto advocacy organization, is looking into the possible debanking of crypto firms after the recent failures of Signature Bank, Silicon Valley Bank and Silvergate. The investigation aims to uncover any hidden truths about the potential de banking, such as account closures and refusal to open new accounts for legitimate crypto businesses. Also on Thursday, Global Custody bank State Street announced the termination of its partnership with Copper, a crypto custody firm that recently decided to shut down its Enterprise infrastructure division. The two companies have mutually agreed to end their licensing agreement and will individually pursue their digital strategies. State street plans to develop a, quote, multifaceted solution for both tokenized securities and native tokens. It acknowledges the evolving regulatory landscape for digital assets, but it was not all bad news for TradFi companies and crypto.
00:01:07.006 - 00:02:04.382, Speaker A: This week, Fidelity, one of the largest funds in the world, opened Fidelity Crypto to millions of retail users, allowing commission free Bitcoin and Ether trading with a maximum 1% spread, positioning itself ahead of most US. Peers in offering crypto to retail clients Bitcoin and Ether. Soar following weeks of hovering around $20,000, Bitcoin surged to a nine month high, exceeding $26,000 in the wake of SVB's collapse and the publication of February's US. Inflation data that met expectations. This price surge can be attributed to the intervention to save SVB leading market participants to foresee lower interest rates in the future. Meanwhile, Ethereum is up 13% over the past seven days and has reclaimed the 200 billion dollar market cap line. Euler Finance loses almost $200 million in a hack Euler Finance, a decentralized finance or DFI protocol, lost $197,000,000 in a flash loan exploit on Monday.
00:02:04.382 - 00:03:12.454, Speaker A: Now, its team is collaborating with law enforcement and security firms to recover the stolen funds. The Ethereum based noncustodial lending platform, which raised $32 million in funding from Uniswap, Coinbase and FTX in 2022, was targeted by an attacker who used flash loans to exploit the liquidation logic. Blockchain security firm Slow Mist's analysis revealed that the attacker donated funds to a reserve address, bypassing liquidity checks and triggered a soft liquidation to obtain collateral funds without assuming all liabilities. The exploiter stole various tokens, including ETH, USDC and Bitcoin. The exploit impacted other DeFi protocols such as Balancer, Angle and Idle Finance. Balancer temporarily disabled its user interface for exiting positions from the Euler based USD pool. While Angle and Idle Finance have millions of dollars in USD trapped in Euler, the Euler Foundation is attempting to negotiate with the anonymous attacker and has communicated with them via blockchain transactions demanding the return of 90% of the stolen funds or risk facing legal action if uncooperative.
00:03:12.454 - 00:04:01.526, Speaker A: Euler plans to offer a $1 million reward for information leading to the hacker's arrest. Meanwhile, the hacker has moved 1100 ETH valued at $1.8 million into the crypto mixer tornado cash aiming to obscure the origin of the Pilfered funds, according to security company Blocksec. Ethereum developers deploy CHAPELLA on testnet Ethereum's highly anticipated Shanghai upgrade moves closer to realization The CHAPELLA upgrade was activated on the Goreli testnet, which marks the final testing stage before deployment on the main net, which is expected to happen on April. twelveTH ChappellA merges the names of the Shanghai and Capella hard forks. Shanghai corresponds to the fork on the execution layer, while Capella represents the consensus layer's upgrade. With CHAPELLA, validators can test ETH withdrawals from the deposit contract.
00:04:01.526 - 00:05:01.630, Speaker A: After over two years of staking ETH, several validators have already started testing the withdrawal feature with 21 601 ETH distributed and 4800 validator withdrawals. Christine Kim of Galaxy Digital and I had a great conversation about the upgrade in this week's Tuesday episode of Unchained. Go listen to it if you haven't already. Coinbase also announced that it will start accepting unstaking requests approximately 24 hours after the Shanghai Capella upgrade goes live. In other news around Blockchains and DFI Arbitrum, one of the biggest layer two projects on Ethereum, plans to AirDrop its governance token ARB to community members on March 23. The token will govern the Arbitrum One and Nova networks via a Dow backed by a security council with twelve point 75% of the total supply distributed. The AirDrop aims to, quote, give governance power over to the community members and try to identify the real community members that are active in the chain, according to Offchain Labs CEO Steven Goldfeder.
00:05:01.630 - 00:06:04.010, Speaker A: Decentralized storage platform Filecoin introduced smart contract support through its new virtual machine. MetaMask updated its crypto wallet to address privacy concerns, allowing users to maintain separate accounts when connecting to applications. And finally, Uniswap announced its expansion to BNB chain after a governance proposal was passed with support from over 55 million Uni token holders. Meta Stops Working on NFTs Meta has decided to end support for nonfungible Tokens, or NFTs, across its social media platforms, including Facebook and Instagram. Announced on Monday by Meta's head of commerce and fintech Stefan Casriel, the company will, quote, apply the lessons learned from NFTs to other products supporting creators, users and businesses on their apps and in the Metaverse. The decision comes less than one year after CEO Mark Zuckerberg first announced plans to integrate NFTs on Meta's platforms and less than ten months after NFTs were first introduced on Instagram. The crypto community's reaction to Meta's decision has been mixed.
00:06:04.010 - 00:06:59.758, Speaker A: Critics argue that digital ownership is the future, while others believe that Meta's withdrawal from NFTs could be beneficial, providing more time for the industry to improve products, user experience and safety measures. Hunter Solaire from Pixelmon said, quote, NFTs aren't ready to reach the masses yet. The quote, Metaverse is real, but it's going to take five years, not five months. Bankruptcy lawyers seek pause on bankman Fried's share dispute Bankruptcy lawyers are discussing a deal to pause litigation concerning Sam Bankman Fried's $465,000,000 worth of Robin Hood shares until his criminal case is resolved. Defunct crypto companies FTX and BlockFi are both attempting to claim the shares, which were seized by the Justice Department in January. Prosecutors are concerned that disputes over the shares could interfere with Banquet Freed's ongoing criminal case. Working on the deal are the lawyers for Emergent Fidelity Technologies, which bought the shares, as well as attorneys for FTX and BlockFi.
00:06:59.758 - 00:07:52.722, Speaker A: The FTX founder is facing multiple criminal charges over his alleged misconduct and could face life imprisonment if convicted. He has argued that he needs the Robinhood shares to fund his legal defense. Moreover, Bankman Fried has requested to use FTX's director and officer liability insurance to cover his legal expenses. If granted, this would place him at the front of the line for an FTX payout ahead of the company's creditors. FTX's new leadership has not agreed to the request, prompting Bankman Free to seek a court order to enforce it. In another FTX related development, several social media influencers, including Erica Kolberg, Ben Armstrong, aka Bitboy, and Kevin Pafrath, face a lawsuit accusing them of promoting FTX without disclosing payment details or compensation. The suit alleges some influencers, removed FTX endorsement videos and posted apology messages instead with both US.
00:07:52.722 - 00:08:10.066, Speaker A: And nonus plaintiffs. The lawsuit seeks class action status, aiming to help victims recover damages. US. Government calls for pause on Binance US. Voyager digital deal. The US. Government has called for a halt on the $1 billion deal between Binance US and bankrupt crypto lender Voyager Digital.
00:08:10.066 - 00:08:45.614, Speaker A: The US. Trustee, a Department of justice branch responsible for bankruptcy cases, expressed concerns that the deal could grant Voyager and its staff immunity from past tax or securities law violations. U. S. Attorney Damian Williams argued that the court should either put the deal on hold or at least those parts that limit the government's ability to enforce the law until higher courts address the appeals. TerraForm Labs is under Investigation according to a report from the Wall Street Journal, the Justice Department is investigating the 2022 collapse of the Terra USD stablecoin, which may result in US. Criminal charges against its creator, Doe Kwan.
00:08:45.614 - 00:09:38.754, Speaker A: The FBI and the Southern District of New York have questioned former TerraForm Labs team members and are exploring similar issues as those in the SEC's civil fraud lawsuit against Quan and TfL, which accuses Quan of misleading investors about the risks of UST, which lost its $1 peg and wiped out $40 billion in market value. In another development, US. Prosecutors are examining chat group conversations amongst trading firms, including Jump Trading Group, James Street Group and the FTX affiliate Alameda Research, about a potential Terra USD bailout that did not end up happening. Prosecutors are investigating whether market manipulation was involved in the conversations. Gary Gensler Suggests POS Tokens are securities SEC Chair Gary Gensler has suggested that tokens native to Staking protocols could be considered securities under U. S. Law because of the returns token holders expect from staking.
00:09:38.754 - 00:10:22.786, Speaker A: If so, token issuers would be required to register with the SEC under US. Law. His comments come only days after New York Attorney General Letitia James claimed that Ether is a security in a lawsuit against Kucoin. Gensler has previously mentioned that proof of stake tokens could be considered securities, and the SEC recently undertook its first staking as a service enforcement action settling with Kraken. Chinese businessman is arrested for orchestrating multiple fraudulent schemes Exile Chinese businessman Guo Wang Wei with connections to Steve Bannon, was arrested in New York and charged with fraud, including a 500 million dollar crypto scam. Guo allegedly orchestrated multiple schemes defrauding investors out of a total of $1.4 billion.
00:10:22.786 - 00:11:00.906, Speaker A: Three of the schemes were related to GTV Media Group, which Guo cofounded with Bannon. The fourth scheme, called Hcoin, or Himalaya Coin, raised $500 million from retail investors. The SEC accused Guo of falsely claiming Hcoin was 20%, backed by Gold and promising to cover 100% of investment losses. Authorities have seized over $630,000,000 from his bank accounts. Time for fun bits. As mentioned earlier this week, bitcoin and the price of other crypto assets rallied, with bitcoin up 20% and ETH up 7% as of press time. Ginny Hogan from Unchained has the scoop.
00:11:01.018 - 00:11:31.682, Speaker B: Must be good. The price of bitcoin is up at $26,000. It hit its peak since June 2022. Honestly, watching its value rise to its highest level in nine months is the closest, most bitcoin bros will come to ever giving birth. Even though crypto is now totally unbanked after the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank, Signature Bank, and Silvergate Bank, this rise in bitcoin's price might be evidence that maybe banking is overrated. Personally, I keep all my money in venmo. Some say that regulators shut down Signature Bank in an attempt to send an anticrypto message, but this is evidence that their plan has backfired.
00:11:31.682 - 00:12:01.170, Speaker B: I can't decide if I find that satisfying. Being asked to choose who I'm rooting for between regulators and bitcoin holders is like being asked if I want the temperature at twelve degrees or 112 degrees. Regulators miss the mark here. They don't need to shut down a whole bank just to send an anti crypto message. It would be enough to just read the quote tweets on anything SBF puts out. It's not as though crypto is permanently unbanked either. Like a bunch of banks have indicated that they may tentatively accept crypto, including Santander HSBC, Deutsche Bank, and the Ghost of Bear Stearns.
00:12:01.510 - 00:12:22.930, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Jim and the recent market developments around these bank closures, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me laura Shin without from anthony Yoon mark Murdoch matt Pilchard zach Seward, juaniranovich sam Sriram jenny Hogan ben Munster jeff Benson leandro Camino pam Majimdar Shashank and CLK transcription thanks for listening.
