00:00:00.280 - 00:00:38.290, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the delegate refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Zosano. Today, the 24 October 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I think the first ten minutes of today's episode is going to be talking about the markets. Even though in the end of yesterday's episode I said that I don't really talk about the markets too much on the refuel, which I don't, I guess is the, this is like 5% of the time, or 1% of the time where I do talk about the markets and it's because it is very relevant today. So obviously, all of you know by now that over the last couple of days at least, the markets have been really, really positive, especially over the last 24 hours or so.
00:00:38.290 - 00:01:30.844, Speaker A: Now, of course, you know, everyone can point to things like the ETF's being like a positive catalyst and that leading bitcoin to go to, I think it went to like 35k today or something like that. It's around that at time of recording eats up at 1830. A lot of other things are pumping and I think today's pump in particular was due to the fact that the, the ETF's the spot. BTC ETF's seem to be launching or gearing up to launch a lot earlier than otherwise expected. Now, we can see here, there's a tweet here from Eric Balkanis who shares that the iShares bitcoin Trust has been listed on the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation, which clears Nasdaq trades. Now, just to break that down for you guys, the iShares bitcoin Trust is blackrock ETF because Bikerock is doing it through the subsidiary called iShares. And the DTCC is a clearing house that, you know, tradfi uses clearing houses.
00:01:30.844 - 00:02:12.706, Speaker A: It's basically the settlement layout of Tradfi and it's the process Nasdaq trades here and there is a ticker called IBTC. And he says this is all part of bringing the ETF to market. And then he also tweeted out that Blackrock stated in their recent ETF amendment that they are seeding the ETF in October, which means that they're putting their initial kind of capital into the ETF in October in order, you know, before the ETF starts trading publicly there. So that has obviously caused people to basically be like, wow, okay, the ETF seems like they're going to be coming in the next week or two and they very well could be approved in the next week or two. Not just blackrocks, but all of them. So of course the market's not going to wait around for this. It's going to front run this.
00:02:12.706 - 00:02:53.946, Speaker A: And we saw this with the fake ETF approval news from last week, how BTS spiked up to 30k, then it went back down to like 27k, then it's gone, you know, way beyond that now to 35k because really it showed that the market was completely offside and completely underpricing the impact of these ETF's. Now, I'm not going to give any kind of price predictions here. I'll tell you where things are going to go from here. Obviously, things have pumped a lot already, so it's kind of, I guess, hard to tell exactly where things are going to go over the short term. And if you could tell that with, with any kind of accuracy, you'd make a lot of money, of course. But I do have a chart here and I rarely show charts on the refill, but I do have a chart here. Now this chart is the long term bitcoin chart.
00:02:53.946 - 00:03:28.786, Speaker A: Now the reason I like to use the bitcoin chart over the ETH chart is because bitcoin has a lot more price history than ETH. Now this is the chart that has the most amount of price history on trading view. This goes all the way back to 2010, July 2010. It's called the BLX is the ticker or the Bitcoin Liquid index. It is a chart that will show you, I guess, like the lowest timeframe frame is the weekly, but it will show you a composite weekly chart going all the way back to July 2010. So you can see the last few cycles here. I only want to really focus on the last three cycles, to be honest, not anything before that because I feel like anything before that is noise.
00:03:28.786 - 00:04:09.084, Speaker A: And this chart will not show you the current BTC price, will only show you the closing price each week. So it still says it's BTC is at, on this chart, whereas it's on, it's at 35k or 34.5k right now. But the reason I show this chart is because you guys know that I've been saying for many, many months now that there are certain price levels that BTC and ETH have to break in order for the bull market to basically, or at least in order for like a bull market trend to be established, right? And it's not just that they have to break these levels, they also have to hold these levels. So if we look at BTC right now. And the level that I've been talking about a lot is around 32k on BTC. It has obviously broken that and it's obviously up at 35k now.
00:04:09.084 - 00:04:54.746, Speaker A: But I have said every time that I said that, I, that level to be broken. It also needs to be retested and needs to hold because this is crypto and BTC could easily go back to, down to, like 30k or even below that and hang around there for a few months before heading up again. So that would, in my mind, not invalidate the trend, so to speak. It would still mean that the trend is intact and that the trend is still bullish, but it would mean that people, people who are kind of screaming right now for all time highs by early next year or something like that would be wrong. And I don't think we're going to get all time highs by early next year. I do think we're going to hang around in these kind of, like, upper zones for, for a while because it takes a while to convince the market that the, the bull market's back on, basically. But we have broken that tre, that kind of crab range on bitcoin.
00:04:54.746 - 00:05:26.570, Speaker A: And for those of you who keeping track at home, this is the highest price that bitcoin has been since May of last year. And that was obviously during the downtrend may of last year because 2022 was the proper bear market. 2023 is obviously being the crab market. And it's kind of funny when you call it the crab market in 2023, because if you actually look at what BTC has done in 2023, it started the year at what, I mean, if I go to the chart here, it started the year at 16.5k, which is basically its bottom. And then since then, it's gone up to 35 ish k, which is up over 100%. Right.
00:05:26.570 - 00:06:14.528, Speaker A: But the whole time it's just been trending up. So the reason why we, I guess, call it a crab year is because it's, it's, it stayed mostly defined within this range that basically started back in May of 2022. But because that range has now been broken, it is obviously a very bullish signal to the market saying, hey, you know, the bull market is, is probably back on. Right. The bullish trend is probably back here. But as I've said before plenty of times, I would like to see, personally that kind of price level held and retested and, and kind of, I guess, like crabbed at for a little while before heading higher because markets get overheated very quickly, especially in crypto and if we went to like, straight, I don't know, whatever, whatever these levels are here, like straight 40k or something like that, I would expect the dump to be pretty big from there and maybe back to 30k or something like that. So I don't know.
00:06:14.528 - 00:06:57.000, Speaker A: Personally, after my many years in crypto, I would very much like things to move slow, slower, you know, just a slow uptrend, which is, as I said, what we've been through all year. And I know it doesn't feel like it, but we have. I mean, you had, I mean, you had a few weeks actually last year to buy bitcoin at this level. You had from basically the, I guess, beginning of November until the mid January to buy at around the. So you didn't just have like a week. You had a quite, quite a lengthy period of time here to do this. And then for the rest of this year, if you did that during that kind of period there, which was what almost, I guess, like or more than a two month period, two and a half month period, you've enjoyed those gains all of this year, which is possibly leading into a new bull market, uh, into.
00:06:57.000 - 00:07:19.984, Speaker A: Into next year here. Now, as I, as I said, this is a longer term chart. So the reason I have this up is because, as you can see, this kind of thing plays out every cycle. And I consider 2023 to be like 2015 and 2019. So if we look at 2015, you can see here that the range did break. Uh, it broke around, basically, I guess you could say the same time that it's broken now, October, November 2015. But then it went sideways for a while.
00:07:19.984 - 00:07:51.054, Speaker A: Right? You can see here, I mean, if I zoom in on, on what I'm looking at here and kind of circle it, you can see it on my screen. Price went sideways for a little while. It was, I guess, like from the 30 November to May, basically, until basically the harvening price went sideways for a while there, but then it broke up from there and didn't look back. Right. The bull market basically started in earnest from there. So that was really, really healthy, generally really healthy price action, even though it only went sideways. And then we can go and look at what it did in 2019 and see that it's very similar into 2020.
00:07:51.054 - 00:08:16.846, Speaker A: But we do have that outlier kind of dump here, which was the COVID dump and that kind of screws things up a little bit. But you can, you can ignore that and basically just, you know, ignore this massive dump here. But look at this zone here. It's the same thing, right? It broke out of the kind of, like, range. I'm not counting here, by the way. I'm not counting these little spikes here because I've explained before how these are outlier spikes that were influenced by the plus token Ponzi in 2019. So I'm not counting those.
00:08:16.846 - 00:08:41.530, Speaker A: But if you discount those and basically look at kind of what the crab market range was, it was at around, I guess you could say eight k that broke. Right. That broke here. And then obviously we had the COVID dump. But if you ignore that, you can actually see that BTC hung around this level 8.59k for a little while, and then it broke up again in about, I guess you could say July of 2020. Now, that was delayed because of the COVID dump.
00:08:41.530 - 00:09:13.648, Speaker A: So if you remove the COVID dump time, which is like two to three months, it probably would have broken up in like April or May instead, right around the harboring again. Right. And then from there on, we had the, we had the bull market and it went kind of up only from there. So essentially why I'm showing you this, and it's not to make price predictions, but essentially what you want to see coming out of this kind of bear crab market into a bull market is that we get the initial break, then we'll probably get, like, down, but then we'll go sideways for a bit. Right. I'm just drawing like a random line here. But then from there, you start going up and you're not going to go up that fast.
00:09:13.648 - 00:09:26.864, Speaker A: Right. But you start going up kind of gradually as time goes on there. So that's kind of how I, how I view things generally. And I'm not a technical analyst, I'm not a trader. I very much look at the long term trends. As you guys know, I play the four year cycles. That's my jam.
00:09:26.864 - 00:10:07.154, Speaker A: That's where I sit, that's where I like to play things. And I feel like, as I said before, the four year cycle is playing out exactly as it always has, which is pretty awesome to see, honestly. I like that it's playing out exactly as it always has because it means that I can pretty much have confidence in timing around the bull market and around the next bear market, and also the fact that it just kind of reinforces upon itself, too. Now, before I kind of, like, end the discussion on the market stuff here, I do want to say that when it comes to ETH, the ETH has been lagging the move. Obviously, you can see ETH BTC has gone down a lot over the last few months. You can see that ETH is still, you know, not, not at two k or not above its crab market range or anything like that. But this is completely normal.
00:10:07.154 - 00:10:44.458, Speaker A: BTC usually leads at early bull market stages, but also BTC has a very good reason for leading right now, and that's the ETF's. That's a very powerful narrative trademark. So really, if you are someone who believes or at least wants to capture kind of like the trade here, you essentially believe that there's going to be, like, a rotation out of BTC into other things. And I've already seen some of this. Right. There's other things are pumping, but you believe that there'll be a rotation out of BTC into, like, ETH and other assets out there during that kind of sideways action that will probably happen from here on out for the next few months, and then everything else will catch up, and. And then it just becomes, during the bull market, the same thing.
00:10:44.458 - 00:11:27.336, Speaker A: Things kind of, like, rotate between different things, and it's very messy. And I wouldn't try and trade it, but that's kind of what usually happens. And that's why, and as I said, like, the narrative that BTC has right now and the fact that it's an early stage or probably the early stages of the bull market, it makes total sense for BTC to lead. I still strongly believe that ETH is going to outperform BTC in the bull market and then, you know, even into the. Into the next bear market and beyond and over the long term, as I've said plenty of times on the refill before, but I wouldn't, you know, I just, just kind of put that kind of, I guess, like, energy out there that there's nothing to be surprised here. This is totally expected. I did not expect ETH to perform well against BTC when BTC has the narrative juice of the ETF's, as well as the.
00:11:27.336 - 00:12:02.390, Speaker A: Of the fact that we're just now getting out of the bear market, or at least trying to, and trying to start a new bull market, which is where BTC usually shines. But if you go back and actually look at, uh, I mean, there's not that much price action because ETH only came out in 2015. But if you look at the last two cycles, ETH lagged BTC out of it, and. But then it caught up. And, I mean, I can show you on the chart, actually, I can show you ETH BTC, what it looks like. You can see here on this chart, this is 2016, right, where ETH just tanked against BTC. But then in 2017, obviously, the bull market went up in the bear market in 2018, 2019 tanked.
00:12:02.390 - 00:12:29.558, Speaker A: In 2020 went up. Right. And then since then, we've been rather sideways, which is pretty positive. But you can see here that we're basically at long term support, which could break, you know, there's no. There's no, you know, I guess, a guarantee that that's going to hold or anything like that. But this, to me, all of these kind of this downtrend, especially from here, June, which is when Blackrock filed for their ETF, by the way, is all ETF related. Like, if you actually look at when the downtrend started in earnest, it really is in June.
00:12:29.558 - 00:12:48.468, Speaker A: And since June, ETH has gone down, what, like 25% against BTC. So it's not that bad of a dump. But you can actually clearly see this is the narrative trade here. So when the ETF's get approved, there's no more narrative trade left for BTC there. So you would expect, logically, ETH to, you know, start performing, not. Not. Not go like this, maybe go backwards in time.
00:12:48.468 - 00:13:30.454, Speaker A: No, not go like this, but essentially to start performing and catch back up. And that's. That's kind of how these things play out there. And you would also expect the ETH ETF narrative trade to start, which is a perfect segue into just last bit of market news here, which is that the SEC has acknowledged Grayscale's spot ethnic ETF filing, which would convert their existing ETH product into an ETF here. So, I mean, yeah, it's pretty obvious at this point that the spot ETH ETF narrative is going to really kick into high gear as soon as the BTC ETF's are approved, because narratives rule this market. They basically rule every market. And the bull markets do live and die based on narratives.
00:13:30.454 - 00:14:01.560, Speaker A: And narratives bring in new money, bring in new excitement, get people kind of like trading again, get people investing again. So we're just going to shift to that narrative, and you're going to see it over the next few months. As soon as the BTC ETF's get approved, it's going to shift rapidly to the ETH ones. You can already see it here and there. But I think that especially traders, they want to see that narrative trade play out and they want to be positioned into ETH when that starts happening, and then they'll start shilling at themselves and stuff like that. But that's basically how I foresee all of that happening there. But, yeah, don't.
00:14:01.560 - 00:14:24.394, Speaker A: I guess, like, the last thing I'll say on this is that don't get ahead of yourself, guys. Don't blow yourselves up. I know it's very exciting right now. I know that it really does feel like the early stages of a bull market, but you need to remember that even in bull markets, things can dump, like, really hard and can catch you off guard. So my advice is always the same, and this is not investment advice. This is just general kind of advice to not blow yourself up. You know, stay away from leverage if you can.
00:14:24.394 - 00:15:02.786, Speaker A: And I'm not saying some people take this the wrong way when I say stay away from leverage, I'm not saying don't do leverage if you. You want to do it. I'm saying that if you don't actually understand leverage, if you. If you aren't an experienced trader or if you aren't an experienced investor, and if you're someone who's very emotional with these things and you're a first or even second cycler, I wouldn't really say that leverage was a good thing for you to take on because as I've said before, the worst thing that can happen is you blow yourself up at the start of the bull market, and then you miss the entire move, and you. Then you have to wait another four years for the bull market to come back. No one wants to do that. So that's, like, the number one piece of kind of, like, general advice I would give is just to avoid leverage.
00:15:02.786 - 00:15:32.824, Speaker A: But also, I've been giving these bull market pro tips for a little while on Twitter now, which you can find on my, my Twitter, if you just search my username and then search bull market pro tip. And a lot of them center around this. Just not like, this concept of not blowing yourself up and not missing the move because of that. But anyway, enough of the market talk. I went for 15 minutes there, but hopefully that gives you guys something to be bullish about besides just the prices, because I know, you know, there is a bit of disbelief there. It's like, is this it? Is this it? But as I said, like, temper expectations a bit. It could be it.
00:15:32.824 - 00:15:58.554, Speaker A: It's hard. You know, in my mind, it's highly likely that it is it, but it's still going to take a, you know, longer than people think. It's not like we're going to be at all time highs at the end of the year or anything like that. And I still maintain that we're probably going to not see all time high until the second half of next year. But this is the wall of worry this is what we climb and the higher we get, the less worry there is and the more we accelerate. And then, yeah, we get a full blown kind of bull market that we all love and enjoy. And as always, do not forget to take profits.
00:15:58.554 - 00:16:30.776, Speaker A: Guys, I hope you spent the bear market thinking about where you would take profits on assets that you're invested in, at what price points, DCA ing out, things like that. Because in the heat of the bull market you can get very caught up in it and you can start believing in things like the super cycle and stuff like that. You don't want to fall into that trap. So. So yeah, anyway, moving on from the market talk. So for those of you who aren't aware, this was kind of news floating around over the last few days, but you can vet, you can claim a pop if you participated in the KZG summoning ceremony. So you can check out the link here.
00:16:30.776 - 00:17:11.490, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to go, for you to go claim this power pr. But also there is a hackmD document that Trent has shared here that you can, that allows anyone to run checks on the KZG ceremony final output so that you know that everything is working functionally and everything is working as intended. So I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to check out and on that page you'll be able to claim the pop as well. So yeah, just we'll link this in the YouTube description below for you guys to check out. So there's some Devnet ten launch updates. I mentioned yesterday that Devnet ten was going live yesterday. I don't think it went live.
00:17:11.490 - 00:17:29.404, Speaker A: The Ethereum cat herders account tweeted about this. But yeah, I don't think that Devnet ten actually went live yesterday. I'm not entirely sure because I didn't see it pop up on my feet or anything like that. But yeah, I don't think it's live just yet. It may be live. It should be going live very, very soon. But I didn't see it go, go live yet.
00:17:29.404 - 00:17:48.066, Speaker A: And you know what? Actually I'm going to check quickly, just so I got the latest information here. If it did go live on the kind of the ETH R and D discord here. Let's just see. No, I'm not really seeing anything here. I'm just seeing some, some other kind of like testing going on. I don't know. Yeah, don't take my word for it, but I don't know if Dev.
00:17:48.066 - 00:18:24.506, Speaker A: I don't think Devnet ten is live just yet. If it's not live just yet, it means that it's going live today. But, yeah, correct me if I'm wrong. Feel free to correct me in the day, the Discord channel or in the YouTube comments. But yeah, anyway, moving on from that one. All right, so there's been a bit of, I guess, like, chatter about Devconnect lately because obviously of the tensions in the Middle east generally after the war broke out between Israel and, and Hamas here. But the reason why Devconnect is involved is because, as you all probably know, Devconnect is being hosted in Istanbul, which is a city in Turkey.
00:18:24.506 - 00:19:09.344, Speaker A: Of course. Now, people have been wondering, you know, is it safe to travel to Turkey? Is it, you know, is Turkey going to get involved in the war? Like, how close is Turkey to the war zone? I mean, if you look at a map, Istanbul isn't very close to the war zone. Right. So from that point of view, it is relatively safe. But the Ethereum foundation put out an advisory today basically saying that the, the threat to the Devconnect event is low. There is still going to be a lot of protests happening in Turkey and Istanbul around the Israel and Gaza kind of conflict. And there are also certain, certain people that are going to be targeted more than others, you know, the obvious ones, such as people with jewish faith or descents, as they kind of list here.
00:19:09.344 - 00:19:39.824, Speaker A: So, you know, there's obviously severe risk to Israelis and jewish, in israeli nationals and people of jewish faith, of course, as should be obvious to everyone. So I wouldn't blame anyone for not going. Not just people that identify as that or a part of that group, but also just anyone generally. I know a few, few friends who have basically said that they're not going because it's just not worth the risk because of the protest as well. Even if you aren't going to be targeted. Right. Even if you aren't part of that group, they're going to be a lot of protests, and there currently are, and they may turn violent.
00:19:39.824 - 00:20:12.894, Speaker A: You may get caught up in it, and you may just not want to be around that, and you may want to make sure that you're not kind of like putting yourself in danger or anything like that. But as far as I know, the dev connect event is still going ahead. I don't know if it's going to be canceled, but I feel like it's still going ahead right now. It's kind of hard because I feel like it. I don't know. I don't want to say that it's going to get canceled. But I feel like they put this advisory out and they said that, you know, if you're part of the high risk group, you should obviously not come to Devconnect.
00:20:12.894 - 00:20:39.720, Speaker A: But then, you know, if, if they kind of, if the organizers kind of get wind that a lot of people are not coming to Istanbul for Devconnect, are they just going to cancel the event? Because there's no point hosting it. But it is very close to the event. I mean, the events are happening in like mid November, right? So we're very close to it. I don't know. I feel like they're in a rock and a hard place, unfortunately, because, I mean, number one, Istanbul is an amazing city from what I've heard from people. I haven't been myself, but it's an amazing city from what I've heard from people. And people were really looking forward to it.
00:20:39.720 - 00:21:18.186, Speaker A: Devconnect is the second largest Ethereum conference after DEfcOn. So, yeah, it would have been a fun time for people. I mean, I didn't plan to go originally, but honestly, I probably would have chosen not to go due to this conflict because just as my personal choice there, not that I'm part of any of the high risk groups, obviously, but still, I just personally wouldn't feel comfortable going. And as I said, I've got friends that have said that. There's people on Twitter that have said that and I don't think we should be shaming anyone for that, especially not people who are part of the high risk groups. Definitely shouldn't be shaming anyone for this. And everyone should be looking out for their own personal safety, obviously, above all else, and the safety of their friends and kind of our colleagues as well there.
00:21:18.186 - 00:21:53.218, Speaker A: But anyway, you can read the full advisory for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so base has introduced something called builder grants. So they say here we're constantly working to make the base ecosystem a great place for builders. And one of the ways we're doing this is through, through grants. Now we're introducing a new type of grant for those with early ideas or initial prototypes so they continue. What we'll consider when looking to give out builder grants is the builder creating something unique and fun? Is the builder bringing more users on chain? And then you can kind of check out this blog post here talking about the base grants.
00:21:53.218 - 00:22:23.568, Speaker A: I don't think there's been any dollar value attached to this. No. Here we go. Grants currently range from one to five ETH, this is an experiment. We may adjust or change this program as we learn. So obviously not like huge amounts of grants, but I think that they're, as I said, they're running this experiment. They're trying to target various different kind of groups and various different people building things on chain and just basically getting them to build things on chain as kind of like even proof of concepts, but, and just giving some initial, very early seed, I guess, funding, so to speak, here.
00:22:23.568 - 00:23:09.538, Speaker A: And then obviously if that thing gets usage and it brings more people on chain and takes off, maybe they get additional grants or maybe they can go get funding, stuff like that. So I think it's a pretty cool initiative just to get more and more people on chain here generally with, with these kind of base grants. But on top of this, there are so many other places to get grants as well. And then you can also do things like within I guess the base ecosystem because it extends into the optimism ecosystem. You can obviously do things like retroactive public goods funding as well, like building, build something and then apply for the retroactive public goods funding kind of grants there. But there are other grants you can get from like the ethereum foundation and other groups out there. So and then, I mean you can always raise money from, from VC's and angel investors too, if you think you've got something that, that will be able to, got an idea or something that can, that can raise money there.
00:23:09.538 - 00:23:37.564, Speaker A: But this is just another way to get a bit of funding here to work on that thing that you've been wanting to work on. So yeah, if you're a builder, you can definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And there's also a bit more information, I guess, on the tweet thread here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right. This was put on my radar a few times today in the Daily Gray Discord channel. And I think I've kind of mentioned this before on the refuel, but I didn't directly mention this part of it.
00:23:37.564 - 00:24:29.040, Speaker A: So there are a bunch of proposed tax regulations that are threatening, I guess, like blockchain access in the US right now. And this was from back in August. So you can see here that the IR's proposed new crypto broker reporting regulations and if finalized in their current form, the regulations would require websites like those for Uniswap, Opensea and Etherscan, and many block builders to geo block us people. So obviously some very nefarious regulations here. I think Elizabeth Warren is championing, championing this bill. And as you guys know, and as I've talked about plenty of times before, Elizabeth Warren really is public enemy number one for crypto in the US because she has the most power out of anyone that's targeting crypto always, like in terms of, like in government, that is targeting crypto in a negative way here. But the reason why I'm bringing this up today, even though this was announced in August, is that you, if you're a us citizen, you can actually submit comments.
00:24:29.040 - 00:25:11.862, Speaker A: And I think there is a link here and there. And I think the comment period ends at the end of this month, I think. And so you can submit comments. I don't know if there's a, there's a link anywhere here for you to do that, but I think you can find it if you just kind of, just kind of google this here. But if you're a us citizen, you can submit comments to basically get these regulations amended or basically say that you're not happy with them and they make no sense and you should do it. You should definitely do it if you're a us person or citizen, because obviously, crypto in the US is at stake here if these things become actual kind of regulations or become law. And, you know, this is just another push from these politicians, especially, obviously, Elizabeth Warren, to kind of kill crypto because they've got an agenda against it.
00:25:11.862 - 00:25:42.252, Speaker A: I mean, I spoke the other day about how she was trying to paint crypto as, like one of the main funding sources for the Hamas terrorists, which was just insane to me because straight away everyone jumped on this and said, this makes absolutely no sense. You know, chain analysis came out and said, this makes zero sense. This is not true. And a bunch of other groups as well and a bunch of other people. But obviously, the agenda is clear. She hates crypto. She knows that her base, you know, votes for her because she goes after the, quote, unquote, criminals in the financial ecosystem.
00:25:42.252 - 00:26:25.910, Speaker A: And crypto is a really easy target still right now. I mean, it's kind of funny because crypto will probably become less of an easy target as the prices pump, because what ends up happening is that you end up getting a lot of people coming in that are onside with crypto because they're making money from it because maybe they bought some kind of tokens or whatever because it's a bull market and it becomes an unpopular thing to attack. But we shouldn't just rely on that because crypto isn't always in a bull market. And the people that come in during the bull market are usually tourists. So the people that are around right now, people have been around for, you know, in the bear market, in the crab market, where the true believers, right, we're the ones who are actually in this stuff for more than money. We're actually in this stuff for the long term. So we should be with the one having the, having a voice here, and we should be the one kind of giving feedback here.
00:26:25.910 - 00:27:01.886, Speaker A: And as I said, we shouldn't just rely on a few green candles to save us. We should definitely be making our voices heard. And I think we have been over the last, I guess, year or so, especially post FTX, where essentially every regulator in the US wanted to destroy crypto because of FTX. But as I've said, over the last few months, or last couple months at least, the SEC seems to have changed their tune, or at least kind of like weakened their stance against crypto. And they also have obviously lost in court a bunch of times, which has helped a lot with that. But there are other organizations within the US, other regulatory bodies, that can still go on the attack and do some damage here. So anyway, you can go.
00:27:01.886 - 00:27:19.254, Speaker A: Leave these comments. I'll link this tweet thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out some more context around what I've been talking about. But I think on that note, it's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
