00:00:00.240 - 00:00:52.784, Speaker A: Yeah, perfect, thanks. Yeah, so thermostructure, we're trying to build yield curves in DeFi and unlock new use cases for the industry. So I've gone through my background, so I'm just going to go right into the protocol. So what we're doing, we're a non custodial fixed income protocol that aims to establish interest rate curves, yield curves in DeFi by having fixed rate, fixed term borrowing and lending. The way we're going to do this is by having a customized ZK rollup, which we call a ZK true up for fast, scalable, secure transactions. And the whole vision is to build these interest rate curves that are going to be help us build investment tools in Defi and infrastructure and any sort of structure product going forward. And that's going to lead to tokenized real world assets in the future.
00:00:52.784 - 00:01:43.272, Speaker A: So if we look at where the market is right now, like for example, Aave V two, we see that 47% of borrowed volume and 39% of lend volume is kind of repaid or redeemed after 30 days. So if you see here, like anything beyond a month, there's no real activity, nothing happening. And so there's no such thing as a yield curve as a term structure of interest rates. So let's go back to basics. What is a yield curve? So if you have on the x axis you have the time to maturity, and then on the y axis you have an interest rate. In a normal functioning market or normal economy, you have this upward sloping, concave looking curve. And what this kind of tells us is that the longer the time to maturity, the more uncertainty in theory you have about the possibility of getting your money back.
00:01:43.272 - 00:02:14.154, Speaker A: And therefore the higher interest rate that you should be charging. Like if I'm lending money to my friend for a week, I'm going to charge him an interest rate. But if I have to lend money to an unknown person in an unknown country for three years, I'm probably going to have more uncertainty and more risk, and I'm going to feel less comfortable lending my money. And so I need to get paid more. So that's kind of what the yield curve is. And we also call this the term structure of interest rates, an interest rate curve. These are all kind of similar terms that you hear in Treadfi and that we kind of use interchangeably.
00:02:14.154 - 00:02:53.674, Speaker A: So with fixed income and with kind of yield curves and things like that, there's a lot of things that have been done in tradfi over the years and there's a lot of use cases. And I want to quickly go through some of these use cases because I think they're important. So first use case capital preservation and income generation. So let's say you have some spare cash you can buy, like let's say us treasury bond that pays you a coupon that has a yield to maturity. So if you hold it to maturity, you get some yield back. And in theory that's going to help you preserve your capital and generate some extra income. If you're lucky, you're going to be able to beat inflation as well, which is kind of.
00:02:53.674 - 00:03:48.900, Speaker A: That's a tough question, right? In the last couple of years you couldn't. But anyway, then once you establish these interest rate curves, these different kind of points on a curve, what you can do is you have the tools and the means to be able to value any sort of simple and complex financial product. The reason for that is because any sort of product at the end of the day, is a stream of future cash flows. And if you have the right tools to discount those cash flows correctly to the present, then you can kind of value anything. What else we can do? We can use fixed income as a benchmark for pricing and for risk management purposes. So another example, let's say I can invest in US Treasuries at 5%, and these treasuries are backed by the US government, by the US treasury. So I'm kind of sure that I'm going to get my money back.
00:03:48.900 - 00:04:37.304, Speaker A: Or I can have an investment opportunity where maybe I can lend money to a real estate developer in New York that is building office towers. And let's say I'm getting 5% on the US Treasuries. I'm getting like 6% on the, on this opportunity to lend to this real estate investor. And obviously the question becomes like, is this 1% difference high enough to kind of compensate me for the extra risk that I take for the fact that the lender may default and things like that. So it's very important as a benchmark for looking at other kind of asset classes and going up the risk kind of curve. Other things, we use it for, you know, duration as a liability management. If you're like a pension fund, an insurance fund, you know, you can use fixed income to kind of tailor this kind of exposure.
00:04:37.304 - 00:05:33.728, Speaker A: If you're a company, you can, you know, use fixed income for funding, for liquidity management. You know, let's say you want to raise funds to kind of build a new factory or, you know, you may need like cash for the next month for, you know, some kind of expenses and things like that, you know, then you know, again you can hedge various sort of payments, payables and receivables. So kind of streams of cash flow in the future and any sort of like interest rate risk. If you're a trader you can kind of look at the spectrum of different kind of asset classes within fixed income and you can arbitrage against different interest rate instruments. And if you're a degenerate, you can use it as leverage for risk taking, which everyone loves in a bull market. Where is the kind of potential market size here? If you look at the top ten DeFi lending and borrowing kind of protocols, I mean the TvL is around 12 billion. I think this is a little bit outdated with the marketing kind of.
00:05:33.728 - 00:06:12.434, Speaker A: With the bull market it's probably more closer to 20 billion I would guess. But at the end of the day it's peanuts. If you look at it compared to fixed income which is 100 plus trillion, and then to the interest rate derivative market which is over 600 trillion in us dollars, the upside is enormous. The total addressable market is really, really big. And the idea of Defi coming and eating some of trustworthi PI makes a lot of sense if you look at it on a 20 year horizon. If you look at product gaps within DeFi. The yellow ones are what we have in DeFi right now, the white ones are the ones that we don't.
00:06:12.434 - 00:07:12.278, Speaker A: And we haven't had much success and we are the kind of blue dot there. And so to me this is really interesting because we have kind of money markets viaave and compound. We've jumped already to tokenizing real world assets and then we've gone all the way up the complexity curve to having options and structured products. But we don't have a very strong foundation. We don't have a very strong backbone and base layer and pricing layer because we don't have bond markets. From bond markets, from reliable and functionable bond markets you can actually build forwards and term futures as per the chart, and then an interest rate swap curve and from there bootstrap, a discount factor curve, which is basically the thing I was talking about earlier, the thing that helps us to discount any sort of future cash flows to the present. So once you have that kind of up and running and works well, then you can use models like the black Scholes model or more complex ones to value any sort of options and discount them and take their present value.
00:07:12.278 - 00:08:02.440, Speaker A: And then you can use all these different things combined together and get to structure products. So to kind of conclude very quickly on this chart, I think we are yet to really build a strong foundation, a strong backbone to be able to get to options and structure products and other things. And I think that's what we are trying to achieve with the bond markets that we're building. Again, some of the solutions offerings that we have. Again, in Defi, you have these floating interest rates, this API that varies block by block. And so you lend your money, let's say, says 6% on Aave tomorrow it can be like 4%, and the day after it can be 3%. And then if you draw the line and you take the average for 30 days, you can be like, oh, I actually lend my money for an interest of 3%.
00:08:02.440 - 00:08:31.596, Speaker A: And people in treadfi and people in general, they like certainty and they like to be thinking about like, okay, I'm gonna lend my money for 30 days and I'm gonna get a 6% annualized rate on it. So that's kind of what we are trying to do. We're trying to come with fixed interest rates. We're trying to to have this API that varies by tenure. So if you lend your money for a month, it's going to be this. If it's going to be for three months, it's going to be this. And if it's going to be for six months, it's going to be much higher again when it comes to efficiency and transparency.
00:08:31.596 - 00:09:03.504, Speaker A: So in Defi, we have this peer to pool model and this kind of pricing. To me, it looks a little bit like a black box. Like liquidity can be kind of drained from there. Like some whales pulls out their liquidity and the market gets unbalanced. You don't know exactly what is the real flow behind, what is the real size that you can do. We need to get to a place where we are peer to peer, market driven order books and what that actually means. It means basically you have bids and offers.
00:09:03.504 - 00:09:57.394, Speaker A: You see the stack of bids and offers and market participation, and then that's kind of how markets have worked for hundreds of years. We have had order books and people putting bids and offers for commodities for hundreds of years, and not just financial products for speculation. I think that's where we need to get in order to onboard institutions and be able to scale up. The way we are trying to do this is by having free pillars, primary markets, secondary markets, and repo markets. Repo markets are coming much later down the line, so I'm not going to be talking about that. The idea of primary and secondary markets is you're going to be able to do all these different things that I was talking about earlier. Use these markets for payment, investment pricing, liquidity management, arbitrage, hedging, allocating your risk and your portfolio and things like that.
00:09:57.394 - 00:10:37.464, Speaker A: So this is just a chart of primary and secondary and repo markets. If we go into primary markets, so what you can do in primary markets, you're going to be able to borrow and lend at a fixed rate for a fixed amount of time. The kind of the way it works is, let's say, for example, you want to borrow USDC. You put a maturity date, 29 March 24th. Obviously, that's past now, but if you did that in January, that would have been an equivalent of three months thing. These maturity dates are standardized the way we have them in treadfy. You can use various types of collateral, like reptile, and that's going to allow you to borrow a specific amount of USDC.
00:10:37.464 - 00:11:25.308, Speaker A: And the idea is that you're going to get matched via an auction process with RZK rollup. So the workflow is very simple. The borrower places an order to borrow at y percent and then the lender puts an order to lend at x percent. And if they get matched, there's an ERC 20 fixed income token that gets minted to the lender. Then if we think about secondary markets, what are secondary markets for? A very simple example would be, let's say you've participated in primary markets and you've decided to lend money for six months at, I don't know, 6% interest rate. So your money is kind of locked for six months and you know, you're going to get 6% annualized on it. But let's say, you know, there's this crypto bull market that's all over the place.
00:11:25.308 - 00:12:14.288, Speaker A: And you know, people are borrowing like crazy and they want leverage and you know, they want to buy every single altcoin in the universe and meme coin. And so the interest rate for a two month borrowing gets to 15% and you're like, okay, I've lent for six months at 6%. That's actually quite bad. When I could have just waited and lend now at 15%. And the idea of secondary markets is to make any sort of fixed income token tradable. And you can put limit orders and market orders to trade these fixed income tokens the way you would have had in traditional finance, where there's an issuer, let's say the US treasury, it issues treasury bond, and then people can then buy and sell those bonds as they kind of see fit and kind of try to find better market opportunities. So yeah, the secondary markets workflow is actually quite simple.
00:12:14.288 - 00:12:59.850, Speaker A: People put just bids and offers and then they should get matched. We have this order book which is transparent. You're going to see the size and people are going to be able to get their volume done at a particular price. So the use cases for market participants are many. It goes from miners that they're going to mine bitcoin and they can use futures and forwards to sell the bitcoin that they mine to option traders and market makers and any sort of person that wants to hedge their interest rate risk via primary and secondary markets. And any sort of structured product that you can think of is going to be able to be tradable in this primary and secondary markets. I want to talk very quickly about stable coins a little bit.
00:12:59.850 - 00:13:23.486, Speaker A: So obviously everyone kind of knows what a stable coin is. And these are some of the characteristics of them. Trust, pricing, unit exchange value and reserve. And at the moment, I think there are a couple of pain points. We don't have hedging and valuation functions. We cannot discount payments in advance to the present. You cannot pay someone for in six months time.
00:13:23.486 - 00:14:06.088, Speaker A: We don't have, as I said, yield curves and investment products as kind of Lego pieces to build on. And so I think this kind of leads to just fragmentation of liquidity, fragmentation of transaction volumes. There's very limited product varieties. There's in general just kind of very limited use case. Apart from me sending money to my friends via some network, maybe Tron, because it's cheap and that's kind of it. So the idea of our primary and secondary markets is we want to be able to create these forwards and futures and discount factor curve and interest rate curve. We can use that for any sort of supply chain payment, cross border payments, micro payments, cash in advance payments that are discounted.
00:14:06.088 - 00:14:37.954, Speaker A: You can use it to price any sort of derivative and synthetic product. You can use it for liability management. And the idea is to kind of create much more liquidity and. And scalability. So, for example, one of the use cases that I think is really interesting is if you're like a stable coin issuer like circle that issues USDC, you can do a lot of things with term structure. So you can use it for optimizing your capital structure, you can use it for refinancing. So replacing existing debt with new debt at favorable terms.
00:14:37.954 - 00:15:21.362, Speaker A: So for example, maybe you've issued something, you know, 7%, the market has gone down to 3%, you can refinance that debt, you know, you can restructure your debt. So maybe extending the maturity profile of your debt. And in general, you can use any sort of, you know, interest rate derivatives and forwards and futures to kind of hedge your various interest rate. Interest rate risks. Another interesting use case that I really like. Again, let's say you're a stable coin issuer and you think that a well behaved market for your stablecoin, a well behaved borrowing and lending market, should be anywhere between 4% and 8%. So let's say basically the borrowing and lending rate should be anywhere between four and 8%.
00:15:21.362 - 00:16:00.498, Speaker A: If it goes below that, you think it's too low compared to treadfi. If it goes beyond that, you think it shows, you know, excessive behavior that you potentially want to correct for. And you know, you want to put that in a more behaved manner. And so the way to do that is by kind of creating a floor in the capacity. And so the way you create the floor, the bottom part of it is by borrowing more of your stable coin in primary markets via term structure. So let's say if the interest rate goes to 3%, you're going to keep borrowing and keep beating those markets until you can get to your floor desired level of 4%. And equally, if, let's say, market goes to 10%, you want to set up a cap at 8%.
00:16:00.498 - 00:16:45.190, Speaker A: You can keep buying stablecoin fixed income tokens in secondary markets via our platform. And that's going to make you create this interest rate corridor in terms of trading strategies that you can use and you can do things. You can have carry strategies. You can borrow at low yields and then lend at high yields. As I was talking about earlier, you can buy fixed income tokens that are yielding a lot, and once they move in price, sell them at lower yields. You're going to be able to borrow low yielding tokens and lend them on centralized or decentralized exchanges, use them to kind of farm points, rewards and ape into anything that you think of. You can borrow to increase your leverage in bitcoin, in ethereum, in altcoins.
00:16:45.190 - 00:17:21.158, Speaker A: I should have said meme coins as well, but I forgot. And again, you can borrow to arbitrage against other kind of dislocations in terms of fixed income dislocations across defi, and kind of correct those things and pocket the difference. So some of the things that I like, for example here you can use rubstick ETH as collateral. You can borrow USDC against it. You can then go and buy the ETH USDC pair on a centralized or decentralized exchange. So you would sell your USDC buy ETH. You're going to end up with this ETH.
00:17:21.158 - 00:17:49.688, Speaker A: You can go and stake it for Steve. And so what you're going to end up is you're going to be able to lever up your ethereum, and you can keep doing that to kind of keep levering up your staked ethereum. Equally. You can use rap bitcoin as collateral. You can borrow USdt for three months. You sell your USDT against rap bitcoin, and then you're going to be able to buy the rap bitcoin bond on term structure and sell a Fremont bitcoin future. And that's going to allow you to arbitrage the spot future basis.
00:17:49.688 - 00:18:36.664, Speaker A: And for example, for some of you, you may know about this new stable coin called Etina, that a lot of the yield that comes from Etina is coming from doing this arbitrage between spot and future. Another interesting example here, the second one again, you can use rep staked Eve as collateral. You can borrow USDC, you're going to buy the Dai versus USDC pair. So you would sell your USDC against DAi on a centralized or decentralized exchange, and then you can stake your DAi for SDAI on anything like a spark pool that gives you like 15% out. And so what you're going to end up with, you're going to have both Steve and SDai staking yields. So I think that's quite interesting for the bull market in terms of our platform. I think we're going to have a lot of threat fight benefits.
00:18:36.664 - 00:19:25.700, Speaker A: We're going to be able to provide further legitimacy to the industry from a traditional finance perspective. We're going to have more compliance with regulations by having these transparent benchmarks. A one month borrowing and lending rate is going to be here, three months is going to be here, and so on and so forth. We're going to have, by having this transparency, we're going to be able to kind of benchmark investment performance. We're going to have, in general, any sort of capacity that you've had in tread five for like investment diversification, portfolio construction, hedging, various interest rate risk, tailoring your risk taking views and things like that. One other use case that I think is really interesting. Once you get to RWA tokens, the yellow thing here, you're going to be able to kind of, you know, use term structure for kind of fixed rate borrowing against your RWA tokens.
00:19:25.700 - 00:20:16.396, Speaker A: So we plan to enable that as well. So in general, there's a lot of things that you can put together, call options, put options, synthetic structures with fixed income, and then get to all these different Lego and composable pieces that we've had in thread five for many years. So, yeah, that's where I think things are going. I think we're going to generation free, where we're going to have this, we're going to have non custodial wallets with ZK capabilities. We're going to have peer to peer, not peer to pool with ZK order books, and we're going to have a customized ZK for better costs. And in the future, basically, we're getting to a ZK Defi ecosystem that's going to enable fixed income products, any sort of derivatives and structured products, and then from there on to real world assets and complete defi, and make it really comparable to threadfi. That's it from me.
00:20:16.396 - 00:20:19.964, Speaker A: We have our website here and my contact details. Thanks a lot.
