00:00:00.570 - 00:00:45.580, Speaker A: You. The second dynamic that we've noticed is that sometimes people say, no, I love one exchange and I'm going to go to a single exchange to get that data only from there. That's an extremely worrying dynamic, because now you've just compounded the problem. You've created less market coverage, and anybody that's running a system with that approach to market coverage is taking significant risks, especially volatility goes up or down. So if there is no huge price changes, then perhaps it seems like it's working. But in situations where price discovery starts to shift or volume starts to shift or volatility grows, you suddenly can have a scenario where you appreciate market coverage very quickly, but you can't detain it because you're only connected to a single data source. It's quite a serious problem.
00:00:45.580 - 00:01:48.446, Speaker A: The other large risk is that that single price data source can then be manipulated. So if an exchange has a token market and that market becomes thinly traded, and that's the only exchange you pull data from, that might work for one or two of the pairs that are widely traded and highly traded on that exchange. But if it's a pair that's thinly traded, then you opened up a huge attack vector. And this is something that we completely avoid in our system, and we suggest to everybody to avoid whether they use our system or not. But if people are worried about this, then they should talk to us and we have some amount of expertise on this. Anybody architecting a system this way, at the time, they're opening themselves up to huge volatility risk to have inaccurate prices on their system, which can allow theft and loss of funds and the failure of the platform, and then they're opening themselves up to another very simple attack where all somebody needs to do is manipulate a thinly traded market, which realistically you don't even need experience coding to do. You just end up putting in a bunch of orders in a certain manner, and you manipulate that price and then you can manipulate the outcome in the underlying application.
00:01:48.446 - 00:01:58.300, Speaker A: So it's really a design pattern that I really wish people would stop doing. And if they want to stop doing it quickly, they're welcome to work with us, and we're glad to help them with that.
