00:00:00.800 - 00:00:28.738, Speaker A: Okay. Hello, everybody. Thanks for coming. It's been a long conference, but it's been really great. So, yeah, I'm going. So I'm a PhD candidate at the University of Waterloo, and we work with these nanowire quantum dot photon sources. And this is just a little schematic of we get two photons out and this is the reconstructed density matrix we get, which I'll get to later in the talk.
00:00:28.738 - 00:01:34.870, Speaker A: But yeah, so the first I'm going to motivate why we want to use semiconductor quantum dots to produce quantum sources of light. I'm going to then talk about some of the challenges that have faced these sources in the past, and then what we've done to kind of try and overcome them a little bit by mostly improving the experimental conditions we use to measure the samples. And then I'm going to conclude and discuss where we are with the state of the art and where we need to be moving forward. So the motivation here obviously is we know entangled states of light are a useful resource for a number of different applications. I think for our sources, the quantum networks are an interesting one for doing things like entanglement, swapping and. Yeah, so that's, I think, the motivation on that side. Now, in order to actually produce entangled photon pairs, they need to have certain properties.
00:01:34.870 - 00:02:34.118, Speaker A: And the first sort of two that are interrelated is obviously, if we're talking about bipartite entanglement, the two photons need to have quantum correlations between them. And then likewise, the two signals that come out from your source, they should be pure, which basically means they should be single fox states. Now, the nice thing about quantum dots is that they allow you to do this on demand source or generation of light. Which means that every time you ask for a entangled photon pair, you should get one at a well specified point in time. And then obviously your source should be bright, which means it has a fast repetition rate and a high efficiency, so that you can get as many, as much light out as possible. And then obviously there's other properties that matter as well, such as indistinguishability. I'm not going to touch on those there.
00:02:34.118 - 00:03:52.890, Speaker A: We can talk about that later if people have questions. So the current state of the art is spontaneous parametric down conversion for producing entangled photon pairs or other nonlinear processes. Now, they, as we have heard many times, have Poissonian statistics, and so they struggle to meet this on demand sort of bar. And then similarly, they have this issue where if you try to increase the amount of photons, you get per Second, you start to see a reduction in the entanglement fidelity. And this dotted curve here is sort of the theoretic theoretical maximum you can get between a relationship in entanglement fidelity and the pair extraction efficiency, which is basically the probability of getting both parts of the entangled pair out at the same time. So one question is, how can you go beyond this limit and get to this on demand region? And the answer is to try and build a proper two level quantum system where you can excite to, from a ground to an excited level and then decay and have light come out that way. And one possible way to build such two level systems is to use semiconductor quantum dots.
00:03:52.890 - 00:04:41.592, Speaker A: So now on the slide here I just have some points where the, you know, which were state of the art quantum dot sources and they have now sort of slowly moved up. So here you're reaching over 97% fidelities. And here you have very efficient sources which are quite recent. But you can sort of see a general trend in these quantum dots that we're slowly moving towards this region. So just quick background. So we deal with semiconductor quantum dots in photonic nanostructures and there's a variety of different types of these. But the general idea is you confine, you make a confining potential for your electrons, so you produce single energy states for electron holes to occupy.
00:04:41.592 - 00:05:36.398, Speaker A: And then you control the electromagnetic environment around your emitter so that you stop spontaneous emission into modes that you don't want. Most notably, you know, if you just place an emitter in bulk here, you have emission in all directions. If you place your emitter in some type of waveguide or similarly a cavity, then you stop emission into these modes that you can't easily couple to externally. And you get most of your light going in say at the up or down direction here. And with modern semiconductor growth techniques, you can generate structures which combine both of these together. So here are just some images of our nanowire samples and they're basically, you know, the quantum dot sits inside of the core of this nanowire waveguide, which is I think roughly 250 nanometers wide. And you can see here, this is the atomic concentration.
00:05:36.398 - 00:06:33.802, Speaker A: You can see that the clearly you move from indium phosphide, which is the nanowire core, and you slowly add arsenic until you get this sort of almost parabolic like potential. And by controlling the height and the width and so on, you can control how many energy levels exist. And then I want to just point out that the end of the nanowire is tapered and that means that when the light gets coupled into the fundamental mode of the nanowire, it then will leave and couple easily into free space without scattering at the edge. And that can improve our efficiency. So now I'm going to talk about how entanglement is generated in these quantum dot systems. And the basics is something known as the Bison exciton cascade. So when you get electron and hole pairs inside of your quantum dot, they form what is known as an exciton and a Bi xiton 2 electron hole pairs is a bi exciton.
00:06:33.802 - 00:07:26.880, Speaker A: And when they fill the top energy level or the energy level of your quantum dot, you basically get a net angular momentum state of zero. So you get an exciton with a net spin of plus or minus one and a plus one. What then happens is when they decay, the angular momentum of the exciton will get passed on to the polarization of the photon that is emitted. And because you need to return to a Net angular momentum 0 of 0, a net angular momentum of 0 at the ground state, you have these distinguishable or indistinguishable pathways which will produce entanglement in polarization degree of freedom. Now this is for perfect device where this intermediate level is degenerate. In reality, you get something known as the fine structure splitting. And what that does is it lifts the degeneracy of the exciton level, this intermediate state.
00:07:26.880 - 00:08:18.844, Speaker A: And that causes you're no longer able to really write the eigenstates of the system as rnl. And it's now this is a superposition state. And so if you think about a plus one exciton recombining, you'll get this precession between R and L polarized photons. When you look in that basis, in the linear basis, you just see this phase factor that appears, and that basically is telling you that you're going to change between, you know, the, you know, plus psi Bell state and the minus psi bell state. So now I'm just going to talk about, you know, some of the challenges that have faced these systems. And a lot of, you know, the concern is around the solid state environment being complicated and messy. You know, you have lots of things going on.
00:08:18.844 - 00:09:20.762, Speaker A: There's other atoms in the lattice that can contribute spin noise, which is definitely really bad for us when we care about the angular momentum of the electrons in the quantum dot. You also have free charges and phonons and all these other things. So the question arose, you know, with our sources, we were peaking out at a concurrence of 77%. And the question was, why is that? Is that because of dephasing mechanisms or do we have to look at other things, most notably the experimental conditions that we are using to measure the light? And so the three main factors we considered were the detector timing response, the excitation technique, which relates to the multiphoton emission and the dark count rate. And so the question was, could you predict the reconstructed density matrix just from these three parameters? And it turned out the answer was yes. And I'll get to that in a second. I just wanted to now explain some of these experimental parameters and why they're relevant.
00:09:20.762 - 00:09:54.886, Speaker A: So obviously it makes sense. Dart counts would be bad. They would produce unwanted correlations in your experiment which shouldn't be there and in the perfect system. And just to show you now though, that the state of the art single or superconducting nanowire single photon detectors have very low dark count rates compared to commercially available silicon APDs. So that's, you know, one thing you can see to improve your setup is just get lower dark counts. The next is the excitation technique. So there's sort of three.
00:09:54.886 - 00:10:34.856, Speaker A: The first one is the most simple. You basically excite the nanowire above its band gap around the quantum dot and the free charges that are produced will then decay into the quantum dot and produce your exciton and bi exciton. This produces a lot of extra charge around your quantum dot. And so that can easily lead to dephasing. The next technique is sort of a quasi resonance excitation. You excite to these acceptor donor levels which are closer in energy to the shell of the quantum dot. And that means you have less time for decay and you also produce less free charge around your quantum dot.
00:10:34.856 - 00:11:17.208, Speaker A: The optimal technique for true on demand emission is a resonant excitation technique where you drive this two photon absorption from the ground to the bioxon state and you're directly populating that by exit on state. And there you're producing no extra charge in the environment. And you're also directly populating the state. So it happens basically right away. Now, the last thing I want to talk about is timing resolution. And so this is something that maybe not isn't obvious why it matters, but because of the fine structure splitting because of this oscillating state, it is something that you need to worry about. And obviously the faster the detection the better.
00:11:17.208 - 00:12:13.580, Speaker A: And you can see this order of magnitude improvement from, from these superconducting nanowire detectors compared to standard avalanche photodiodes. And so now I'm just gonna Talk about why. Elaborate on this. So typically when you're doing this in the lab, you're correlating two signals and you get a coincidence histogram and you're trying to look at how you then reconstruct your density matrix from those coincidence counts. And the way you do that is you just sort of might integrate over a window of those coincidence counts and then run some type of algorithm to reconstruct the density matrix. Now if you have the fine structure splitting in there and you take a long integration window, you basically start to average out this oscillating phase. And so you get, you know, you slowly move towards like a more mixed state and you lose this entanglement that exists but is sort of time dependent.
00:12:13.580 - 00:13:09.660, Speaker A: So this is sort of a well known thing in the field and you can actually model it. Basically the faster your lifetime and the lower your fine structure is splitting, the better entanglement you get. If you take this large integration window. So we sort of said, well, why don't we just take very small windows and calculate the density matrix at every small timing region and then you can get a more accurate view of what it is at each point in time and you sort of just cascade it over until you've covered most of the coincidence counts. Now even if you do this, it's not perfect because the timing resolution of your detector still matters. If you think about it, your timing resolution will dictate how accurately you're going to record when a certain polarization was detected. And because it changes in time, you get a blurring effect if it's too slow.
00:13:09.660 - 00:14:11.130, Speaker A: These are just theoretical curves that I've made. So on the right or on the left here is the silicon avalanche photodiodes. And you see that it's a much less sort of abrupt correlation compared to the snspds where it's much more like before here I had. This was actually purely if you had perfect timing resolution like zero jitter, and it looks almost exactly like that. And so with this, with, with these fast detectors, you don't get any of this blurring effect and you can resolve what I would guess you can call the true entanglement of your oscillating state. And so to talk to just address the point I made earlier about predicting the density matrix from, from just three parameters based off of the excitation or based off of the experimental conditions. This was work done in 2019 by some of my colleagues.
00:14:11.130 - 00:15:05.012, Speaker A: We see strong agreement between the concurrence that we see measured in the lab, which was roughly 0.77 and this red curve, which was the predicted concurrence curve from our model which only included those three parameters. Now this was for a quasi resonant technique. And when you went to non resonant technique, you saw it slowly dropped and those extra charges likely induced extra dephasing. And so you didn't have a quote unquote dephasing free source when you use this non resonant excitation. Now the question was what if you use this model and you elaborated to using SNSPDs with very low multiphoton emissions and you, you know, the model sort of predicts oh, you'll get 99% concurrence. And so the question is, is this true? Can this actually happen? So that's what we set out to do.
00:15:05.012 - 00:15:43.740, Speaker A: So this data here is sort of the first data we've gotten with pulsed resonant excitation of our nanowires. So here you can see the exciton and the bi exciton transition lines. You can see they're nicely at the same heights, which is important, which means they're usually generate a bioxon. You're also getting an exciton here. There's just we're blocking the laser, but you can see otherwise a very clean spectrum. So you're basically only getting out your exciton and your bi exciton. You can see that we're able to drive the direct transition resonantly through these Rabi oscillations from the ground to the bioxiton state.
00:15:43.740 - 00:16:22.904, Speaker A: And then you can see we're able to achieve pretty good autocorrelation results with low. So this, this shows low multiphoton emission because of the very low coincidence counts right in the middle. So if we then do these projective measurements and polarization, we're able to see exactly what you'd expect from the theory. So you see in the HV basis you basically see just this exponential decay that follows from the lifetime of our emitter. And then in the circular basis you see this oscillation between, you know, R.L. and L.R. which would be I guess your plus Phi Bell state.
00:16:22.904 - 00:17:12.034, Speaker A: And then down here R ll which would be your plus Psi Bell state. And then if we just look at the single projection curves, you see this nice again this nice out of phase relationship that looks very much like the theory as a function of the time delay. And so now to the meat which is the concurrence. So we are able to measure very high concurrence right at the beginning of our, right at the Beginning of the correlation with a peak concurrence around 95%. So we're able to go from 77% to 95% basically just by improving the experimental conditions. Okay. And then you can see it's pretty flat as well.
00:17:12.034 - 00:18:00.202, Speaker A: So it gets noisier over here because you're getting less coincidence counts at, you know, a long longer time delay after the lifetime is roughly 800, 900 picoseconds. So up to the lifetime, that's what I have is this average. You get still get a concurrence over 91% and average fidelity to some Bell state. It is changing in time of around 94%. And then we can reconstruct the density matrix and what it actually looks like. And you can see just visually that it has right at the initial time, it has this very nice HH plus VV character. And then if you look at another time later, you see it's more noisy.
00:18:00.202 - 00:18:46.806, Speaker A: Obviously there's a lot of these off diagonal component or diagonal components. But you see that the sign here has swapped so you now have an HH minus VV Bell state. And so basically this shows that sure the fine structure splitting changes your state over time, but it doesn't necessarily decrease the quality of the entanglement that's present. So yeah, to discuss there still needs to obviously be worked on. We would like to reach that, that 99% threshold and some possible causes from the model. We were, you know, the model assumed 0 g2, we were unable to reach 0 g2. My hunch however, is that I don't think even going to zero G2 would fix it.
00:18:46.806 - 00:19:30.080, Speaker A: I think either maybe there is some type of spin spin dephasing or there are some other issues that have been brought up in the literature very recently that could be contributing to this, such as the AC Stark shift when you're exciting resonantly. So that's stuff to explore in the future. Now the other thing I want to mention is that our source is quite inefficient right now. It's actually more inefficient than when we had the quasi resonant excitation technique. So we're only able to extract pair extraction efficiency of less than 1%. And there's a few reasons that could be contributing to this. One possible cause I think is the.
00:19:30.080 - 00:20:13.070, Speaker A: There's a lot of charge built up in the nanowire and so the S shell, so the bottom energy level of the quantum dot is already full before you try to excite it. And that can sort of artificially block how many pairs you can or how many times you can actually excite your state. And this is sort of a thing known in the literature and there's ways you can try and get around it. So now to just compare where we are with the state of the art. So this was Those results from 2019 that I showed earlier. So we've seen a large increase in our entanglement to be sort of on par with some of the other state of the art sources. However, our efficiency is still lacking compared to these sources over here.
00:20:13.070 - 00:21:01.434, Speaker A: And so in order to get to this on demand regime, definitely need to focus on improving the efficiency. And then also to beat SPDC sources, which I guess are our main rival, we need to also improve the entanglement. So to conclude, dephasing was not causing the large degradations in entanglement that we observed previously, and basically just improving the experimental setup, we were able to see a large improvement in the measured entanglement. And that shows that the experimenting conditions are indeed critical. Now, this doesn't mean that we have perfect entanglement yet. And our model was probably missing something. And so now we need to figure out what that was.
00:21:01.434 - 00:21:32.290, Speaker A: And the last thing I want to say is that the fine structure splitting is probably still an issue for many practical applications because you usually just want a fixed state that doesn't change in time. Just want some known Bell state to come out every single time. And so there are ways to actually remove the fine structure splitting. And that's something we are working on in our lab. And we had two poster presentations here on that. But I mean, I don't know, I'm just throwing it out there. Maybe an oscillating state could be useful for one application or something.
00:21:32.290 - 00:22:07.500, Speaker A: Not sure. So with that I would like to thank these fine people. So in our lab here and my supervisor, Michael Reimer, and then at nrc, the people who actually grow our samples, these very nice nanowires, and then Andreas Onini at single quantum, he was one of the main people who came up with this model for dephasing free entanglement. And then also they supplied us with these excellent single superconducting nanowire single photon detectors. So yeah, that's everything.
