00:00:00.240 - 00:00:32.814, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Society, and today's the 26 September 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So, kicking off today's episode, we have a new censorship related dashboard here from Tony at censorship pics. Now, on this dashboard, you can see the censorship on the network broken down by different categories here. And those categories are censorship at the validator level, at the relay level, and at the builder level. Now, I have talked about this before and about how this is basically the life cycle of an ethereum transaction.
00:00:32.814 - 00:01:12.518, Speaker A: It goes from a builder to a relay to validators. Now, as you can see on my screen here, this is the current state of things. So in terms of actual validators censoring or being OFAC compliant, and that means they're censoring those tornado cash related transactions, there's only around 6.15% of validators that are censoring, with 93.85% that are not censoring. Then on the relay side of things, it's around 60% non censoring, 40% censoring. But where it starts to get kind of, I guess, like really shitty is at the builder level because the builder level now has almost 70% censorship and around 30% non censoring builders here.
00:01:12.518 - 00:02:06.224, Speaker A: Now, the reason for this is because two of, I believe, the top five builders on the network recently started censoring. And you can actually see the big jump here. It was 40% censoring, 60% non censoring on August 9, which is what I guess, like six weeks, seven weeks ago now. And then it jumped up after that, the next day to 70% censoring. So we had a massive jump of, of 30% because two of the top ten top five builders decided that they wanted to censor here. Now, the current state of things is, as I said, almost 70% censoring, with 30% non censoring. Now because of that, and because the builders of, I guess, like the first thing that's in line when it comes to the transaction lifecycle of an ethereum transaction or a theorem layer one transaction, I should say, in the MEv boost network, it pretty much means that 70% of all builders are basically censoring here.
00:02:06.224 - 00:02:39.416, Speaker A: So it doesn't matter that only, only 40% of relays are censoring, or like 6% of validators are censoring. Because it doesn't ever mark, make it past the builders, those 70% builders. It only makes it past 30% of the time, it means that the effectively at 70% of all tornado cash. Sorry, of all builders are kind of censoring tornado cash related transactions. So your chance of getting a tornado cash related transaction into a block is around 30% because of that there. Now, obviously, this is not ideal at all. This is a kind of a crappy development.
00:02:39.416 - 00:03:04.856, Speaker A: And it's really sad to see that these builders have decided to do this. I have discussed before how about how decentralization of builders is inevitable. Right. And it has already happened. I've showed, I've showed this before. But if I bring up the relayscan IO website, you can actually see here who those builders are. And you can see the top five builders account for most of the blocks being built on Ethereum, almost 100% of the blocks being built on Ethereum.
00:03:04.856 - 00:03:35.672, Speaker A: And I believe that the two that recently started censoring were Beaver build.org, which is number two here, and builder zero 69, which is number five. I don't believe Titan builder senses yet. But the thing is, four of these, four of the top five are censoring. So Titan builder is the only builder right now that in the top five, that is not censoring. So if they decided to start censoring, then this goes up to almost 100%. Now, that doesn't mean that, you know, your transaction to net a cash transaction is not going to get into a block.
00:03:35.672 - 00:04:15.480, Speaker A: But if this goes up to like 95% and there's only 5% non censoring out of the rest of these, these builders here, essentially that means that, as I said, you only have a 5% chance per block of getting your tone to cash transaction included. At most, you'd probably only need to wait a few minutes or something. But still, that's, that's not ideal at all. That's far from ideal. And it's pretty much like the worst case scenario. So, yeah, I guess, like builder censorship is in a much worse position than I think people thought it was because of the fact that builders are so centralized and builders have their own reason for censoring here. I actually was, was discussing this with some people about why they were actually censoring.
00:04:15.480 - 00:04:31.000, Speaker A: And there's some speculation around that. I'm not going to give the reasons here because it's speculation. As I said, I don't want to. I don't want to essentially attribute things to these entities that, that aren't true. But, yeah, I mean, I did in the date. It doesn't actually matter why they are censoring. Right.
00:04:31.000 - 00:05:20.748, Speaker A: The fact that they are censoring is the problem here. Now, Tony in his announcement thread here, highlighted some of the ways that Ethereum is working on essentially making it so that censorship is basically impossible to do at the builder level here. One of those things is called inclusion lists, which I've covered before on the refuel. And there's, there's links in the, in the Twitter thread here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to check out. And there's encrypted mem pools, which is the shutter eyes beacon chain, which I've also discussed on the refuel. But again, this is why the censorship related stuff is so difficult, because there is that transaction life cycle where at any point in this life cycle, um, censorship can happen. Now, of course, we are trying to address this as well with things like in protocol, PBS or epbs, where essentially we get rid of things like relays and it just becomes validators and builders.
00:05:20.748 - 00:06:07.078, Speaker A: But the problem is, is that the relays aren't exactly the issue here anymore. It's really the builders themselves. So, okay, how do we prevent builders from, from censoring? Well, we do so with things like inclusion lists and encrypted mempools and a few other solutions out there. So that really is the next frontier here, is making sure that builders have really no incentive or ability to censor transactions because it just degrades the, the network. Not just credible neutrality of the network, but also just overall, I guess, kind of a usability of the network. And I've talked about this a lot in the past, but it kind of begs the question of this censorship is not scalable because let's like, let's kind of think into the future and let's see some worst case scenarios. Let's say that OFAC decides to sanction some more addresses and contracts on Ethereum.
00:06:07.078 - 00:07:35.440, Speaker A: Let's say in the worst case scenario, they sanction the Uniswap smart contracts. Right? Do you really think these builders, who extract a lot of their profits, by the way, from Uniswap, from decentralized exchanges, do you really think they're going to be censoring those transactions? I don't think so, because it is definitely not in their best interest to do that, and it basically kills their business. So these builders themselves should actually want the solutions that are being proposed here, such as inclusion lists and encrypt, encrypted mempools, so that they don't have to do this. Because I believe given the choice, these builders would rather not have any kind of visibility over the transactions that they're, that they kind of including here and have plausible deniability over it so that they can still extract those profits that they're trying to extract, obviously via MeV and things like that, while also not running afoul of any regulators here. Because at the end of the day, like, if you're a builder and you have to censor Uniswap transactions, for example, and you're no longer going to be a profitable builder and you will literally get pushed out by the builders that are including Uniswap transactions because the searchers aren't going to want to give these builders their kind of like transactions because these builders aren't accepting it. The builders are basically saying, well, no, I'm not going to accept anything from, related to Uniswap. Well, okay, then there goes like most of your revenue, right? Or there goes a large chunk of your revenue and profitability and you as a builder, basically, I'll lose market share because of that.
00:07:35.440 - 00:08:07.626, Speaker A: So that's just taking it to its end. Logical conclusion. Obviously, with Tornado cash, it's different because Tornado cash didn't, even before the sanctions, didn't really see much traffic to it compared to Uniswap. And also, as far as I know, there wasn't much mev to be extracted there, if any. There probably wasn't really any to be extracted there from interacting with Tony to cash. But when it comes to something like Uniswap, yeah, for sure, it's a completely different story. So when you take this to its logical conclusion, the censorship strategy just doesn't work.
00:08:07.626 - 00:08:24.914, Speaker A: Right. From, from a pure profitability perspective, which is exactly what these builders are in the game for. They're in the game to extract profits via Mev. They're not in the game to be, I guess, like benevolent kind of builders here or in the game to do this out of altruism. Definitely not. Right. And that's the whole point of the mev game.
00:08:24.914 - 00:08:53.530, Speaker A: Now, of course, we are working on ways to try to reduce mev opportunities on chain as well. We should help with this. But this is part of the whole kind of, I guess, like umbrella that I've talked about before with like PBS and inclusion lists and, and other such encrypted mem pools and other such things around that. And that's how we're going to, to tackle this issue here. But, yeah, sadly, this is the position that we're in today. But you know what? It's pretty cool that ethereum is actually facing these challenges head on. And he's working on a lot of different ways to.
00:08:53.530 - 00:09:40.286, Speaker A: To work through them, because at the end of the day, the solutions only really get developed when something breaks. Right? And this is true for everything in the world, really. Like, how many, how many examples do we have of laws and regulations being written in blood, for example, like someone actually, or multiple people have to die before regulations and laws are created or before things are kind of changed in order to prevent that from happening again? Even if you can actually see, see it happening, or even if it is a risk, the risk. What needs to happen is that the risk needs to be made apparent, and, you know, it needs to be made undeniable. It can't just be like a theoretical thing where you bringing it back to the ethereum context when we're talking about censorship. Censorship was always. And censorship resistance was always kind of like this thing where everyone assumed, okay, or a theorem is censorship resistant because there's no evidence of censorship on the network yet.
00:09:40.286 - 00:10:11.382, Speaker A: But then we got the OFAC sanctions a little over a year ago now. And then we started seeing censorship on the network and it became that, like this critical issue where everyone's like, oh, my God, okay, this is real. We need to actually prioritize fixing this year, which is exactly what people have been trying to do for years now. And we'll continue trying to do well into the future. But, yeah, solutions are being worked on, as you guys know. But this great new dashboard from, from Tony showing this is awesome. And there's actually a bunch of useful links as well at the bottom here if you want to check those out.
00:10:11.382 - 00:10:45.822, Speaker A: But yeah, I spent a lot of time on that, but I figured it was worth talking about it since it is quite important. All right, so Georgios announced today that there's a new ret release. So alpha nine has been released, which is finally ready for Cancun here. So all eips are implemented and hives tests are mostly passing, passing with next step being devnet nine for Ret. So I did discussed yesterday about Den Koon and about how we possibly might not be getting it this year and about how some clients are having, I guess, like behind in being ready for. For Denkun. And I guess like Ret was one of them.
00:10:45.822 - 00:11:11.832, Speaker A: But really, Ret's market share is really low right now because it is an alpha in an alpha state. No serious, kind of like staking provider, for example, is using ref. And if we were to go to client diversity.org and actually check out the adoption of reth right now, I mean, it says 0.0% here. But I would say that there's, you know, probably tens of clients of ref clients running right now. And if I actually go to ethernotes.org,
00:11:11.832 - 00:11:32.810, Speaker A: comma, maybe I'll be able to see, yeah, so there's 35 actually here. I'll bring it up on my screen here. So ethernodes.org shows that there's 35 rest clients being run right now. And you know that that means that obviously it's not a production, it's not being used in huge production ready environments or anything like that. And that's exactly because it is in an alpha state still. So, you know, that's totally fine there.
00:11:32.810 - 00:12:20.854, Speaker A: But yeah, if you are running Reth or interested in running it, it is now finally ready for the cancun, which is the name of the execution layer. Update. Ready for you to go check out there. All right, so Vance Spencer tweeted out an interesting image here that came from Caleb and Brown research, I believe, or a bunch of different sources here, actually, Caleb and Brown research, token terminal and Bloomberg. And you can see here that it's titled Ethereum surpasses $10 billion of revenue in seven years and that outpaced top software companies by nearly half of the time. So you can see here that this revenue is obviously being measured in kind of fee revenue and how much people have paid to use the network. So cumulative, it's been over $10 billion of revenue in seven years of Ethereum's existence here.
00:12:20.854 - 00:12:59.242, Speaker A: I don't know if how old this image is because Ethereum is eight years old, right? It's not, it's not seven years old. So this may be one year old. But I think the point still stands where Ethereum is a huge kind of network here. And some people will say it's like, it's like a company, right, or it's similar to a company, but I don't necessarily like that frame because Ethereum is so much more than a company. Ethereum is, is a network, right? It is a decentralized network at that. So it's more than a company. But if you want to do some kind of crude comparisons here to other big companies around the world and how long they took to achieve $10 billion in revenue is.
00:12:59.242 - 00:13:49.480, Speaker A: But what this image is showing here, then I think it's a really, really great way to show that, especially because Ethereum is still so small compared to what its potential is. And I know that gas fees have been relatively low lately because of the bear market and activity moving to L2s and all that. But that doesn't take away from the fact that Ethereum is still generating a lot of revenue per day, right? It's still millions of revenue per day in the bear market and in a place where we're going through this transition from layer one to L2. Now, on that note, that transition is something that I wanted to talk about in more detail. And this is a tweet that I put out today where I said scaling Ethereum is much more important than burning ETH or ETH being deflationary. I believe ETH derives most of its value from its monetary premium, store value properties, which only get stronger as more people use and hold ETH. Ergo, by scaling Ethereum, we scale ETH and its value.
00:13:49.480 - 00:14:37.920, Speaker A: So I've talked about this a lot of times on the refuel before, but basically, uh, my, my main view of ETH and how it accrues value is from its monetary premium and its store of value properties, not from its, I guess, like, uh, use as a fee token on the Ethereum network and, and from fee burning, I believe those things are bonuses. Right. But in saying that they're obviously critically important, that they do add value to, to ETH as an asset. But if you were to just look at ETH as an asset and value it based on just the fee revenue that it has, then it is, it is pretty overvalued right now based on a kind of like pe ratio analysis. So if I bring up crypto fees dot in fry, I think they still have this information here. So if you go here and look at it. Yeah, so based on the price to sales ratio, Ethereum's ratio would be almost 200, which is way, way overvalued.
00:14:37.920 - 00:15:20.636, Speaker A: Based on traditional kind of metrics, I think that a normal p's ratio is somewhere in the range of like 15 to 20. If you're talking about tech startups, or I should say tech companies that have high growth prospects, you can maybe push that out to 40 or 50 or something like that. But yeah, generally it's, it's definitely not 200. And that's generally regarded as something that is potentially overvalued there. But that just screams to me that if ETH as an asset is not valued based on its fear revenue, it is valued based on much more than that. And that's why I say it's valued on monetary premium and historic value properties here. Okay, so if it's valued based on that, what drives more value to ETH as a money and as a store of value? Well, what drives more value to it? Is more usage.
00:15:20.636 - 00:15:50.102, Speaker A: Right. So the more that we scale ethereum, the network, the more that we scale ethereum, block space out, whether it be at layer one or L2. Obviously, the main scaling narrative right now, or reality really, I should say, is L2. The more people use ETH and the more value is driven to ETH as an asset. Just like how you see in the real world where USD is the reserve currency. USD is the most used currency in the world. It is, it has a very strong value because of that as measured against other fiat currencies.
00:15:50.102 - 00:16:12.446, Speaker A: Right. And people always get this confused where they're like, oh, USD loses its purchasing power over time, and it is not something that you really want to hold long term. You want to invest it in order to protect your purchasing power. That's true. But you have to measure USD against other fiat currencies to measure its actual relative strength. And measured against other fiat currencies, it does a lot better over the long term. And there's actually a measure of this.
00:16:12.446 - 00:16:31.838, Speaker A: It's called the. The DXY, that's the ticker or the Dixie. You can actually go see this on trading view or something like that. You can actually see the strength of the dollar kind of playing out here against other fiat currencies. The US dollar, I should say, australian dollars dollar reduce. No one cares about that. But when you look at it like that, that's the kind of thing that I look at it at.
00:16:31.838 - 00:16:58.046, Speaker A: And the more people that are using USD, the more valuable that it is. The more people accept it, the broader its reach. And the same is true for ETH as an asset. The more people holding it and people can access it and use it, the more value is driven to ETH. Now, we all know that ETH, as measured against USD, for example, has gone up only over time. Yes, it's, it's, it's obviously in a bear market right now, but over the long term, it's gone, it's gone up, right. It's gone up in a really, really big way.
00:16:58.046 - 00:17:33.158, Speaker A: And if you've invested in it over the long term, you've protected your purchasing power a lot. And, uh, you've increased your purchasing power by a lot as well, depending on where you bought it. Of course. You know, if you bought it last bear market between 100 and $300, you have, uh, not only protected your purchasing power even today, where ETH is $1600, but you have greatly increased it by doing that. If you bought, even if you bought it all at 300, right, you have greatly increased your, your purchasing power. So that's the way I kind of look at it. And that's why I believe that ETH drives most of its value from monetary premium and, and store value properties rather than its use as a fee token and rather than the burn.
00:17:33.158 - 00:18:12.442, Speaker A: Now, the reason I bring this up is because I've seen people kind of concerned trolling a little bit lately about how ETH hasn't been deflationary for the last 30 days. And I mean, crudely, I'll just say, who gives a shit, right? Because I don't really think it matters that much for all those reasons that I outlined before. But if you actually look at the long term of what ETH looks like in terms of its deflationary properties since the merge, which, which happened just over a year ago, ETH is still net deflationary by 0.23%. Right? You compare that to BTC, right? It is. I mean, it is not even worth comparing. Like, it's so different, right? BTC has plus 1.7% inflation over the year since the merge.
00:18:12.442 - 00:18:39.664, Speaker A: And then you compare it to ETH proof of work, which is so much worse. It was at 3.16%. And then you go into the fact that Ethereum is now on proof of stake where the issuance is actually not being sold like it was in proof of work, because the costs for proof of stake validators are considerably lower. Like, you know, up to 99% lower. Right. Then you start to see the fuller picture here. So really, you shouldn't be looking at the last 30 days and being like, oh, my God, east inflationary over the last 30 days.
00:18:39.664 - 00:19:20.492, Speaker A: Like, this is bearish. No, not at all. And I mean, I can give you the reasons why it's inflationary over the last 30 days. One, it's a bear market, right? Gas prices have been in the single digits. Two, a lot of activity is moving to L2s. Three, more ETH has been staked, which means the, which means that more ETH is being issued, right? But if you actually look at the, the ETH issuance, discounting the burn, right, the supply growth each year, if you completely remove the burn, is not even 1%. And we can easily offset an annual issuance rate of 1% on ETH, even discounting the burn, right? Offset that with people just naturally buying ETH to use it for fees, right? To use it as money, to use it as collateral, to stake it.
00:19:20.492 - 00:20:10.956, Speaker A: So when you think about it like that, that 1% is negligible in my mind. And that's, as I said, assuming that there's no burn at all. Now, of course, as the L2s continue to grow and they continue to get more activity on them, the long term thesis is that L2s will be paying a lot of fees to layer one because they'll be getting a lot of activity and they obviously need to pay for that. And then the L2 activity essentially replaces the activity that we had on layer one and we still end up with relatively higher fees there, which means that ETH is still net deflationary. But as I said, even if ETH is net inflationary, discounting all the burn and we're at like 1% issuance per year, it does not matter for its value. It will not make an impact on its value, a negative impact on its value in my mind, because it is one greatly offset by the fact that ETH is an asset has, has scaled, because Ethereum has scaled. Right.
00:20:10.956 - 00:20:46.022, Speaker A: And the fact that the issuance is super, super low at 1% and the fact that most of that doesn't need to be sold, really the only force selling is for taxes from, for stakers, right. Obviously because that issuance is issued to, to stakers. So all in all, I think the net effect is incredibly negligible, right. But on the flip side of things, I do think that the, the narrative plays into it too. And obviously a burn, a deflationary narrative, is a positive narrative, but we still have that. If you can't just look at the last 30 days, you have to look at the long term. And I'm just looking at the last year, right, since the merge, we are mega deflationary here.
00:20:46.022 - 00:21:08.862, Speaker A: And this was during a bear market. So if we go into a bull market again soon, which we probably will. Right. As I've said before, I expect the market to heat up next year. Layer one is still going to see activity, even though L2 has a lot of activity on it, there's still going to be plenty of people on layer one. And gas fees are going to spike again. And then we're just going to very quickly burn all of the ETH that we net issued because it's much easier to burn ETH than it is to issue.
00:21:08.862 - 00:21:37.614, Speaker A: Right. So taking that all together, I just don't really see the point or really understand the point of the concern trolling that people are bringing up. And I figured it was worth clarifying that for you guys there. But anyway, I'm going to end that, that rant there about that one. But hopefully it explains a lot of the way I'm thinking about this and why I don't consider it to be bearish at all, really. All right, so the ultrasound money account tweeted out something that I thought was. Was pretty fun, that I hadn't actually done the calculation on myself yet.
00:21:37.614 - 00:22:05.412, Speaker A: So you can see here that they said the EVM has won the TVL game. The top eight chains run the EVM. EVM TVL is 33.8 billion, which accounts for 99% of the TVL on the top eight and the SVM, or the Solana virtual machine. TVL is only 313 million, which is less than 1%. So you can see here that look, the top eight, the top nine. Ethereum, Tron, BSC, Arbitrum, polygon, optimism, avalanche base, and Solana.
00:22:05.412 - 00:22:36.980, Speaker A: And if you look at the kind of distribution here, the top five account for most of it. But really, Solana, as they said here, is not an EVM chain. It's the only non EVM chain, and it has very little TVL. Now, I know that I've said before that TVL is an imperfect metric for measuring things, but I think when taking an aggregate like this to prove a point about what ecosystem is being kind of used. Sorry, has the most value in it, then you can see here that the EVM just absolutely dominates. Is the EVM the best technology? No. Does that matter? Obviously not.
00:22:36.980 - 00:23:15.608, Speaker A: Right? And that's why I always say to people, it's not really about what's the best technology. At the end of the day, what it's about is allowing users to get the best experience possible. And you know what? Users can get a good experience from shitty technology like that. That's been the case with every technology that we have. And technology, of course, improves over time with the L2 ecosystem. You know, arbitrary and polygon, optimism and base all have their own way of improving the EVM, right? They're all doing their own things to improve the EVM, whether it's as a ZKVM, whether it's arbitrum doing their stylus stuff, or optimism with their op stack stuff, right? They all have their own ways of improving the EVM. Now, this isn't to say that there's not room for.
00:23:15.608 - 00:23:44.394, Speaker A: For other players, right, to. To kind of chip away at that market share and kind of bring more balance here. Obviously, the SVM will probably get more TVL as a L2 when. When eclipse launches their SVM L2. And that might change a little bit there, but really, there's no denying the fact that the EVM just absolutely dominates right now. And I think that's going to be true for the foreseeable future there. All right, so Eigen layer has put together a tweet thread all about Eigen Da.
00:23:44.394 - 00:24:23.586, Speaker A: So if you're interested in learning more about Eigen DA, you can check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But they did say that the Eigen Da testnet is coming soon. They'll be supporting roll ups to achieve high throughput and low costs and build protocols and applications that were once impossible. Now you guys know Eigen DA is going to be an off chain data or off Ethereum l one data availability solution using obviously restaked ETH to secure itself and obviously be validators on the network there. And I've talked about Eigen DA a lot on the refill, so I'm not going to rehash all my points about it again here, but I'm really bullish on honestly. And you guys know I'm an investor in Eigen layer here, but I've been talking about Eigen layer for a very long time now.
00:24:23.586 - 00:25:28.384, Speaker A: But the reason I'm bullish on Eigen DA is because I discussed this yesterday about how data availability is commoditized. So if it's commoditized, what is the actual kind of special property of any of these data availability layers? Well, to me the special properties fall back to what makes a layer one special, and that's security, censorship, resistance and reliability. And I think that the Eigen DA is going to be the best of all worlds for that, because it has restaked ETH. It has the security of restaked ETH, right? It has the potential reliability and censorship resistance of the people running Ethereum validators. So it's just a much better solution in my eyes than some of the other data availability solutions out there that can't tap into this, but remains to be seen. Obviously, Eigen DA's new tech, it's going to have potential or relatively high potential for bugs and things like that, and is risky. So I'm not saying it's going to be secure from the get go, but if we're talking about economic security, it definitely has a massive leg up over the other solutions because it is using that restaked ETH.
00:25:28.384 - 00:26:12.422, Speaker A: But you can go check out this thread for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Op Labs has posted a new blog post from Proto Lambda where it explores the design of the op stacks, FPVM or faultproof virtual machine, and how the full fault proof system advances both technical and social decentralization in the optimism ecosystem. So you can see here the blog post is not that long. I'll look it in the YouTube description for you to give a read. But it seems like they're ramping up teasing or I guess talking about the op stacks fault proof system here. Which is great because I feel like that means that they're close to at least releasing the fault proof system on either a testnet or hopefully mainnet in the near future here.
00:26:12.422 - 00:26:54.398, Speaker A: But if you want to learn more about it and about how they're thinking about this and how and the work they're doing on it, you can read this blog post from Proto Lambda. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, just wanted to give a shout out here to the ethereum on arm Twitter account that is running an l two or base synced node running on a rock five b board. So obviously base is based on the optimism or op stack. So set up the setup was really straightforward and support is coming soon in the ethereum on arm images. So this is pretty cool. Being able to run it on a rock five be bored here is critically important because as the ethereum on arm Twitter account said here, keeping l two s decentralized is as important as keeping l one decentralized.
00:26:54.398 - 00:27:42.760, Speaker A: And that's true, right? And I can't wait to run all of these nodes myself and run and run potentially validators and maybe even sequences and provers and things like that and all the hardware that I have because yeah, it's critically important to keep all of this stuff decentralized at L2 just like it is at layer one. I've talked about this in the context of client diversity at L2 before as well. But yeah, I just wanted to hide that tweet for you guys that you can go check out. We'll link it in the YouTube description below. And just to round out today's episode, I did talk yesterday about the l two beats new TVL framework page, and they've extended it actually today with a new detailed breakdown page to provide you with even more information about the tokens that they include in their TVL calculation. So with links to smart contracts here, which is which is really cool to see. So you can go check that out on the l two b website for yourself.
00:27:42.760 - 00:27:59.988, Speaker A: Maybe I'll bring it up quickly now just to show you what this looks like. So if you go to l two b.com, go to value locked click into a project I've clicked into arbitram one here. And if I go to where is this kind of. Where is the. Where is it actually positioned on the website? That page lists all canonically bridged externally. Okay.
00:27:59.988 - 00:28:10.692, Speaker A: Yeah. Okay. There's a. There must be a page here somewhere for this that I'm missing right now because I'm not looking at it correctly. But if I go view tokens. Okay. Natively.
00:28:10.692 - 00:28:34.962, Speaker A: Okay, so this is, this is kind of where it is here. So if you go to view tokens and select it, you can actually see the natively minted tokens, externally bridged tokens and canonically bridged tokens. And if you click into these, I believe, yeah, it'll kind of show it in the chart here. But. And then you can go down to the bottom and I think look at the smart contracts and things there. But yeah. Anyway, not going to bore you with the details, you can go check out the site for yourself, but I think that's going to be it for today.
00:28:34.962 - 00:28:42.714, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
