00:00:00.400 - 00:00:33.610, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today is the 9 January 2021. And hello, everyone. Today is a special episode, as it is a Saturday. So I said on Wednesday that I would make up for missing Thursday and Friday by doing an episode on Saturday, covering, I guess, the news from the last 72 hours or so. And a lot seemed to have happened since, since then, I think, not just in the crypto ecosystem, but, you know, obviously, a lot of these stuff happening in the US. I'm not gonna obviously go into that.
00:00:33.610 - 00:01:06.756, Speaker A: That's, that's outside of what I want to talk about today. But I hope that you all have, you know, I guess, like, been able to deal with the craziness. Not, I guess not just that, but also, you know, within the crypto markets. You know, the bull market seems to be in full swing at this point. I mean, I'm not gonna talk about prices too much or anything like that. But, you know, you can see ETH here is at 1220. And actually, the reason I wanted to bring up why ETH is at this particular price point is because the other day, I decided to make a little bit of a silly promise.
00:01:06.756 - 00:01:27.868, Speaker A: I think I said on Twitter, I will not be tweeting again until ETH hits all time high. Send it. And this was about two days ago now, two or three days. So this was, in hindsight, not a very great decision because it's very hard for me not to tweet. I love tweeting. I love replying to people. I love putting out tweets.
00:01:27.868 - 00:01:55.764, Speaker A: I love talking about how much I love ETH. Obviously, for all of you who follow me, and it's been really hard not to do that. I am kind of just, like, retweeting, you know, people as I, as I sit on there waiting for ETH to get to all time high. I mean, we're so close, right? It's 1220. I think that's like, what, 18% or something away from 1420 or something like that. It is just one day away from hitting all time high in terms of, like, you know, the movement can happen in a day. You know, hopefully it is one day away.
00:01:55.764 - 00:02:41.152, Speaker A: I don't want to be in Twitter jail forever. But it's also funny, because if this, if it takes ETH until next month to reach all time high, I won't have to do the bull, bull, bull dance video that I promised I would do. So I'm kind of, like, in two minds about this, you know, can I survive another 20 something days without tweeting or, you know, just so that I don't have to do the dance or, you know, do I want to be tweeting back to twitting as soon as possible and do the dance? Uh, I'll. I'll say, maybe we'll see what happens. I I personally don't think it's gonna take till the end of the month for ETH to hit all time high. I think we're, you know, as I said, we're very close, so I wouldn't expect it to take too much longer. But anything can happen, right? A lot of the time, ETH loves to do this thing where it sits idle for a while, and then it'll do a lot of moves within a short period of time.
00:02:41.152 - 00:03:28.016, Speaker A: We saw that from the move from, like, I think the, you know, 1160 or something like that. I bet you will see that again, right where Ethel wake up, blast their all time high, maybe go to something like $2,000 and then come back down or something like that. So, you know, that's what I kind of expect from ETH going forward. I really want to tweet soon, so if you guys can kind of pray to the ETH gods and get this thing over the all time high, I'll be back to tweeting. But anyway, let's get into the rest of the video for today. There's a few updates I wanted to go through, you know, from the last couple of days. So I guess, like, oh, before we do that, on that note, Krugman put out this, basically, this tweet saying ETH officially broke its all time high market cap the other day.
00:03:28.016 - 00:04:05.514, Speaker A: And actually, I messaged my, my friend Eric Connor, and I said to him, hey, do you reckon I can get out of not tweeting based on a technicality and just say that? I thought I meant, you know, if ETH breaks its all time high market cap, I'll tweet again. And then I thought, no, I'm not going to get out of it on a technicality. I'm going to stick to it. ETH needs me. Let's get to the price all time high, not just the market cap, all time high. And for those curious, the market cap all time high, the reason why it's been hit before the price is because ETH supply has obviously increased over the last three years, which means the market cap is higher than it was three years ago. The last time ETH was at 1420.
00:04:05.514 - 00:04:41.862, Speaker A: So the market cap all time high was reached at around 1200 or something like that, or maybe over 1200. But yeah, definitely going to wait for the actual price all time high before I start tweeting again. Uniswap is seeing some amazing growth as we progress through this bull market. I mean, this shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone. You can see here that the liquidity on Uniswap just passed, well, I guess like two days ago, past $3.1 billion, which is almost an all time high. And you can see in the chart here, like the massive dip, I guess, and then the recovery, the dip was from the uni rewards ending.
00:04:41.862 - 00:05:21.856, Speaker A: So once the uni incentives ended, Uniswap lost about $2 billion worth of liquidity. But it's managed to almost get back up to where it was, which is very impressive because there's no uni rewards right now. You know, I know there's a lot of competition and a lot of people are really excited about sushiswap and things like that. I mean, you know, I don't own any sushi tokens, but, you know, to be honest, I'm actually pretty happy that Uniswap has some competition here. And it's not just competition that's doing kind of nothing. It's they're actually innovating and they're building newer products and they're actually trying to do something different to just copying Uniswap. So, you know, as I said, I don't own any sushi tokens, but my opinion on it has changed over the last few months.
00:05:21.856 - 00:06:21.834, Speaker A: Seeing it go from, you know, what seemed like, I wouldn't call it a scam, but, like some of, like, just a project with a lot of drama surrounding it to something that's actually innovating within defi. But, you know, on that note, I'm very impressed by Uniswap's liquidity growth without token incentives because Sushiswap still has token incentives. You know, their growth is coming from that a lot of the time, which is fine. I have nothing against token incentives, but I always like looking at what I like to call unincentivized Tbl. So unincentivized liquidity, which I think is a more important metric than, you know, just looking at, you know, say 90% of the liquidity is incentivized, while logically you think that you would think that 90% would leave or like a large part of that would leave once the token rewards ran out. So then, yeah, I guess Hayden goes on to say that there's hundreds of thousands, I mean, he mentions this, he says, you know, this time it's without any uni liquidity mining incentives. And he says just hundreds of thousands of real users generating millions of dollars in daily trading fees, 14.1
00:06:21.834 - 00:07:04.588, Speaker A: million just for last week. So yeah, I mean, I think, guess people probably wondering, you know, why or how is Uniswap still getting so much liquidity in its protocol? Uniswap volumes and swap volume and integrations and trust, I think is greater than, you know, other alternatives like sushi swap and even balancer. And I think that means that, you know, liquidity providers are more comfortable putting their liquidity into uniswap. They don't care if they miss out on the, on the token rewards or the token incentives. They're happy with their liquidity in uniswap. So yeah, I think we're gonna see a bit of a blossoming there. I do think that the winners from this kind of amm war, I guess you could call it, is gonna be the aggregators.
00:07:04.588 - 00:07:48.792, Speaker A: So something like, you know, one inch, there's a bunch of others out there like matcha, paraswap, there's a few out there like Dexag and things like that. So I think those will be the winners. And among those, I don't know who's gonna be the winner. Maybe we'll have an aggregator of aggregators. I don't know, but I think that the underlying, in the long term will trend towards maybe one or two of these protocols. I don't know how many of these can exist and how fragmented liquidity can become. I don't know if we'll even see like kind of a divide between different parts of the world, right? Maybe there'll be, Uniswap will be like the western amm and Sushiswap will be like the eastern or asian amm.
00:07:48.792 - 00:08:34.260, Speaker A: I don't know. I don't think so. I don't really see that schism developing, but maybe it does and maybe that's how we kind of separate these things and we see these things play out. But yeah, still very, very cool to see uniswap growing without token incentives. Always happy to see that because I mean, as you all know, token incentives are quite, they're not sustainable forever, right? You can do it for a period of time, but eventually, I mean you either put in perpetual inflation, which means that you need to put in inflation that isn't too high, but because then it'll dilute the token holders too much and the price won't really move. So you have to put the dilution like, I mean, the inflation quite low, which means that the rewards aren't very lucrative. So it's like a balancing act there, which I think some projects might actually do, like perpetual token issuance.
00:08:34.260 - 00:09:29.340, Speaker A: I think Uniswap has that from memory, which is a bit weird, but in general, always good to see unincentivized TVL growing. Speaking of decentralized exchanges and specifically aggregators, Shapeshift announced that they're going to be integrating a bunch of different deFi, I guess like exchanges or amms and things like that, and going to be, I guess, building a DeFi aggregator or a decentralized exchange aggregator here. So for those who don't know, Shapeshift has been around for quite a while. They were basically the original, I guess, token swapping platform, but it was not, you know, defi. It was like on chain token swapping platform. It wasn't decentralized or anything like that. You'd go to their site, you'd put in, you know, how much of a token you'd want to swap for what token, and then it'd be matched in the background and you get back that token.
00:09:29.340 - 00:09:59.114, Speaker A: It wasn't very quick like when it was busy. Usually it could take up to hours to get your swap done. You know, it wasn't super secure because it was centralized. But the benefit was that there was no KYc. But what ended up happening was that the US government ordered shapeshift to implement KYC. So they had to, which means that shapeshift lost most of its volume because people just weren't interested in using it anymore. Because I guess like the appeal was the fact you didn't have to, you know, kyc yourself.
00:09:59.114 - 00:10:51.836, Speaker A: So shapeshift has come back and is hitting back and basically saying, well, we want to lose the KYC from our kind of exchange. Let's just do it all in Defi, which I think is actually really, really cool. Um, you know, I, I mean, obviously shapeshift probably can't exist long term. Uh, you know, I mean, take a step back here. Shapeshift also does like cross chain swaps, but, but the thing is though, they were popular for cross chain swaps because you could go from something like ETH to Monero or ETH to Zcash with like hardly any paper trail and then have like private, you know, transactions in there and then be able to cash it out somewhere else. But I think now, given the fact that there's the whole defi ecosystem on Ethereum where you have stable coins, you have, you know, private coins you can actually go into, you can wrap dai in, you know, zero knowledge proof and have some privacy there. You can do this stuff.
00:10:51.836 - 00:11:29.482, Speaker A: And also the fact that there is now cross chain protocols that don't require Kyc. So we have, I guess, Thor chain. We have, I think chain flip going live or is another project tackling this like boring Dao. There's a bunch of them. Ren from Ren, like has Ren BTC. So shapeshift, I think made a strategic decision here to go the aggregator route because of the fact that their, I guess, customer base is dwindling on the fact that, you know, they need that they have to do Kyc, whereas the alternatives on Ethereum don't. And that's the main selling .1
00:11:29.482 - 00:11:52.624, Speaker A: of the main selling points of this decentralized trading across all of Ethereum, I believe. So, yeah. Gonna be very interesting to see when they launch this and what they do with this. I, I mean, I use shapeshift back in the day. It was one of the first exchanges I used in I guess 2017. But yeah, once they did put in KyC, I definitely stopped using it at that point, unfortunately. But yeah.
00:11:52.624 - 00:12:36.174, Speaker A: Hope to see them make a comeback here. So this isn't particularly ethereum news, but I thought it was interesting. Some of you may know AIP 1559 is actually being implemented on other networks. So it's been implemented on Filecoin. And there's one other network, I'm forgetting the name right now, but I think Filecoin is the most relevant one because I, in the discord in the Ethereum research discord, I actually see the filecoin devs in there talking about ERP 1559. And this was basically a blog post that Filecoin put out summarizing their views around ERP 1559 and how it's what worked in Filecoin. And they call out a few different things here.
00:12:36.174 - 00:13:15.036, Speaker A: They say that it's more efficient, which is exactly what it's supposed to be. Besides the fee burn, it's supposed to be in a more efficient kind of gas model. It's better for the user experience. There's, I think this, this might be a file coin specific thing, but critical message throughput in filecoin. So window post messages in file coin a time critical and thus be processed, must be processed in a way that is robust to congestion. And 1559 offers the greater reliability and throughput for such messages and rewarding network for transactions. So the entire network bears the cost of processing transactions and should be compensated accordingly.
00:13:15.036 - 00:14:03.284, Speaker A: I guess that's, that's with the burnout. But yeah, basically this is, this is quite insane. Like insane, I guess, like from a, from the perspective of, you know, do we want to test 1559? How long do we want to test? And obviously we do, but the fact that it's already on file coin and already on a live blockchain in a main net environment gives the researchers and developers a lot to look at because they can see this and say, okay, well, it's working in filecoin really well. Know, based on our assumptions, this and this have happened or this hasn't happened, you know, there's a lot of worry about attack vectors of 1559. But yeah, I mean, all I've kind of heard from, from the file coin side is positive stuff. So, I mean, I'll link this post in the description. You can go check this out for yourself.
00:14:03.284 - 00:14:58.716, Speaker A: But I think at this point I would put a 99% chance of 1559 going into Ethereum main net. And the reason why it's 99 and not 100% is that, you know, you always got to leave that little wiggle room for something unforeseen happening. But I just, I don't see any blockers anymore in terms of, you know, concerns from people, you know, security concerns, implementation concerns, you know, and just an FYI here, the, the ERP 15 nine has actually already been implemented into the go Ethereum client. It just hasn't been activated on mainnet yet, so it's ready to go. But we do need to do a few things before we can activate it on Mainnet. And as I've said before, I think we can expect this towards the end of the year on Ethereum, which is going to be a pretty, pretty huge day, I think, for Ethereum, as huge as, maybe not as big as the ETH two beacon chain going live. But to me, 1559 is just as important as staking is to its value accrual properties.
00:14:58.716 - 00:15:43.642, Speaker A: So really, really excited to see that go live. So Gitcoin put together their year in review for 2020. I think Gitcoin had an incredible 2020. They, I mean, they raised so much money for so many different grants, right, because of the fact that we had Defi summer people had a lot of money to donate and do matching with the Gitcoin grants rounds and that's what they did. We had like millions of dollars running through, through Gitcoin and every round has been bigger throughout 2020. I mean, I know I've spoken about Gitcoin a lot before and I've been one of the beneficiaries of it through both Ethub and the Daily Gwei. So I can speak to the fact that it has been a great platform for myself and obviously for a lot of people.
00:15:43.642 - 00:16:28.036, Speaker A: Maybe some of you listening have grants on there. I think that we can eventually get to the point where at least a handful of people can be working full time just by being compensated from Gitcoin grants. Matching round specifically. I think that's one of the goals of gitcoin, is to get to that point. And, you know, there's not just the grants, there's the bounties as well and things like that. And they want to be able to offer, I guess, this thing where people can work for the open Internet and they can work for Ethereum and, you know, and you're rewarded for that through these matching rounds. So, yeah, I'm looking forward to seeing 2021, how it goes, what kind of funds are raised, what kind of matching is done, because since the, the last round, ETH has pretty much doubled in price.
00:16:28.036 - 00:17:12.176, Speaker A: I think Defi tokens are again heating up. So I think people have more money to throw around. We'll see more donations being made and we'll see more matching as well. So really, really looking forward to the next round of gitcoin grants. So asset, the index co op announced a couple days ago that we're looking for new index methodologists to join, I guess the co op. So basically what the index methodologist program is, is basically the way you can think about it, is that the DeFi pulse index already exists, right? Most of you have probably heard of it by now, and the methodologists, the ones who created it and kind of manage it from a criteria point of view, is DeFi pulse. So they have a website at pulse dot in comma.
00:17:12.176 - 00:17:37.269, Speaker A: You can go check that out, where they put forward their methodology of how the index is supposed to be structured or, you know, how it's meant to be structured. So things like, you know, the. The project has to be around for six months or more for the token to be included in the default pulse index. The token has to have. It has to have more than 5% of its supply in circulation. It can't be a wrapped token. You know, there's a bunch of different things in there.
00:17:37.269 - 00:18:07.224, Speaker A: So what the methodologist program does is it aims to reward people for coming and coming up with index products and putting, and getting them live on the co op and generating revenue for the co op. And you'll be rewarded if this is something that you want to do in index tokens. So 7.5% of all index tokens have been allocated to this program. So there's a quite a lot up for grabs. I think in terms of monetary value, it's quite high. Last time I checked, the index price was about $7.
00:18:07.224 - 00:18:29.814, Speaker A: So and there's 10 million tokens. So basically 7.5% is 750,000 tokens. So times seven and you get like four, you get, you get it, you get a fair, a fair amount, right, of tokens. They're basically millions of dollars worth. And this will be paid out kind of over a lot, I guess. Like, I think it's an 18 month period.
00:18:29.814 - 00:18:50.842, Speaker A: So if this is something you're interested in, definitely join. Read this blog post, which I'll link in the description. You can join the discord and join the forum and everything like that. You'll be able to find all of this once I link this in the description. But yeah, there's basically an open call. And it doesn't have to be index products that are defi. It can be basically any structured product.
00:18:50.842 - 00:19:32.280, Speaker A: Essentially, you know, L2 is heating up, but there's not too many tokens yet. Maybe that's something that can be revisited in the future. You know, if you've got an idea and you think that you can basically generate revenue for the co op, like size, I guess, tangible revenue, and that you think your product is going to be very popular, definitely. Check this out. I think it's really great. Alpha Finance announced their Alpha HOmura V two a couple days ago. So for those who don't know, Alpha Finance has only been around for a little while now, but they're quickly becoming one of the best defi projects just simply because they've been growing so fast and they're offering some really cool products.
00:19:32.280 - 00:20:06.898, Speaker A: So Alpha, Alpha Homora is their leveraged yield trading yield farming product. Sorry, that has been around for a little while. You can actually farm, as I was just talking about the index cop, you can actually farm index tokens with leverage by putting in DPI and ETH into Alpha homoras interface there. So definitely go check that out if that's something that interests you. But they announced V two and they have a few partners on board. They have cream, sushiswap curve and balancer on board for their v two, which I thought was quite a big deal. I really love seeing these synergies coming along.
00:20:06.898 - 00:20:58.444, Speaker A: And I remember I, a few weeks ago I spoke about how the why earn kind of mergers were more like partnerships, and they definitely were and I like it when projects actually word these things as partnerships, which is what Alpha Finance has done, because that's what it is, right. They're just partnering up with these protocols, working with their teams to, you know, make the experience of their own project and their own kind of product better for their end users. So, yeah, if you're not aware of Alpha finance yet, I definitely recommend checking them out. They're not only doing the leveraged yield farming, but they're also doing a bunch of different products that they've got coming out in the future. They've got like a perpetual exchange coming out, I think relatively soon that they've been talking about. And Alpha Homora V two is obviously being supercharged with a bunch of these different protocols. So definitely go check them out.
00:20:58.444 - 00:21:53.480, Speaker A: So I've said it before, and I'll say it again, 2021 is the year of L2 adoption. And I think right now we have a front runner in loop ring and ZK roll ups in general. So as you can see here, Matt Fu Finestone from loop Ring announced that we Ethereum Zika roll ups now secure more than $100 million worth of liquidity. So $89 million belongs to loop ring on their L2 exchange. $11 million belongs to ZK sync, which was used in Gitcoin, for those of you who are, sorry, who are familiar with that. And then he also says that you can throw in diversify, which uses validium from starkware, which is another, I think, $8 million of TvL. So, you know, we basically just from a few months ago went from $0 or close to this is following the adoption curve, I guess, of Defi in general.
00:21:53.480 - 00:22:32.512, Speaker A: I think we're going to get to, I mean, as Matt says here, I think we're going to get to a billion dollars in short order. It's going to be quite, quite fast. I even expect like as soon as Uniswap's L2 goes live, there's going to be a billion dollars in there, like instantly. I can imagine them doing some uni rewards on there possibly and getting people to migrate across. But yeah, I mean, the gas fees have been persistently high. You know, even though it's calm right now, they're still at, I mean, I can see it there still at around 60 guy for fast transaction the other day we all, we all experienced that where, where they were up in the high hundreds or the mid hundreds, which was quite insane. So yeah, the push is on, the race is on.
00:22:32.512 - 00:23:14.642, Speaker A: We're going to L2 and we're going there way quicker than a lot of people expect. And, you know, a lot loop rings actually doing great work here because they're doing liquidity mining on their L2 exchange, which I think is actually needed. So, you know, you have two basically things pushing people to L2. You have the high gas fees, obviously that's kind of like, you know, a bit random because the gap, the high gas fees that, sorry, the gas fees aren't always high. And, you know, you can't really predict when they're going to be high. There's not much predictability there in terms of spiking. You can basically guarantee that the gas phase are going to be high if the ETH price is going up, but you don't know when the ETH price is going to go up, right, or maybe even down because people are panicking and trying to cover their positions when the market's going down.
00:23:14.642 - 00:23:52.444, Speaker A: So the second thing and the more sustainable way to do it is with liquidity mining, right? Get people on L2, get them providing liquidity, get them trying it out, get them used to this experience of super fast cheap transactions and then they don't even want to go back to layer one. So I think that that's the, the right approach. And I'm really happy to see loopering doing this. So I mean, I don't hold any LRC tokens, so I'm not just shilling anything here. But I really enjoy watching loop ring execute on this because they've been at it for quite a while. So if you haven't checked out their layer to exchange yet, definitely go check it out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description.
00:23:52.444 - 00:24:41.964, Speaker A: Well, this tweet will be and you can, you can find the exchange on loop Ring's Twitter account there. So umbrella protocol from Yam has entered internal alpha testing. So just a refresher here. Umbrella is a, I guess like a Defi insurance protocol or a defi kind of like COVID protocol that aims to be much more expressive and much more open, I guess, than Nexus mutual is currently. As you probably know, Nexus mutual requires k, requires KYC right now, which is not popular within defi, of course, and for good reason. And it's a bit limited in what you can do with it. Umbrella protocol aims to be, you know, not, not have these limits at all, be basically decentralized, no, be composable with the rest of DeFi because the protect protections and the positions will be nfts.
00:24:41.964 - 00:25:09.110, Speaker A: So you can like kind of send them to different wallets and trade them and everything like that. Have customizable pools and basically be managed by the yam community as well, which is, which is really cool because I think the yam community is great. So, yeah, definitely go check this out. If, if you want to learn more about this protocol. It's a, it's a bit of a sleeping giant. I think insurance is going to be big. We've already seen other protocols like cover trying to fill the void there that Nexus mutual kind of hasn't filled.
00:25:09.110 - 00:25:52.088, Speaker A: But cover obviously has a lot of drama surrounding it, unfortunately. So maybe that's a, that's like an angle. Not an angle, but like it's an opening for another protocol to come along and do something. But I think in general, we're going to see more than just two or three of these things. We're going to see a lot of them competing, doing a bunch of different things. And I think just like every other DeFi protocol, the winner is going to be the one that offers the most composability with all of Defi, basically, and the most decentralized, the one that doesn't require Kyc. You know, Nexus mutual is fine, and I, and I think they're actually going to go far, but my thesis and my entire thesis when investing in any defi things or kind of looking at them, is that you need to be composable with the rest of defi if you want your product to take off.
00:25:52.088 - 00:26:24.636, Speaker A: It's as simple as that. You cannot have a closed ecosystem if you want your product to take off for fundamental reasons, you want your, your products to be used outside of just pure speculation and things like that, because that's what defies all about. It's all about the money, legos. So, you know, for any budding developers out there or people, you know, thinking of starting something in Defi, I think you definitely should take that on board and think about that before doing anything, really. It's critically important. If you don't, you'll just, you'll hamper your growth. You might find some niche somewhere.
00:26:24.636 - 00:27:08.486, Speaker A: But I think a project that does, you know, what you, what you would fail to do or what another project fails to do, you're just leaving gaps open that, that other kind of projects can explain. So, yeah, I think in general, that's a good rule of thumb to live by. Last thing to talk about today. So I wrote about this in the Daily Gray newsletter a couple days ago, or I think yesterday. Basically, ethereum is a trojan horse, right? Or at least bitcoin is a trojan horse for Ethereum, I should say so what I mean by this is that obviously in the mainstream outside of crypto, it's all bitcoin, right? Bitcoin this bitcoin that. Bitcoin breaks all time high. Bitcoin is worth this amount, you know, how high is bitcoin going? Blah, blah, blah, blah.
00:27:08.486 - 00:27:47.126, Speaker A: It dominates mainstream headlines. Ethereum is mentioned sometimes, but nowhere near as much as bitcoin is. I actually think that that is a really great thing for the moment. And over the years, it's been really great, because what ends up happening is that outside of crypto, it's all bitcoin, right. Or mostly bitcoin. Then once you're inside the crypto ecosystem, it's literally ethereum and really nothing else, right? You can enter into bitcoin, you can buy some BTC, you can learn about it, and then you're like, okay, what can I do with my BTC? Well, you can't do anything on bitcoin with it, right? Like literally nothing. So then they discover a theory I'm right, because that's number two.
00:27:47.126 - 00:28:18.966, Speaker A: Everyone looks at the number two and they go, okay, what can I do with aetherium? And then obviously defi, right, right. You have Defi. And then the funny thing is, is that they can bring over their BTC into a theorem and do stuff with their BTC then. So Ethereum has basically, and I wrote about this, basically has so many doors to enter into the ecosystem, whereas bitcoin only has one. But bitcoin is one of the doors that is part of the Ethereum ecosystem. So a lot of people would come in through bitcoin. Some people come in through nfts.
00:28:18.966 - 00:28:47.936, Speaker A: We see a lot of crypto artists these days, right? They're definitely not in Ethereum and Defi speculating or aping into different coins, right. They're putting their art and tokenizing their art and making money from it and discovering all the wonderful things about Ethereum. We saw people do this recently with Beeple drop, where he, I think, sold $3.5 million worth of his art after tokenizing it. And, yeah, he obviously, I mean, as far as I know, he has never really spoken about it. I don't think he was speculating on Defi tokens or anything like that. Right.
00:28:47.936 - 00:29:14.270, Speaker A: But even outside of that, right, you have people who enter through Defi, which is fine. I think most people will enter through that. You have people who enter through maybe L2. They want to get involved with L2. Maybe they want to get involved with cryptography. You know, there's so many things and so many different doors that people can enter aetherium through. I just, I don't see how a theorem doesn't just keep winning, right? Not, I mean, I don't really care about comparing it against bitcoin.
00:29:14.270 - 00:29:47.310, Speaker A: I feel like bitcoin is its own thing and will be its own thing. But Ethereum has a lot of kind of competitors, right? And I don't think any of them are serious competitors at this point. They're still got a lot of growing to do. But, you know, there are enemies at the gates, so to speak. They want to take Ethereum's market share, they want to beat out Ethereum, they want to be worth more than Ethereum. And I don't think that they, I mean, I personally don't think that they can. And I think a big reason is definitely because Ethereum is so accessible, has such a huge ecosystem for people to enter in through now.
00:29:47.310 - 00:30:18.138, Speaker A: And once you're in Ethereum, there's, you know, I don't really see many people questioning and saying, okay, I've done all this in Ethereum. What else can I do, right? I mean, there's not much else you can do. You can go to one of the other chains and maybe there's some stuff you can do there and maybe you do stuff and it's cheaper, whatever. But I guess that's because a lot of these other things are centralized. But other than that, fundamentally all of the most exciting things are happening on Ethereum. So I just don't see that happening. And even the cross chain stuff, right, is happening on Ethereum.
00:30:18.138 - 00:30:46.044, Speaker A: Everyone's bringing over their assets to a theory. And because they need the liquidity, they need a theorem's network effects, they need a theorem standards. No one wants to trade these things on other chains like decent decentralized exchanges, because it's just not a big thing, right? There's not much liquidity. The network effects aren't there. They don't have users. You can, you can even go look at all the, all the other chains and their transactions per day. The ones that at least have fees, they're all like pretty much non existent.
00:30:46.044 - 00:31:22.940, Speaker A: And the ones who don't have fees, I mean, it's very easy to fake, right? You can just set a bot up and just do dummy transactions. But I don't want, you know, I don't want to bash on the other projects too much. I don't think any of them are scams or anything. Well, most of them aren't. Some of them are, but I think that, you know, bitcoin acts as a really, really, really great door into Ethereum because of the fact that it's so limited in that, you know, as soon as you are done learning about bitcoin at, I guess, a surface level and buying BTC, there's just one other place you're going to go to, and that's Ethereum. So yeah, go read the newsletter if you want to get some more of my thoughts on that. But I think I just summarized it quite well, so you probably don't need to.
00:31:22.940 - 00:31:58.386, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, this meme basically kind of like got my brain spinning the other day when I was thinking about it, and I, and I, and I thought it was a really important point. You're probably going to get a lot of people asking you about Ethereum now, and I think that 2021 is going to be Ethereum's year again because we're going to see just more explosive growth across Defi dows. As I said, L2 eats price is going to keep going up. Well, I mean, I believe it is. I can't guarantee that, of course, but I believe it will keep going up. And east getting institutional adoption as well. You know, we have CME futures going live next month.
00:31:58.386 - 00:32:26.936, Speaker A: That's the precursor to an ETF. So I think we're going to see a bit bitcoin, ETF possibly this year, and then ETF will come shortly after. I can't imagine it taking too much longer. So, you know, ETH is going to have, or Ethan Ethereum are going to have some great years ahead of them. And I am super excited to cover it all for you all because I will be here covering it on the daily YouTube and the newsletter and everything like that. So yeah, very exciting times ahead. But I think that's everything for today.
00:32:26.936 - 00:32:49.624, Speaker A: So thank you everyone for watching and listening. I hope you enjoyed it. Sorry about the last couple days again that I couldn't record, but I hope that you enjoy this special episode today. Tomorrow I'm putting out the daily data pump number two. So this will cover the data analytics for December. Gonna be covering some ETH two stuff, so be sure to tune into that one. But yeah, subscribe to the YouTube channel so you don't miss that.
00:32:49.624 - 00:32:57.714, Speaker A: And future videos keep give this video a thumbs up, join the discord and subscribe to the Daily Gray newsletter and I'll catch you all on Monday. Thanks everyone.
