00:00:00.280 - 00:00:32.150, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deliberate refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesarno, and today's 19 February 2024. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So I'm back after one day off, I guess like one day was the Friday technically off, and then obviously there was the weekend. I had a rug fuel on Friday, but I think it was a rug fuel that you all enjoyed because I put the episode with Eric live on Friday to make up for it because I kept teasing you guys about that episode. And good news on that front as well. There's going to be another drive thru episode this week with Eric.
00:00:32.150 - 00:01:01.822, Speaker A: It'll be out on Saturday, the normal time, unless I do another rug fuel. Then maybe you get it sooner. But we're recording it Friday. So unless I do a rug fuel on Friday, my Friday, you're not going to get it till Saturday. But in saying that, I think that we want to make it more of a kind of collaborative thing with the community. So someone suggested taking kind of questions from the daily gray community and answering them on the podcast with me and Eric. So if you do have questions, go to the Daily Gray Discord channel, and there is an AMA series channel in there for that.
00:01:01.822 - 00:01:41.224, Speaker A: You can, you ask your questions in, and Eric and I will do our best to answer them. We probably won't answer all of them. It just depends on time. And also, one big topic this week that we're going to be talking about is how to take profits in crypto, because we spoke a lot, obviously, on the video about how bullish we are on ETH and how we think it is going to like 20k or 1520k this cycle and how long term it's going even higher than that. But crypto cycles, I mean, also the crypto markets and all markets work in cycles, right? And if you can take advantage of those cycles, you can substantially increase your holdings without having to kind of put fresh capital in. And obviously, you want to be able to take profits so that you can buy other things. Maybe you want to put a down payment on a house, maybe you want to buy a new car, you know, stuff like that.
00:01:41.224 - 00:02:20.192, Speaker A: Right? So we're going to be discussing our strategies and how we kind of structure ourselves, uh, you know, and how we've structured ourselves historically. Eric has a lot of really great insights on that, honestly, but more probably better insights than I do on it because he's been around longer, and he, he is honestly legendary at calling macro tops and bottoms on, on the crypto markets. Like, it's actually scary how good he is at it. So I'm going to let him kind of take the reins on that when we do the episode this week. But yeah, you guys can look forward to that there. Now, of course, speaking of the ETF stuff, we had another kind of, I guess, couple of updates around the ETH ETF's over the last few days. One of them was that one of the issuers filed, I think, an updated form to the SEC.
00:02:20.192 - 00:03:30.958, Speaker A: That's not really big news, I guess, like that's expected at this point. But there was this tweet here from Nate Gurachi, who is the president at ETF, the ETF store here, who said, who quoted a Fox Business article from Alan Tourette here, who is one of the guests, like analysts at Fox Business, who covers, or journalists, I should say, who covers a lot of the ETF stuff. The quote in the piece was, the SEC will be hard pressed to come up with a new argument for denying a spot ETH ETF when the same factors in the spot BTC ETF approval are also at play here. And the reason I bring this up is because this is a narrative, and this is something that I've been saying for a little while. And I'm glad that other people are saying it now because it really kind of like, makes me question why people are so bearish on the ETH ETF if, I mean, for all intents and purposes, they're basically the same products as a BTC ETF. And the ETH ETF has the same kind of factors at play, such as the fact that ETH has futures ETF's already and BTC had futures ETF's. And then basically a court ruled against the SEC in the grayscale case saying, hey, why did you deny the spot ETF's if you approve the futures ones when they're basically the same product, you know, 99% the same product, and then a few other things obviously falling off of there.
00:03:30.958 - 00:04:05.182, Speaker A: And I've also seen a lot of people talking about, I guess, like the two main bear cases for, or at least like the two main things people seem to point to when they're kind of, well, actually there's three. Okay, I'm thinking. I'm thinking of more than three, but I think I'm going to bucket it into three main kind of cases. People get give, in terms of the bear case as to why the ETH ETF's won't be approved by May. This year. So I give, I'll give all three of them. The first one, first and foremost, is people think that they'll be denied simply because Gary Gensler and Elizabeth Warren and, you know, the high ranking Democrats, they hate crypto, and they will begrudgingly dragged to approve the BTC ETF.
00:04:05.182 - 00:04:41.386, Speaker A: So they're not going to approve the ETH ETF one as well. I don't think this argument is, is necessarily a weak argument. Like, I get where people are coming from, but I don't necessarily think it's a strong one either. I think it's like a coin toss at this point, whether they kind of, like, approve or deny based on that reasoning there, because I can see both sides of it. Right. But at the same time, it just depends on if the SEC wants to open themselves up to lawsuits again, because if they deny and their denial is based on basically, you know, wishy washy logic, which the SEC has been using for quite a while now against crypto. And you can bet your ass there's going to be lawsuits out the wazoo towards them.
00:04:41.386 - 00:05:12.898, Speaker A: Now, do they want those lawsuits in an election year that is really critical for the Democrats? Do they want those lawsuits when there's actually now a crypto friendly Republican, I guess, competitors for Elizabeth Warren. So he's running against Elizabeth Warren. Do they want those bad headlines against, you know, against her when there's that happening? So it's very political, and I would argue that this is potentially even more political than the BTC one. Right. But that's kind of how I view that there. But I understand both sides of the argument on that point. The second point is people bring up this poly market prediction market here.
00:05:12.898 - 00:05:40.730, Speaker A: So they say that, well, the polymarket prediction market has its chance of an approval by May 31 for an ETF at 42% right now. And it's been trending down. Originally it started at like 80%, and now it's in on January 10, and now it's at like 42%. I actually wouldn't put much signal in this, guys, to be honest. I mean, the whole idea of this is that it moves over time. Like, it's not a binary thing. You can buy, yes, shares now, and then you can sell them at like 50% if you want, and you would still make a profit.
00:05:40.730 - 00:05:59.476, Speaker A: That's the whole point of a market like this. It's not a kind of a binary bet where you're saying, okay, well, these are my numbers for the lottery. And you, you know, you, you buy one ticket and that's it. If you want to have more chances of winning the lottery, or if you want to change your numbers, what you do is you go buy more numbers. Right. You go buy another ticket. So it's, it's kind of different in that respect there.
00:05:59.476 - 00:06:32.902, Speaker A: But I wouldn't put much signal in this. We're still three months out from the ETF, from that date, basically a bit over three months out from, from that date at the moment, which, you know, may not seem like a long time, but when it comes to these kind of things evolving and changing over that time, I could see this trend up just based on, you know, even the smallest amount of news. So let's just say the SEC is seen kind of like speaking with the, the issuers or talking with the issuers about the ETH. ETF. That would immediately, in my opinion, make these, make this. Yes. Chance go from 42% to at least something like, you know, 60% or something like that.
00:06:32.902 - 00:06:52.678, Speaker A: Because if you look at what happened with the SEC talking to the BTC, ETF issuers are the same issuers, right. But they talked to them. Everyone got more confident. Right. Everyone got much more confident in these things being approved. So I think that the prediction market isn't much of a signal right now. I think that the, you know, the bet size is actually quite small to its $1.3
00:06:52.678 - 00:07:13.542, Speaker A: million bet size right now. So, yeah, I really do think that the next three months is going to have this basically trending up, to be honest. I mean, I haven't bought any shares or anything like that. If I'm going to bet on the ETH, ETF approval, I'm just going to keep buying ETH. Right. Like, that's my kind of logic to this. But, yeah, if you, if you want, you know, if you're confident that it's going to get improved by May, then you could basically bet on this.
00:07:13.542 - 00:07:55.692, Speaker A: And it should be, I'm not going to say easy money, but, like, obviously, if you're right, it'll, it'll pay out nicely here, especially if you buy it now. But as I said, I don't put too much stock in this, in, in these kind of odds right now. I do think where we were going to get a lot more signal over the next month or so, definitely around the ETF, maybe the next month or two, I guess. But, yeah, that's the second thing that I see people point to, and I really don't put much stock in that. The third thing, which I don't really put any stock in, is people saying, well, the ETH e discount is still like 15% or 14%, whereas the GPTC discount was trending down. You know, it went below 10% when BTC was going to get an ETF. This is just flat out kind of not looking at it.
00:07:55.692 - 00:08:35.870, Speaker A: I mean, I'm not going to say it's flat out wrong, but it's actually not looking at the, the timing correctly here. Now, I would bring up the charts of the discounts, but I don't have them in front of me right now because the site is like paywalled or something. But I looked it up before and I was able to get the numbers for you guys, the jeep. So GBTC and ether, Grayscale's products, the ones that they want to convert from closed closed trust to the open, obviously ETF's that they converted. You know, they converted GPTC already and they want to convert ETH as well. GPTC didn't trade under a 10% discount until a month before the ETF's got approved, or at least like five weeks before the ETF's got approved. So it was the beginning of December where I think it first went under 10% and started just going down only from there.
00:08:35.870 - 00:08:53.826, Speaker A: And then obviously it's basically at 0% now because the, the conversion happens. The ETH ETF. I think if I actually, maybe I can look it up on my other screen right now. So I should say the ethy discount, not the ETH eTf. The ethy discount right now is at. I'm just looking up my other screen. You can't see this, but it's.
00:08:53.826 - 00:09:06.098, Speaker A: What is a 13, 1212 13% right now. So that is already better than what BTC was before. You know, three months. At least three months before the final deadlines. The final deadlines. I think a 23 May. The final.
00:09:06.098 - 00:09:29.536, Speaker A: The first final deadlines. So we're still three months out from those. And the ethy discount is already basically at 10%. Uh, so I really don't put any stock in that at all. People saying, oh, that's the market saying it's not confident in ETH ETF. It's like, guys, like, there's still three months left, right? I mean, three months before the BTC ETF approval, BTC was still struggling to break out of. Then we had the grayscale win and that's when it kind of never looked back.
00:09:29.536 - 00:09:50.388, Speaker A: And then as we got closer, people got more confident. BTC price kept going up, the GBTC discount was collapsing. The prediction market odds were going up as well. I couldn't find a market. I couldn't find any stats on what the BTC ETF prediction market looked like, you know, over a longer time period. I can only go back to the beginning of December. But, yeah, I mean, it's still too early.
00:09:50.388 - 00:10:22.244, Speaker A: It's still three months away. Like, as I said, I know it doesn't seem like that's a long time, but that's an eternity when it comes to this stuff. We know that crypto can move really, really quickly, but it, you know, it can move really, really quickly and it can catch us off guard and make it, make us feel like it's been a long time. But I think that's what's going to happen going forward here. So I know I spent, you know, ten minutes on that, but I felt like it was really worth just, worth just walking through everything here and walking through. Why I think that people are wrong to say that there's only like a, you know, 40, 50% chance of these things being approved by May. I think there's a much higher chance than this.
00:10:22.244 - 00:10:55.640, Speaker A: And, you know, as we get closer and closer, obviously people can up their odds based on new information, but I'm pretty confident they're going to get approved by May at this, at this point. Right. I mean, I think that because there's still three months left and obviously because I'm ETH biased, my prediction, you know, has more chances of being wrong than my BTC ETF prediction did because I got that one right. And I think there will still a lot of people fading that right up until it got approved. But I'm pretty happy staking my kind of reputation or state or basically saying that I think they're going to be approved by May. If I'm wrong, I'll gladly admit that I'm not going to sweep that under the rug. Right.
00:10:55.640 - 00:11:35.242, Speaker A: Like, why would I do that? But I'm pretty confident stage and I think that, you know, over the next, I guess, like maybe two months especially, we're going to see the confidence either go up or down based on movements within the issuers and the SEC. But honestly, I'm betting on, on them being approved by May here. But we'll have to see. Obviously, the price action right now is quite positive. Probably the price action is trying to front run the ETF approval, of course, but we'll have to see as we get closer to that. Anyway, I'm going to, I guess, like, leave that one at that because as I said, I've already spoken about that for ten minutes. Just quickly here, Eric, as I said, like, we did the podcast and the drive thru and I hope you guys enjoyed it.
00:11:35.242 - 00:12:03.328, Speaker A: We're going to do another one this week. I just wanted to highlight this little meme that he has here where he's put like Larry Fink supply sink and he's kind of got the ETH logos and Larry, Larry Fink's head like with a couple of sinks in front below it. I just thought it was a funny meme to highlight. And this was something that Eric brought up on the podcast. That Blackrock is just going to be a Hoover Hoover up of ETH, right. And they've already doing it with BTC through the ETF's and the same is going to happen from for Ethan. That's obviously something to be really, really bullish about.
00:12:03.328 - 00:12:23.392, Speaker A: But anyway, going to leave that at that, at that. Enough price talk for today. Moving on to some updates. So first off was there was an ethereum all core devs call that wrapped up last week that you can see a summary of. Tim Biker has his thread here. I'm just going to read out the summary or the, the all core devs recap. So obviously Denkun is very close right now.
00:12:23.392 - 00:12:45.672, Speaker A: It's coming, you know, I guess like in three or three weeks or something. Just over three weeks or something right now. It's, it's obviously on the 13 March there. So there are main net client releases starting to come out. So if you are running any of the clients that have already been released, maybe you want to update. Maybe you want to wait until, you know, maybe a week or two before to see if there's any more updates that come out there. There is a couple of updates around Petra.
00:12:45.672 - 00:13:26.512, Speaker A: I think we're going with the name Petra now instead of Petra. I think I better get used to saying Petra, even though it's really annoying to say so. They discussed many eips on the call, but didn't make any additions to the fork aside from agreeing to move 25 37 from considered for inclusion to included. And then they're going to spend the next few weeks reviewing the various proposals. And there was also an announcement about an inclusion list breakouts, a call that happened which I'll talk about in a sec. And they're also organizing an account related breakout in the next week or so to discuss the various externally owned account or account abstraction related proposals more deeply. Which is pretty cool that they're looking at this more deeply now because account abstraction has been some that the community has been clamoring for for quite a while here.
00:13:26.512 - 00:13:58.986, Speaker A: Now of course I will mention that the inclusion list breakout session did happen. And there is a recap thread from Terence here. I think inclusion lists are shaping up to be like the star eip of Pectora. It's the one that you'll see a lot of people talking about. It's the one that seems to be getting a lot of attention from core devs because inclusion lists are basically, I guess, like improve Ethereum's core value prop of censorship resistance. And I've talked about it before, and I've talked about how Mike Nooder has been at the forefront of this and put out a bunch of research posts and so on and so forth. You can go check them out.
00:13:58.986 - 00:14:56.332, Speaker A: You know, you can just Google for them, Google Mike's name, and then you'll find them. And you can also check out Terrence's thread here about this latest breakout session. And I just wanted to say something on this topic as well when it comes to blockchains generally, and I've been thinking a lot about this lately because people are always saying, you know, blockchains are good for this or blockchains are good for that, or they're not good for this or they're not good for that. And I've just been thinking about like, okay, if the core value of a blockchain, at least my belief of core value of a blockchain or a layer, one blockchain specifically, I should, I should say, is that it is a root of trust, right? It is a sediment layer. Then what is the most valuable property of a root of trust or of a settlement layer? Like what above all else, right? And I'm not talking about decentralization, I'm talking about the properties that basically make decentralization happen. So out of all those properties, what is the most important? And I think I've landed on, and I mean, I've thought this for a while, but I think that I've landed on censorship resistance, being that property. Like that is the core property.
00:14:56.332 - 00:15:52.530, Speaker A: Now, if you don't have robust censorship resistance, I think that everything else breaks down because you don't really have credible neutrality in that. If you don't have censorship resistance, because you can't claim to be credibly neutral as a network if there are certain actors being completely censored, right? Because obviously it's not. These networks aren't censorship proof, but they are censorship resistant. But if you have a network that is not censorship resistant, then that means that there will be actors that just can't transact on the network at all. So you don't have credible neutrality then. And then you don't really have decentralization either because it means that there's like a centralized point of, you know, a point of failure there. Your economic security kind of counts for nothing because like you're, you know, you're not offering what a, you know, you're not offering anything better than what a centralized database can offer in my eyes, right, in terms of what a blockchain should actually be for, I'm talking about a layer one blockchain, specifically, something that requires consensus, right? Not L2s and things like that, but something that requires consensus that is really slow, obviously, and really inefficient compared to a centralized counterpart.
00:15:52.530 - 00:16:36.810, Speaker A: The only thing, the only property that I think that you need to have, right, and the one that is non negotiable is censorship resistance. And that's why so much of the Ethereum roadmap is dedicated to improving ethereum censorship resistance. Because without that, honestly, ethereum becomes a lot less interesting to me because I'm like, okay, well, if people can be censored on the network, then what the hell are we building all this other stuff for? Like, all this other stuff feeds into just making the network more robust and more reliable. But at the same time, why would we bother with that if we can't even guarantee that every actor on the network can get their transaction included, even if there's delayed inclusion, like we're seeing with tornado cash right now. So that to me is and always will be the core value prop of blockchains. And without that, you may as well just have a database. You may as well just have a centralized database.
00:16:36.810 - 00:17:23.518, Speaker A: There is literally no point to having a blockchain if it is not censorship resistant because you can do everything else more efficiently on a centralized database where if you're censoring already, it doesn't really matter if it's centralized because then, you know, you're the same thing in my eyes. But I'd be curious to know what you guys think on that. But that to me, like, after thinking about it for, for quite a while and just like thinking through everything else that goes into making a blockchain, I really do think that a layer one blockchain has to have sensory resistance or else it is pointless in my mind. But anyway, you can go give Terrence's thread a read about inclusion list. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Geth is now down to 69% dominance on the execution layer, client side of things now this has been trending down for a while. You know, you remember it was up at 90 plus percent.
00:17:23.518 - 00:18:01.334, Speaker A: There's been a big drive from the community to get geth down below 66%, especially before Denkun hits Mainnet. It seems like we're going to get there. You know, it doesn't even take Coinbase anymore for us to get there. It takes like maybe a few other smaller players to change over and will be below 66%. Now, Honeyabu, the person who is responsible for maintaining this, this website, client diversity.org, did point out that this info is basically based on, you know, it's subjective info. It's basically them going out and asking each of these providers what percentage of get they're using or relying on information that these staking providers have put out about what execution layer clients they're using.
00:18:01.334 - 00:18:35.014, Speaker A: So it is not perfect. It does not have 100% network coverage, but it is probably the best data set that we have right now. Honestly, like, I don't think we have anything better than this right now. So in the absence of better data, I'm just going to go off this one by, by caveat in it by saying that, you know, it's not perfect. I mean, there's never going to be any perfect data on, on, you know, client diversity or anything like that, but it is the best that we have right now. So obviously 66% is that critical threshold that we want to get geth below, but then we want to keep that up, right? We want to keep the pressure on. We want to get geth to like 50% or something at least, because then it takes a lot more to get it back up to over 66%.
00:18:35.014 - 00:19:01.256, Speaker A: If we only get it to like 65%, well, then it can very easily creep back up above 66% through no fault of anyone, just from people bringing online more nodes and just using geth, right. It's a default client that they use. So I'm just really glad to see that. It's obviously improved here, but we have to keep the pressure on. We can't just essentially kind of rest on our laurels now and be like, oh, yeah, that's all sorted, you know, we're good and we're good and proper. No, we need to keep the pressure on. And also Coinbase's deadline is coming up.
00:19:01.256 - 00:19:35.176, Speaker A: They did say by the end of February would have a basically blog post about what they're doing on the client diversity front of things. So if they do not meet that deadline by the end of Feb, I think that we should be kind of like putting the pressure on from there and tweeting about it saying, hey, you know, Coinbase, you know, where we were expecting this by the end of Feb? You know, what's, you know, where is it not like in a mean way? Don't just tweet at them and say, hey, what's the hold up? You know, you said you were going to do it by the end of February. You didn't do it. You know, you know what? What gives? Don't do it like that. Do it nicely, of course. But I think that we have to keep these bigger players accountable and that's how we do it. So give them till the end of Feb and reminder that it is a leap year.
00:19:35.176 - 00:20:27.344, Speaker A: So 20 there is the 29th of Feb this year, so give them till like the 1 March. And then once that hits, if we haven't heard anything at all, then I think it'd be wise to kind of reach out to Coinbase on Twitter or maybe on Farcaster, or maybe you email them and say, hey, you know, what's the deal here? I'll be reaching out to people I know as well at Coinbase personally to see if I can get an answer around this because, yeah, it definitely would make a lot of sense to keep the pressure on. But regardless of that, it is a very positive sign that Geth is almost down to that 66% threshold. So I'm going to keep you guys updated on that as we get closer to that. But, yeah, it's just great to see. All right, speaking of Coinbase, Hill Dolby had a great little breakdown of Coinbase's kind of financials report that they put out in the context of how much ETH they have staked on the network. Now, Coinbase put out their financials report for Q four, basically, which was obviously a thing that they have to do now because they're a publicly traded company.
00:20:27.344 - 00:20:49.054, Speaker A: Coinbase looks really strong, by the way, for anyone keeping tabs on this. I think that's obvious at this point. Coinbase is the main beneficiary from the ETF's, which haven't even played out in this data yet because the ETS went live in Q one. They're also the main beneficiary of retail customers coming back or any kind of new customers coming back or getting into crypto. They have a lot of things going on. I'm really bullish on Coinbase as a company. I don't own any coin stock.
00:20:49.054 - 00:21:07.926, Speaker A: I couldn't like for me, I, you know, if I'm investing in crypto I'm just gonna invest in crypto. I'm not gonna go buy stocks. I actually don't own any stocks right now, 0% stocks. Like, even my retirement account is all ETH, as you guys know. But honestly, like Coinbase, I'm extremely bullish on as a company. They are just the premier, you know, crypto aligned company in the world right now. I'm also pretty bullish on Kraken, too, mind you.
00:21:07.926 - 00:21:35.038, Speaker A: But obviously Kraken isn't publicly traded or anything like that, so you can't go by, you know, I don't know what their, what their ticker would be called. Crack or something. That's a funny ticker, right? But I'm bullish on Kraken as well. And. But, but coin base is just killing the game right now for sure. I mean, they have their L2 with base going on that's growing and getting a lot of traction thanks to things like far costa and so on and so forth there. But in the context of eat staking, hill Dobby dug into the report and it shows that they're basically.
00:21:35.038 - 00:21:51.262, Speaker A: Well, at the time of this report, when it was published, they were staking $10.1 billion of ETH, or 4.4 million ETH. And I think that's gone up a bit now. I think 4.4 million ETH is worth almost $12 billion now. And he said here, this deviates only by 0.007%
00:21:51.262 - 00:22:14.134, Speaker A: percent from what Hill Dobby already had on his ETH. Two staking dashboard. You know what? I can't use your dashboard anymore, mate. Like, it's off by 0.007%. How can I even trust this dashboard ever again? No, no, of course I'm joking, right? The Hill dobby's dashboard is the best dashboard for keeping up with all things staking on Ethereum. If you haven't looked at this yet, I highly recommend going and looking at it. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:22:14.134 - 00:22:41.938, Speaker A: But it has so much information on here. Guys, I love this dashboard. I mean, I think I go to this dashboard at least once a day, if I'm being honest. Like, it's just such a fantastic dashboard. And kudos to Hill Dobby for the amount of, you know, effort and time he's put into this. But it's great to see that his estimates were right on the money, you know, only off by, like, a fraction of a percentage, right? Less than a fraction of percent, like, just basically a rounding error of a percentage here that he was off by. But at the same time, this also means that Coinbase is down to 14.2%
00:22:41.938 - 00:23:24.920, Speaker A: of all stake deep. Now, those of those of you who have been paying attention will know that Coinbase was up at almost 18% of all staked ethics, uh, back in the day, I think this might have been a while ago now, but they've been trending down since then. So Hill Dobby's dashboard actually will show you this, where if you scroll right down to the bottom, you can actually see the ETH staked by entity since genesis of the beacon chain, basically. And you can see Coinbase's share in the dark blue here that, I mean, if you listen to the podcast, you won't see this, but you can see in the dark blue here. Their share was, I guess, like, even up until recently, if I'm looking at it correctly, was, you know, 15% back in. What is this? I think it was May 2023, and now it's down to 14.2%. So it is, it is going down.
00:23:24.920 - 00:23:57.080, Speaker A: And why this is positive from like for is because Coinbase, as I've said before, is one single entity, right? They're one entity on the beacon chain. They are the largest single entity on the beacon chain, by far the next closest single entity. And I know there are debates around considering Lido to be a single entity or not, but I'm talking about like a single entity in the, in them function of being a node operator. You can see here that Coinbase is the biggest by far. Raider.net work has coinbase at 14 point, almost 7%, but Hill Dobby has him at 14.2%. I think Hill Dobby is one, is probably more accurate at this point.
00:23:57.080 - 00:24:21.194, Speaker A: But regardless, I mean, there's only a few percentage points off there. But if you look at Coinbase as the single node operator, a single single entity node operator, the next closest is binance at 4.1%. So Coinbase is by far the biggest one. So getting Coinbase's market share to, you know, come down is obviously a priority here. And ideally, you'd probably want them below 10%. Right? But that means. That doesn't mean that they can't still keep growing on a real basis.
00:24:21.194 - 00:24:45.140, Speaker A: They can still keep getting more ETH staked. I mean, they're at 4.4 million right now. That can increase up to, like, that can, that can double or something. And their market share basically remain the same. It would just rely on, obviously, the other players getting in, you know, getting more market share as well. Right? So when it comes to relative market share, you know, we want it to go down, but in terms of real market share, it's still probably going to go up because there's going to be more and more people who stake with Coinbase.
00:24:45.140 - 00:25:20.878, Speaker A: Obviously, a lot of new people like to stake with Coinbase because it's so easy. A lot of new ETH holders, so nothing wrong with that. But I do think that there is one thing that will slow down Coinbase's staking operations that they may be able to offset with institutional staking. But there's one big thing, and that's liquid restaking tokens, because Coinbase has a liquid staking token right now, Cbeth. But it's not very popular to begin with, as opposed to other lsts. And I really doubt the Coinbase is going to be able to delve into anything what to do with restaking for a little while here, especially because it's a regulatory quagmire and they're already being sued over their staking product from the SEC. So yeah, we're going to have to see.
00:25:20.878 - 00:25:55.904, Speaker A: We're definitely going to have to see what they do there. But I do think they're going to bleed a bunch of market share to the liquid restaking tokens. And that's kind of, I guess, like healthy, I think, for the beacon chain. But I do still think Coinbase can offset that with institutional grade staking, because they're one of the only players that can offer that to the bigger institutions. Because the big institutions are gonna want to trust that, you know, that they. That they're staking is in good hands and he's with an experienced operator, but also just like normal retailer who have no idea about restaking. I'm talking about like the, the complete normie retail who are like, I just need to buy some crypto because crypto is going up right like that, that kind of retail.
00:25:55.904 - 00:26:26.486, Speaker A: I don't think it's gonna be the ones who are kind of aware of restaking. They're obviously just gonna go buy LRT's or stuff like that. But anyway, as I said, you can go check out Hill Dobby's dashboard for yourself. Highly recommend doing so. We'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. Alright, so I had a question from Rui over the weekend in the Daily Way farcaster channel for me to review the non 4844 eips that are going live in Denkun. And I did say that I would answer this question on Friday, but I missed Friday's episode.
00:26:26.486 - 00:26:57.166, Speaker A: So I'm doing it today. So as you guys know, 4844 is not the only AIP that's going into Denkun. There are actually a bunch of others here that are pretty important. But honestly, pretty much all of them have nothing to do with end users directly. And that's the reason why I haven't actually been talking about them is because, well, one, I mean, they're very kind of like in the weeds, and I'm not the best to explain these things to, you know, to people because I haven't done my research on them myself. And two, because they're not user facing. I just kind of thought it wasn't worth bringing up.
00:26:57.166 - 00:27:18.694, Speaker A: But hey, someone asked, and I'm sure a lot of you are curious about it. So I'm going to cover not all of them, but the ones that I think that are probably the, you know, at least a little bit relevant to you guys, and I'll explain why. So the first one on the list is actually a pretty old EIP. It's called EIP 1153. So this is very old. Actually, this is all the way back in 2018. So this ERP is finally making it into the network.
00:27:18.694 - 00:28:01.634, Speaker A: And what it is is, is that it enables transient storage opcodes. Now, of course, as I said, this is developer facing, but the reason why this one is so important is that Uniswap V four actually relies on this ip to go into the network before it can be launched. And now, because this EIP is finally going live with Dengun, Uniswap announced that they're going to be launching their V four in Q three of this year. So that in, I guess, like an indirect way, is user facing. So, yeah, I mean, you're going to be able to experience Uniswap V four finally in Q three. So that is probably, I would say, the second most user facing EIP as part of the Denkun upgrade, 4844 being the first most user facing, obviously, because it's going to directly lower fees on roll ups where all the users are now. So.
00:28:01.634 - 00:28:44.638, Speaker A: So, yeah, and then there is another EIP that's got to do with 4844, which is 7516, which is basically just specifying from our understanding how the base fee will interact with blobs. So again, those two are just coupled together. So I don't think it's worth kind of talking too much about that. The rest of the Eips, I mean, yeah, as I said, like, they're very kind of, like, not user facing and very kind of, I guess, directed at developers. If you want to learn more about them though. There is actually an article that I came across from third web here that just gives you a quick summary of each of them, which I think thought was really good. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out, but essentially it's just giving you like a one sentence description of all of them.
00:28:44.638 - 00:29:08.074, Speaker A: I'm not going to read through it now. You can guys can go check out the link for yourself. But like I read through them all on myself and I'm like okay, yeah, my intuition was correct. Like pretty much all the Eips have nothing to do with the end users. Very developer heavy. So if you are a developer, obviously this is probably going to be of interest to you. But for me, as a non developer and someone who really only pays attention to maybe one or two ERP per upgrade, because it's just too much to pay attention to all of them and it's too much to follow all of them.
00:29:08.074 - 00:29:53.422, Speaker A: I'm not going to be the best person to speak to speak to about them, but you can go check the links out. I'll link them in the usual description below. But as I said, 1153 enables Unisov four to go live. 48 44 and 70 516 all got to do with blobs which lower roll up fees. And then there are a few others out there that are coming with then kun that are very developer facing and I'll have an article linked in the YouTube description below for you guys to check out if you want to learn more about all of that. I finally here just to shout out that tomorrow, Tuesday, February 20, I will be doing an AMA on a Twitter spaces with Pawndale here about the protocol guild pledge. So I'll be alongside I think Tim Baiko or Trent van Epps.
00:29:53.422 - 00:30:22.940, Speaker A: I think that some scheduling issues there. So it's either going to be Tim or Trent van Epps. But as you guys know, those two are at the head of the protocol guild. So either all works for this alongside a bunch of people from the ecosystem such as Joseph from Pawndale, Mike from Etherfy, cheeky gorilla from the protocol guild, and you made here from Tycho. So I'm really looking forward to this. As I said, it's happening February 20 Tuesday which is tomorrow at 01:00 p.m. Central european time, which is 11:00 p.m.
00:30:22.940 - 00:30:55.202, Speaker A: Australian eastern Standard Time. For my Aussies out there, I think that's like early morning us, but it'll be recorded of course. So you and I'll link it to you guys in tomorrow's refuel. Actually, no, in the refuel on Wednesday because I'll probably record tomorrow's refill before I do this. So yeah, you can go bookmark this. It's shaping up to be a really cool ama all about the protocol guild pledge. And for those of you who don't know, the protocol guild pledge is basically asking teams out there building on Ethereum to basically donate 1% of their total token supply at TGE to the protocol guild.
00:30:55.202 - 00:31:35.750, Speaker A: But anyway, there'll be plenty of questions and answers given on the spaces that is happening tomorrow, and I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you guys to bookmark. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. I'm actually going to get ready for another podcast that I'm doing in a couple of hours with the bankless guys and Jordy and Mike Ippolito, the two guys I did the ETH Bullcase podcast with. We're actually doing the podcast that I mentioned last week. It actually got pushed back to this week about the L2s and the bullcase for L2 tokens. That's going to be really interesting because I can give a bull case for L2 tokens generally, but I can't give a bull case for each individual L2 token. And there's a lot of kind of things that go into that that I'm going to talk about on the podcast.
00:31:35.750 - 00:31:49.532, Speaker A: I'm really looking forward to that. But yeah, I got to get ready for that. That'll be out. Actually, I'm not sure when that's going to be out, but I'm recording it in a couple of hours. But anyway, that's enough rambling from me. I thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:31:49.532 - 00:31:54.844, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
