00:00:00.250 - 00:00:29.110, Speaker A: You mentioned incentivizing new minting mechanisms. They've sort of thought about it as incentivizing the end state. So incentivizing the use of IsT somewhere on some external chain which then pulls through demand for minting. Right. So as there's some new Dex that launches or listing on a lending facility, then that will drive more supply of IST to get minted to go farm those tokens. So really kind of pulling everything through and driving all activity.
00:00:31.610 - 00:01:05.406, Speaker B: All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Zero X Research. This show is presented by chainalysis and flipside. We're recording this episode on January 30. We have a great interview on IST, a cosmos native stablecoin built on agoric by the interproteocol. And our guests for this episode are Zucky Yusuf Amrani and Rowland, who is the product director of interproteocol at Agoric. And so before we get to this interview, we are going to break down the latest market happenings with Westy and effort capital. So effort, I'll throw it to you first.
00:01:05.406 - 00:01:07.170, Speaker B: Who do you got on the hot seat this week?
00:01:07.320 - 00:01:07.922, Speaker A: Yeah, sure.
00:01:07.976 - 00:01:08.386, Speaker C: Thanks.
00:01:08.488 - 00:02:02.130, Speaker D: So my first hot seat are bitcoiners. Not all of them, but there's a specific subset of bitcoiners that are looking to censor transactions on the bitcoin network. So it was just discussed over this weekend, but I guess there was the design quirk in Taproot, which was a bitcoin upgrade done in 2021 that allowed limitless bitcoin data storage up to the block size. There was a project called Ordinals that was able to, I guess, exploit the taproot upgrade. And it just went live this month and it codified and is allowing users to actually store nfts short videos and PDFs, like fully on chain on the bitcoin network. And there's some OG bitcoiners that feel that NFT transactions are illegitimate, don't align with the bitcoin ethos. They potentially can increase gas costs and stop certain bitcoin transfers from actually being included in the next immediate block.
00:02:02.130 - 00:02:53.394, Speaker D: In particular, Adam back, who's like an OG, one of the oldest bitcoiners back in the day, and the CEO of Blockstream. He's actually on Twitter saying that he encourages bitcoin miners to actually censor certain NFT transfers on the bitcoin network. And if you look at the history of Adam back, he's actually like a censorship resistance maxi back in the late ninety s and mid 90s, you actually can find him selling t shirts that had RSA cryptographic code printed on them. And that code was actually seen in the eyes of the US government as like a weapon. And he was doing this to kind of protest the US government from censoring cryptography export regulations. So I think it's really interesting the kind of mental gymnastics that bitcoiners are doing. On one hand, they want to be censorship resistant, hard censorship resistant money.
00:02:53.394 - 00:02:57.950, Speaker D: On the other hand, they want to also censor specific types of transactions on the network.
00:02:58.030 - 00:03:33.418, Speaker E: Yeah, this one is really funny. I think that they deserve a seat in the hot seat this week because at the end of the day, everyone knows that bitcoin has a transaction fee problem and this could potentially alleviate some of that. Although I do understand wanting to mitigate state growth and making it harder for full nodes to actually operate, because right now you can do that on a raspberry PI. And if this becomes a regular thing, then ultimately it could hurt bitcoin's decentralized nature. So I get the rebuttal, but at the same time, it's an open source network. If people want to build things, they're going to build it, and that's just the way it goes. There's nothing you can really do about it unless you want to make a core change of the protocol.
00:03:33.514 - 00:04:05.770, Speaker B: Yeah, I don't know. I think there's irony in the fact that NFTs could kind of fix the fee problem for bitcoin. Right. So it's been heavily discussed that bitcoin, as a network oversubsidizes the amount of transaction volume it gets and the fees are failing to make up a substantial portion of the minor revenue. Of course, the happening every four years structurally decreases that. But the beauty of the four year mechanism is that it's quite a long time before that really becomes a problem. But it's about addressing what will solve this problem rather than thinking like, oh, it's not going to be a problem.
00:04:05.770 - 00:04:15.198, Speaker B: So I don't know. I'm not too bullish on the idea that NFTs are really going to be what saves the day here, but I don't know, that would be a great plot twist if it did come true.
00:04:15.284 - 00:04:43.574, Speaker C: I mean, I doubt that NFTs actually become a big use case of bitcoin. I do think maybe in the meantime there's some trolls that might make some big NFT projects and try and attack the network in some sort of way. But at the same time, this is why Ethereum is great, is it's turn complete. It's really made for anything to be built, whereas bitcoin had this one minor upgrade and tap route where essentially, now you can do this and there's really nothing they can do.
00:04:43.612 - 00:04:44.054, Speaker F: Right.
00:04:44.172 - 00:04:54.922, Speaker C: And so, yeah, it's really interesting, like, the design standpoint. And I do think NFTs would stay on Ethereum, and this isn't really a long term issue, but it is kind of funny, like the different design models there.
00:04:54.976 - 00:05:13.070, Speaker D: I think I read somewhere that I think I read on Eric Wall's Twitter thread about the ordinals NFT project. He uploaded trump NFT cards to the bitcoin network. And I think he said that his transaction was actually the largest transaction done on the bitcoin network since 2016, which is pretty nuts when you think about that.
00:05:13.140 - 00:05:33.046, Speaker E: Yeah, that's absolutely crazy. I know none of us are super in the weeds of bitcoin. We kind of watch it and respect it in its place as king. But this actually probably is one of the more interesting things that has happened to the bitcoin network in the last two or three years outside of taproot. So it's kind of funny that it's not really all over our timelines, but it is very significant, something to watch.
00:05:33.068 - 00:06:38.566, Speaker B: Closely and to kind of stick with the same vein of bitcoin, but not quite. But who I got in the hot seat this week is James Preswich, the founder of Nomad Bridge, which is a cosmos based chain that was trying to bring bitcoin into the cosmos ecosystem. He posted a substac and following a Twitter thread, kind of calling out layer zero for a potential vulnerability in their model. And the reason why I put him in the hot seat, whether or not he's right or wrong here, is mostly because he kind of just came at layer zero out of nowhere on Twitter and allegedly didn't even try to reach out to the layer zero team prior to posting this. Yet six months ago, seven months ago, in August of 2022, his project had a 200 million dollar bridge hack. So, hot seat for just kind of going out there screaming at other people, when in reality, maybe we got to be working on the things that you're building before you go calling out other people. But basically, his message was, there's a trust issue with layer zero, because the model that layer zero uses has both an oracle and a relayer, which are basically you can think of as two separate security systems, and they're very customizable.
00:06:38.566 - 00:07:46.946, Speaker B: So you can make those two systems whatever you, as the application prefer. But the default setting is using two systems that layer zero itself has control over. So if you were going to build a bridge, for example, you would most certainly want to take over at least one of those two systems, the Oracle or the relayer, to make sure that nobody can compromise your bridge. Given that that tends to be something that holds a lot of value. But the default settings into what Brian from Layer zero's response is, the default settings are there so people can easily access the layer zero technology, spin up some application that maybe doesn't have a huge reason to pour a ton of capital into, but they can experiment with the technology, build bridges between different chains, or just communicate between chains, send messages and things of that nature without having to go build your own security design system and really kickstart the use of layer zero. So kind of interesting that, yes, he didn't try to deny that this wasn't true or anything. He's just saying if you are going to build an application that's going to hold a lot of value using layer zero, then yes, of course you would want to take the Oracle and spin that into a security model that you feel meets the standards that you need.
00:07:46.946 - 00:08:05.126, Speaker B: But maybe for an example of something that wouldn't need, that is like, let's say you're just like passing NFTs across two chains. It's like low value gaming NFTs. You probably don't need some custom security model here that's going to be super expensive if what you're doing on chain really doesn't have a lot of value behind it.
00:08:05.228 - 00:08:50.422, Speaker D: I think all these bridge protocol founders should not be pointing fingers at each other, especially with, if you look at it, almost all the hacks, all the large hacks that have happened over the past cycle are all bridge related. They should all be working together to figure out what is the right solution for the industry moving forward. Especially when you have someone like circle launching their own centralized cross chain bridge solution, CCTP, that is the real competitor that every decentralized bridge solution general messaging protocol really needs to be worrying about. They shouldn't be worrying about each other. They really need to kind of, I think, build together and really just move this industry forward, especially with cross messaging and bridging really being the weakness, the weak point of the crypto ecosystem today.
00:08:50.556 - 00:09:16.142, Speaker E: Yeah, that's a great angle to come from an effort. I strongly agree with you. At the end of the day, everyone on our side of the rope is working toward the decentralized future. And on the other side, you have a centralized entity that's actually bringing a solution to market that is going to have extremely good product market fit, and that's kind of scary. We talked about it last week. There's potential for KYC hopping between chains. I agree.
00:09:16.142 - 00:09:29.220, Speaker E: I mean, you see it too with the roll up teams. They're always bickering back and forth around who's actually open source, who's furthest along in the ZKE EVM race. So it'd be nice if we could all just get along.
00:09:29.670 - 00:10:30.738, Speaker C: Yeah. Even if there wasn't a vulnerability here, which I don't think there was. Like you said, there's been so many bridge hacks in the past, and it's just an obvious place of vulnerability for funds. And, yeah, you mentioned the circle chain as a competitor that's coming as well as just IBC making its way out of the cosmos as well as l three s, basically having hyper bridges, as you could say, that aren't really bridges that are much more secure. I wonder sort of what are the future of these bridges? What do they look like? Synapse is sort of an interesting example because they're sort of evolving into a layer two and trying to make like a cross chain Amm things along those lines, which maybe that's the route a lot of other layer two or a lot of other bridges go where they sort of have to pivot from being a bridge where there's a lot of hacks and maybe becoming something else. And so, yeah, I think as we go forward, the bridge sector is going to be a really interesting one to watch, especially as circle has their cross chain transfer.
00:10:30.904 - 00:10:52.266, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely agree with you there, Westine. I wonder if, Sam, to your point about the role teams always going back and forth, is this something that we're just noticing more now, given it's like a bear market and there's less exciting in your face number pumps and things of that nature that really draw your attention in, or is there truly just like maybe everyone's bored and feels like they need to be yelling at each other these days.
00:10:52.448 - 00:11:25.282, Speaker E: From the perspective of the roll up teams, honestly, I think they're all just a bunch of nerds like us, and they're really in it for the tech, so they're really passionate about it because in the alt layer one season, you saw everyone just bickering at each other like, oh, Solana is at an all time high or avalanche is at an all time high. This partnership, that partnership, like it was much more just price action driving the fight. But here it's funny because it's just people who love Ethereum and are just trying to do their best to scale it. And of course it gets heated over ideals and philosophies that are held across these different teams.
00:11:25.346 - 00:11:43.370, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a great point. A lot of the bickering is super technical. It's talking about light nodes and full nodes and different things along those lines where it shows just the intellectual capabilities of these founders and where their heads are at. So yeah, it's definitely a lot better of debate than you see that we had in the ball run.
00:11:43.440 - 00:11:58.194, Speaker E: Yeah, I think that's a good spot to end that one. We covered it well, but I'll take the cool throne here. The first one of the week. GMX bag holders, they entered price discovery on GMX over the weekend. And today is Monday. This will come out on Wednesday. So in two days.
00:11:58.194 - 00:12:28.010, Speaker E: And the market's choppy right now to down, so I doubt that'll hold true. But I just find it amazing that these people have been earning 5% to 10% just in ETH, not even including the escrow GMX rewards over the course of the entire bear market. And now their native token that they're staking with is in price discovery. So that's pretty remarkable. Really big testament to the design of the GMX tokenomics. And they also have synthetics rolling out here pretty soon. So last week I highlighted GNS and that wound up being a pretty good call.
00:12:28.010 - 00:12:56.578, Speaker E: It went on like a nice 50 60% run, but with them rolling out synthetics, I think it's going to be a huge competitor to gains network, considering their model is really capital efficient. They're able to support a wide range of asset classes and long tail assets because of its synthetic nature. So I think with all of the TVL that's in GLP for GMX traders to trade against, I think this could be a serious competitor and narrative over the next month or two as they roll it out.
00:12:56.664 - 00:13:16.982, Speaker B: Nice self call on the GNS trade there, but walk us through the synthetics model. Does this give you the ability to bring, I know, gains network? One of their biggest, most heavily traded assets are the forex assets they have. Does that give you the ability to kind of replicate that with the synthetic assets or what does that dynamic really bring for GMX?
00:13:17.046 - 00:14:00.170, Speaker E: Yeah, I was reading the docs a little bit earlier, but to be honest, I haven't kept up with it super closely. All I know is that they're isolating pools against different synthetic assets. So you're going to need separate LPs from GLP because they don't want to kind of make more systemic risk there. Know you have so many projects building on top of GLP already, and they've already built such a cash cow protocol. It's like, why add more layers of risk here? So I do need to dive deeper into the docs, but I believe that a portion of all revenue from Synthetix trading will flow some to GMX stakers, but a majority to LP is similar to the GLP GMX design as is in place today. But yeah, aside from that, I'm not super sure on the exact implementation of the synthetics.
00:14:01.790 - 00:14:53.334, Speaker C: Yeah, I know synthetics as a protocol has really shied away from making stocks to synthetics, so I wonder if GMX goes the same route. I'm not sure if that has to do with having doxed founders or whatnot, but I'd certainly love to be able to trade more stocks on the blockchain. I think that's just like an obvious use case that doesn't really exist. But yeah, going back to your first point, Sam, I think this really comes down to the marrying of product market fit and a really good token design for both GNs. And like, I have my qualms with how GMX is designed. For the long term, I think an order book model where there's actual price discovery makes more sense. But in the short term, I think they've done a really great job in garnering that product market fit and really creating a community around their product, as well as having a token that people can actually invest in and feel good about and like you said, earn a good amount of yield.
00:14:53.334 - 00:15:05.510, Speaker C: And so I think we really need more applications like this to really focus on. Well, first of all, product market fit for people that are actually using their app, as well as marrying that with a really good token design and really thinking that through.
00:15:05.600 - 00:15:35.206, Speaker E: Yeah, strong agree. I'm actually writing a report right now to the listeners. I know you guys already know, but it's going to be kind of looking at the correlation between price action and fee revenue generation at the DAP layer, but then I'm also going to be looking at the layer ones, kind of like Ethereum and the amount of burn per day. So that should be interesting. I suspect there won't be much correlation between the L ones, and the Dapps will have some correlation, but obviously with the volatility it'll probably be relatively weak. But excited to let that one go next week.
00:15:35.308 - 00:16:06.094, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that's a good segue into my cool throne this week, which is John Charboneau. I hope that I'm pronouncing that right, but former analyst at Delphi Digital, now at his own firm, dBA. He released a model for Ethereum this week. I don't know if you guys got to see that and play around with it, but it was really mean. It basically looked at both the supply dynamics and the revenue dynamics of Ethereum and mapped it over time, but was super interesting about this one. First of all, was the formatting. It's super pretty.
00:16:06.094 - 00:17:08.402, Speaker C: Any tradfi person who's looking at this Excel sheet is loving it. But second, is it married? Both of his skill sets in excel, but also his ability to understand east roadmap, both in the next few years and many years down the line. And so he was able to include revenue from both data availability and from the execution layer with DA. He was able to incorporate proto dank sharding and ding sharding, and the actual technical abilities of those two, as well as an enshrined roll up, which is like a plan way down the future, where the execution layer with theorem will actually become an enshrined roll up within the protocol and basically be a zke EVM, which is basically enabled by dank sharding, which is really technical. And most people wouldn't even think to include that in a model, whereas John was able to. And he has a lot of optimistic assumptions in this model. I mean, the price goes out to 2032, and he has it at $69,420, which of course, you got to put the meme in there.
00:17:08.402 - 00:17:15.638, Speaker C: But definitely overall, the optimistic. And yeah, if you guys get a chance, I would definitely play around with the numbers there.
00:17:15.724 - 00:17:32.314, Speaker B: Yeah, we'll for sure link this model in the show notes. It's incredible. Absolute shout out to John for this one. We'll have to try to convince him to come on the pod at some point. But Wesley, any major takeaways from this, maybe specifically as it pertains to inflation throughout his prediction period?
00:17:32.442 - 00:18:11.434, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, I didn't really look at the supply numbers. I was more so looking at the revenue numbers specifically when it comes to the new upgrades. But his assumptions had supply at like a 2% deflation through 2032, which I think is a pretty optimistic assumption, given that I think a lot of transactions will end up in roll ups. But yeah, I mean, if he's right, that's obviously extremely bullish ETH. I think. I personally think in the long term, the supply becomes pretty even, maybe like slightly inflationary, but certainly a lot better than it was under proof of work.
00:18:11.552 - 00:18:57.238, Speaker B: So that 2% number is pretty interesting, because just recently I was thinking through what will the next bull cycle's potential deflation rate look like just given we're relatively flat right now, and it's pretty much max pain in this scenario. Like on chain activity came as close to dying as it was going to come, in my opinion, in the foreseeable future, and it didn't. And again, we were at like 0.1% inflation annualized. And so I was like, okay, well, if we look at the last bull run, let's find the 90 day period with the absolute most activity on chain. What were the base fees over that time? And then let's map that onto the proof of stake Ethereum world, where issuance is much lower. And so that 90 day period was sometime around the October and November time frame of 2021.
00:18:57.238 - 00:19:36.760, Speaker B: And I mapped that onto the current supply model, and you're annualizing that figure gets you around like 2.8% inflation. So that's kind of interesting that he's basically predicting a very busy network going out into this period. But that'll be interesting because a 2% deflation rate is like massive, right? You think about traditional economies in the physical world today, they look for a positive 2% as like a healthy figure. So kind of like walking through what the dynamics of these new digital economies will be with a base asset that is likely to be deflationary is a really interesting mental exercise to kind of walk through.
00:19:37.610 - 00:20:31.958, Speaker E: Yeah, I totally agree with you, Dan. It's tough to project what the ultimate burn is going to be. But you do think today you log on, you look at the burn leaderboard on your dune dash that you built, and you can pretty much guarantee it's going to be uniswap OpenC, potentially blur, some random NFT mint, and maybe some random dog token that just launched in the future, there's going to be such a more wide array of applications and l two s utilizing Ethereum for whether it's consensus settlement, data availability, et cetera. So really excited to see how that plays out. But also just to the people listening, I really highly recommend checking out this spreadsheet because even myself, who spends so much time in Ethereum, there's things in here that like trying to back into in order to understand how John was thinking. And it's just helping me understand the actual Ethereum protocol even more than I already did before. So can't recommend it enough.
00:20:31.958 - 00:20:36.454, Speaker E: Definitely check it out and try and back your way into kind of the assumptions that John made.
00:20:36.572 - 00:20:50.214, Speaker D: I think that the next iteration of this spreadsheet, which I commented on when he tweeted it out. I commented on his thread. So I think the staking yield that he has there for the most part is like six and a half to seven and a half percent yield year over year, which is mind boggling.
00:20:50.262 - 00:20:50.426, Speaker B: Right?
00:20:50.448 - 00:21:52.650, Speaker D: That's huge if possible. But I think that amount of yield would definitely incentivize more stakers to kind of flood in, which will increase the ETH issuance, dilute the yield, and also change the net issuance overall from like two and a half percent net deflation to still deflationary, but like negative one and a half percent or somewhere on that order of magnitude. But I think the next instance of this spreadsheet is actually creating like a dynamic yield to staking rate supply where if the yield gets over a certain threshold, you would assume that people are going to flood into stake to capture that yield. And then obviously if yield goes below a certain threshold, it's going to flow out the other way. But I think long term, I think Justin Drake, like the predominant e three surgery that was really big on the whole merge and the long term calculations had like a long term assumption of about four to four and a half percent long term yield, which I mean, today is relatively in line with US treasuries. But I think it's going to be interesting to see really how all these assumptions play out over the next decade.
00:21:52.730 - 00:22:03.646, Speaker E: Yeah, Justin's got to run for his money here because his projection sheet is kind of more like, I'll choose this number. I'll choose this number. And John's is like literally like, all right, you got protodank sharding.
00:22:03.678 - 00:22:03.922, Speaker G: Thanks.
00:22:03.976 - 00:22:15.238, Speaker E: Sharding. This, that, and the other. So that's pretty funny to watch John kind of continue to develop as a Ethereum researcher. But Dan, I can kick it over to you if you want to pull up that flip side chart of the day, if you're ready for that.
00:22:15.324 - 00:23:04.530, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. As I'm getting that pulled up though, you mentioned one thing that I thought was really interesting is like, yeah, the burn leaderboard. And what I find super exciting about that is stablecoin. Smart contracts tend to be pretty high up the board on the daily burn as well as the all time burn. So I think the current leader right now, I don't have the dashboard up in front of me, unfortunately, but I'm pretty sure it's the last opensea contract, the yburn exchange contract by a pretty good margin. But on that all time top five tether is on there. And that's one of the things I think is most exciting about just smart contracting platforms in general is that they don't have to use their like you can send value in other forms of assets, right? Like you think about bitcoin to send you a million dollars, Sam, I'd have to literally send you a million dollars in bitcoin and then pay that bitcoin transaction fee.
00:23:04.530 - 00:24:06.042, Speaker B: And the beauty of Ethereum is I can send you a million dollars in whatever token you please and pay the ethereum transaction fee in ETH. So yeah, just something that like always really excited to see is smart contracts that are value based. So in this case, stablecoins, kind of like leading the way and being valuable players in the Ethereum ecosystem. So this dashboard here is built by Abbas RA 21, and it's on the evolution of Salana. So Salana has definitely had its ups and downs over its lifecycle, just as most startups and most blockchains do as well. But what I think is really interesting here is in a time when we see DeFi is down significantly in terms of swap volumes down, and if we go over to things like NFTs, then we still see kind of that same trend, right? There was a bit of an uptick over the beginning of the year with this kind of like echo bubble or potential kickstart of a new bull market if they're in that camp. And we've seen some more activity, but it's been dying off kind of in the last week or two.
00:24:06.042 - 00:24:51.918, Speaker B: And that's true across defi, it's true across NFTs. But when you go look at development in the ecosystem, we're looking at the number of upgrade programs, Ryan, as well as new programs counting. So we're still seeing that consistent trend of developer activity. So it's kind of interesting to see that while you might see some of these use cases kind of dying off, it's still a good indication that Solana has a strong health and a strong ecosystem around it. And ultimately developers are what pull in users to a blockchain because there needs to be uses for those users to interact with. So I think it's a cool takeaway here. And a cool thing to flag here is this is actually flipside's new UI for their dashboarding.
00:24:51.918 - 00:25:43.850, Speaker B: So it's also like a coding environment and you can code within this environment, but they also allow you to build dashboards, just as their old UI did as well. Personally, I found these dashboards much easier to interact with, so it's a huge upgrade. In my opinion. They look a little cleaner, easier to interact with, you can hover over these different parts of the chart to get some reactions within the charts, which is great to see as well. And a great example of that is looking at the event numbers from all these different DeFi protocols, and you can literally see the rise of Openbook, which is like the serum, the decentralized version of serum in a post FTX world, you can immediately see that starting to become a very core piece of the Solana defi ecosystem. So again, shout out to flipside for making these things possible. Getting in here and working with the data is just getting easier and easier as their new UI gets built out.
00:25:43.850 - 00:26:18.274, Speaker B: I believe they're deprecating the old UI at the end of February. So coming up on having to make that pivot over this new interactive way to kind of parse blockchain data. And they also recently launched their decoded log stables for Ethereum mainnet. So you can literally look at any piece of information that comes on chain and digest it in a very easy way. So if you're looking to break into a we're running a bounty right now that gives you the ability to earn some free USDC. So hop into the show notes. Take a look at that.
00:26:18.274 - 00:26:31.318, Speaker B: We'd love to get your take on anything you want to see when it comes to flipside as well. So feel free to shoot us a DM on Twitter, either Sam or myself, or the zero x research account, and we're happy to kind of break down anything that you guys are excited to see in the future.
00:26:31.404 - 00:27:18.466, Speaker E: Yeah, I also want to take a second to thank our other wonderful sponsor, chainalysis. They are one of the leading crypto analytics providers that are helping provide the tools that our industry needs to actually thrive and grow. Banks, web, two companies, be it tech industry, supply chain, whatever it is, they all need to understand better how blockchains actually work. And chain analysis is the company that's trying to get them on chain and actually help participate in moving the blockchain industry forward. They also just released a new product called Storyline, which is basically just a simplified way to visualize on chain analytics, which I've found really useful for my own personal use. They also just dropped a new research report, which is notable wallets of hackers and how they've been moving their funds across chains since the hacks that were carried out in 2022. So we can link to all that in the show notes.
00:27:18.466 - 00:27:26.102, Speaker E: But again, I cannot stress enough to go check out chain analysis. They are one of the leading crypto analytics providers and you'd be missing out if you didn't.
00:27:26.166 - 00:27:55.086, Speaker B: Awesome. All right, well, now we will get to our interview on the IST stablecoin and inner protocol. All righty, everyone. Welcome back. We are joined by Zucky, Yusuf and Roland to talk all things Interproteocol and the IST stablecoin. Roland is the agoric product director and Yusuf is one of the contributors to the Cosmos hub and sits on the economic committee for the Interpretocol itself. And Zucky is the omnipresent being of the cosmos ecosystem.
00:27:55.086 - 00:28:13.770, Speaker B: We're pleasure to have him back and really excited to kind of dive into what is ist and kind of like how that fully maps out into the cosmos ecosystem. So I'd love to get a bit of a brief intro on agoric itself before we dive into interpretocol and ist. So maybe I'll throw that one to you, Roland.
00:28:14.350 - 00:28:54.482, Speaker A: Sure. So, hey, everybody. Agoric is a layer one chain in cosmos, and we are driving smart contracting in JavaScript. And so that is the highest level possible description. It's a whole lot of additional work that goes into making that kind of smart contracting possible. A lot of security layers and ways to bring large groups of mainstream developers into the ecosystem. IST, or interprrotocol, is the first product that's launching on top of agoric, which is both sort of integral to the functioning of the agoric chain, but also a product for the broader cosmos ecosystem.
00:28:54.546 - 00:29:19.130, Speaker B: Fantastic. And, you know, when we think about IST itself, the first thought that comes to mind for me is like, okay, over collateralized stablecoin, we see a similar model to used by Makerdao. So let's start peeling back the layers of the inner protocol itself and getting deeper into IST. So, Yusuf, as a member of the economic committee, I'd love to kind of get your take on what IST is and why it's important to the cosmos ecosystem.
00:29:19.210 - 00:30:06.362, Speaker G: Yeah, sure. I think, like IST, what we aim to do with this stable token is basically to become to cosmos what dai is to Ethereum. So a fully collateralized stable coin with minimal price volatility. So it flows into the cosmos to the IBC messaging standard. And what's interesting is that we have a use case from the get go because IST is used to pay gas fees on agoric. So for now, we have a few apps, but going forward, I think it's going to be like a driver in basically generating fees. We're still very early stage.
00:30:06.362 - 00:30:35.750, Speaker G: We launched last September. I think it was last September, end of September, actually. And right now we're in the phase one of the launch, which is the peg stability module. So we have currently three assets. Each asset has two bridge versions. So USDC, UsDt and Dai. So the bridges are acceler and gravity bridge.
00:30:35.750 - 00:31:10.020, Speaker G: And so after that, we'll launch pretty soon, actually, like next month or early March, we're going to launch vaults where basically you can mint ist through the deposit of an over collateralized IBC asset position. Could be atom, for example. And for the liquidation on vaults, what we use is basically dutch auction. So, yeah, Zach, maybe you want to add something on this.
00:31:10.710 - 00:32:22.006, Speaker F: Yeah, what I want to do is characterize the decision to launch with the parity stability module as like a technical risk management strategy, which was. There is a lot of technology that had never been run in a money moving setting in the PSM release, including the entire agoric VM, which is like 200,000 lines of JavaScript. It is a very sophisticated system for isolating smart contract execution in JavaScript. The integration between the Cosmos SDK, the IBC layer, the wallet handling Kepler signing layer, all of these things have been in development for basically three. I've been basically working with the OraC team on these things for three years. And so these things have been long in. So while it was a risk management system, it's also interesting, because right now, what we're seeing in cosmos is a big divergence in representations of stablecoins.
00:32:22.006 - 00:33:08.946, Speaker F: So right now, there's almost as much USDC bridged over axilar as there is over the gravity bridge, resulting in two distinct representations of USDC. While I am working with the noble team on the native Cosmos integration, that's just going to make for three representations of GB, the standard XKCD. There are 13 competing standards. We're going to come out with a 14th that unifies the ball. The actual answer is now there are 15 competing standards. This is the state of stablecoins within cosmos, and the PSM release is actually just by itself a product that allows multiple stablecoins to easily be translated into one representation. And we are hoping that teams within cosmos will find that representation useful.
00:33:09.058 - 00:33:54.342, Speaker B: So there's definitely a lot to unpack there. But that last point that you mentioned is like kind of viewing ist as a way to repackage these variety of stablecoins throughout the cosmos ecosystem. I was just scrolling through Twitter right before this, and we could see six or seven stablecoins that had great growth over the last 50 or so days. And it's kind of like, okay, well, how do we get one dominant stablecoin within this ecosystem? Because obviously that stable store of value is very important to DFI users. And so I kind of want to keep going into the actual ISD model. So is it only over collateralized or is there also some, like the word algorithmic has been stained recently, especially within the cosmos ecosystem. But I do know that there's that BLD boost model.
00:33:54.342 - 00:34:01.510, Speaker B: So what are the multiple ways that you can mint ist, and how will that change with the release of the vaults?
00:34:03.150 - 00:34:54.602, Speaker A: I might jump in there first, and I'm going to steal some ideas that Zucky actually gave me. So, Zucky, you can feel free to jump in if I misrepresent them. But I think one thing that the launch of the peg stability module made clear to me, actually, was that it will show the market sort of how is key can evolve overall. Right. You can think of stablecoins as classify them based on how they get minted, because the minting activity is sort of one side, you have holders of stablecoins and then you have minters of stablecoins. And the minting activity actually drives a lot of stablecoin growth and limitations. And what launching the parity stability module first did was show that, okay, we have this one minting mechanism, which is effectively bring other strong stablecoins in and back ist by some risk weighted group of them.
00:34:54.602 - 00:35:44.874, Speaker A: But then we'll launch vaults as well. And that vault contract will get access to the Ist mint. And then some portion of IST will be backed by this sort of vault system, which is similar to over collateralized makerdao. And that can continue. Right? So it will be up to the interpretocol community, which is governed at a base layer by build holders, how they want ist to evolve over time. And the way Zucky described it to me, which I thought was great, was ist can sort of consume all the useful, effective minting mechanisms for a stablecoin and put them into a risk weighted grouping, which is controlled by the elected econ committee. And so because of that, it could evolve in any way that we want.
00:35:44.874 - 00:36:19.974, Speaker A: And if we find that certain minting mechanisms no longer are useful or no longer interesting or have a risk profile that we no longer want, we can spin those down through the control of the individual minting limits, not only at the sort of specific minting mechanism level, but at the collateral level, and really tightly control what backs ist over time. So that's how I see it evolving at this point. And hopefully, sort of as that will be clear to all other users too, once we launch vaults. And now you have this new method of minting IsT, right?
00:36:20.012 - 00:36:52.838, Speaker B: And we kind of touched on this earlier with the release of Noble, the general asset issuance chain secured by the Cosmos hub. We already know that circle is going to be minting USDC through this chain. For me personally, I would assume what would happen was we'd really trend in the direction where that kind of becomes the dominant representation of USDC within the cosmos ecosystem. So I'm curious, maybe, Zaki, do you have an opinion on that? Or do you think this actualr bridge and the gravity bridge USDC will kind of stick around or still have a place within the ecosystem?
00:36:53.034 - 00:38:26.106, Speaker F: I'm expecting, I mean, based on what we've seen from what perceived user demand and what people say, including the IST economic committee has said, is there's a very strong preference to switch to noble minted USDC, circle issued noble minted USDC as soon as it's available. And so I think that's going to be. But one of the other things that I think having noble able to do is that it also really opens up the scalability of IST, because having a PSM, and it's always interesting to work through the game theory, but there's this thing where you need this ability to take a dollar back stablecoin and exchange it for your peg targeting stablecoin in order to actually have stability under all market conditions. So it's a really important mechanism. And basically the scaling of IST, as you add in all these other mechanisms, in a lot of it, the scaling just comes from. And one of the things though, that I really hope about IST is I think that maker has gotten so many things right in the design of their stablecoin, which is why it has been a stable value basically since multicolateral Dai launched. And since the PSM launched, it's been an extremely stable asset.
00:38:26.106 - 00:39:02.586, Speaker F: It's been very successful. They got so many things right, but they're actually not in a great position to fully exploit the scalability of their protocol design. They're constrained by just like being written in solidity, they're constrained by sort of being multichain was never originally factored into the design. And so there's a lot of things that I'm hoping that we can really take the learnings of maker and ramp the scaling in a way that maker finds themselves constrained in various ways.
00:39:02.688 - 00:39:25.306, Speaker G: I wanted to add a point on bridged USDC as collateral in IsT. I mean, logically speaking, it's just going to organically decay right in favor of native USDC. So whether we do it through governance with a proactive approach, or just users basically getting out of the bridge version is just going to naturally occur.
00:39:25.418 - 00:39:36.882, Speaker E: I think it would also be helpful maker. Obviously, MKR is the backstop liquidity provider for DAi. So could you kind of walk us through the relationship between BLD and IsT?
00:39:37.026 - 00:40:43.766, Speaker A: Yeah, and I can tell that story. I'll tell a slightly shorter version of the long version of that story, which is that really where ist came from was the desire for the agoric chain to have a stable token for their gas. So that design has been around for four plus years and really ISP evolved from that original choice. The nice part about that is it allows the chain itself to capture the growth of the economy through something other than transaction fees. And that is something that really was interesting as sort of tokenomics for build is how do fees generated by ist go to a reserve that could be controlled by build holders, for example? That is one part of the relationship. What you mentioned was safety backstop, and that was in the original white paper design. And I think as we evolve that, I think it will be up to build holders to determine what relationship they want to have with ist longer term.
00:40:43.766 - 00:41:24.022, Speaker A: In this initial phase, the minting limits have been kept relatively low on purpose to make sure that we're not seeing a large breach or a bridge failure for one of our backed assets. And so it hasn't really been discussed yet. And I think in part it may be driven by legislation coming up in Europe and other places. And so there are factors like that to consider. But high level, the goal is that interpretocol and IST is integral to the functioning of the agoric chain is governed by buildholders. And I would expect that it's in buildholder interest to maintain that.
00:41:24.076 - 00:41:46.170, Speaker B: If you can't tell, we love data here at Blockroots Research and chainalysis, the leading blockchain analytics company, shares this passion with us. We use data to extract alpha and find the next thing coming in Defi. But chainalysis is doing the gritty work in building trust in blockchains to onboard the next trillion dollars of capital into the industry. We need to grow safe consumer access to cryptocurrency and promote more financial freedom with less risk.
00:41:46.250 - 00:42:39.438, Speaker E: Chainalysis has some of the most comprehensive and reliable data in the space, and they use this data to power a full suite of their solutions that can be utilized by industry professionals. Best in class training and certifications are also led by chainalysis and some of the brightest minds in the space. If you haven't heard of chainalysis, you got to check them out and we'll link to them in the show notes. I saw that you could potentially mint ist using future staking yield up to a cap probably determined by governance. I guess my question around that with PTSD from the terra collapse is once you get into that situation and you're borrowing against future cash flow, that isn't necessarily fully predictable. And then you've also got Bld being denominated in US dollars, which is what it's supposed to. IST is supposed to be paired to how are you looking at risk there? And how does that mechanism actually going to work?
00:42:39.604 - 00:43:28.954, Speaker A: Yeah, so build boost, which is the mechanism you're talking about. It's important to think that medium term staking rewards for build are intended to be denominated in IST based on fees driven from the protocol. Right. So actually what you're doing for build boost is borrowing IST against future IST earnings and sort of managing it that way. Now, the reality is, in the near term, those ist rewards will be small relative to the standard cosmos build staking rewards. And so it'll look to users a lot more like Terra, where you're collateralizing against the owned asset, which is not the intention of that design. So I will say that that part of the design did get some pushback.
00:43:28.954 - 00:43:53.586, Speaker A: Our expectation, though, is if build boost launches, it would be very tightly controlled, both in terms of a total mint limit for how much of ist could be backed by build boost, and also in terms of sort of, I'm going to say, over collateralization requirements, even though that's not technically how we should be calculating build boost. But you would take a lot of build to mint Ist.
00:43:53.778 - 00:44:50.406, Speaker F: I think the general way people should look at build boost is as not as even primary, like a significant mechanism for minting Ist in any sort of expected future. It's really intended to help bootstrap. Right now, we sort of live in this weird world where people are paying transaction fees on agoric in build, which is basically a world that we don't really want to see. It's not aligned with the goal. But the problem is that if you have build, we don't want you to have to have a second asset that you went out and bought on a dex in order to. You went out and bought on a dex in order to interact with the blockchain. It seems completely insane to kind of sort of be in this bootstrapping phase.
00:44:50.406 - 00:45:51.450, Speaker F: So what we're imagining a world is more, is like people onboard onto the agora chain with like, people will potentially have ist and use it to buy build to stake it. People will then have ist to do transaction fees. People who are staking build are like, oh, I need to withdraw my rewards or something like that. I need to top up my ist. They push a button, they mint a few dollars worth of ist just from that process. And it's a UX refinement thing about how do you massage your way to ist as the unit of account on the system? Because of there are these awkward pieces that are always there, we find with Adam, right. Adam was never intended as a unit of account in an ecosystem, but as a practical matter, it's become the unit account.
00:45:51.450 - 00:46:06.434, Speaker F: The process of bootstrapping a new unit of account in the system is super complicated. And we think that build boost is like just a little polish on the UX there. That might make a lot of difference. As you imagine, the scaling of the.
00:46:06.472 - 00:46:54.558, Speaker G: Agoric system and build boost can be seen as the tertiary minting method, basically. So you have the PSM that is obviously something very important in the design and in the use case, and then you have vaults. And so between those two, I think we should have a pretty decent chunk of the total minting limits. And then, like Roland says about build boost, it's going to really evolve in a controlled way where we carefully look at the other minting limits and the relationship between the three minting limits and just go carefully about it and test. Right. Like it's all about testing, using the data to adjust and see where we want to go, basically.
00:46:54.644 - 00:47:42.910, Speaker B: Right. And I also think that kind of plays into the scalability factor, right. Because in a purely over collateralized model, let's just say it takes about like $1.3 to mint one dollars of the stablecoin, right? So having a new way to kind of use a different staking rewards as another way to mint ISD kind of even throws a bone to the power users of the agoric chain. But speaking further on scalability, it seems like so if we have these three different ways, the one that's live today is the PSM. So as we expand out into vaults, earlier you mentioned that liquidations will be processed in this dutch auction style. What does that look like in more of a cross chain world? Right, so if, let's just say vaults are now live and the atom token is a listed collateral.
00:47:42.910 - 00:48:01.030, Speaker B: If I'm a liquidator and I'm purchasing some collateral in the form of atom. Okay, well, now I need to go somewhere to sell this atom. Do you imagine that will live in like a agoric native amm or will there be some sort of like bridge to IBC, transfer to osmosis, execute the transaction, and come back to agoric.
00:48:02.010 - 00:48:48.946, Speaker A: Yeah, so this is a great question, and I think here it's important to sort of think about liquidation as an evolving product. So we have the V one that will launch with vaults, but the liquidator contract as part of interpretocol is separate and upgradable. Right. So within the code, the EC can choose to use a different liquidation. EC econ committee can choose to use a different liquidation contract. And so effectively, I see liquidation growing into a suite of possibilities where in the longer term, the system is looking at sources of liquidity, both on the agoric chain and across chain, making choices about where it wants to liquidate. And unlike Ethereum, it can actively choose.
00:48:48.946 - 00:49:02.598, Speaker A: Right. We don't need somebody sending a transaction in to trigger a liquidation that will happen as part of the system. It can make choices on its own about where to go, how to sell assets, and where those end. Go ahead, Zucky.
00:49:02.774 - 00:49:52.886, Speaker F: Okay, I want to galaxy brain what this looks like just because the world that we're building and imagining is really cool, because you could imagine the liquidation module running an interchange query, grabbing from osmosis what the slippage is likely to be, what the slippage would be on atom two ist swap. Decide that I need to liquidate this much tokens, use interchange accounts and IBC to liquidate those, or swap and forward, which is another thing that Osmos has just launched. So use an existing IBC protocol, liquidate what it could within the acceptable slip enjoyment, and then place the remainder in a dutch auction.
00:49:53.078 - 00:51:06.670, Speaker A: Yeah, so liquidations are about to get really exciting, because where this is going to evolve to is sort of what Zucky was saying, where the liquidator itself can make all these different decisions cross chain and actively choose to liquidate or sort through a list of potential capabilities that it might have. Where we are launching with for the V One is a dutch auction that Makerdao has pioneered as effective. And what that means though, is that we will be looking for a group of third party liquidators to come in and actively trigger those liquidations. And so, because at launch there won't be a native amm or a native Dex on the agorc chain, those liquidators will need to liquidate either on osmosis or on their favorite centralized exchange. And so that will factor into the risk decisions that the econ committee makes around collateralization requirements and the modeling that third parties like Gauntlet might do to help sort of set those parameters. So the V one liquidator really does. It relies on the tested maker Dow model without flash loans.
00:51:06.670 - 00:51:57.170, Speaker A: But then as liquidation evolves, I really see, I'm hoping that the community comes in with all of these different ideas for how we might bring liquidations in. I have a couple of ideas that I'm going to pitch and see that I'm not ready to share publicly yet, but I'm pretty excited about, as a teaser for those vaults on agora could be transferable, which means you start to get a whole lot of different possibilities for what kinds of interesting liquidations you could do, or how the system could avoid liquidations to begin with. And I'll just leave it at that. What we're hoping for is liquidation becomes a giant community led effort to sort of figure out how best we can deploy resources to make them more efficient. And so that's something that we'll certainly be looking into as the system evolves, we start getting more production.
00:51:59.270 - 00:53:10.994, Speaker F: Like. One other thing that has been a general design philosophy in interpretocol has been, again, following on lessons learned from maker is that liquidations are kind of the thing to be avoided. We have, like Kujira with the UsK, stablecoin has kind of taken this design where they're like, liquidations are like a feature of the protocol. And it's almost like where it's like, oh, we want people making money, we want to build. And maker very much takes the attitude of we want a liquidation to be kind of the worst case scenario, where liquidations are rare things that ideally can be mostly avoided, but also as tooling around maker. But there is robust tooling also available for liquidations, and we know they work, and they are a part of the overall robustness of the protocol, including the ability to liquidate at large scale tens, hundreds of millions of dollars. So both of these things are part of the vision, but we are going less with interpretocol.
00:53:10.994 - 00:53:17.002, Speaker F: It's like, look at how many liquidations we just did to. Ideally, liquidations are somewhat of a rare thing.
00:53:17.056 - 00:53:24.240, Speaker E: And you mentioned the econ committee. I think we haven't really discussed that in depth very much. Do you mind giving us a little high level overview of what that is?
00:53:24.850 - 00:54:35.470, Speaker G: Yeah, sure. So that would be me. So we're a group of six elected members that are mandated by the build community. So build basically is the governance token managing the interprocol. And so the economic committee goals are to reduce risk to grow usage, and also to mitigate extreme events for interprocol. So to do so, we manage the parameters of IST, such as the minting, limits the stability fees, the collateral ratio, the liquidation ratio. And so if I give you an example of a recent intervention that the economic committee did was a few weeks ago when we had a lot of FUD around USDT, possibly losing peg, we intervened and lowered considerably the minting limits around USDT as a collateral and also putting there some fees to discourage usage.
00:54:35.470 - 00:55:19.490, Speaker G: And so, yeah, that's one of the example of the things we could be doing. And we work hand in hand with the community, with the build community. So when we propose, for example, the whitelisting of an asset, it's a suggestion there needs to be a vote going on around that by the build community. So we regularly inform them of pretty much everything that is going on with interpretocol and the various parameters. And also soon we're going to be managing also the reserve pool that's going to launch after bots. And, yeah, maybe. Roland, you want to add something on the econ committee?
00:55:20.230 - 00:56:03.050, Speaker A: Sir, I'll add something at a technical level, which is that the econ committee has built in control to reach into the contracts and manage parameters directly. Right. So they have two basic controls that they can use across multiple contracts. One is to change the values of parameters. And so right now that control is sort of wide open, so they could set the interest rate however they wanted. It also is possible to design it such that the econ committee is limited so that they could set the interest rate between three and 5%, but not outside of that. The other control that they have is more of an emergency procedure where they could pause the functioning of specific contract calls.
00:56:03.050 - 00:56:53.520, Speaker A: So, for example, if we see some issue with the oracle price coming into the vault system, the econ committee would potentially be able to, or not potentially they'd be able to come in and stop the handoff of the vault system to the liquidator until that gets resolved. So the econ committee is a really important stakeholder and constituency within the interpr protocol. And I think this group that has been elected to start has been amazing and really excited to see not only are they, as you have said, not only are they sort of in control of risk, but they are a key driver of growth as well. And so we expect, moving forward, they also will have thoughts on designs for the protocol that will sort of go out to the community and get built by Gorkopco or by somebody.
00:57:01.510 - 00:57:34.478, Speaker G: It's still very early stage coins like the space, right, the design space. So we're very open minded to run some experiments with some level of controls and risk management, obviously. But I think the design space is still pretty open right now. So yes, we've taken that route of a fully collateralized stablecoin, but that does mean that we can't explore elsewhere what is being happening. And Zaki for sure is a key contributor in that area as well.
00:57:34.644 - 00:58:03.762, Speaker F: Yeah, I mean one of the hats I wear in this is I'm on the board of this decentralized cooperation foundation, which is a foundation that is supporting use cases of the Goric technology and interpretocol. And specifically we expect to be doing like bounties and other sources of support for people who want to start taking these ideas forward on how to extend interprtocol sort of once the base protocol is deployed.
00:58:03.826 - 00:58:33.230, Speaker B: Yusuf, do you feel that the use of an elected subcommittee, if you will, within the DAO or within the community has really helped kind of push forward the ability to respond to decisions, you know, Cosmos as a whole and really just crypto as a whole. Governance is a huge thing that we're still figuring out, well, what's the right process here. So I'm curious to get your take on really how that's helped you being a part of the EEC, really respond to these kinds of changes and help keep the protocol.
00:58:35.330 - 00:59:20.910, Speaker G: Mean. I think it's very important to have a small team dedicated to that and I don't want to make comparisons, but you cannot govern a token like a stable coin via public governance entirely. It's just not going to work. Who's going to manage the parameters? Are you going to be quick enough to be there and also just competence? Basically on our team we have two world class economists, Jason Potts and Chris Berg. We have a variety of profiles. So each of them was handpicked to basically deliver solid performance. So we have someone, Chloe White, who's helping on policy and regulation.
00:59:20.910 - 01:00:33.478, Speaker G: She's following very closely what is happening with all the US government, but not only the US government, also elsewhere like regulations, what's happening, how we should be reacting to that, how we should also protect ourselves versus regulation. And so this committee, I mean this econ committee, it's a new thing for us. This is our first mandate. And so that's also part of the reason why we decided to be careful with just launching the first phase, which is PSM, and basically just scale up our operations, get to know each other, work more closely on requirements with Rolands for vault. So it's kind of like an iterative approach and careful approach where we go step by step. And yeah, it's been an amazing opportunity for me and I think that going forward, blockchain, if we talk in terms of philosophical way on governance, is you can't have everyone managing everything. It doesn't make sense.
01:00:33.478 - 01:01:17.302, Speaker G: That's not like how the legacy system works. Right. And so there is no reason why it would work differently in blockchain. So you need dows basically with small team that are more agile, that can react more quickly, that have competence, and eventually can work with other dows like Dow to Dow relationship. And then in the back end, you have the community basically there to make sure that checks and balances are there, but more like in an arbitrage role rather than a fully committed role where they're managing everything. So I think you have two layers of governance, right. So the first one is community and then the specialized one is at the Dow level.
01:01:17.302 - 01:01:29.334, Speaker G: And so this econ committee, I mean, we're not a dao per se, but kind of. Right, like we manage the same scope of responsibility as a DaO would manage.
01:01:29.452 - 01:02:01.362, Speaker A: Ducky had mentioned early on that the launch of the PSM was an important test of a whole stack of capabilities that hadn't been tested yet. One of those things was the ECOM committee. Right. That was governance code that's written in the Agor smart contract framework and is a really critical element to the functioning of the system. And we got to see, with PSM, they're able to vote to change parameters. They're able to vote to launch. When a new PSM got launched to allow Dai into the system, they were able to come in and change the minting limits right away.
01:02:01.362 - 01:02:24.250, Speaker A: And so we saw that functioning and we're able to test it. And that then will get used for the much more critical role in vaults where the risk controls are much more important. And we also get to show that off from the agoric perspective, we get to show that off to developers who want to come in and build their own governance because they can see how it got built with interpretocol and sort of leverage that for their own smart contracts.
01:02:26.030 - 01:02:50.050, Speaker E: Interesting. So I guess one of my remaining questions is one of the hardest things for an over collateralized stablecoin is growing the supply, and it seems like you guys can kind of tweak the borrow rate in order to incentivize that. But in terms of integrations with other protocols, is there going to be any kind of token incentives in terms of the build token? Or how are you thinking about encouraging integrations across cosmos? Defi.
01:02:51.270 - 01:03:41.250, Speaker F: So the decentralized Cooperation foundation has been using its treasury to using build incentives to incentivize integrations around Cosmos DeFi. The goal of the DCF is to promote sort of ubiquity of ist. So as new DeFi things get spun up in cosmos, we are typically deploying incentives along kind of everywhere. Is currently our strategy in Cosmos also open question about whether or not we should go beyond cosmos. But right now, there's just so many Defi things popping up inside of cosmos that we're pretty busy just keeping on top of every single new defi thing on cosmos that we need to kind of pipe some incentives over to.
01:03:41.400 - 01:04:15.562, Speaker A: And one thing that I've liked about the DCF's philosophy for this is you mentioned incentivizing new minting mechanisms. They've sort of thought about it as incentivizing the end state. So incentivizing the use of ist somewhere on some external chain, which then pulls through demand for minting. Right. So as there's some new dex that launches or listing on a lending facility, then that will drive more supply of iST to get minted to go farm those tokens. So it's really kind of pulling everything through and driving all activities.
01:04:15.706 - 01:04:36.094, Speaker B: And Roland, I got another question for you on the technical side. As you know, obviously with a liquidation process, the price of the assets used as collateral is incredibly important. And what does the Oracle price feed process look like? Pulling into a new app chain built in the cosmos ecosystem in a new smart contracting language.
01:04:36.142 - 01:04:36.258, Speaker A: Right.
01:04:36.264 - 01:04:43.400, Speaker B: Like JavaScript generally hasn't been writing smart contracts in the past. So does that play any influence into how this process works?
01:04:43.850 - 01:05:43.494, Speaker A: Yeah, so the way we approach the Oracle network was actually using, we had a partnership with Chainlink two years ago, sort of starting this process. And what we ended up launching was a decentralized Oracle network. And by we launching, I mean the decentralized Oracle network launched, or is sort of in the process of launching using Chainlink software, using one of the previous versions of their aggregation contracts that was rewritten for the Agoric smart contract framework, which will go through a series of audits and a whole bunch of testing prior to launch. And that's the approach that we've taken. And now we know that UMI is sort of working with a new oracle that has just recently they've been working through, and there are other Cosmos Oracles. So I think that's something that we certainly would want to look at moving forward. But we've seen that Chainlink has been robust through Defi on multiple chains.
01:05:43.494 - 01:06:32.650, Speaker A: And so that was the approach that we took for Vault's launch. So that will also be, and this isn't the question you asked, but we've gotten a lot of inbound interest either to the EC or to the DCF or to just various parties in the ecosystem. For other cosmos chains who want to be collateral for IST, obviously if you have a token, it's sort of interesting to you to be able to use that to collateralize IST. One of the primary limiting factors there will be the availability of robust oracle pricing. And so atom trades in a whole bunch of places. It has deep liquidity, and so that's an easy asset that likely will pass a risk framework evaluation. But thinking through how that evolves as some of the longer tail assets want to get listed will be important.
01:06:32.720 - 01:07:13.554, Speaker B: Yeah, and you bring up that interesting point around liquidity, right? So obviously there's centralized exchanges that hold some of these tokens. Like Osmo, for example, is recently listed on Binance. But osmosis itself is kind of like the liquidity hub at this current point in time. And so if you simply pull up the osmosis pools tab, a lot of these pools aren't that deep. So it's kind of interesting to see the cosmos ecosystem as a whole. To me, it feels like there still needs to be some growth around kind of like liquidity depth because you need a place to liquidate into. But earlier you mentioned that even the centralized exchanges provide good alternatives to these liquidators to utilize.
01:07:13.554 - 01:07:24.486, Speaker B: So how do you think about balancing? Ideally, you'd want to keep that all on chain. So how do you think about balancing what's pragmatic versus what is the most profitable?
01:07:24.598 - 01:08:22.714, Speaker F: So I guess I have a bunch of thoughts here, which is one is I think that in many ways, the cosmos liquidity ecosystem has not yet recovered from the implosion of terra and Ust. Right. In general, it continues to be a struggle across the entire cosmos ecosystem to build liquidity. And we've seen interesting bursts of new liquidity sources coming in. Like what's going on on the Kanto chain right now is super interesting and fascinating. But on the whole, like the cosmos liquidity ecosystem, I view things like noble launching and native USDC coming. I viewed things like the growth of IST, but also concentrated liquidity becoming more available for IST.
01:08:22.714 - 01:09:06.470, Speaker F: We were like, I think the first incentivized concentrated liquidity pool on Crescent, which has had concentrated liquidity live for quite some time. We have concentrated liquidity is coming. So basically concentrated liquidity will allow our ecosystem to use the liquidity that we currently have more to allow for less slippage and more efficient markets as it sort of expands and order book. Dexes, like also injective, are also a big part of the story. So that's like one piece of the puzzle. The other piece of the puzzle is better stories about onboarding new venues. There are many pieces that are sort of working together to synergistically build out cosmos.
01:09:06.550 - 01:09:28.174, Speaker E: I was also curious. It caught my eye that busd, so Binance's stablecoin and GUSD Gemini's native stablecoin, they are not listed as accepted collateral types. Was that intentional or is that like a partnership that maybe you'd want to explore further on down the line? Because I know Maker has a partnership with. Yeah. So that could be a good source for growth.
01:09:28.222 - 01:09:35.220, Speaker G: But I mean, the issue with those assets that you're talking about is they're bridged assets. Like we would have to bridge them. Right?
01:09:37.610 - 01:09:39.800, Speaker F: I'm not going to say that we'd have to bridge them.
01:09:41.290 - 01:10:11.390, Speaker G: I mean, right now as of today. Right. So thank you. USDC and USdt right now are fine. But yeah, we had some talks, some initial talks within the econ committee to whitelist other stablecoins in the BSM. But I mean, obviously it's going to be a much better thing if we can do it with native assets. And so that noble chain, I'm not aware of all the details, it's not been fully announced yet.
01:10:11.390 - 01:10:42.498, Speaker G: But if they can issue directly on that chain, BUSD, GUSD and others for sure, we will want to consider that. Right. It adds more diversity. We basically reduce more risk profiles in the PSM and more use cases. But that's not for now. I mean, there's not a talk right now, but soon enough, I think. I guess in a few weeks or months, possibly, yes.
01:10:42.604 - 01:11:43.274, Speaker B: Yeah, that sounded like a little hint of alpha, right? Given it's a general asset issuance chain, Encircle is going to be the first user of USDC. It will be exciting to pay attention to what other more centralized entities are interested in using this technology and leveraging what it's got. But we've had a great discussion on really what interchange protocol is, what IST is, and kind of how the teams are working to proliferate that throughout the cosmos ecosystem, which again, really kind of has that hole of this one strong native stablecoin that's used throughout DeFi and kind of can provide that stability to its users. If you think about Ethereum, USDC, USDT and Dai have really become that three pool of assets. And I feel like you could have the same thing within the cosmos. Ecosystem with potential USDC USDT, except with now it's iST. So it's really exciting to kind of watch this team push that forward and maybe Raul and I'll pass it to you to kind of where can people find more about agoric? How can people keep learning about IST and the interchange protocol?
01:11:43.402 - 01:12:18.438, Speaker A: Yeah. So for agoric, I would direct you to Twitter and also to our discord. So I think discord.com slash discord should get you there. That's really the best place to chat with us on any deep level, especially about things that are coming up or ideas that you might have to help improve protocols. We also, on the agoric side, we have a long running bounty program where a number of excellent builders have come in to start sort of building out lending protocols or other types of things. So please reach out to us if there's something interesting that you'd like to build, especially in the DeFi or NFT space.
01:12:18.438 - 01:12:58.574, Speaker A: Got a lot of stuff going on there and a lot of tools that you could use to build off of. For interpretocol, Interproteocol has its own Twitter handle. I think it's at interscore protocol, and I think those are probably the best places to engage. It also has its own discord. So yeah, please come chat with us. I think especially on the vaults launch, we're really interested for people that want to come help with liquidations, people that have ideas for how to expand different areas of interpretocol. After the vaults launch, it really is going to move into a more open design space because sort of the V, one of what was promised is sort of going to be launched.
01:12:58.574 - 01:13:07.586, Speaker A: And so there's a lot of open opportunity if you've got something that you'd like to build or that you'd like to drive forward. So I'll leave it at that. But yeah, please come engage Yusuf.
01:13:07.618 - 01:13:13.340, Speaker B: I'd love to get some closing remarks from yourself as well and maybe where people can find you. And then we'll pass that over to Zaki to close us.
01:13:14.270 - 01:13:33.546, Speaker G: I mean, I'm mostly active on Twitter. What else? Yeah, I think it's really Twitter. So yusef underscore Amrani. So I tweet a lot about the Cosmos hub, the cosmos ecosystem at large, and obviously the ist stablecoin.
01:13:33.658 - 01:13:44.538, Speaker F: Yeah, I could close this out. I'm Zucky at z m a n I a n on twitter. It's the best place to follow me, continue to do fun things with stablecoins.
01:13:44.634 - 01:13:44.966, Speaker B: Awesome.
01:13:45.028 - 01:13:51.380, Speaker E: Well, that sounds great. Thanks so much for coming on, guys. We'll have to do it again soon. Close.
