00:00:00.200 - 00:00:49.590, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delaware refuel, where we kept the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is Hano until the 27 March 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So kicking off today's episode, we have a bit of movement on the, I guess, regulatory slash political front in the US here. So Alexander Greave, who is works as government affairs at Paradigm, the VC firm, tweeted out this little brief here, or this kind of, I guess, letter that Patrick McHenry and Glenn Tom saw two people in us politics here sent to the SEC and basically asking them all about this company called Prometheum. Now, as you guys probably are aware, Prometheum is this company that the SEC is parading around as basically a company that was able to register with the SEC to custody crypto assets as securities.
00:00:49.590 - 00:01:33.814, Speaker A: And then the SEC basically says to these other companies like Coinbase and, and others, hey, you know, here's the path to register. See, you know, Promethean registered. Why can't you? When in reality we know that there is no clear path to register here and Prometheum is really just kind of a Trojan horse trying to essentially get these crypto assets labeled as securities. Because, for example, if Promethean was to start trading and custodying ETH as a security, then the SEC can kind of parade this around and say, hey, look, you know, Prometheum is doing it as a security. This is precedent. You know, this means that why isn't Coinbase doing this? Or why isn't Kraken doing this? Or why isn't Gemini doing this? So there really is kind of this, I guess, like really warped effort from the SEC here to do this. And this has been going on for a little while now.
00:01:33.814 - 00:02:31.890, Speaker A: You guys will know that the Prometheum, I guess, guess like CEO was, was fronting, I think, like, I don't know if it was, I don't think it was Congress. It was like some kind of Senate committee meeting or something like that a few months ago. But yeah, we all know that this is basically just like an SEC psyop to try and basically, I guess, like diminish the efforts of the people that are trying to do the right thing in the, in, in the US here, all the companies trying to do the right thing, like Coinbase. But in this letter, basically the, you know, Patrick McHenry and Glenn Tom saw rip into the SEC asking them questions about, about Prometheum, essentially. So you can see here this quote that Alexander pulled where I begin the quote they say the SEC has used the following terms to describe digital assets. They've, they've said they're called crypto tokens, crypto security tokens, crypto assets, crypto asset securities, digital asset securities and digital asset securities that are investment contracts. So please provide definitions for each term and explain how they differ, differ from one another.
00:02:31.890 - 00:03:13.758, Speaker A: And as you guys know, none of these terms actually exist in the law. Like, there's no law that says that something is a crypto asset security. That's just not a thing. It's something that the SEC has actually made up in order to suit their own narrative. So essentially, these two politicians are basically asking the SEC, you know, hey, define these things for us and explain why they're different to each other, explain why these terms actually, you know, hold weight, what, what they mean and so on and so forth. Do I think that this is going to lead to anything substantial? No, because as we know, every time Gary Gensler has fronted these politicians, he just basically gives wishy washy answers, doesn't give anything concrete. The Republicans tear him to pieces, the Democrats suck up his ass and we get nowhere.
00:03:13.758 - 00:03:44.654, Speaker A: Basically, it's just bullshit politics as per usual with this stuff. But it's still good to see that there is kind of motion here. You know, keeps this stuff in the headlines. As I said before, like, there are headlines to consider here. There are the kind of, there's obviously the media spin to consider here. And as the Democrats are in, well, as the US is in an election year right now, and the Democrats obviously want to win that election, it's probably not a good thing for them. You know, it's probably a net negative for them for there to be headlines like this, considering that the Gary Gensler is the chief of the SEC and he is a Democrat there.
00:03:44.654 - 00:04:15.702, Speaker A: But anyway, you can read this full letter for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Christine Kim had a podcast that she did recently on her infinite Jungle podcast with Jason Vranek, who is the co founder and CTO at Puffer Labs. But I mean, you can go give this a listen for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube below. But what I wanted to focus on was one thing in particular that I've been talking about for a while, which is the fact that a lot of these staking protocols are vampire attacking Lido.
00:04:15.702 - 00:04:52.260, Speaker A: And there are actually some hard numbers to this now. So you can see here, Christine basically said, according to Puffer Labs, as CTO, puffer is on track to redeem about three to 4% of Ste supply for ETH at Mainnet launch and thereby reduce Lido dominance by about 1%. Now, that 1% number may not seem like a lot, but that is a substantial amount for lighter dominance here. I mean, it's been coming down naturally anywhere. As I talked about yesterday, it's almost below 30%. And then they get hit again by this vampire attack. And that vampire attack that's going to happen because of puffer is actually going to be a signal to other protocols, basically saying, hey, this works.
00:04:52.260 - 00:05:15.716, Speaker A: You can do this. So I do think we're going to continue to see, obviously, stake get pulled out of lido, go elsewhere, but also stake go to other protocols. You know, as I showed yesterday on hill, dobby staking dashboard lighter isn't even in, like, the top 50. Like, it has out net outflows now. It's not even growing anymore on a real basis. It doesn't seem to be to be growing anymore, at least over the last, like, week or two. So there's just so much competition now.
00:05:15.716 - 00:05:46.708, Speaker A: And it was always insane to me that Lido was so big because, as I said, you know, I've said this for years. I think at this point they were only big because of the fact that there wasn't much competition around. They were a first mover, which obviously counts for a lot. They've still got a great product. But there wasn't all these other protocols. You know, there was no etherfy and puffer and swell and Renzo and a few of these other ones out there. And then the independence as well, such as, I mean, if you go to the ETH two staking dashboard, you can see these ones, and then the l two s, like mantle, for example, running their own infrastructure, staking the ETH that's in their bridge.
00:05:46.708 - 00:06:20.792, Speaker A: So there was none of that until recently. Probably. Probably the last six months, the bulk of that has gone live. And now we're seeing what a lido, I guess, like what a staking ecosystem looks like when Lido has competition and it looks so healthy, guys, it looks so much better than it did even just a year ago. And it's great to see, you know, these vampire attacks materializing here. And there's, I guess there's two types of vampire attacks, right? There's direct and indirect. The indirect vampire attack, I would say, is the one where essentially all these other protocols are basically taking ETH, that that would have gone to Lido and getting it into their own staking protocols.
00:06:20.792 - 00:06:41.274, Speaker A: And then there are the direct vampire attacks, like what puffer is doing here, where they're essentially taking in stethers deposits. There's over, I think, $1.5 billion or something worth of Ste. Almost 1.5 billion, I believe. And they're going to. It's still in Steth, but they're going to be pulling that directly out of Lido and then restaking it with their own infrastructure once they launch live on Mainnet.
00:06:41.274 - 00:07:04.202, Speaker A: And that will be considered, you know, pure puff ETH. Right now, puff ETH just represents Steve. It's basically a LRT on top of St ETH because the St ETH is inside Eigen layer. But yeah, once they're mainnet launches, they're going to pull $1.5 billion worth from Lido, which is a huge deal, guys. Like, no matter which way you sleep, slice it, it's an absolutely massive deal here. But anyway, you can go listen to Christine's podcast.
00:07:04.202 - 00:07:49.714, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so some big news out of Coinbase over the last 24 hours. So you can see here Max Bransburg from Coinbase tweeted out, going forward, Coinbase is going to be storing more corporate and customer USDC balances on base. This enables us to manage and secure customer funds with lower fees and faster settlement times with no impact to the Coinbase user experience. We're excited to continue to move business on chain and hope other companies will follow our lead. This is just absolutely magical to see because if you recall a couple of months ago, I was saying that I believe Coinbase needs to go all in on base as a payments layer using USDC. It makes absolute sense for them to do this from a bunch of different angles here.
00:07:49.714 - 00:08:16.926, Speaker A: And this, to me, signals that that's what they're doing here. By bringing all this USDC onto base, there's going to be more and more USDC liquidity there and USDC, I guess, like general kind of like size for more, more and more people to play with. So you can get the whales on there and then that just, you know, liquidity begets liquidity. We have whales on there. We have more liquidity for everyone. We have more and more people coming online because base is just getting absolutely hit with traffic lately. It's growing so very, very fast right now.
00:08:16.926 - 00:09:26.702, Speaker A: And this helps Coinbase continue to bring themselves and their users on chain, because if the USDC is all on base, then essentially it's always going to be a kind of like free withdrawal for their Coinbase users. You know, if you're on Coinbase and you say, okay, well, I want to withdraw USDC to base, I mean, I believe that's already free. But this is being done where essentially it's, it can be done for whales and it can be done in a more cost effective way where Coinbase won't need to bridge the USDC from mainnet in to base and pay that cost. They could simply, it's not a huge cost, but obviously it's a cost, but what they can do is they can simply just, I guess, like send the USDC from their base addresses to users on base and then continue to offer those free, free withdrawals there. Now, on top of that, as I've mentioned before, Coinbase has this verification program that they're running where essentially they're using the Ethereum Attestation service to essentially verify that you own the wallet that you're sending your kind of funds to. And then in the future, they're going to be offering free transactions on base for those, for those users, which essentially means that USDC on base will become a, payments will become a free transfer, which means that base defacto becomes the best payments layer in crypto by far. It beats Tron.
00:09:26.702 - 00:09:48.150, Speaker A: People went to Tron because of the cheaper fees. It beats Tron like Tron can't compete on this. TrOn doesn't have the distribution that Coinbase has. It doesn't control the stable coin. Like Coinbase has a controlling share in circle as 25% share in circle, obviously a big influential share there. Whereas with tether, it's completely separate, separate to Tron. So Tron is always touted out as this payments layer.
00:09:48.150 - 00:10:23.836, Speaker A: And it has been a good payments layer, but base is going to be even bigger, I believe, with the USDC integrations here. So just something really big here, some big news, something to keep an eye on and definitely signals that Coinbase is deadly serious about getting everything onto base, getting everything on chain. And I really do believe that eventually, and I'm going on record and saying this, I'm not saying this based on any insider information or anything, but I do think for the base vision to be fully realized, it's actually going to get spun out of Coinbase eventually. And what I think is going to happen is that they're going to have a token. Like I know they've said they're not going to have a token, but I don't believe that. I feel like they're going to have a token eventually. So they're gonna have a token.
00:10:23.836 - 00:11:03.652, Speaker A: And the cool thing is, is that because base has been incubated within Coinbase, they don't have any investors. The only investor that they have, I mean, technically, is Coinbase, right? So essentially if they do a token, they can allocate some percentage to Coinbase, some percentage to the core, kind of like team that's been working on it, so on and so forth. But then the rest of the token supply can go to the community. So they will have this just massive growth war chest on top of the op tokens that they've already gotten from the optimism treasury. Right. To keep growing this thing. And I know that there are some concerns around this because obviously Coinbase is a centralized company and people are concerned that, you know, basis is becoming like the de facto l two right now.
00:11:03.652 - 00:11:43.804, Speaker A: And that has ramifications because Coinbase is involved. But if base spins out and base decentralizes, like they say they're going to do, because they want to get to stage two and then, and then they have a token and basically the community runs the network, then I don't really see the issue here because as I said, like, I do predict that they're going to spin out of Coinbase eventually and do a token and then descend out to the community. Then they become like every other l two. Essentially, they've just been incubated by Coinbase instead of going and raising vc money. It's really the same thing here. Like, I think the major step up that base has is the BD efforts, obviously, because obviously Coinbase is doing a lot of BD on base. But Coinbase, from what I can see, isn't necessarily playing too hard of favorites here.
00:11:43.804 - 00:12:16.196, Speaker A: They are still supporting all of the other l two s. They support free transactions. To them, yes, there are advantages here to using base if you're a Coinbase customer, but really, I mean, that's, that's what you get when you own, own the distribution. Like, I think that's just free, the free market at work here. But anyway, great to see base continuing to grow here. I'm going to talk a little bit about, more about base later in the episode, but I just wanted to highlight that for you guys today. All right, so I think the biggest news over the last 24 hours, or at least the thing that people were talking about the most, was this blast, I guess like rug that happened or exploit or hack that happened.
00:12:16.196 - 00:13:10.042, Speaker A: So there was this, I believe, NFT project on the blast, l two called Munchables, that raised a bunch of money. I think it was almost $70 million worth of ETH and then it got exploited by what is suspected to be a north korean hacker here, and those funds were drained. Now, of course, this opened basically a huge conversation around the fact that blast is currently centralized, like the whole thing. Centralized, centralized sequencer, multi seq, everything like that. And so people were asking, well, can't blast just roll back the chain or can't they just do an irregular state transition? And can't they just essentially take the funds away from the hacker and give it back to the community? And they can, I mean, as I said, they're centralized. And if there's no point being centralized if you're not going to actually use that, like, you can't just be like, okay, well, you know, we're centralized because we're in the early stages, and then not use your centralization powers because you want to, I don't know, uphold the values of decentralization. Well, the thing is, is that you can't do that if you're centralized.
00:13:10.042 - 00:13:40.892, Speaker A: It's just decentralization theater. By doing that. Now, thankfully, I guess, like, they didn't need to do any of that messy stuff. The funds were actually returned. You can see here that the Munchables exploiter transferred all of the ETH to the. To, I guess, like some, some white hat address or something like that into a multi sig? I don't know who owns the multi sig, but obviously it's not the hacker anymore. But this was also a subject of speculation because you can see here that Nia tweeted a reply here saying that they believe that.
00:13:40.892 - 00:14:26.660, Speaker A: Or there's a thesis that Pac man, the founder of Blast, froze the address. And this is actually something that they can do. And this is probably the cleanest way to stop the hacker. Now, what it would, what they would have done here, at least I suspect, and this is not confirmed, this is me speculating here, but what I suspect that they did is that they essentially just blacklisted the address on their sequencer because they run the only sequencer because there is no force exit to l one that's not currently implemented in blast. Essentially what that means is that unless you're able to get your transaction in via the sequencer, then you're not going to be able to get the funds out here. So all they would have done is just blacklisted this address, and then the hacker might have been trying to do transactions and nothing would have gone through because the sequencer is not processing those transactions there. Now, this is a very, very clean way of stopping the hacker.
00:14:26.660 - 00:15:04.280, Speaker A: I think this is using that, your centralization powers, without necessarily affecting anyone else. Now, obviously centralized sequences, the biggest risk of them is censorship, as I've discussed before. But in this case, it was actually, I guess, like for the greater good. Now, as I said, this is speculation. This isn't confirmed yet, but it makes sense because the, for those of you, you might have seen this, but the Munchables exploiter actually sent the private key to the blast team in order to retrieve the funds. Now, you wouldn't do that if you were gonna return the funds. Normally you would just send the funds back, right? So that's why that lit lends even, I guess, like more credence to this thesis that the hacker couldn't get any transactions processed.
00:15:04.280 - 00:15:41.342, Speaker A: So they're like, well, screw this, you know, they're not gonna uncensor me just so I can send the transaction. Like, for example, if the hacker asked, hey, guys, I know you're censoring me. Can you uncensor me so I can send you the funds back? That's not going to work, because then they could just send the funds somewhere else, right? So from that perspective, the only option the hacker had was to send them the private key, and then they would use that private key to, you know, to submit the transaction and then only process the transaction that they submitted and nothing else. Because you can do it on a granular transaction level with the sequencer. You don't have to do it just on the address level. So even if the hacker tried to play smart, they wouldn't have been able to get the transaction processed here. So I think this was the cleanest way for them to actually do this.
00:15:41.342 - 00:16:20.774, Speaker A: And I'm glad that it resulted in the return of funds here, but it opens up a huge area of discussion now around the centralization of Alt Twos. And I posted a tweet today where I said, blast is showing us why decentralization is critical and why it's in every roll up slash L2's best interest to achieve stage two ASAP. And I linked the stages here of the different, the different roll up stages. As you guys know, Vitalik posted this a while ago. You can check the tweet out for, for the thing, for the criteria here, but in this case, and in all cases where things are centralized, guys, it's a liability. It really is a huge liability for these teams. And that's why whenever someone says that they don't think these l two s are going to decentralize.
00:16:20.774 - 00:17:09.202, Speaker A: I'm like, what do you mean they're not going to decentralize. Like, it's in their best interest to decentralize from multiple different angles. Like, it is a huge liability for them to have this control because, for example, let's say that, um, let's say that that blast, or I guess, yeah, blast, didn't do anything here and let the hacker keep the funds, and it was proven that they were from North Korea. Do you really think the Department of Justice or any other us, like the, you know, oFAC or any other kind of, like, us based entity wouldn't immediately communicate with, I guess, like the blast team and basically say, hey, why are you letting this known North Korea hacker take all this money to fund their nuclear weapons program? Right. Like, of course that was going to happen. And, you know, given that blast decentralized, they would have no recourse here. They wouldn't be able to say, oh, well, we can't do anything because, you know, it's on chain, it's immutable.
00:17:09.202 - 00:17:53.216, Speaker A: And then the, you know, if they, if they're kind of, like, learned enough, like ofac, whoever it is, the DOJ, they could just say, well, no, I mean, it's completely centralized. You can actually censor them or you can roll back the chain or you can do an irregular state transition. They're probably not going to be as versed on that, but they're not, you know, dumb enough not to know that these things aren't centralized because everyone on Twitter saying it's centralized, all they have to do is go on Twitter and see and see this play out. So in, in this case, and in a lot of cases, centralization is a massive liability. So all of these L2, L2s and roll ups have every, I guess, like, intention of decentralizing. And I fully believe within the next two years, most of the major ones are going to be at stage two, like, and let's give it to the end of 2025. But I do believe that they're going to be at stage two.
00:17:53.216 - 00:18:41.304, Speaker A: And I do believe that the only way that they will be able to make changes to the network is through, I guess, like their governance process, right, their Dow process where they have a potentially a council and things like that. But there's going to be a time lock on that and everything like that. And anyone can run sequences and anyone can run nodes because, as I said, centralization is a very big liability for these teams and for everyone involved with these things. Now. It also opens up the wider discussion around will these, I guess, will these entities like the DOJ and OFAC will they delineate between centralized and decentralized? Will they actually care? Because as you guys know, there's currently an ongoing trial with Alexi Percy, one of the tornado cash developers. And a lot of these questions are being posed. It's basically the judges prying him and saying, you know, didn't you have control here? Couldn't you stop it? And him just repeating himself and saying, no, I can't.
00:18:41.304 - 00:19:21.996, Speaker A: I couldn't have stopped it. I don't have control. This is immutable, right? And then it's going to open up an even further discussion about how censorship is applied at the protocol layer, which we've been discussing for a while now. But it just becomes an even, I guess, like more involved discussion where essentially these entities start cling in more and more and they think, okay, well, if they can't censor it, if the developers can't censor it, then when can, where can it be censored? Or where can it be stopped? I don't think they really think of it as terms of censorship. They think of it in terms of like stopping criminal activity or stopping terrorism financing, whatever they want to call it. So then they'll go down the stack and they'll say, okay, well, there's these validators that process transactions on the network. Why can't they stop it? And in reality they can.
00:19:21.996 - 00:20:11.618, Speaker A: And this is why we're doing a lot of research on, on censorship resistance because we need to be able to essentially enforce censorship resistance on the network. Otherwise we lose really the main value prop of Ethereum. But yeah, there are those questions posed, and that's how we have things like the, you know, the relayers and block builders as well. You know, those things being, being centralized represents a liability for the censorship resistance of the Ethereum network as well. So there's all that kind of playing into it. So this is just such a wide discussion here, and it's going to be one that we have over the next several years. But I do think that these l two s and roll ups can decentralize before this comes to a head, before this really comes to a point where the, I guess, like, you know, the operators or at least the teams behind these l two s start getting, you know, hit by things like, you know, things start getting sanctioned or the OFAC or the DOJ starts going after these teams.
00:20:11.618 - 00:20:45.534, Speaker A: And I think they're fully aware of that as well. So yeah, we're going to see these things decentralized just today. They're centralized for one reason or another. But as I said, you know, you can check out the stages for yourself. And I believe that within the next two years, so by the end of 2025, we're going to see most of the major l two s being, you know, at stage two here, which is the no training wheels stage. All right, so I saw this just pop up before, but blob fees were starting to creep up. And you can see here, you can see on the ultrasound money website that they were starting to creep up here.
00:20:45.534 - 00:21:18.306, Speaker A: And it was above the target, which meant that you were basically going back to how Ethereum, I guess, like Ethereum's fee market works with priority fees, where essentially you're trying to outbid each other to post blobs here. Now, I actually look deeper into this, and it turns out this wasn't a natural kind of thing. It was actually Linnea starting to utilize blobs. And they went crazy just posting a lot of blobs to the network. And as you can see, Francesco said, you know, it's just a backlog from Linnea. They're posting blob transactions at a crazy rate. After not posting anything for 11 hours, and then for another 8 hours, they're down to just 4 hours of backlog left.
00:21:18.306 - 00:21:51.780, Speaker A: Should be a few more minutes more. And then one of the people involved with Linnea, Declan Fox here, who is the product lead of Linnea, said that we now have a limit on the number of blobs submitted at a time, but happy to have burnt some more ETH. So that's cool. You know, they're burning ETH, but that's basically what was happening there. And as I've said before, guys, like there are going to be these spikes, there are going to be these times where the blobs aren't used very efficient, efficiently, but it's in every roll ups, I guess, some interesting to make sure that they're using blobs efficiently. Otherwise they're just overpaying and they're just losing money here. So just wanted to point that out for you guys.
00:21:51.780 - 00:22:17.572, Speaker A: Um, there, if you see this kind of creeping up, probably better to like, dive deeper into it. I mean, I tweeted this out before I dive deeper into it. And I went and checked out, um, Hill Dobby's, uh, blob dashboard on dude analytics. Uh, and it showed that, uh, it was basically this unknown entity that hadn't been tagged by Hill Dobby yet spamming these blobs. Uh, and then I went on chain and I went to eat the scan and I saw it and I saw Linnea. And I'm like, okay, well, that explains it. I know that Linnea recently started using blobs, so that makes sense.
00:22:17.572 - 00:23:12.354, Speaker A: But then they weren't using blobs the proper way, right? They were just spamming it and overpaying here. But as you can see, Declan said that they were just getting through that backlog, and now they're just using blobs as per normal there. All right, so another thing that I wanted to kind of give a little bit of a mini rant about today is this kind of perverse narrative that I'm seeing perpetuate itself throughout the ecosystem right now. Now, as you guys know, after blobs went live, data costs for l two s collapsed, and they collapsed by, like, 99%. And that means that they're paying very little to Ethereum, l one, at least right now, to store their data, because blobs are not at capacity, which means that there is no need to bid up the cost of blobs. And it means that essentially, the execution side gets clogged before the blobs do and the execution side fees go up. So, for example, Westy Capital here tweeted out that base reached a new all time high of $1.73
00:23:12.354 - 00:23:41.702, Speaker A: million in transaction fees yesterday, while paying only $4,000 to Ethereum. So essentially all of those costs were on the execution side. So the execution priority fees kicked in. But then the data cost didn't spike because there was no spike of the blob cost here. So this is working as intended, guys. Like, this is exactly why we did blobs, to lower that cost for users here and to basically shift the bottleneck to the execution side of things, which base is addressing. And I'll talk about that that shortly.
00:23:41.702 - 00:24:13.970, Speaker A: But what I wanted to address here is people looking at this and basically thinking, oh, well, this is, you know, this is not healthy for Ethereum. Like, Ethereum's value capture is now, you know, is now not great. Ethereum's value capture is now very bearish. It means that ETH isn't going to accrue value here, which is insane to me for a number of different reasons. And I think that the biggest reason that this is so insane to me is the fact that ETH doesn't accrue most of its value from fear of a new. Anyway. And I've talked about this at length before, but I'm going to bring up a tweet here that I forgot to have queued up.
00:24:13.970 - 00:25:02.286, Speaker A: But this is my tweet that I put out basically when was this August 7, 2023, where I basically gave a list of, I guess, value accrual mechanisms for ETH as an asset. And I said that, number one is ETH use a store of value and money. Number two is staking asset number three, collateral asset number four, its uses as a fee token, and number five, everything else. So I put its use as a fee token as number four, because even though I'm really bullish on a deflationary ETH, I'm really bullish on the burn. I'm really bullish on eats, kind of like use for fees, and fees being, you know, millions of dollars a day, tens of millions of dollars a day. It doesn't mean that I think that that is the primary driver of value for ETH. I still think, and I strongly believe this, honestly, like with pretty much like, this is, this is the thing that I believe probably the strongest when it comes to ETH as an asset.
00:25:02.286 - 00:25:34.028, Speaker A: I believe that the vast majority of its value comes from its use as a store of value and a money. Okay, how do we increase its use as a store of value and a money? How do we increase that value capture there? Well, we increase the use of ETH. We increase the network effect of ETH. Okay, how do we do that? We scale Ethereum. Oh, look, we're now going into the territory of where this doesn't make any sense, when people are fighting ETH and basically saying that, oh, you know, Ethereum is not capturing much values from, from the L2s. Right now. That means ETH as an asset is not going to be worth much.
00:25:34.028 - 00:25:58.276, Speaker A: It's going to bleed value, you know, so on and so forth. But that is not true at all. We have just massively increased the network effect of ETH by massively increasing the scale of l two s, and that's going to keep happening. These l two s are going to keep scaling themselves. These fees on the l two side aren't going to be like, this base is about to scale, which I'm going to talk about in a sec. I know I've alluded to it a bunch of times, but I've got a lot of comments there. But the execution side is going to scale as well, which means these fees are going to come down, too.
00:25:58.276 - 00:26:20.812, Speaker A: But the whole point of scaling is that we assume that there is so much more demand left to come and that we're basically at like, I don't know, the late nineties of the Internet era, where essentially, you know, we have a few things here and there. There are nerds playing with it. But we're hitting scaling limits. We can't have YouTube right now because the Internet in the late nineties couldn't support something like YouTube. There weren't enough connected households to. To broadband. Right.
00:26:20.812 - 00:26:46.342, Speaker A: We were still on dial up and even before then on 64k modems. So we're basically there when it comes to on chain products. But we're massively scaling. And over the next five years especially, we're going to scale this out to just incredible high tier. Now, if we scale that out to incredible heights and we scale up like a thousand x from where we are today, what do you think that's going to do to ETH as an asset, as it. As a network effect? That's going to increase that by 1000 x. We're going to get Ethan to the hands of more people.
00:26:46.342 - 00:27:21.334, Speaker A: They're going to use it as a money. They're going to use it as a store of value. And yes, people are still going to be paying fees in ETH, which go down and settle to the l one. And people are still going to be using the l one to pay fees in ETH anyway. So I don't understand where this bearish narrative has come from that basically says, if ETH isn't capturing this value, of course it is. As long as people are using ETH as money and using it as a store of value on these l two s, and using, you know, it as a collateral asset on these l two s, and using it as a staking asset and a restaking asset, like, of course ETH is going to accrue all of this value. That is just mind blowing to me that people don't understand this.
00:27:21.334 - 00:27:51.184, Speaker A: If you actually look at the market caps of the two largest assets, BTC and ETH, and you compare their fee revenue to their market cap, and that's all you value them on. They are way overvalued based on that. Like, their PE ratio is enormous, especially bitcoins, because BTC, bitcoin doesn't have that much fee revenue. It doesn't even capture that fee revenue because it doesn't even have a fee burn. So when you think of it like that, the reason why BTC is worth so much is because it's used as a store of value slash money. It is worth that because its network effect has been increased. It has a huge network effect.
00:27:51.184 - 00:28:25.924, Speaker A: I mean, it just got the ETF's, which again, increases network effects. So really, when you're looking at valuing these assets, you need to look at them in terms of network effect in terms of how people are holding them, how many people aware of them, how many people are using them as, you know, store of values and money, but also as investment vehicles, as speculative investment vehicles. There is that kind of premium there. And then the final thing I'll saying say on this is that what matters in the end is aggregate fees. Right? So what I mean by this is that you can have people paying $100 fees on l one. Let's say it's cost, dollar 100 to swap on l one. It's like a really crazy day on l one.
00:28:25.924 - 00:28:55.830, Speaker A: Gas, visa, super high. It cost you $100 to swap. That is roughly equivalent in terms of, I guess like fee value capture to people doing swaps on an l two for one cent. And if you times that out 100 times, times 100 here, that's 10,000 people doing a swap or 10,000 swaps happening on, on L2s for dollar 100 versus on layer one for dollar 100. All else being equal. And if you're counting like the data costs here, I mean, it's not a one to one kind of math. I'm just doing the math in my head right now.
00:28:55.830 - 00:29:31.786, Speaker A: I'm trying to make the math math, but essentially that's kind of how it works there where you're essentially just shifting it to the L2s. You're shifting that kind of, I guess, like cost and that network effect to the, to the L2s. And that is exactly how Ethereum is scaling via the roll up centric roadmap. So yeah, anytime you see someone saying that it's bearish that we, you know, we increase the amount of data available on the ethereum network, and that means that these l two s aren't paying much for data anymore. That is completely wrong. Like for so many different reasons, many of which that I've outlined just then. But I think that I've made my point then I think I've gone very rancy there and I'm already at almost 30 minutes here.
00:29:31.786 - 00:29:59.598, Speaker A: So I do want to, I do want to definitely move on from this. But yeah, I thought that was just something worth pointing out. But you can go check out this from Westie Capital as well as my other tweet that I put out back in August. Maybe you want to reread it. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, moving on to that discussion about bases, execution, scaling that I was kind of alluding to the whole episode. So Jesse Pollack on Farcaster tweeted out that they're going to be increasing bases gas target to 3.75
00:29:59.598 - 00:30:23.196, Speaker A: mega gas a second tomorrow and that tomorrow is today. So basically base is going to scale today. And they say here we'll monitor then increase to five mega gas per second early next week. Our north star is 1. We'll keep increasing increment incrementally while we make progress in increasing l one da, managing stake growth and scaling execution. This is a huge unlock, guys. Obviously base has been hit very hard lately.
00:30:23.196 - 00:30:56.292, Speaker A: Fees have gone up on the execution side, but now they're going to be increasing, I think they're going to be basically increasing it by 50% and then 100% scale on the, on the execution side here and obviously increase it over time. But this is one of the superpowers of the l two s. Look how quickly they can do this. Do you know how long it will take to do the same thing on l one? And doing the same thing on l one is basically increasing the gas limit of l one. And we saw an effort for this recently. That effort was launched I think like a week ago now, over a week ago. And there's not much movement there at all.
00:30:56.292 - 00:31:32.028, Speaker A: Right. Because you have to coordinate with obviously, like everyone on the ethereum network, all the validators, and there are many, many different things to consider here because l one ethereum is very different to the l two s, whereas on the l two side of things, I mean this is, this is one of the superpowers of being centralized right now, is that they can move very, very fast and they can scale very, very fast and they can hit the limits, you know, much faster than l one can. And that's exactly what base is doing here. That's exactly what the other l two s are doing. And that's why you're going to see fees come down. And then obviously it's going to hit a point where DA becomes the bottleneck again. And then you're going to see, you know, fees basically go up again on the, on the DA side.
00:31:32.028 - 00:32:04.234, Speaker A: And then we're going to increase the scalability of DA by increasing the size and the count of blobs. That's going to happen slower. So it's going to be interesting to see, like how quickly blobs get saturated here. But yeah, I mean, I'm excited to see what bases fees drop down to with these increases. As I said, it's going to be increased by 50% today, I believe, and then by 100% by early next week. So, you know, the next few days, base is going to get very cheap again. All right, speaking of base N, Jocu ETH here announced something today called base migrate.
00:32:04.234 - 00:32:40.124, Speaker A: So this is the base migration tool is a game changer for projects looking to migrate their ERC 20 tokens to the base network, say goodbye to manual processors, and hello to a seamless transition. So this is one for the developers out there, one for people who basically have ERC 20 tokens as part of their project. Or if you're thinking of you, or if you launch one on l one and you want to bridge it to l two s, this tool allows you to do that. So I just wanted to highlight this for the developers out there, maybe, you know, some developers that could, you know, make use of this. So yeah, you can go check this out. It's at base, base dash migrate XYZ. And I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you guys to check out.
00:32:40.124 - 00:33:26.952, Speaker A: All right, so optimism announced today that they are overhauling the op retroactive public goods funding initiative. Now they're actually renaming this to retro funding. They're not calling it the retroactive public goods funding anymore, which I think is probably a better name because there's been a lot of debate about around what constitutes a public good versus what doesn't. So they've essentially just rebranded it as retro funding and they have allocated a total of 850 million op tokens to this initiative, which at current value is like, what is it for? $3.54 million or something like that, worth of, sorry, 350 million to $400 million worth of op tokens here. If I'm doing my math correctly, or billion, I don't even know right now, I think, what's the current price? I'm actually not mathing right now. My math sucks today.
00:33:26.952 - 00:34:00.970, Speaker A: I'm just going to google it. Yeah, sorry, 3,400,000,000 roughly based on a four dollar op price. So yeah, a lot of money set to go to retro funding here now, as well as announcing this kind of rebrand and announcing how many tokens are going towards this, they've also announced the future round. So they've broken the rest of the 2024 rounds into four distinct categories. So in May of 2024 there's going to be the on chain builder round, in August 2024 there's going to be the op stack round and the governance round. And then in October there's going to be a dev tooling round. And you can find out more about each of these.
00:34:00.970 - 00:34:39.674, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But I think this is overall a positive step here, because I think the major thing that there was drama around was the fact that it was called public goods funding, when in reality it wasn't really public goods funding anymore, it was just retro funding. And two, it was not broken up into I guess like categories. So essentially you had like just one big round where there was like 6700 projects, all trying to get a share of that piece, all part of different categories. Now there's going to be essentially a four different categories and they're going to keep continuing this as time goes on, of course. But there's going to be four distinct categories here that projects can fall into. And there's no need for these projects to fight other categories.
00:34:39.674 - 00:35:11.666, Speaker A: They're just going to be competing I guess in a roundabout way within their own category here, which is great to see. But anyway, you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. Alright, last up here, I just wanted to show that Google is now showing your native account balance of your Ethereum address across chains. So you can see here, this is my sassle ETH address. Google is currently showing my ethereum l one arbitrarium optimism and Polygon pos balances here. Now I did mention this, I think, yesterday or the day before that.
00:35:11.666 - 00:35:40.180, Speaker A: I really wanted to see that. You know, I really wanted to see Google do this after they added support for Ens names. Well, maybe they heard my call, maybe they were already doing this. But yeah, it's great to see that this is now supported here. And I do want to repeat what I said the other day in that guys like this is not a privacy, like a violation of privacy. Google doesn't have privileged access to this information. They're literally reading this information off of existing services like Etherscan, RB scan, optimistic Etherscan and Polygon scan.
00:35:40.180 - 00:35:59.756, Speaker A: And that those services are reading this information off of the very public blockchains that we all know and use. Like completely public. There is no default privacy on these chains. So I just wanted to clarify that for people there. But yeah, you can go search your own address on here. Maybe you can find tokens on other chains you didn't know you had. It's only showing you the native gas token that these tokens use.
00:35:59.756 - 00:36:22.642, Speaker A: So, or, sorry, like not the native gas token, but the native token of these assets as stipulated by the chains themselves. And as you can see here, showing me my ETH balance on Ethereum and arbitrum, my op balance and optimism and my matic balance on the polygon pos chain here. But yeah, you can go Google your own address. I'm sure it'll come up there. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:36:22.642 - 00:36:27.434, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
