00:00:00.240 - 00:00:31.394, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deliberate refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sasano, and today's the 3 November 2023. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So obviously we've all heard this by now, or you've all heard this by now, but Sam Bankman, Freed, or SPF, has been found guilty on a lot of the charges brought against him. I think he was found not guilty on a bunch of them, but I think there was like seven charges or something where he was found guilty by the jurors. And sentencing is set for, I believe, March 28 next year.
00:00:31.394 - 00:01:13.758, Speaker A: Maximum sentencing is, I think, up to 120 years in prison. I don't think he's gonna get the maximum. Of course, I don't. From my understanding, I don't think most people ever get the maximum, but I think that he'll get at least decades in prison for, obviously, all the crimes that he has committed here. And I think there's even another trial at some point going to be had around other crimes that are being brought or other charges, I should say, that are being brought against him here. Now, of course, you know, all of us in the crypto community are pretty happy with this result. For a while there, we actually thought that SPF would get away with this, or at least there was a narrative that SPF would get away with this and he just get away with a slap on the wrist because it's a financial crimes, and usually with financial crimes, these things, you know, tend to get swept under the rug.
00:01:13.758 - 00:01:49.878, Speaker A: But I think that maybe that's true for kind of a lot of the tradfi system. But when you have someone like SPF, who one was involved in crypto, right, which is already like enemy number one right now for the Democrats, or at least for some high ranking Democrats, right? Then you have two. SPF himself was very visible, and he wasn't like, just hiding beneath, you know, hiding behind his own company or hiding behind the system itself. He was very, very public, right? He was on Twitter. He was tweeting, you know, he was still tweeting once, once FTS clapped and all that sorts of stuff. And he had a cult of personality around him. So it was very, very different.
00:01:49.878 - 00:02:09.154, Speaker A: I mean, I never thought that he was going to get away with anything, to be honest. And I really did believe that he would get, obviously found guilty because he is guilty. I mean, that's obvious to anyone, right? I don't think you needed a trial for that. But obviously, we we had a trial because it's guilty until proven in. Sorry, it's innocent until proven guilty, I should say. But sometimes that's not the case in crypto. Right.
00:02:09.154 - 00:02:35.198, Speaker A: But the result is that, yeah, he'll be going to prison for decades. We won't know the exact amount of time until the sentencing in March, on March 28. But until then, I believe he's in, he's in prison or in jail. There's kind of technical terms here. Until that date, basically. And then, yeah, I mean, it's kind of crazy because I saw some kind of people speculating about how much time he would get on twitter. Some people said 30 to 40 years would be.
00:02:35.198 - 00:03:09.392, Speaker A: I mean, it's really up to the judge how much time they want to, want to give SPF here, but, you know, they can go up all the way up to 120 years. But as I said, it's not going to be that long. But even, you know, 30 to 40 years, SPF is, what, 30 years old now? He won't get out until he's 60 or 70 years old. That he's, that's his whole life gone, guys. Like, I mean, by the time you're 60 or 70 years old, like, especially coming out of prison after that, I mean, what, what life is going to have after that? Nothing. So I think that there's people calling for blood out there saying, you know, he should get the absolute maximum, whatever. And I'm like, I think, and I don't disagree with that, but I think it's irrelevant at the end of the day.
00:03:09.392 - 00:03:32.256, Speaker A: Like, if he gets 30, 40 years or 120 years, he's, he's probably going to die in prison, to be honest. Right. I mean, I, he's, his health wasn't exactly the best outside of prison. I doubt he's going to get, it's going to get any better in prison. But when, when you kind of think about it like that, I think the justice has definitely been served here. He ruined a lot of people's lives. He screwed over so many different companies within the ecosystem.
00:03:32.256 - 00:04:12.344, Speaker A: He fooled a lot of people. He made a lot of people look like complete idiots when to be fair, a lot of the people who simped for him are complete idiots. And I hope that they have taken the last, I guess, like, year at least to reflect on all of this. Right. And to reflect on their involvement in this and to basically not get involved with actors like this again. I mean, I'm not holding my breath because unfortunately, people have short, short memories on this. And I feel like I'm already seeing a couple of, I guess, cults of personality forming again within crypto around these newish actors, which is kind of, it's not near as big as what SPF and Doe Kwan and Alex Mashinsky and other people like that were still like, cults of personality guys.
00:04:12.344 - 00:04:46.936, Speaker A: I mean, I think by now it should be obvious to all of us they're not the way to go. They're not the way to go, because it's essentially people have flaws, right, and deifying people and, and forming a cult around them. It's failed so many times within crypto. And I think that, you know, as much as I guess this gets talked about a lot, I don't think it's appreciated that with bitcoin. I think Satoshi realized early on that if this technology, bitcoin succeeded, which it obviously has to this point succeeded at, I guess, like, accruing a lot of value, would be deified as a God. And he is. It's just that he's not around for it.
00:04:46.936 - 00:05:35.968, Speaker A: Right. Satoshi is regarded as a God among a lot of people in crypto, especially the bitcoiners, but he's not around, um, you know, to bathe in that, to take advantage of that, to, to essentially, um, uh, you know, be there for people to deify. It's more, Satoshi is more of an idea at this point than a person. Right. Which I think is, is pretty cool. Uh, and then you have, I guess, in the ethereum ecosystem with Vitalik, people have tried to deify him. People have tried to form cult of personalities around him, but I think he's rejected that at every step of the way, and he's remained humble and just, honestly, Vitalik has remained just incredibly steadfast in, in everything as time has gone on within crypto, and especially as ethereum has grown, that I think because he's rejected that he hasn't been deified like these other people, whereas, you know, SPF and, and the three AC people and do Kwon and others, they all bathed in this.
00:05:35.968 - 00:05:51.152, Speaker A: They loved the attention, right? They loved the cult of personalities around them. And they, they, they not only bathed in it, but they cultivated it as well. Especially Doe Kwan. I think Doe Kwan is the quintessential example. He was worse SPF, at cultivating. Cultivating a. A cult around him.
00:05:51.152 - 00:06:43.324, Speaker A: Because if you guys were around back then, I'm not sure, I'm assuming most of you were around back when terror was extremely popular, right? Because Luna had mooned in price, the US team market cap was mooning and doequan was literally regarded as the guy who could do no wrong and had this massive cult following behind him. It was absolutely disgusting, guys. Like, I saw this, I'm like, holy shit, this is really, really bad. Like, these people are treating do Kwon like he's literally a God and he can do no wrong. And it wasn't just like the random people you see on crypto Twitter hiding behind, hang on, profile pictures. It was also a lot of people in this industry that you would think knew better, right? And the same was true for simping for SPF and others out there. And you guys know that for the longest time, I used to call out these actors all the time, saying that I just generally avoid people who have egos, who try to cultivate, um, cults of personality around them, who bathe in it.
00:06:43.324 - 00:07:17.360, Speaker A: Uh, and I think that that served me quite well over the years. And it's a major reason why I've stuck around in Ethereum, because I think within the Ethereum core ecosystem, and I'm talking, I'm not talking the, the approach necessarily, the projects built on top of Ethereum, even though a lot of them fall into this bucket. But the core of Ethereum, to me, there isn't really any cults of personality there. There may be kind of some that try to form here and there, um, around projects, I guess, like Daniel Cesta with the Frog nation stuff, which wasn't just Ethereum. I mean, that was like Phantom as well. And don't even get me started on Andre Condre, who actually, in 2020, was deified by a lot of the Ethereum community. And I even pushed back on that back then.
00:07:17.360 - 00:07:50.016, Speaker A: I said to some of my friends who were, like, obsessed with him because he was launching all these products and everyone was making so much money, obviously everyone was really happy about it. I said to them back then, I'm like, guys, this guy, this dude isn't Jesus. Can we stop deifying him? And I got pushback from that on some really close Ethereum friends. And then, of course, things blew up. And obviously, since then, Andre's fall from grace has been quite a sight to behold. But, you know, even back then, I don't know, like to brag, but I was right about it. And I think that, as I said, the rule of thumb is that anyone who has an ego, anyone who has a cult of personality around them and bathes in it, you know, anyone can have a cult of personality around them.
00:07:50.016 - 00:08:24.400, Speaker A: But if they bathe in it, if they nurture it, if they try to make it as big as possible. That's to be avoided, in my opinion. And, you know, sometimes I talk to some, some friends about this, and they say, oh, you know, don't you have a cult personality around you since you're like one of the, I guess, like top people in Ethereum that people know, essentially, or one of the most visible people in Ethereum? And I'm like, oh, maybe, maybe I do have some limited, limited kind of thing of that, but I don't embrace it. Right. I never tried to kind of, you know, ensure people look, look up to me or review me as a God or deify me or anything like that. I don't want that. I never wanted that.
00:08:24.400 - 00:08:59.536, Speaker A: If I wanted that, I wouldn't be doing what I'm doing. And I guess, like, a big part of what I do is just provide the daily gray for free because I don't want to monetize it. I don't want people kind of forming a cult around me and expecting me to, I don't know, pump some token or whatever. And generally, I only do what I do because I'm super passionate about Ethereum and I'm super passionate about seeing it succeed. But, yeah, I mean, we've all seen this time and time again within crypto, just the deification of personalities of people, and it never ends well. And, yeah, I guess back to the SPF stuff. I'm just glad that he has gotten justice here, and I'm going to be glad to see all the others get justice as well.
00:08:59.536 - 00:09:22.366, Speaker A: I mean, do Kwon obviously got arrested, and he's facing charges. Alex Machinsky is facing some really bad charges, actually. I think as bad as SPF, if not worse, which means that he's probably going to go to prison for many decades as well. And he's older. I don't know how old he is. But I guess, like, if I'm just thinking off the top of my head, from the way he looks, I think he's got to be in his forties at least, right? Maybe even in his fifties. I'm not sure.
00:09:22.366 - 00:10:04.952, Speaker A: But if he gets the same time SPF does, yeah, he's going to be in prison till he probably dies as well. As I said, doe Kwan, which is sad, because do Kwon has a newborn daughter that was actually born during the, I guess, like, whole bull market, and he named her Luna. It's just a such a sad story, right? Like, just crazy to me that someone would, would risk all that and would kind of, I guess, throw all that away just for a cult. Of personality around them. And then, I mean, the 3 hours capital, guys, look, Suzu got arrested, but I feel like that was just to get him to cooperate with the bankruptcy proceedings. I don't know if him and Kyle actually going to end up in prison for a long time or anything like that. Then there's Barry Silbert, who's facing a lot of, a lot of charges.
00:10:04.952 - 00:10:33.570, Speaker A: I mean, it kind of is gross when you think about it. The amount of people that have been arrested in crypto that were, I guess, like the considered the kings of crypto at the time. But it also gives me hope. It gives me hope that we have a brighter future ahead of us within the crypto ecosystem, within the ethereum ecosystem, and we can focus on the things that actually matter. And at the end of the day, I think that the number one thing that actually matters in crypto is onboarding as many people as possible. That is still the goal, guys. And we have still the vast majority of the planet left to onboard.
00:10:33.570 - 00:11:20.032, Speaker A: And I'm not talking about getting them to buy our bags. Like, I don't want people to do that. What I'm talking about is getting them on chain, using the products, getting value out of the products. And I feel like we have billions. I mean, we have over 8 billion people on the planet, right? And the majority of those have never touched crypto. And we have a mission to make sure that we build better systems and we build better products and services, and we build really cool things for these people to want to use and want and want to actually get value out of, instead of just building the same old kind of like Ponzi's cults around people that result in ruin every single time. But anyway, that's a bit of a long winded rant there about this, but I figured it was worth kind of bringing this stuff up again and kind of rehashing it in the light of the fact that SPF was found guilty today or yesterday, I guess you could say.
00:11:20.032 - 00:11:38.132, Speaker A: So. Thank goodness for that. I'm sure we're all happy about that. But anyway, moving on to some ethereum related news, I saw this tweet from Mario Havel today where he said, tonight's experiment running Ethereum on a hacked PlayStation four. So far it sinks. And you can see the screenshot here of what he's doing. He's obviously jailbroken.
00:11:38.132 - 00:12:08.464, Speaker A: A PlayStation four console here, and then just run an Ethereum full node on it. And I mean, why wouldn't it work? Of course it would work. Ethereum full nodes can be run on some of the lowest power powered hardware. And I don't think the PS four is that low powered. I mean, it is obviously the last gen PlayStation console with the PS five now out, but still hacking it, running it on, running a full node on a PS four is exactly what Ethereum is all about. Like this is cypherpunk stuff, guys. Like, this is not kind of like something that should be just looked at as a neat little project.
00:12:08.464 - 00:13:00.472, Speaker A: I think this is something that the Ethereum community has worked hard towards for a very long time now is maintaining the, I guess, like chain through running nodes on things like PS four s on Raspberry PI's, on whatever you want on low powered devices. That is at the heart and the core of what Ethereum is. And for a long time there was a narrative that the bitcoin maximalist said that no one can run an Ethereum full node, quote, tweeted this tweet. And I said, well, if your max is went f you, ps four full node engage. Right? But it wasn't just that. It was the fact that, like, the fact that they were saying this obviously speaks, speaks to the fact that they're just incredibly ignorant. Because at the end of the day, everyone can run an ethereum full node as long as they have some low powered hardware and an Internet connection to do it, right? Like as I said, you can run on Raspberry PI's, you can run a rock, five b boards, you can run it on just consumer hardware, you can write it in data centers, you can run it anywhere, it doesn't matter.
00:13:00.472 - 00:14:08.990, Speaker A: That's the whole point, is that you can run a full node anywhere, you can verify the chain for yourself, which is really fundamentally the most important thing in crypto to me, right? Because at the end of the day, like I get the trade off here, where because the chain is so easy to run, it means that the scalability is limited at layer one. But the point is, is that by allowing anyone to verify the chain, it allows them to not have to trust anyone. Because at the end of the day, what we're trying to do with blockchains is dismediate trust, right? We're trying to remove trust, trying to create trustless systems where you need to trust anyone else in the, in the system. You can run the full node yourself and then trust that your full node is telling you the truth, right? So I think that from, from that perspective, that's why we want this and that's why we're scaling via layers. Because if you do everything at layer one, you lose this ability. Right? You do have, like, clients which can do, like, most of this, but it won't ever give you like 100% a guarantee that you're, you're kind of like on the right chain, right? You know, you have, you know, you haven't 100% verified everything for yourself. So needing beefy hardware to run full nodes is just not an option in the ethereum ecosystem.
00:14:08.990 - 00:14:37.956, Speaker A: So that's exactly why it's built the way it is there. But, yeah, I just figured it was worth highlighting this. I thought this was very, very cool. You know, I had an idea for a project a while ago. I don't know if I, if I mentioned this on the refuel, but I haven't gotten around to it yet. But I wanted to put a raspberry PI in a Game Boy advance shell and then run an ethereum full node on that and then have it just as like a display on my desk or something like that, with the screen obviously lighting up with the, the command line there. But maybe I'll get around to that eventually.
00:14:37.956 - 00:15:03.478, Speaker A: But I guess I wonder if you could hack some other hardware out there, but I'm sure you could to run a three on full notes on, maybe even run it on iPhone or something like that. Maybe one day we'll have to see. But yeah, you can go check out this tweet for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right. Onto some staking chat. So ethwave has a great tweet out today where they showed that basically the distribution between node operators versus validators.
00:15:03.478 - 00:15:38.500, Speaker A: So they've done a one to ten scale here. So for every one node operator, you can say that they're running ten validators here, or I guess like to the power of ten validators. So when you look at rocket pool, you can see that for every one node operator, the average validators is 11.38, which is obviously extremely decentralized here because rocker pool has thousands of node operators, and instead of just like a small handful. Right? And then you make your way down the list, and really it gets worse from there. Obviously, swell and stakewise are working towards having more node operators. But if you look at swell, it's one node operator per 191 validators.
00:15:38.500 - 00:16:24.488, Speaker A: For stakewise, it's one node operator versus 545 validators. And then you can make your way down to Lido, of course, you know Lido, everyone's favorite staking service provider, where you can see here that there's, for every one node operator, controls 7659 validators. Now I've talked about this a lot in the past about how I don't think it's necessarily a bad thing that, you know, this distribution is like this, but it's not about, I think, good versus bad, it's about good versus better. Right? So what's better than one node operator running 7000 validators? Well of course rocketball is better. One node operator running eleven validators, right. And thousands of node operators, I should say running a few validators here and there rather than whatever it is. In lido today, 36 node operators running thousands of validators each.
00:16:24.488 - 00:16:38.128, Speaker A: Right. So I, as I said before, I think Lido is, is good, is fine. I mean, I think that the way they do things is fine. I don't, obviously don't think their market share is a good thing. I think that should come down. But it's good versus better. I don't think it's, it's good versus bad.
00:16:38.128 - 00:17:23.062, Speaker A: Because when you look at like a bad, not necessarily bad because it's hard to say what's a bad staking service provider versus what's a good one because people will say, oh well if it's super centralized then it's bad. Like for example, if it's a centralized exchange then it's bad. But if a centralized exchange only has like three to 4% network share, then, then is it bad? No, I don't think it's bad because the centralized exchange is offering, obviously offering a product to its users to stake with them, and they're obviously taking a fee from that, but they're doing it all for their users and they're only three to 4% of the network. So I don't think that's actually bad. But then people can say, well, Coinbase has 14% of the network, that's bad. I'm like, okay, well yeah, that is actually bad because Coinbase is a single entity. Coinbase has unilateral control over all those validators as a single entity.
00:17:23.062 - 00:17:55.280, Speaker A: So yeah, I would say that is bad. So it really is a nuanced thing here. You can't say something is good or bad just based on, you know, I guess like vibes and feels it has to be based on reality and based on facts and based on the nuance, which I've discussed plenty of times on the review before. So I'm not going to rehash the discussions there, but I just thought this is a really great way to visualize just how decentralized and distributed rocker pool is compared to these other providers out here. Now don't get me wrong, I obviously swell and stake, right. Stakewise, as I mentioned, have plans to decentralize out this further and become better here. Right.
00:17:55.280 - 00:18:44.456, Speaker A: But Lido as well has those plans, but at the same time, they don't have the same plans that the other ones do. Like Lido wants to keep on boarding node operators, but they're only going to do it slowly and in small chunks at a time, whereas something like Rockerpool has onboarded many, many, many node operators in, you know, a short period of time and will continue to do that, swell and stakewise will only get more decentralized from here as they operate, as they onboard more node operators, which I think is, is very cool. Now, I will say one thing, and I will caveat this with one big thing I think is it's a huge asterisk here. You're going to have node operators that are the same node operators, I should say, on different services. So, for example, I'm a node operator on rocker pool, but I'm also planning to be a node operator on stakewise and maybe one day on swell as well. Right. I'm not planning to be a node operator for Lido.
00:18:44.456 - 00:19:18.974, Speaker A: I mean, I don't think that they, that I would want that responsibility anyway, but in terms of Rockerpool and swell, so I would be the same not operator across these two different networks. Right. So it's, it's kind of this argument of like unique note operator versus the same note operator. And I think that unless people actually self report that, you're not going to know who, you know what the share is, you're not going to know how many not operators for Rockerpool are also not operators for swell, for example. You'll know some of them because some of them will be companies and stuff like that. But generally you're not going to, you know, you know, you're not going to really know. Right.
00:19:18.974 - 00:19:51.808, Speaker A: And I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing. But that is the one huge asterisk here where the node operator pool generally is going to be limited. It's not like we're going to have a million node operators to choose from. I think at most we're probably going to have potentially at kind of like maturity tens of thousands of node operators to choose from, but we're not going to have millions. Definitely not. And even tens of thousands is, we're going to require, you know, I guess like a longer term outlook and as I said, at maturity to reach that. But I think that's okay because at the end of the day.
00:19:51.808 - 00:20:30.368, Speaker A: If those tens of thousands are a mixture of companies, enterprises, you know, nonprofit foundations, individuals, teams, you know, small teams, small groups of people, that is what we want. Because an expressive ethereum ecosystem, an expressive ethereum staking ecosystem, and a distributed and diverse one, especially geographically distributed, is what we're after. We're not after perfect guys. Like the perfect is obviously the aim, and that's like what we want to get to, but we're not after we know in reality we're never going to get a perfect distribution of stake. We're not going to get a perfect distribution of client diversity and stuff like that. But if we can get it as close to perfect as possible, that is the goal. And that's what we're working towards.
00:20:30.368 - 00:21:33.610, Speaker A: And that's what we're doing with bringing online all these other staking service providers, with making it easier people to stake, making it cheaper for people to stake, and making sure that we keep Ethereum as decentralized as as possible there. Now, I did have another thing I wanted to talk about with regards to staking, which was this report from GSR today, which is a very, very great report, honestly, about the various kind of like staking entities on the Ethereum network and just staking in general on Ethereum. I suggest you go give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but they also have a nice little table summary here of the different, different liquid staking providers that you can see. They've got all the popular ones listed here with stuff such as when they launched on Mainnet, how much stake they control, what the fee is, how many node operators they have, what the reward accrual structure is for their LST and other notes as well. And I really like the other notes section because it does highlight the things that aren't immediately obvious from the other kind of columns here. So you can see for example in the Lido column for other notes, it says the largest liquid staking provider.
00:21:33.610 - 00:22:11.150, Speaker A: While Lido stake is decently well diversified amongst 37 operators and it continues to improve on this front, Lido's underdeveloped governance process poses some concerns, right? It brings up the governance concerns here. And then in the rock pool section they have the most decentralized provider. But sometimes new reth cannot be minted when operator capacity is reached as there is no permission operators to delegate to, which is the scaling issues that I've talked about before, which are being addressed in Rockerpool as well. And then there's notes on all these other providers here. But yeah, I'm not going to spend too long on this. I just wanted to highlight it for you guys because it is very comprehensive and it's got sources and links to go read more about it. So you can definitely go check this blog post out.
00:22:11.150 - 00:23:03.180, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Octant, which is a project that I've mentioned on the refuel before that are staking a hundred thousand ETH on the beacon chain here and basically distributing the staked ETH rewards to public goods or projects within the crypto space here, had their first allocation for Epoch one here, so they've distributed a total of 258.39 ETH to various projects, and they've listed the projects here. Among the recipients were projects like the protocol guild and Rocky, along with Giveth and Tor and a bunch of others, which you can read about in the YouTube description below. I'll link this thread for you, but just wanted to highlight that first kind of distribution has been completed here. And this is really cool because I remember mentioning this project to you guys and saying that I thought it was just really awesome that this project was basically spun out of the Gollum foundation.
00:23:03.180 - 00:23:58.048, Speaker A: And for those of you who don't know, Gollum was this project, or is this project that's still around. But they raised a lot of ETH back in, I think 2016 when ETH was worth a lot less than it is today. They had hundreds of thousands of ETH that they raised, and a lot of it was just sitting there doing nothing. And obviously they, when staking went live, they wanted to stake it, but then they decided, you know, why don't we stake it and do something different than just stake and keep the rewards for ourselves? Why not create this kind of project called Octant here, staked ETH, and then use the token? I think the GNT, the Golem network token, is used to vote in these distributions to distribute the rewards to different projects within the ecosystem. To just give back to the ecosystem that obviously gave them so much with the, the ETH rays that they got there, which I think is awesome. I think more projects should be doing this. But yeah, I mean, I think Octane is the biggest right now, but there are other projects out there that obviously have donated, you know, their own tokens to things like the protocol guild, stuff like that.
00:23:58.048 - 00:24:41.530, Speaker A: I just love to see more of it, really, and I think we will see more of it as time goes on here. But you can go give this thread a read to check out all the projects that were part of this is this distribution. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do. So. Abhishek here from the Polygon Ventures team shared a little table here showing that right now there is a battle between Polygon and I guess like optimism for new chains launching using their technology. So obviously you guys know that optimism has their op Stack Polygon has the Polygon CDK and you can see here what it currently looks like. So it's basically neck and neck with the op stack in terms of upcoming projects on the op stack and upcoming projects on the Polygon CDK.
00:24:41.530 - 00:25:27.538, Speaker A: And some of the most popular ones that I've talked about on the review before are things like a star, which is a popular project in Japan. They're building on Polygon CDK. There's Kanto, which is basically converting from a cosmos layer one, two polygons technology. Then within the op stack ecosystem, you have Lyra, which has been deployed on arbitrary optimism and started off as an optimism project, but now are becoming their own chain, and a bunch of other ones here as well, which you can read. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. But you know, as I've said before, I do want to caveat this by saying that I think that a lot of these chains, it's going to be hard for them to find success because I think that there's going to be like obviously a handful of really successful l two s and then a long tail of ones that are kind of battling it out to be successful. And maybe they are successful in their own respective niches and niches and stuff like that.
00:25:27.538 - 00:25:52.722, Speaker A: But really the real winner becomes the project that onboards the most of these chains because it forms a network effect around them. Now, the op stack had a head start here, but the polygon CDK seems to be catching up very, very quickly here, which is great to see. And honestly, it's great to see because of the competition. Like, I don't want it just being all op stack chains, obviously. I want it being polygon chains. I want it being, you know, arbitrum arbitram chains as well. Arbitrary orbit chains.
00:25:52.722 - 00:26:34.246, Speaker A: I want it being ZK sync chains. I want, I want everyone competing with each other and I want us to get the best result possible because no one wins if there's a monopoly. And I don't think there, I actually don't think that there's a way for there to be a monopoly on the in the L2 space just because of the fact that the opportunity is so large and there's so many different teams already working within it. But eventually you're going to have like, let's just say five to ten years time, you're going to know who the obvious kind of big winners are. I think right now, obviously there are some winners, but it's not obvious that they're going to be winners forever. I think arbitrary obviously, obviously has a massive lead right now with arbitram one. But if you said to me, oh, would you bet on arbitrary one still being the number one L2 in five years, I would not take that bet.
00:26:34.246 - 00:26:56.964, Speaker A: And anyone who took that bet is crazy. Like, that is not a bet I would take. Not because I don't think arbitrary is amazing and awesome and all of that, right? I do, along with these other teams as well. But it's way too early to call a winner for the L2 ecosystem, especially because the technology is still so young as well. So. Yeah, but anyway, you can go check out this table for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:26:56.964 - 00:27:47.306, Speaker A: Alright, a big update for Metamask today. So they have announced that they're the first wallet to enable privacy preserving security alerts with blockade. So they say here our latest feature simulates transactions and signatures directly in your wallet to alert you about malicious requests before you sign them. So you can enable this in the settings experimental kind of section of metamask, if you're still using Metamask. Of course, I know a lot of people have switched off recently, but the reason why I wanted to bring this up, and the reason why this is really cool is because transaction simulation is something that some other wallets do, and there are other kind of apps you can use today to do it. What it does is it basically shows you exactly what the transaction would do if you were to sign it. And because of that, it allows you to flag things like, you know, this looks deceptive, or this is what the transaction is actually going to do.
00:27:47.306 - 00:28:40.370, Speaker A: This is what you're doing here. You're transferring funds to this address, or you're approving a token approval to this address, and so on and so forth. Right? So it is a very welcome security feature for Metamask, and I hope they keep adding more of these, because, as I've said before, while Metamask is secure as a wallet, and because it's been around for so long, it's got a lot of Lindy behind it, it's lacking a lot of security features to protect people from signing things that they shouldn't be signing. And as you guys know, from a few weeks ago when I got phished, I, it was, I mean, I'm not going to say the, the sole reason was because Metamask didn't have any protections in place. But maybe if metamask did have some protections in place, I wouldn't have. Like I showed Rabbi Wallet has I may not have gotten fish there, but I mean, at the end of the day, it was my fault totally, because I wasn't paying attention. But if there are roadblocks in place, I think that that catches a lot of these kind of things and makes it so that people don't get wrecked.
00:28:40.370 - 00:28:57.266, Speaker A: Especially because metamask is used by so many people already and it's such a popular wallet. These things are definitely needed and welcomed here. So yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. We'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:28:57.266 - 00:29:02.514, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
