00:00:00.200 - 00:00:42.126, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano, and today's the 12 January 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So first off today, a tweet from superphys here. So superfizz tweeted out today the ethereum merge will take place sometime around June 2022, but it won't have an impact on the transaction fees you're paying after the merge. The focus will likely shift to fees, but you can be proactive now by using tools like Polygon, Xdai, arbitrum, optimism, and Zksync. Now this goes back to what I've been saying to you guys for months now about this really bad narrative that seems to have formed around the merge or some, some people still calling it ETH two, lowering gas fees.
00:00:42.126 - 00:01:13.400, Speaker A: Obviously, I've said before this isn't going to be the case. It doesn't have any kind of impact on gas fees. It's not meant to. We're literally just switching over from proof of work to proof of stake. Now, some people have brought up before that, oh, well, you know, the block time is actually going to be faster under the proof of stake, right? Instead of around 13 seconds that it is today, it's going to be 12 seconds once we kind of like do the merge and go on to proof of stake. That is true. Of course, it may have a slight impact on transaction fees because of that, but I doubt it.
00:01:13.400 - 00:01:51.970, Speaker A: I doubt we're even going to feel it. Just among the, I mean, obviously the fee market is volatile, and among all the things that affect how volatile the fee market is, I doubt that kind of like reduction in block time is even going to be felt. So again, I stress, I can, I can't stress this enough. The merge will not reduce gas fees and everyone should be kind of like spreading that message as much as you can because I already know how bad the fud is going to be no matter what we do. You know, you guys know that I believe that you can't win narrative wars. Doesn't matter how much we do, how many public campaigns we do, how much we try. I still think that there's just too many bad narratives out there already around this and there's too many people spreading them, that it's going to be really hard to, to kind of like correct that narrative.
00:01:51.970 - 00:02:21.680, Speaker A: Then. I was thinking about this today because I wrote the newsletter about it and I was thinking about this from kind of like a newcomer perspective, obviously, the Ethereum scaling roadmap is relatively complex. It's not simple. It's not like you can just say to people, okay, well, yeah, we're going to do this and then transaction fees are going to be basically free and everyone's going to enjoy a fully scalable Ethereum. It's not like that at all. We have to talk about Ethereum sharding, we have to talk about statelessness. We have to talk about the modular roadmap and L2 and all that sort of stuff.
00:02:21.680 - 00:02:40.392, Speaker A: And for newcomers, this is all jargon to them. This is all buzzwords. They have no idea what people are talking about. And a lot, a lot of of people, them don't actually care to know. A lot of them just want to use what's available to them to use today that is cheap and fast to use. That's why a lot of people use these kind of like alternative l one s. A lot of people are using the La two s as well, and things like Polygon.
00:02:40.392 - 00:03:10.424, Speaker A: And, you know, that's totally understandable, of course. So from that perspective, I think that's where those are kind of like bad narratives come from, because people want something to latch onto that allows them to like, basically say, oh, okay, this is gonna fix this. They want an easy fix. And for them, for a lot of the newcomers, their easy fix is basically saying ETH two will fix gas fees, even if it's completely wrong, which it is. Right. ETH two is obviously an iterative kind of like, process. It's not going to just like ethnic, just kind of like one thing that happens and then automatically the gas fees are lower.
00:03:10.424 - 00:03:49.728, Speaker A: Obviously, it's a kind of like a longer term thing. We all, you know, I mean, most of us know the Ethereum roadmap by now in terms of, you know, scaling via sharding and L2s and things like that. But for newcomers, they don't have that context. So I totally understand why they've latched onto this narrative, but it doesn't make it any less bad. It is a terrible narrative because, I mean, I, you know, I kind of like, I'm half looking forward to it in a way because I want to see just how bad the fud is once the merge happens around it. You know, just how many people say, oh, why are gas fees still high on Ethereum if ETH two is deployed? I like people are going to say that, right? It may sound insane to us. It may sound very like a very uneducated opinion, and it is.
00:03:49.728 - 00:04:13.572, Speaker A: But this is the opinion that a lot of people hold or the view a lot of people hold because they are missing that context, and because a lot of people just simply don't care to learn that additional context. And that's the way it is. That's the reality of it. You can't fight reality, right? Like, just. Just like you can't fight. Or you can find narrative war, but just, like, you can't win, you can't find the fight. The reality of the situation and the reality of the situation is always going to be that most people want the simple narratives.
00:04:13.572 - 00:04:42.628, Speaker A: That's why you see a lot of these things with simple narratives, kind of like, you know, do really well price wise. Like, look at Cardano, for example. There was the simple narratives there that kind of, like Charles was spewing for months about, you know, it's going to get smart contracts, then we're going to have all these developers that come on board. It's going to be awesome, blah, blah. You know, we're going to have all these apps. It's going to be way more scalable than Ethereum, all this sort of stuff. Then they released smart contracts, and nothing really happened, right? Like, there was not a migration to Cardano.
00:04:42.628 - 00:05:09.096, Speaker A: There was not all these apps that spun up. I mean, hardly anyone uses it, right? But still, people latched onto that narrative, and they still latch onto that narrative today because it's just a simple and easy thing for people to latch onto. Whereas the narratives that kind of, like, I try to talk about and try to spray it around, you know, Ethereum's modular roadmap, I think, is the. The best way to scale a blockchain. Using L2s is the best way to kind of, like, get ethereum security while not sacrificing decentralization. This means nothing to a lot of the. A lot of the newer people, which is.
00:05:09.096 - 00:05:37.892, Speaker A: Which is totally fine. And there was a tweet, I believe, from. From Ryan Sean Adams. I think it was earlier in the day. I can't remember the exact tweet. I don't have it in front of me. But it was around, you know, us who kind of, like, talk about the virtues of decentralization, or a lot of us who talk about the virtues of decentralization come from a kind of position of, okay, well, you know, we're not in this ecosystem to be a dj anymore because we made our money, and now we can talk about decentralization because we're in this privileged position where we don't have to worry about, sorry, we're not in it for the money.
00:05:37.892 - 00:05:54.824, Speaker A: We're in it for the tech. That's kind of like true to an extent. I, you know, personally, I've always been in it for the tech. Like, yes, obviously the money was, was part of it, too. But I know a lot of people who have been, who kind of like, were in it for the tech and invested as they were in it for the tech. And then obviously they got in early enough that that did well over time. But it's true.
00:05:54.824 - 00:06:22.440, Speaker A: Most people coming in, they want to make money. They don't care what they use. They're not maximalist of anything. They're not kind of like married to any chain. They're just using whatever's going to make the money, and that's totally fine. But that just makes our job even harder as educators because there's a kind of like a kind of like, perverse incentive there where these other people may buy tokens of other kind of like blockchains and they may be, they may be like, oh, okay, look at this. We can, like, fight Ethereum because they're not a scalable because I don't hold ETH and things like that.
00:06:22.440 - 00:06:52.926, Speaker A: So it's just all these competing things that are happening all at once that lead to these bad narratives playing out. But, you know, we'll see. Hopefully it's not as bad as I think it's going to be once the merge happens. But, guys, from everything that I've seen, like, I sometimes venture into, quote unquote normie crypto land, and I do this by going to the various youtubers out there, like Bitboy and a few of the other big ones out there that really are just like Normie Central. And I read through the comments, I check what the actual youtuber is saying. It's so bad. It is just like completely wrong.
00:06:52.926 - 00:07:32.210, Speaker A: There's so much shilling, so much pump and dumping, so much just absolutely horrible information that you can tell that no one's actually done their research. It's just a game of chinese whispers where they heard something from someone else, then they kind of like, changed a little bit of it, then someone else heard that and they changed it again. And then by the time it gets to these kind of like, people who are spewing it to their audience, it's just a mess of a narrative. So I do think it's going to be pretty shitty, at least maybe for the first few weeks, or people kind of like, digest that information. But I think that the positives of the merge are going to far outweigh the negatives. I think that by the time the merge comes around, L2, you know, 2022 or alt triple two is going to be in full swing. Some of these alt two s will probably have tokens by.
00:07:32.210 - 00:07:59.590, Speaker A: By June 2022, at least the generalized ones hopefully will there. But regardless of all of that, people have these tools that they can use today. If they want to use them, they can. If they don't want to use them, they don't have to. But you know, most people in crypto today are using EVM networks, whether that be the polygon Pos chain. These L2s like arbitrary and optimism. Whether it's the avalanche sea chain or Phantom or any of these other EVM, kind of like small EVM networks out there, it's just all EVM.
00:07:59.590 - 00:08:34.222, Speaker A: And that all comes back to Ethereum. So I think from that perspective, it's totally fine and we should be encouraging people to use whatever they want to use. But it's just these, when these bad narratives come to light is what really makes my kind of like. I mean, I wouldn't say it makes me angry, it just makes me kind of like, oh my God, I put so much effort into educating what's going on here, it makes me a bit frustrated. So. Yeah, but yeah, I mean, there's a, there's basically the, the thing that I wanted to kind of like just drill into you guys and want you guys to spread as well is that. Yeah, obviously the merge doesn't lower gas fees, and anytime you see someone saying that, if you can be bothered correcting them, I think can go a long way.
00:08:34.222 - 00:08:59.360, Speaker A: But I'm not sure how much of a dent it's going to put in the overall kind of like, sphere. I think, as I said, crypto people in general just always want an easy narrative to latch onto. Whether it's correct or not doesn't really matter. I think in, especially on the Internet, it's just. Yeah, it's, it's kind of hard there. But anyway, I'm going to move on from that onto something related to, I guess, like proof of stake to ETH two. A new Twitter thread from Michael Sproul about client diversity on the beacon chain.
00:08:59.360 - 00:09:18.378, Speaker A: So unfortunately, client diversity has not gotten better. Prism still accounts for a large part of the network. It's actually even larger than, I think people thought at 68.1%, which is not what we want to see. Lighthouse is coming in second place at 22.2%, taeku at third place with 9.5%, and Nimbus with 0.3%.
00:09:18.378 - 00:10:21.538, Speaker A: Share now, this is obviously an approximation based on Michael's method, which you can read in his Twitter thread here. It is not an exact science, but it is a pretty good estimation, pretty much the best one that we have. Now, why is this bad? Well, I've described this before in the refill, but I'll give a quick refresher for those of you who don't, who aren't aware of this. The reason it's bad is because we have this notion of finality within the beacon chain, where if two thirds or 66% of the ETH stakes kind of like stake themselves every twelve minutes to say, okay, well, everything that happened prior to these twelve minutes is finalized, and if anyone tries to revert history, there's going to be like a massive slashing event where most on all of that ETH would kind of like get, get slashed. That is obviously like billions of dollars worth of economic security as part of that finality mechanism there. Now, 66% is the key number here because Prism has 68% of the network. So if Prism were to have a bug in it, or kind of like some issue with it, and it forked off of the chain and forked into its own chain, technically prism would be the canonical chain because they have 68% of the network.
00:10:21.538 - 00:11:05.388, Speaker A: So Lighthouse, Taku and Nimbus would be on the minority network, and that network would not be recognized as the canonical one, it would not be finalized as the canonical one, and that would lead to a mess of having to use social consensus to basically, I don't, I don't know if rollback's the right word to basically fix over the right term, or to basically fix the chain back to that pre bug. Or the decision could be made by the social layer that the prism bug can kind of like stay in. And that's the, that's the kind of like chain that we're all using. Obviously, this is not good. And the thing is, is that this can happen on any network. Like Ethereum really is the only, um, network, uh, only crypto network that is trying to do multi clients and trying to have client diversity in any real way. Bitcoin has one client, bitcoin core.
00:11:05.388 - 00:11:36.870, Speaker A: I mean, okay, so I shouldn't say it just has one client. It does have other clients, but bitcoin core is like 99% of the network. So if bitcoin core had an issue, then the, or it had a bug, then the entire network would kind of like basically just follow along with that. And I guess, like, I'm not sure if it would be less severe. It's just like a different, kind of a different notion there. And, you know, having the reason why we want client diversity within Ethereum, having multi client architecture is in case one of the clients kind of like has a bug or something goes wrong with them. The whole network doesn't go down, because as I've described before, ethereum favors liveness over everything else.
00:11:36.870 - 00:12:14.724, Speaker A: And to have liveness, or to have 100% uptime, you need to have redundancies in place. And having client diversity means redundancies. Because essentially, if, you know, as we've seen on Ethereum, the Ethereum one network, if one of the clients fails, the other one can pick up the slack. But in ETH two, it's a very different affair because with ETH one, it's on proof of work, right, where there's no concept of finality. And the kind of like chain that becomes kind of like the canonical chain is usually the one that didn't have the bug, even if it's the, even if it's, if it's the minority one. Whereas in proof of stake, it's very different, as I just described. So we ideally want to see prison below 60%, not even just below 66%, like below 60%.
00:12:14.724 - 00:13:04.336, Speaker A: But unfortunately it doesn't seem to be much changing here. And people have asked the question like, okay, how do we incentivize people to use different clients? Is there anything we can do here? There are a few different things here and there that we can do, but I don't know how much material impact that would make. Someone in the Discord channel kind of asked the question of what if these, these clients had tokens? And they did kind of like token incentives that would probably introduce a whole set of new issues, such as client devs no longer being incentivized to drive value to ETH, they would be incentivized to drive value to their own token, which could lead to perverse things happening on the network. That's just scratching the surface of what client team introducing their own tokens would or, you know, would entail them. I don't think that's a solution. What about like a massive kind of, I guess a campaign where everyone basically tells everyone else, you know, if you're a staker, you need to get off prism. This is critical.
00:13:04.336 - 00:13:33.108, Speaker A: Get onto one of these other clients to improve client diversity. That can work to an extent, but again, it's relying on kind of like altruism. I think the third thing that could be done, I had it, I've forgotten right now. That what? The third thing that could be done would be. Oh, okay. Yeah, sorry. The third thing that could be done, which does rely on altruism but I think is a bit better of a way here, is make it dead simple for existing stakers to change from prism to another client because right now it's actually relatively difficult.
00:13:33.108 - 00:13:59.808, Speaker A: But not just difficult it, for a lot of people. They don't want to do it because their machine has been running just fine for a long time. Like imagine if you start, if you started staking on December 1, 2020 when the Beacon chain went live and you've been running the prism client the whole time and everything's been running well, you've been earning your rewards. Uh, and, and, you know, now at this point you've probably forgotten how you set it up originally. If you haven't added any more validators, do you really want to mess around with your validator that's working right now just to change to another one? You don't. Right. Like a lot of people don't want to do this.
00:13:59.808 - 00:14:41.830, Speaker A: Even the hardcore Ethereum people that I know that know that client diversity is a big deal, they don't want to take the risk because there's risks, like slashing risks and things like that, which is totally understandable. So can we make it easier for people to switch from prism to or from any client to any client, basically. And we can, and I think people are working on this. But again, that does rely on altruism, does rely on people actively changing the clients that they're, that they're kind of like using. There's no direct monetary incentive for it, for it to happen there. But, you know, and then, and then obviously, like any new stakers that come online, we should be encouraging them to go for something other than prism as well, especially the large staking pools like exchanges and things like Lido and stuff like that. I think Lido does a pretty good job here, actually.
00:14:41.830 - 00:15:21.238, Speaker A: So they're not really an issue. But I think the centralized exchanges definitely need to do more here. But yeah, maybe post merge we'll see better client diversity because people will be able to kind of like exit the validator sets, like stop validating before they switch clients to kind of basically eliminate that slashing risk. But we'll have to see, have to see how that plays out there. But yeah, go give this thread a read from Michael. It's got some more insights in it and gives his methodology of how he came to these numbers. All right, so Hayden from Uniswap shared a tweet today that it's been only a few weeks since the launch of Uniswap v three on Polygon, the Polygon Pos chain, and it's already the highest volume Dex there.
00:15:21.238 - 00:15:45.490, Speaker A: So on only $45 million of TvL as well. So on $45 million of TvL, there's been $74 million of 24 hours volume. I believe this is on par with, if not greater than, the arbitrum and optimism volumes for Uniswap. And this is without incentives, too. There's no incentives on arbitrary and optimism either. But this is without incentives there and doing more volume than. Than quick swap on way less TVL.
00:15:45.490 - 00:16:18.098, Speaker A: And the quickswap was the native amm that was on the Polygon Pos chain for a long time. You know, this brings me back to what I. What I'm saying about kind of like brand awareness around Uniswap and why uniswap still dominates amms. The brand awareness it has and the brand trust it has is literally second to none. Like, it's so far ahead of the pack that it's insane. And their tech like Uniswap v three is so far ahead of the pack in terms of capital efficiency and returning good reward, good ap wise to LP's, that there is no competition. And obviously, Uniswap V four is being worked on right now as well, so.
00:16:18.098 - 00:16:43.050, Speaker A: And V three has a license on it the last two years where no one can use it unless they. Well, no one can legally use it. Of course, people can fork it and do it illegally, but no one can legally fork Uniswap v three or deploy v three to anywhere that hasn't been signed off by governance. So, from that perspective. Yeah, a lot of these forks are still on the v two of uniswap, which is. Which is, I guess, like, I don't know if I'd say it's. It's inferior, but it's a different kind of, like, thing.
00:16:43.050 - 00:17:05.410, Speaker A: And I think v three is definitely, you know, I mean, v three is obviously more capital efficient, but it's definitely a better system in general, at least I believe. But I don't think that's an objective fact. I think there. There are benefits and pros and cons to each, you know, v two and v three. But a lot of these kind of, like other amms are based on Unisov v two and not. Not v three, but still really, really cool to see this. Obviously, the polygon Pos chains ecosystem is very large.
00:17:05.410 - 00:17:29.852, Speaker A: There's a lot of moving parts there. There's a lot of users on there. There's a lot of capital, you know, just sitting there wanting to LP and things like that. And as I said, v three is incredibly efficient with capital. And that's why that uniswap v three has been able to do more volume than quick swap with way less TVL. TvL on Uniswap v three is $45 million or $46 million and TVL on Quickswap is $814 million. So much less.
00:17:29.852 - 00:17:46.010, Speaker A: Kind of like Tvl liquidity there. Much more capital efficiency. So good. Great to see this from Uniswap on Polygon. So an update on that liquidity mining program that litter Cohen has been championing. Championing for arbitrum and optimism. It's coming very soon.
00:17:46.010 - 00:18:32.042, Speaker A: So he announced yesterday that they have been able to get an audit done by ABDK, which has started today and should be completed in two to three weeks. So for reference, ABDK is one of the top auditing firms. You can see here that I think ABDK is tier two. So obviously one of the top here out of, out of six tiers. Um, and, and uh, while they're waiting for the audit, David Mihal, who of cryptofees info fame is building the UI to adapt for the changes that they made to the staking contracts. TLDR LP's need to provide a range for a minimum with, with, to avoid single ticker whales raking in all of the uni rewards, benefits, fairness and retail friendly. So it's a bit more information in this thread here, but uh, we should within the next month or so see liquidity mining rewards for uh, for uniswap on arbitram and optimism.
00:18:32.042 - 00:19:15.154, Speaker A: So essentially what this would mean is, is that you get uni token rewards for LP on arbitrary and optimism. And I think Polygon is going to be doing rewards as well for Uniswap V three, maybe some matic rewards on there. And I'm sure, you know, if liquidity mining is successful in albatrum and optimism, we may see that on Polygon as well. But I think this is going to be a big deal, because if this works, as we hope it does, I think there's going to be other projects that kind of like try this approach to drive more activity to arbitrarium and optimism. Obviously going to get a lot more users and a lot more TVL on there, because we've all seen what happens when we, when you do a liquidity mining program correctly, you get a lot of people coming across to farm the rewards. Yes, they may mercenaries but it's a really cool way to bootstrap an ecosystem and get, and just kind of like get the flywheel going there. So really cool to see this and I'll keep you guys updated on the progress here.
00:19:15.154 - 00:19:42.352, Speaker A: So speaking of optimism, matcha is now live there. So obviously matcha is the Dex aggregator that is pretty much everywhere these days. They're on Ethereum, Polygon, Avalanche, you know, Phantom, and now optimism. So this is obviously powered by Xerox project, which means Zero X is now live on optimism as well. So really cool to see this. Just another thing for you to use on optimism. I'm sure they're going to be live on arbitrum soon, so for arbitrary users out there, don't fret.
00:19:42.352 - 00:20:31.118, Speaker A: But as we all know, optimism moved their whitelist, so it's no surprise to see these things going live. And I think this is just in time because as I said just before, the uni token rewards are going to drive a lot of volume to these things and I think people are going to want to use matcha or use kind of like Dex aggregators to trade within these things. So having kind of like more liquidity and more users coming there to use both uniswap and matcha, whether they're finding rewards or not, is a pretty big deal. So yeah, really, really cool to see this. Go test it out if you're an optimism user. So immutable announced today that everyone can now seamlessly onboard and mint on immutable x directly without contacting their team or using a sign up form first. So basically this is I guess like permissionless onboarding and minting for your projects on immutable x for your NFT projects.
00:20:31.118 - 00:21:03.550, Speaker A: You know, I think there was a project on immutable recently within the last 24 hours from, I believe Gary V. If I, if I kind of like get the tweet up here. And it was a very, very successful one. Yeah, there's someone tweeting about it here saying the claiming process using immutable x for vfriends book games was the smoothest I've seen in the NFT space so far. Simple sign in shows allocated tokens immediately shows rarity, no gas fees. The future looks bright for L2. So Mutable X is just doing an amazing job here, getting a lot of people on board, especially like the more Normie crowd that are really interested nfts.
00:21:03.550 - 00:21:55.126, Speaker A: And the fact that you can now kind of like onboard and mint seamlessly on immutable X without having to go through the team is a big deal because we're going to get a lot more projects on there and not just the ones that the team has had a chance to onboard. So really, really cool to see that. Another related announcement from immutable is that they now hit 1000 test contracts registered on immutable X. So in just two months, this number skyrocketed four x, showing the insane growth of interest among developers choosing the immutable X protocol. So that's just related to what I was saying before about how basically like, you know, people want to deploy their own nfts, want to do their own stuff on here, and being able to do that in a permissionless way without going through the team is a really, really big deal. So really, really cool to see that as well. So Dy DX has put out a update on their roadmap and looking ahead to V four, which they have, which is their top priority that they plan to have released by end of year 2022.
00:21:55.126 - 00:22:30.138, Speaker A: So they're describing DyDX V four as a fully decentralized, community controlled and no central component version with no central party will receive trading fees on Dy DXv four. So this is full decentralization. Now, I wonder, I didn't really see this kind of too much in the blog post unless I missed that. I wonder if they're going to be decentralizing the, I guess call it a sequencer or the nodes of their L2 network as part of this, because that's what full decentralization means to me. They haven't, I don't think they went into detail about that in the blog post. If I missed that, do let me know. But I didn't see that in the blog post.
00:22:30.138 - 00:23:04.022, Speaker A: But that's what it kind of like means to me. So. And the fact that they're saying no central party will receive trading fees on Dy DXv four means to me that it would go to kind of like a Dao or it would go to kind of the DAO and then also go to the people running nodes in order to kind of like incentivize them to keep the network up and things like that. But not just kind of like the L2 network itself, but also the off chain order book and even the kind of like front end and stuff like that. So that's what full decentralization means to me. I hope that's part of kind of like their roadmap. Um, obviously this is a big undertaking and they're saying they're going to get it done by the end of the year and they've still got twelve months, almost twelve months to do it, of course.
00:23:04.022 - 00:23:43.260, Speaker A: But I hope that's what they mean by full decentralization. And they don't just mean like, you know, we're 90% decentralized, but there's still that kind of like 10% centralized part. But I'm excited to see how this goes. I mean, they could blaze a path forward for like how other defi tips, or at least defy l two teams do this. Or maybe more, maybe, maybe more specifically defi l two teams that run their own l two s and don't just kind of like deploy to the generalized ones like arbitrary and optimism, but run their own kind of like L2 rollout protocol, like diversify loop ring. So rare, immutable x dy Dex. It doesn't have to be defi, right? It can be anything.
00:23:43.260 - 00:24:18.444, Speaker A: I think this would be kind of like a blueprint for them to work off. So really cool to see how this progresses during the year. I'm glad that they are committed to this, because obviously decentralization of everything should be the main goal for these sorts of things. And I wonder if once they do this, us people will be able to trade on DoidX without a VPN. I think they should, right? I think, you know, there'll be people building for other front ends that won't block us users and stuff like that. So that's going to be cool as well. And that's what we want for full decentralization, right? So that you don't have to block people from doing things because you can just use a different UI instead of the quote unquote official one or the one that was built originally by the team there.
00:24:18.444 - 00:24:59.552, Speaker A: All right, final update. So EPNs Mainnet is now officially alive, so you can read the blog post for me. More detail here, but just a refresher on what EPNS is. It stands for a theorem push notification service, and they build themselves as the communication layer of web3, so it allows you to create, send, and receive multi chain push notifications among adapts and users. Now, disclosure here, I am a small seed investor in EPNS, as you, you know, some of you already know, but really cool to see them finally live on, on Mainnet. So you can read this blog post. It's quite short, so that it won't take you too long to kind of like read the rated here, but for them to finally be live on main net, after working really hard on that over the last few months or so, I mean, it's been more than a few months.
00:24:59.552 - 00:26:08.436, Speaker A: I think it's been like over, over a year now or something like that is really awesome to see because I, the funny thing is, like I spoke to the, the founders a while ago now on my first call with them and before I invested or anything like that, they're first time builders. They kind of like had epns that they did for a hackathon and they were just so passionate about that. What they were building, it was infectious, right? I was just like, they were talking about it. There are two founders in India and I was like, this is awesome, right? Like these people that are just kind of like building this, this kind of like really cool things that, that people actually want to use and, you know, building something that's actually needed within the industry, they're, they're kind of like super committed to it. They're, you know, first time founders obviously have a kind of like a long road ahead of them with developing products, but it was just infectious for me. So that's why I kind of like made my investment in them and got really excited about them and have been following them for quite a while now. And, you know, whenever a project gets to Mainnet, I know how the teams feel because I used to work for set protocol directly and whenever we ship something to Mainnet, it was just such an amazing feeling because you've been working on it for so long, some of the things you work on for like months and months and months, and then when you finally get it to Mainnet and people start using it, people get excited about it.
00:26:08.436 - 00:27:03.352, Speaker A: It's kind of like all those months worth of work of, you know, sacrificing basically your social life, working really hard, working kind of like overtime, stuff like that. It all seems worth it at that point, right? And it's just like a really great, gratifying feeling. So, you know, that's what I can't, you know, I imagine that's what the apns kind of like founders and team are feeling over this Mainnet launch. But yeah, anyway, that's just a little backstory there because I like highlighting founders and teams that I really gel with. But definitely go give the blog post to read for more information about this and visit the website as well to play around with their kind of main net deployment here. I have a few minutes left, actually, on this episode, so maybe I should talk quickly about a topic that I wanted to just touch on today, just to follow up what I said yesterday about the markets. What I always find funny about the markets is that you'll have like a down week where things will go down 20, 30%, and then you'll have like a day where things go up 5% again and everyone gets super bullish.
00:27:03.352 - 00:27:44.408, Speaker A: Right? Like, everyone's like, really, really bearish, and then you'll have like a, the inevitable recovery day because at that point, like, the short term speculators are done selling for the short term, and then you have, like, that inevitable bounce. And I just find it hilarious going on crypto Twitter and everyone is suddenly bullish again. The sentiment shift never ceases to amaze me. Always makes me laugh. But, you know, I'm sure you guys noticed it today, but in general, like, I'm sure you also noticed that the, you know, in the macro environment, Jerome Powell, the Fed chair, said that he expects interest rates to remain really low for the foreseeable future. And then he also said that he thinks that stable coins, private stable coins, are going to exist alongside kind of like government stable coins. So really positive kind of news there.
00:27:44.408 - 00:28:33.500, Speaker A: And sometimes you may think, you may think to yourself, is this all coordinated? Like, do kind of like the politicians do? Does the Fed do these kind of people just do all these so they can get a cheaper entry? I know that's going into conspiracy theory territory, but sometimes it does seem a little bit coordinated, a little bit weird, not just for crypto, but just like, for the wider financial markets. And what I find to be, to be kind of like, really back that up. Is that from, from what I've read in Congress in the US, I don't think there's kind of like very strict laws against insider trading. So a lot of the kind of like politicians will trade based on a lot of the inside information they get for being a politician. And I'm pretty sure it's not illegal, or at least it's not illegal in any way in which they can actually get penalized for it or get sent to jail. And it's very hard to kind of like, kind of like ping them for it. So from that perspective as well, it just leads kind of like credibility to that.
00:28:33.500 - 00:29:12.142, Speaker A: Because, you know, at the end of the day, if you have a position of power where you can actually move financial markets, and it's not just politicians, it's anyone who has a position where they, they actually do have an effect on certain financial markets, maybe you use that to benefit yourself, right? I'm sure a lot of people do. But I think Jerome Powell hasn't actually abused his position. From everything that I've seen from him, he has a very tough job. Everything that he says is kind of like, you know, I guess torn, torn to pieces. Anything he says is torn to pieces and analyze and everyone tries to see kind of the hidden message. But I think he's been pretty, pretty steadfast with a lot of things. Obviously, he's made comments in the past which he's changed his tune on, like inflation being transitory, things like that.
00:29:12.142 - 00:29:41.902, Speaker A: But they're very calculated kind of statements made for one reason or another, whether that's kind of like to kind of like calm the markets or to get the markets going again. And there's obviously a lot of politics that plays into it. But generally, I think that people read or see what they want to see, and that's it. So we'll have to see how the market goes from here. As I said to you guys, like long term bullish, always no idea about the short to medium term, and also no idea about the macroeconomic environment. Like, it's just not my field. And there's only very few people in the world that I actually believe have a great read on it.
00:29:41.902 - 00:30:05.950, Speaker A: And that's why you see most hedge funds don't actually outperform just like a baseline index like the S and P 500 because it's so hard, there's so many moving parts to it. And that's what they say, that you can't outperform it doing dj and stuff within crypto. But that's a whole, that's a discussion for another kind of like another video, and that's a whole different topic. So I think I'm at time now, so I'm going to end it there. Thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up.
00:30:05.950 - 00:30:09.694, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
