00:00:00.240 - 00:00:28.358, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony so Sano, and today's the 25 April 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode, guys. I know it's always a little bit shitty to miss an episode on a Monday because it means you didn't get an episode Saturday, Sunday, Monday. But today's episode is going to be longer to make up for that, and there is a fair bit of news to get through. So let's kick it off with the announcement today that Coinbase is suing the SEC.
00:00:28.358 - 00:01:22.222, Speaker A: So you can see here, Paul Grewal, who is the chief legal officer at Coinbase base, tweeted out, saying, today we filed a narrow action in the US Circuit Court to compel the SEC to respond yes or no to a rulemaking petition we filed with them last July, asking them to provide regulatory guidance for the crypto industry. And then Paul continues, the SEC is required by law to respond to petitions within a reasonable time, but they have not yet responded to our petition from last July, which is why we filed our action in court today. It's obvious that there is a lack of clarity among our regulators regarding crypto, as even the chair of the SEC has declined to say which crypto assets are securities. The crypto industry and its users need clear laws and rules to follow that are built for a new technology, enforcement actions based in applicable security laws and aren't the answer. So this, I guess, just continues. The SEC's really bad and really poor approach to crypto generally. You know, it's almost like the.
00:01:22.222 - 00:02:01.110, Speaker A: I mean, maybe. Maybe I can't speak about everyone at the SEC, but it's almost like Gary Gensler has this massive bone to pick with crypto and he's just going out of his way to be as, you know, as poor regulator as possible and just stonewalling everyone at every single turn, gaslighting everyone, just doing everything wrong, basically. Not, not doing anything right from what I've seen. Honestly. I mean, even when they bring enforcement actions against legitimate scams, it's like a slap on the wrist for a lot of them. And a lot of the time it's. It's only enforcement actions against celebrities because it makes Gary Gensler and the SEC look good in the headlines, right? He doesn't care.
00:02:01.110 - 00:02:36.110, Speaker A: He doesn't seem to care about protecting investors or going after the scams or anything like that. And he certainly doesn't care about crypto or at least giving any kind of clarity or guidance to crypto in order for crypto companies, especially centralized ones who want to be regulated, to have clear guidance, guidance on how they're going to be regulated. So I. This just continues. Coinbases, I guess, war against the SEC, they're not backing down. I remember I said this a few months ago that if anyone was going to fight the SEC in the US, it would be Coinbase. And they're living up to that because they are obviously the biggest crypto company in the US.
00:02:36.110 - 00:03:14.062, Speaker A: They have a very good opportunity here to keep growing and growing in, in the face of all the blow ups we saw last year, of all the c five services and other exchanges like FTX, Coinbase has a very, very big opportunity here to grow. And obviously they're frustrated because they're trying to grow. And the SEC and other regulators are not playing ball with them. They're not even trying to give them any clarity on anything. And we saw the other day that Coinbase is going to be launching their derivatives exchange offshore. They're not going to launch it in the US because it's just not possible in this current regulatory climate in the US here. So as I said last week, not only is the US losing out on kind of like economic and social growth.
00:03:14.062 - 00:03:49.168, Speaker A: Yeah. And jobs and bringing people in and things like that, they're also pushing away, or not just pushing away existing companies, but also pushing away people that would have thought of maybe making their company in the US or starting their company in the US. They're not going to do that. They're going to look at the US and then it'll be like, okay, well, this is super hostile. Why would I start my company here? And people who maybe wanted to emigrate to the US in order to get work within crypto or work within crypto, they're going to look at that and be like, wait a sec. If I go to the US, there's probably going to be teams out there that won't even want to hire me because I live in the US and it's just too much risk for them to take on. And this has actually happened.
00:03:49.168 - 00:04:33.810, Speaker A: I've heard stories about this. So as I said, this just continues on this trend that we're seeing, this really bad trend that we're seeing where the SEC especially is not only not playing ball with crypto at all, they're going out of their way to make life as hard as possible for crypto companies, whether they be centralized or centralized, companies or companies building decentralized products and services. It really seems like either Gary Gensler or the SEC as a whole does not want crypto to exist in the US. And what's really funny about this is there's been a bunch of videos floating around recently of Gary Gensler giving talks at universities. I think it was like four or five years ago now where he was very, very positive on crypto. He was talking about different tokens in really positive ways. It was funny.
00:04:33.810 - 00:05:10.952, Speaker A: He was even kind of shilling Algorand in a lecture, and people were making the comparison that I, I think, like the Algorand Token is down a massive amount since he shield it. And they're like, you know, is Gary Gensler going to take responsibility for harming investors here? So it's a lot of hypocrisy from him as well. And as we saw last week when he was getting grilled by that financial services committee, he just didn't want to answer any of their questions. He had a smirk the whole time. He looked like he, he knew he was untouchable. And the sad thing is, is as I said before, he is pretty untouchable right now because there is no way that the Democrats are going to remove him. And the only way he gets removed, well, as I said last week, is that there's two ways, really.
00:05:10.952 - 00:05:38.490, Speaker A: He either, well, I guess technically three. He either gets fired if the Republicans win next year, late next year, he gets promoted and goes to the treasury, or he resigns himself. I don't think any of those are likely, except maybe him going to the treasury. It's too early to tell who's going to win the presidential election next year. It's still, I believe, 18 months away. So I'm not even going to rely on that. I don't think he's going to resign.
00:05:38.490 - 00:06:15.882, Speaker A: I don't see any reason why he would. And I also don't know when he's going to be promoted to the treasury because that's the next step. After you work in one of these regulators here on the SEC or CFTC, you go to the treasury. And obviously that's where Gary Gensler wants to go. That's what he's trying to do, and that's just something we're going to have to deal with. But it's really positive that we have us based companies, big companies that can fund this, like Coinbase, suing the SEC, taking them to court, not letting them run all over Coinbase, because they're acting as this kind of shield against all these other companies that may not be able to afford the legal fees that it would take to go, to take the SEC to court. And the SEC doesn't want to go to court either, mind you.
00:06:15.882 - 00:06:57.892, Speaker A: They would love to set all these sorts of stuff outside of court because for them, going to courts really bad because they know going to court is, is, it's a slog, that's for sure. And if they lose in court, that's a really big deal. And I believe they've actually lost five out of this six kind of cases that have gone to court. I don't know what the 6th one is or which one they won there, but usually when the SDC brings action against a company or an individual or whoever, they settle. And we saw that with Kraken, for example, Kraken basically settled and said, okay, we're going to shut down our staking product instead of fighting the SEC in court. And then the SEC went off to Coinbase and code is like, no, screw you guys, we're fighting. Now, as I've said before, Kraken and Coinbase's staking products are distinctly different.
00:06:57.892 - 00:07:36.108, Speaker A: So Kraken may have seen maybe, okay, the SEC has a good case against us here based on our unique product. We'll just, we'll just close the product down rather than fighting it. Whereas Coinbase is strongly believes that their product is not a security, they're staking products. So they're like, you know, screw you, SEc. We're going to, we're going to take you to court if need be. So, yeah, the SEC's days of bullying companies, I hope, over sooner rather than later, but they're going to keep bullying the smaller companies. And they've shown absolutely no indication to me or to anyone, really, that they have any plans of properly regulating crypto or at least giving any kind of guidance here.
00:07:36.108 - 00:08:18.568, Speaker A: So, yeah, just really proud of Coinbase for doing this. Now, if you want to support the cause, you can mint this stand with crypto, NFT and the mint fee from the. Sorry, the Zora mint fee is actually being donated to an advocacy round with gitcoin. So, yeah, as I said, you can directly support the, the action here that Coinbase is taking by minting the NFT with the proceeds going towards the pub to the advocacy around in Gitcoin. And you can put a shield emoji in your Twitter name if you want, as well, to show that you're standing with crypto, standing with Coinbase here. So I'll link that for you to check out in the YouTube description below. Now, moving on to some more positive regulatory news in another part of the world, in the EU.
00:08:18.568 - 00:08:45.514, Speaker A: So the EU is actually regulating crypto and they're doing it in a forward looking way. They're doing it in a way that doesn't kill innovation, doesn't kill crypto, doesn't make everyone a criminal. And they're doing it at a rather a rather far. What was the word I'm looking for? Rather? They're doing it quickly. I'm just going to put it that way. They're not resting on their laurels and waiting around for things to, for things to change or for innovation to get ahead of them. They're like, you know, we need to, to regulate this thing.
00:08:45.514 - 00:09:02.424, Speaker A: And they started early. They've been doing this for two and a half years now. You know, we need to regulate this thing. We need to give clear guidance to companies operating within crypto. And that's exactly what they've done. And Patrick Hansen here has been following along with this pretty closely. He's actually the director of strategy and policy at the EU branch of Circle.
00:09:02.424 - 00:09:23.020, Speaker A: As you guys know, Circle are the issuers of the USDC stablecoin. So you should go check out his tweet. And I think he's got like a blog post here as well, discussing this. And there's also this mica at a glance. So Micah is the name of the, I guess, set of regulations that are coming in. So you can see micro at a glance. One regulation to rule them all.
00:09:23.020 - 00:09:48.444, Speaker A: And it's got on the left asset categories and on the right issuer requirements. So it's just a plain english way of helping all the relevant actors within the crypto space operating out of the EU to know how they are regulated and if they're basically breaking the law or not. So that's really great. And apparently it's pronounced Mika, not Micah. Okay. Another thing that I pronounced wrong, but, you know, Patrick actually has here it's spoken Mika. So that's, that's great.
00:09:48.444 - 00:10:24.536, Speaker A: Anyway, enough on that. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, moving on from the regulatory news, some positive news here from Visa. So Q. Sheffield, who's the head of crypto at Visa, put out a tweet today saying we have an ambitious crypto product roadmap at Visa and just opened a few requirements for senior software engineers to help us drive mainstream adoption of public blockchain networks and stablecoin payments. And they've linked this careers page here where you can go apply if this is something that you're interested in. Now, I've talked about Visa before and how they had plans to, or how plans to be heavily involved within crypto.
00:10:24.536 - 00:10:42.984, Speaker A: They, I believe we're building a L2, or still are building a L2. Haven't heard much about that lately, but they're definitely building it. And they're, it's Visa, right. They're going to be more slow moving than one of your roll up teams, roll up startups out there. But they specifically mentioned L2, I believe, an account abstraction. Yeah. In the qualifications here.
00:10:42.984 - 00:11:28.842, Speaker A: So they say here you need to have a good understanding of layer one and L2 solutions and experience running smart contracts using solidity. And they said good understanding of public information, DLT networks, security protocols, private key custody, etcetera. And understand the new ethereum enhancements such as ERC 4337, which is of course account abstraction. So if this sounds like something that you'd be interested in doing, a senior software engineer at a big company like Visa and, and working on crypto still, then you can definitely go check this job out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But just wanted to highlight this because I wanted to remind you guys that Visa is still active within the crypto space, still trying to build out a product and a service for, for visa more generally. And they also, and as I've said, khoo Sheffield is the head of crypto at Visa.
00:11:28.842 - 00:11:49.162, Speaker A: So they have like a whole department working on this. It's not just some kind of, some kind of guy and like the photocopy room working on this. No, it's a whole thing. It's a whole team and you could be part of that team. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, a few ethereum staking updates. So Swell is now live on Mainnet in public beta.
00:11:49.162 - 00:12:28.752, Speaker A: You can now liquid stake with zero fees for a limited time only, enjoying swell's voyage to progressively decentralize the DaO. So the link is here at Swellnetwork dot IO post slash slash mainnet. And this blog post will be linked in the YouTube description below. This basically explains what's happening with this launch. And then there is also the actual app that you can go to at app Dot Swell network IO to start staking with swell here. So basically this is very new. So I want to just throw out a few warnings that, that big, given that it's new, it's risky, right? Anything that's new, any set of smart contracts that, that have just come out of risky you should definitely study up.
00:12:28.752 - 00:13:11.496, Speaker A: House well works how, you know what, what, you know, the fees right now are zero, but what are the fees going to be when this limited time only promotion ends? You know, what's, what's the kind of staking model that they're using? All that good stuff there so you can check that out in the blog post, of course. And they've also got their discord channel which you can join and go ask questions in and stuff like that. And you can read all about the risk in their documentation too. And they've got a bunch of other things in the docs as well, such as security measures and smart contract audits. So they've actually been audited by Sigma prime and the audit report can be found here and they're going to be audit getting more audits post mainnet launch. So you can go check out all that for yourself. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below for great to see another staking service live on the Ethereum mainnet here.
00:13:11.496 - 00:13:47.852, Speaker A: And yeah, I mean just continuing to see that great reshuffling, hopefully going into not just one particular service but a bunch of them as they launch onto Ethereum. Now speaking of staking services, Jasper has another great thread here about why it's a crucial moment for Rockapool. And what is that crucial moment? Well, basically at 05:00 a.m. EST us time, which I think is like now or like soon from when I'm recording this, it's probably already passed. By the time you're watching this cracker newsers will get their stake ETH. And he says here, this is a crucial moment. And then he says five simple reasons why you should consider rocket pool for staking.
00:13:47.852 - 00:14:09.420, Speaker A: And then there's a thread here, it's a short threads, only six tweets. Yeah, but basically the main reasons are higher rewards, more decentralized access to defi insurance and community. And then Jasper says there is no better way to stake. Now I mostly agree with that. I would. It depends on what you want out of staking, I think. And it depends on the kind of risk that you're will that you're willing to take.
00:14:09.420 - 00:14:47.298, Speaker A: And it depends on a bunch of other things like do you want to hold rpl if you want to spin up a mini pool, do you want to be exposed to that, that volatility and price risk, all that good stuff there. I would say that I don't agree with this statement. There is no better way to stake. I am a solo staking kind of maximalist. I obviously do run rockable mini pools as well. And you guys know I love rocket pool, but I think that if you have the ability to look into solo staking before looking into one of the pools. But I know that a lot of people don't have that ability because 32 either is the minimum requirement for solo staking, at least until DVT technology is more distributed, and then we have potentially other solutions down the line.
00:14:47.298 - 00:15:29.618, Speaker A: But to become like a pure solo staker, you obviously need that 32 ETH, which is a large amount of money. So if you've got like, as I've said before, if you've got like eight ETH and you're happy taking RPL exposure, you can stake with rocker pool, spin up a minipool and away you go. But at the same time, if you don't want to spin up a minipool, you can still stake with rocker pool by buying the reth token, uh, with your ETH. So you just basically swap ETH for Reith on uniswap or whatever, right? So in terms of the best way to stake and the safest, most decentralized way to stake right now, other than solo staking, I would definitely say that's Rocketpool. I know I just talked about swell, but swell is very new. They just hit main net. Rockerpool has been on mainnet for quite a while now.
00:15:29.618 - 00:15:52.472, Speaker A: They've done multiple upgrades. They've been preparing for withdrawals for a long time now, and they have a really robust ecosystem. So in terms of where I would go, and that's. I mean, that's the reason why the only two, uh, ways I stake is solo staking and rockapool mini pools. I'm not staking any other way. I don't have any ETH in any of the centralized staking. I don't hold any steth with Lido, and I don't stake with any of the other centralized services or providers.
00:15:52.472 - 00:16:47.256, Speaker A: And for me, it's a question of security, resiliency, self custody especially, and, and decentralization always for me. But I don't fault anyone for staking within any of these other services. But you should definitely consider Rockapool. So I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out, and you can go read the whole thing for yourself. All right, speaking of solo staking, Remy Roy here from the Eats taker community has published or shared something on Twitter called ETH wizard with, which is a piece of software that the Steakhouse project has made here that allows you to run a full validator node on Ubuntu or Windows in a few clicks. So you can see here ETH wizard with it wizard as described as an Ethereum validator installation wizard meant to guide anyone through the different steps to become a fully functional validator on the Ethereum network. It will install and configure all the software needed to become a validator.
00:16:47.256 - 00:17:32.798, Speaker A: It will test your installation and it will help you avoid the common pitfalls. So I haven't actually tried this out for myself yet, but this is exactly what we need to enable more people to be able to easily solo stake. Obviously it's never going to be like a one click thing. There are, there are multiple clicks that you need to do in order to get set up with solo staking. And there have been other solutions that allow you to have nice interfaces like, like a, like DaP node with Avado and things like that. But we need more and more of those solutions and that's what this ETH wizard tool is. Now I am planning to test this out myself on, on Windows actually, because I think that this thing is more targeted towards the less technical users, the ones who don't want to have to worry about tinkering with the command line or anything like that.
00:17:32.798 - 00:18:04.136, Speaker A: So most of the time they're probably going to be using windows, right? So I'm going to test it on Windows. I have windows as my daily driver. All my staking is done on Ubuntu or some variant of Linux. I'm not actually using windows for any staking services right now. But it's funny because I actually started on Windows when I originally spun out my validator. I was one of those noobs and it worked, it worked just fine. But I think that if we're trying to open up staking or I guess like solar staking to as many people as possible and trying to get them set up in an easy to use way, well they're going to be on Windows.
00:18:04.136 - 00:18:30.646, Speaker A: We can't expect them to install Ubuntu. We can't say, hey, you need to install Ubuntu. And they're like what, what the hell's Ubuntu? It's like, oh well, it's Linux. Like what the hell is Linux? Right? They're not going to know any, anything except windows and Mac, right? Those are the two kind of operating systems that everyone knows about. Well, not everyone, but like people who use computers know about, right? And most people use windows. That's just the reality of it. So if you want to get the, the solo staking to as many people as possible.
00:18:30.646 - 00:19:31.204, Speaker A: This is something that we need to, to work on these tools like ETH wizard. So as I said, I'm going to test this out for myself on Windows and on Ubuntu as well. I want to see what it's like there, but just something that I figured I'd highlight for you guys to go check out, see if you want to get started with it. Because I know a few of you have asked me before, you know, what's the easiest way to get started with solo staking ETH? I, I've given, I've said like guides before, I've shared guides before, like summer east outs guides and coin cashew. There's been a bunch of videos that I've shared, but a lot of those things require command line, right? Like, yes, you can copy paste the commands in and look, you might run into issues, you might not. It's definitely not Fallac noobs, it's, it's definitely technical, right? You definitely need some kind of knowledge of computers and gen and generally how things work. Whereas something like ETH wizard is targeting that user who just wants a nice interface, wants everything to happen in the background for them, just wants to be able to deposit their ETH into that deposit contract and get started solo validating without having to worry about anything else.
00:19:31.204 - 00:20:20.116, Speaker A: In saying that, in saying that, I have an opinion that may differ from a lot of other people in the staking community about this. I don't think solo staking is ever going to get to a point where it's as easy as like staking with an l, an LSD pool, for example, buying our ETH or buying STE, or staking with a centralized exchange. It is never going to be as simple as that. For the, for the simple fact that if you're running the software yourself, you have to be responsible for upgrading and maintaining that software. So just those two facts alone. Eliminate the, the, eliminate the, the argument that it can be as easy. So, for example, when there's a hard fork on the Ethereum network, say with Shapala, everyone who runs an ethereum full node and validators attached to it had to upgrade their software.
00:20:20.116 - 00:20:55.756, Speaker A: And if you didn't, you would end up on the wrong chain and you would be offline, technically, in the view of the network. And you would start leaking ETH for being offline. Basically you wouldn't get slashed unless you were doing something malicious, but you would start leaking ETH. Now that would require like regular maintenance from people, right? You have to upgrade it yourself. That you can't outsource that to anyone. Yes, you can abstract it away from the user with a nice interface, but it's still needs to be done right. And then on the maintenance, the other side of maintenance is making sure that you are actually attesting to blocks, making sure that you are proposing blocks, making sure things like mev boost are set up correctly.
00:20:55.756 - 00:21:20.056, Speaker A: As I said, you can abstract away a lot of that, but not all of it. And if something goes wrong, you have to debug it yourself. No one's going to help you, right? I shouldn't say no one's going to help you. I mean like no one's sitting over your shoulder and is going to be able to just help you then and there. You can go into like the east taker Discord. They're really great, or the Rockapool discord's also great and you can get help there. But the thing is you have to go out and get that help, right? You have to be an active participant.
00:21:20.056 - 00:21:53.964, Speaker A: Whereas if you're staking with a centralized exchange or you're buying an LSD, you don't have to be an active participant at all. You generally don't have to do anything actually. And that by virtue of just that alone, and that that point alone, it is going to always be easier to stake through through that. Now of course doing that, you know, you incur fees right there. There are fees associated with with staking with LSD's and also staking with centralized services. Whereas if you're solo staking, you keep all the rewards for yourself. But solar staking is also, you know, there's also a large barrier to entry there with the 32 ETH requirements.
00:21:53.964 - 00:22:27.614, Speaker A: So there's always kind of trade offs here and there are pros and cons and things like that. But if you are someone who, you know, even if you're only a little bit technical, but you're still looking for just like a super easy way to stake, I think 8th wizard is something you should definitely check out. So I'll link that in the YouTube description below. And again, shout out to the Rockapool smart node stack, which is also relatively easy to get started with. I don't think it actually requires you to use the command line or use many commands on the command line that you may not be familiar with. The documentation is really, really good. Most of it is done through the smart node Gui.
00:22:27.614 - 00:22:47.664, Speaker A: And yeah, typically with rocket pull I don't have to use the command line very much unless I'm checking like the status of the sync or something like that. And then it's a really straightforward command, like it's rocket pool, you know, service config. To open the config like that. It's not a complicated command that looks like gibberish. It's. It's plain English. It's really easy to use, to use.
00:22:47.664 - 00:23:14.210, Speaker A: And as I said, it's well documented. So there are different levels of staking here for different technical abilities. But yeah, I look forward to the day where solo staking gets as easy as possible, even though I don't think it's ever going to be as easy as staking, you know, with an Alastair or centralized exchange. But it's going to get to a point where it's just so easy. And a lot of it is abstract, abstracted away from the end user. And that's when I think we'll get to the point of. Of getting more and more people to solo stake.
00:23:14.210 - 00:23:44.246, Speaker A: But anyway, you can check out ETH wizard for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so I think this is the second last thing on staking I wanted to talk about. So you guys know that I'm running a Proteus device, which is basically something that Joe from the Rockapool community made. He made a bunch of these things. He 3d printed the cases for them and custom engraved them depending on what you wanted on it. Mine says the daily Gwey on it, and inside is a rock five b ball, which is a low powered hardware, sort of like a raspberry PI.
00:23:44.246 - 00:24:18.646, Speaker A: Now I'm running a bunch of validators on there and I. I mean, you guys know, I had issues with miss as missed testations that had nothing to do with the hardware, though. That was something with my connection and saturating my Internet connection. But yeah, I'm running multiple validators on there and a full node on there. I'm not outsourcing full node duties to another machine on my, my network. I'm running it all on that little box there and it's running perfectly fine. Now, if there, the Ethereum on Arm Twitter account is the one to follow if you want to follow along with all these low powered staking devices and everything around that.
00:24:18.646 - 00:24:53.010, Speaker A: Well, they put out a tweet saying that their zero day validator, which is basically the validator that they've been running since genesis of the beacon chain, has proposed 39 blocks since then. It didn't miss a single block since its activation. And always running on a resource constrained and low powered device using less than ten watts of electricity. So this little device here is small but powerful. And you can run a lot of validators on a device like this because the validator client itself is lightweight. The heaviest thing is the execution layer client like geth or Nethermind. The consensus layer clients are actually quite, quite light.
00:24:53.010 - 00:25:26.170, Speaker A: So I could speak for myself. I'm running quite a few validators on my my little rock five b boy, my little Proteus device, and I've had no issues with it. So if you're thinking, wow, okay, I want to run like a rocker pool, mini pool or something, you can get a Proteus device for that. It actually comes preloaded with the smart node stack. I reimaged mine and turned it into solid stake instead of rocket pool stakers because I already have a rocket pull staking setup. But yeah, these are the devices to look into if you're looking for low power devices to run and ethereum staking setup on. So I'll link this tweet in the YouTube description below.
00:25:26.170 - 00:26:04.184, Speaker A: You can go follow the ethereum on arm Twitter account. They always put out great tweets around this stuff. Alright, last thing on staking is just don't forget that the beacon chain website has a staking calculator. So it comes with a lot of parameters such as monthly cost, future price change, total stake increase, and more. So you can go to the staking calculator here and you can put in the amount of ETH you have at stake and what your rewards will look like and change the parameters. So if I show here economic parameters USD, current price of ETH 1820 $3 monthly price change, you can put these in. I'm just going to leave these at zero, the staking fee.
00:26:04.184 - 00:26:45.710, Speaker A: So let's assume that you're a solo staker. There's no set staking fee. You want to reinvest the gains over time. And there is currently, I think there's like 18 million each state, or not, almost 19 million ETH stake. Let's just do it at 19 million ETH stake staked and your online probability is about 90%. So with all those parameters set and with one validator, you can see on the right hand side here what your growth will look like over time, your state growth, and also what your earnings will look like over time in US dollars here based on that. And then you can see a nice little table here as well of, you know, as a validator here, what you're earning per year now you can change, I think you can change the percentage that you get somewhere.
00:26:45.710 - 00:27:06.286, Speaker A: No. Okay. I thought this was, I thought that was, there was a parameter to change the actual, the actual rewards percentage because right here it says that the return is 3%. I believe it's higher than that. I believe it's like 5% or something right now. So, so yeah, I mean, there was a parameter here, I remember, but I don't know why it's not there now. But anyway, and then you can change up here how many validators you have.
00:27:06.286 - 00:27:41.418, Speaker A: So say you're running a lot more than one validator. You can go like 1008th right, or 1332 ETH. Yeah, 1032 ETH will run 32 validators here. And I'm not doing the math correctly here, but whatever you say, you've got that much, Ethan, you can see on the right hand side here what that would look like with your returns and everything. So just a staking calculator for you to go check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so the KZG ceremony that I've spoken about for quite a while now, and I spoke about this, I believe, last week or the week before, how they opened it up to participants with a nonce count of 128 or more.
00:27:41.418 - 00:28:13.784, Speaker A: Well, now that's been lowered and you can now contribute with a nonce of 64 or more. So as I said, when I cover this the first time, this will be progressively lowered over time. And I figured it would be lowered in, in kind of increments of 50%. So this is 50% less than 128. And then obviously the next increment was probably be 32 nuns. But yeah, if you have an ethereum address with aunts of 64 or more, you can now contribute to the KZG ceremony at ceremony Dot ethereum.org and I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:28:13.784 - 00:28:51.160, Speaker A: All right. Another, I mean, there's a couple of more Ethereum core updates here. So one here from Gejinder. Basically saying energy in the Ethereum ecosystem is effing amazing. We had a pre Devnet five run and results look encouraging with Lodestar, Ethereum, J's and Aragon passing blobs around, soon to be joined by Prism, Lighthouse and Geth, and then blast off to 4844 with Devnet five. Now I've been saying that there's been a bunch of these devnets around 48, 44 being spun up and we're getting closer and closer to, to kind of like a more public testnet and then obviously forking the actual public test nets. So there's that.
00:28:51.160 - 00:29:38.884, Speaker A: There that you can check out. And there's also a tweet thread here from Christine Kim talking about the latest all core devs call that happened a few days ago. So the TLDR is that devs are planning on launching the fifth Devnet for 4844, which I just spoke about and that's happening this week. AIP 4788 and 3175 look like strong candidates to include in the Deneb or Cancun upgrade alongside 4844, and devs are working on some cool updates to validator subnets at attestation nets that don't involve hard fork. So you can check out the full call notes from Christine Kim here in this little post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. Really detailed notes, really great notes for you to stay on top of what's happening in the Ethereum core development world. As I said, link that in the YouTube description below for you to check out.
00:29:38.884 - 00:30:01.346, Speaker A: All right, last up here we just have a new roadmap update from the ethereum.org website. So this is their Q two roadmap which is now out. If you're interested in learning all about what's coming to the ethereum.org website in Q two and what they're planning and hoping to build, you can go check this out and you can also join the discord community to get involved yourself. The ethereum.org website is not closed source.
00:30:01.346 - 00:30:21.602, Speaker A: It is open source. It is a community run project. You can go contribute to it and in any way that you want by getting involved on the GitHub, joining the Discord channel and all that good stuff there. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:30:21.602 - 00:30:26.904, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
