00:00:06.080 - 00:00:32.860, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to the Falcoin basecam accelerator q A my name is Blake. I'm the Falcoin basecam program manager, and we here have with us amazing guests Juan Bennett, the CEO and founder of Protocol Labs, Jamie Burke, the CEO and founder of Outlier Ventures, and Anna, our investment manager. So I'm going to start sharing the presentation now and give the floor to Jamie for a brief introduction before we move on to a discussion with Juan.
00:00:35.280 - 00:01:30.510, Speaker B: Thanks Blake. So just to preface this, I am on a hill in english countryside with no wifi and 1 bar of here. Now, I may disappear in a moment, so let's see how far we get in. So I'm going to give a quick introduction as Blake pulls up the presentation, and then I'll get into more of a catch up really, with Wan. We had a brilliant presentation from him on his almost like mega thesis for the open metaverse several months ago. So we're going to kind of jump into that a little bit, see if anything's changed, but then more importantly, discuss the kind of implementations, applications that he's excited about happening on IPFs and Filecoin in the context of the metaverse. If I lose connection, then Blake will pick up after me.
00:01:30.510 - 00:02:30.000, Speaker B: So Blake, if you could move through to some of the slides. What I'm conscious of is this is the second one of these we've done today, so I probably don't want to spend too much time on who is outlier because you may have already heard it several times already. We're an accelerator. We've been around for a while. We're dedicated exclusively to web three and what we call the open metaverse. We see web three and important protocols like Filecoin and IPFs as critical components in this composable web three stack. And so we're committed to the acceleration of people both building on top of this stack at the application layer, applying it to different industry verticals, as well as working on key primitives that kind of enhance the functionality, capability and performance of the web three stack.
00:02:30.000 - 00:03:33.744, Speaker B: We passed our 100th portfolio company in November last year. This year we're on track to do about 200, and we're kind of growing very rapidly, both in terms of the cohorts that we're working with. We are protocol agnostic. We don't bias towards any one protocol, but we're really happy to work with the leading protocols, specifically on dedicated programs for their ecosystems, accelerating both the best projects that already exist within them, but then also introducing projects where there may be a good fit. And of course the wonderful thing about something like IPFS is it's applicable to practically every possible use case you can imagine. But actually, once you get beneath the surface and you understand the vision and mission of Juan and his team, you'll understand that it's much, much bigger than it might appear on its surface. And that's why I'm really excited to get into his vision.
00:03:33.744 - 00:04:30.090, Speaker B: For the open metaverse. We basically help you raise money. Raising money isn't necessarily hard, but it's raising money at the right valuation from the right people, but then also mobilizing or catalyzing an ecosystem around you and really accelerating your trajectory as a startup, or however you might refer to yourself in a really intense four month program, effectively. And so what may have otherwise taken you a year to two years. And of course, time is money, and money is usually a dilution. We help accelerate that process by connecting you up with both our network and key investors, partners, some of the best founders in the space, like Juan, but then, of course, activating their whole ecosystem as well. And so here you really get the combined benefit of both.
00:04:30.090 - 00:05:16.824, Speaker B: And Blake and Anna will talk you through that a little bit later. Blake, thank you. So this is kind of what we're going to talk through with Wan. This is how we articulate the open metaverse. Thinking about it as a stack of technologies, and thinking about how web three can be applied beyond what you might think of narrow financial use cases or DFI, and into what we're now kind of discussing as the metaverse. And the key important thing for us is a lot of people get distracted by thinking that the metaverse needs to be, it needs ubiquitous ar, or it needs affordable VR. These are all great things.
00:05:16.824 - 00:06:08.056, Speaker B: It makes it more immersive. But actually, the metaverse is here today, just perhaps in. Most important thing about the metaverse is it is an open economic system where people can create, generate, participate in economic value, wealth creation, and also transfer and exchange. And so making that as inclusive as possible is really important to us. And I know this is a shared mission with our partners, including Juan and his team, so I won't go into too much of that, really. I kind of want to invite the conversation with Juan. If you didn't hear his presentation that he did for us at one of our last diffusion events, I think you can go to the Outlive Ventures YouTube channel and see it there.
00:06:08.056 - 00:06:44.370, Speaker B: He did a fantastic keynote speech that was probably one of the most comprehensive ones I've seen. Not surprising if you've seen Juan's previous presentations on web three, probably one of the best out there. It really kind of helps set the scene. So, Juan, could you maybe just summarize at a high level before we go into what's new, really? Maybe some of the key innovations, principles, when you think of the open metaverse and the kind of role of filecoin in ipfs in that.
00:06:46.020 - 00:07:42.496, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. And thank you so much for the kind words and kind introduction. Super excited to be chatting here with you and super excited to partner with you on building this broader platform. I think the metaverse, as you said, I completely agree that the metaverse is here now. It might just be in maybe in some 3d environments that are kind of approaching the quality that we want to get out of it, but we're going to see a lot of improvements arrive over the next few years. They're going to enhance the qualities of interactions and enhance the qualities of the applications and systems and games especially, that will kind of weave things together into that kind of metaverse platform. So a way of thinking about it is like the web plus an economy, and with a kind of more spatial oriented way of interacting.
00:07:42.496 - 00:08:52.332, Speaker C: So the spatial part of it, I think, is key in a lot of ways, because humans in general tend to interact with each other through existing in spaces together and communicating, being together in a space, talking to each other face to face and so on. And that's one frontier that the computing platforms of today have not quite been able to broach. Right. So distinguishing the metaverse from, say, the current web of today, there's some kind of really important component there about how the interactions are meant to happen or meant to interact. That is partly economic, partly about the open platform, and then partly spatial and spatial interactions. And I totally agree with you that we do not need sophisticated ar or VR, and that those will be great enhancements that will arrive. But I think there's something about the spatial element to it that changes the tone of being kind of like using a 2d device to exchange information from now kind of existing within the Internet in itself.
00:08:52.332 - 00:10:06.864, Speaker C: So it sort of see like this really important inflection point coming when the interactions of people are participating with each other and communicating with each other and existing with each other, being qualitatively very different once they start kind of existing in the same kind of virtual space together. And I think the best analog for things like that today are games like things like Fortnite and so on, that both blend some high quality gaming experience, plus a lot of kind of open world mechanics that let people just interact, hang out, do other things, and whatnot. But those are kind of like glimpses at what the metaverse might be. I think we'll see this kind of expand over time, breaking down the trajectory towards the metaverse. I think we can approach it in many different ways. We can see some large platforms start to develop a lot of parts of the solution, and then put out kind of somewhat complete products to try and gain a lot of mass market adoption. And so here's where you can kind of classify things like Fortnite, things like meta and so on, and Facebook and their attempts, but they will be lacking this kind of really important connectivity and openness that will make those kind of feel like walled gardens.
00:10:06.864 - 00:10:59.492, Speaker C: And qualitatively not quite the metaverse that we're talking about. I think this is a very different approach to arriving at the metaverse, which I think is more likely to work, which is to build it in pieces, kind of like we built the web, or how we built the Internet in the first place. And start by filling out experiences and spatial interactions piecewise, and then over time, kind of put those together into a larger and larger connected world. And so, very concretely, what I mean by that is, hey, start by constructing room like environments that you can sort of jump into and interact with other people in. And maybe you can hang out and just chat while you explore some space, or maybe you can play a game together, or you can just kind of exist together and so on. Do anything else you were going to do. Just kind of start doing it spatially within.
00:10:59.492 - 00:11:54.960, Speaker C: Within a. Within a room. And as soon as you start doing that, you can then couple that room together with other interactions or other rooms and so on. And so much like the web started with single pages, that people started building and improving on their own, you can start building out the metaverse by creating highly composable and interlinkable rooms and spaces and environments that you can continue to improve in terms of the computational capabilities. Right. So one example of this is like, there's a team that has been working on this for the last six months. To the question earlier about kind of sort of like, what's changed since I gave that talk a while back, a team has been pushing on this vision really strongly, and they've been building out kind of this tooling for creators to construct entire 3d spaces as nfts.
00:11:54.960 - 00:13:07.228, Speaker C: So instead of having an NFT as a 2d artwork or a 3d object, treat the entire space itself, whether it's like a single room in a building or an entire large open area space, and treat that whole thing as an NFT. And what that does is it creates an economic model by which people can now craft extremely high quality environments and get paid for doing so, which is a really critical component in the entire picture. It's like you both need to have the economy to produce the work and reward the people that are creating really high quality environments. And that's just been kind of like, growing tremendously. A lot of creators are now creating a bunch of really cool rooms, and the next phase there is to now make those rooms and that kind of stuff programmable. So making it easy for people to go and create an environment and create a game or create some other kinds of interaction that start to take place in those rooms. And once those rooms start getting linked together or getting linked to other larger environments or other larger worlds, you can start getting kind of like the emergence of something like the web.
00:13:07.228 - 00:14:35.720, Speaker C: But in this kind of environment that you're sort of navigating together and kind of existing with, I think that's been really cool to see. And I think that kind of approach of building it in pieces and over time, letting a very large community of builders, whether building the spaces or building the tech or building the programs and so on, letting that come together organically, I think, is much more likely to build a really great matters that has the principles and values that we want. Plus, also, I think it's more likely to work. I think the space of possibility is just so large that it just seems very unlikely that any one group, any one team, any one company that is trying to make a cohesive picture will actually produce something high quality. It's kind of like the idea of saying, hey, instead of having a lot of movies, let's just have one movie like the movie to end all movies. That would be just like the perfect movie, and that's just kind of mistaking the medium. And so I think in the same way that we don't have just a single game that everybody will play, this is much more about interlinking very different, but individually cohesive environments that we can inhabit and we can interact with and we can exist in and interact with each other in, and then making the bridging between those environments really seamless so that you can move from one environment to another environment pretty quickly without it being kind of like a jarring experience.
00:14:35.720 - 00:15:04.400, Speaker C: Right? So today, you might jump from one game to another, and that's like a super jarring experience that makes those things a game, and that makes those characters that you're playing instead of it being your digital identity. So the moment that you can sort of start associating with your digital self and be your same digital Persona across these spaces, across these environments, across these interactions. At that point is when we'll have, I think, something that we can confidently call a proper metaverse.
00:15:05.380 - 00:16:38.476, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, there's so many things in that that are really exciting and that I agree with entirely. I think just looking at the image behind you there, this idea that on the one hand, we've got this composable stack of protocols, but we're also talking about this composable library of content, right? And the idea that if every element, every fragment in that library could be an NFT with baked in royalties, then all of a sudden these things can be composed, recomposed, reassembled in many different ways. And a lot of people's criticism, rightly, of the open metaverse versus, say, the closed metaverse, if you want to kind of talk about it in those terms, is that the open metaverse is generally empty right now. It's not got many people in, it's not got very much engaging content. And people really struggle to see how it's ever possible for a ragtag, decentralized group of people who don't even have companies to compete with Epic games, right? How's it ever possible? Currently, aaa games take many years, tens, hundreds of millions of dollars to make. But here, if we're talking about this idea of you can reduce the time to create a game or a movie, because again, what's the difference between a game and a movie nowadays? Not much. And then to your point, as you can start to bake in programmability and intelligence, you can start to have intelligence recombine, animate these worlds, populate these worlds.
00:16:38.476 - 00:17:12.190, Speaker B: And so very quickly you could imagine these worlds becoming infinitely more engaging, infinitely more iterative than anything any one central party can do. And because they're economically linked and interoperable, you've just got this huge value flow that can happen and value exchange. And of course, like attention flows, money goes where attention flows and vice versa. And you can very quickly see how that could compete with the centralized gaming platforms or worlds, right?
00:17:12.560 - 00:18:14.868, Speaker C: Yeah, totally. And we've seen this story play out before. Right in the beginning of the web, like Web 1.0, we had very janky websites that people were pulling together, collecting a little bit of information about some area or being a little bit of a resource for some repository of information that was very esoteric and so on. So it was this very long tail of content. And at the time, people were saying, well, how will this newfangled Internet thing ever compete with things like the times, or with things like the massively popular magazines, or with book publishing and so on? And in reality, it's just completely mistaking the medium. It's enabling this much faster, iterative environment to allow communities to gather around the information and interactions that they want to have with each other and not funnel everything through some kind of editorial committee that is going to be deciding, well, what's going to sell the best to the largest possible audience.
00:18:14.868 - 00:19:23.424, Speaker C: Instead, it's about kind of connecting the information that people wanted to get. That might be kind of like a very small group by number at the beginning, but over time and integrating over the many years, that adds up really quickly, right? So I think it's the same kind of story will play out again. I have a massive amount of respect for Epic and a lot of the groups that are building these super high quality, high quality games and experiences, but they're just going to be like, those single experiences will need to get connected to an extremely open medium where individuals can control everything, like individuals and teams building those environments can rewrite the rules completely. Like everything from how space works, how the physics of that environment works, how digital identities interface in that environment, and so on. And I think the hard part in all of this is how to mix these modes and allow the interaction. It's kind of like the hard part of the web was designing the framework and the play pen for everybody to bring in their pieces. So that means designing how the browser interaction should work, how you should render pages.
00:19:23.424 - 00:20:57.510, Speaker C: Like, what tools does a website creator have in order to kind of have the same rough framework to play with and allow a kind of cohesive representation that enables people to go from one page to another? The kind of world of, hey, I'm in one page and it's composed a certain way because that's what makes sense for this one page. And then when I click a link, I move to a different page, and that's different experience with a different context and whatnot. But I'm carrying along the way some parts of my identity and some parts of the browser and some parts of settings that are common. And so creating the equivalent of that for the 3d world or for 2d spatial worlds is a thing. What's missing? It's like, how do you things like common avatars and ways of interacting, what does it mean to kind of run into the same person across two different spaces? What subset of interactions should remain the same? What subset of interactions are very different? Like, if we meet in kind of like a board game room, that'll be a pretty different set of interactions than if we meet on a stage or if we meet in a soccer field or something like that. And so figuring out which subset of interactions should be the same and which subset of interactions should be contextual and how to blend those, I think where the platform challenges are, and I think we might end up with things like browsers helping us navigate that. But hopefully this time around, instead of it being one program that you install, these might be kind of bundles that get delivered through things like javascript and so on, where they just sort of get loaded contextually, wherever you are.
00:20:57.510 - 00:22:02.644, Speaker C: The bottlenecks right now on innovating towards this is, I think, a lot more experimentation with these kind of spaces. So I'd love to see kind of, I think six months to twelve months ago, it was like the lack of these spaces at all. And I think nowadays there's been a number of groups building out a lot of these spaces, and they're now really breathtaking and high quality to the point where they really finally have that immersive quality. Not all of them, but there's a few that you jump into this one random nft room and it feels like being in a game or being in a movie or something like that. That is like a really good inflection point. Now that we have those, I think the next challenge is going to be enabling those spaces to now be programmable by a lot of different groups. So this means how can a developer create an experience in an environment, either a tailored experience to that environment, or an experience that should be the same across environments.
00:22:02.644 - 00:23:00.472, Speaker C: So for example, somebody could create just a soccer ball and have certain ways of interacting and a certain way of balancing and so on. And that should mostly be the same in most environments. And that's a little program that you could kind of summon in very different environments, or there might be things that are specific to the space, like finding an amazingly cool space and designing kind of like an escape room game, or some kind of game specific to that location. And so I think people playing around with this stuff where we sort of decouple the creation of the spaces from the games or interactions that we have on top of them is what's going to enable us to figure out how these things should work. And I think this is where we'll need a lot of experiments. It's a great kind of like greenfield innovation space, where it's a lot of possibilities, a lot of questions, and a space ripe for creativity. So if you have ideas on this.
00:23:00.472 - 00:23:47.290, Speaker C: It's a great area to kind of go around, play around with it, hack on something, and if you find something that's really compelling, then that could be a really great candidate project that could get a lot of attention and grow and kind of help define what the future of the metaverse will be. I think at the end of the day, if things become highly composable and are easy to build into, kind of like these rich, high quality experiences, I think we'll be on a good track. I think things that try to do too much will kind of feel this pressure to become like full platforms and will sort of be left by the wayside over time. So I really kind of encourage everybody to build composable primitives that can just kind of get pulled into a lot of different things.
00:23:48.560 - 00:24:29.924, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. Now I want to kind of help people understand specifically how Filecoin and IPFs can help act as an infrastructure to enable people to build these types of things. But also very conscious that protocol labs also doesn't think within the kind of limitations of these technologies. Right. You're also interested in people going above and beyond what the kind of possibilities are, how people might currently think of, say, filecoin in quite a narrow way. I know you're looking at the complete cloud 2.0 offering and many other things, right? So maybe you could talk us through some of those things and then we'll pass over to Blake.
00:24:29.924 - 00:24:33.690, Speaker B: He might have some more questions or want to talk specific to the program.
00:24:34.140 - 00:25:24.890, Speaker C: Yeah, sounds so today people can use IPFs to address the content. And so this means IPFS is a protocol for addressing information in a content addressed way. So that means pages and assets, whether it's like a website or an application or a room or an item in a game or whatever, gets a link, kind of like a normal HTP link, but that's a link to this specific object that you're talking about. So it's not a link that's rooted at some specific website. So it's not like facebook.com, myprofilepicture, JPeg, but it's rather that image itself. And so it really enables, with content addressing, it enables this sort of much more peer to peer and distributed way of disseminating information.
00:25:24.890 - 00:26:30.430, Speaker C: People can use that tooling to then address all of the content in the metaverse in a fully platform independent way. So it doesn't matter where you store the stuff, it doesn't matter who you get it from. If you address it this way, it's composable with other pieces of information. It's composable with other applications, and it creates this kind of computing runtime that enables you to kind of distribute content and programs in a location and application independent way. And so that enables kind of like multiple games to use the same assets or multiple web pages to share some of the same content. You could have different photo viewers with the same photo library, as opposed to kind of having to migrate your photos from Google Photos to Apple photos and whatever else comes next time. Instead, think of the photo library being yours or shared between certain participants, and then enabling applications to kind of read the same photo library while preserving the same super high quality experience of fast load times and all that kind of stuff.
00:26:30.430 - 00:27:42.912, Speaker C: And then parties can file point is a storage network that uses cryptocurrency to incentivize people to form a storage cloud. So think of it kind of like Amazon s three or something like that, where you're hiring the cloud to store your data and to back it up for you and serve it to you later, but you're paying cryptocurrency as opposed to paying with some fiat currency or something like that. And that enables all of this content that is addressed around the world in a kind of platform independent way to be backed up by this network of participants. And so you could hire Falcon, you could hire any other network, including some of the current cloud systems of today, to serve ipfs content. Now, all of this stuff in the current web three and crypto ecosystem is very bottlenecked by the transactional throughput of the chains. You've probably heard of this as a problem of kind of like how expensive gas is, or how difficult it is to add new transactions into the chains and whatnot. People talk about it in terms of scalability and sharding and all of these components, and that's kind of where the space is like, we need to make all these blockchains dramatically more scalable.
00:27:42.912 - 00:29:20.016, Speaker C: We've been working on this stuff as well, and we are shooting for a certain kind of environment where you can issue the kind of computation that you do today in the web two, cloud, where you can have long running processes that require thousands or tens of thousands of computers to run, but that all can happen in the network in a crypto incentivized way, and having the computation issued by programs running in a distributed, decentralized way now to get there. And it's kind of like a long term, sort of like holy grail type of, type of vision, which I don't think is that far. I think it's like thinking that shortest term term might be a year away in kind of like probably the average might be two to three years, with the important components being laid now and then, it kind of working super well. Kind of like in a two to three year time horizon, you should be able to map to whatever else you do today in the web two cloud now in kind of the web three environment. So things like Mapreduce and things like sparkle queries or the spark kind of streams of information and so on, and processing in those large scale data pipelines, all of that kind of those things exist because that's a really good way of building large scale systems. We just need to make the kind of web three versions of those and have those operating right now. The FICO network is growing by enabling tens of petabytes of data storage today and has like exabytes of capacity.
00:29:20.016 - 00:30:17.284, Speaker C: And the growth rate of it getting filled out is going pretty fast, but there's just tons of capacity more to go. And as we bring more and more and more valuable data sets into the network, adding in the programmability of running those kinds of computational pipelines is what's going to help realize that kind of vision. And we're approaching that from a perspective of one part, adding just standard smart contracts to the Paquin chain. So it's kind of like compute over the state on the chain itself, and that's fem, and it's shipping in the next six months or so. Step two on that is adding computation over the data. So being able to do these schedule, these long running programs and asynchronous pipelines and whatnot, we call that kind of like the compute over data project. And there's a number of different kind of constructions that's kind of like in the twelveth month, there's already prototypes running today.
00:30:17.284 - 00:31:34.320, Speaker C: But I think before it really hits great, being production ready, it'll be kind of like a twelve month time horizon. And then the next thing after that is really getting to large scalability. To be able to do very fast transactions, I think the blockchain space needs to target proper distributed systems guarantees, like really fast transactions, being able to run a game server on chain kind of quality, and to be able to deal with that massive scale, we just need to architect blockchains a little bit differently. And we'll see that play out over the next year or two as more and more teams run into this problem and start reshaping their chains and their structures to enable that kind of throughput. So sort of where we're headed and we think it's critical. This kind of infrastructure is critical for the metaverse because you want to be able to create an environment with economies and with full interactions and so on, and have all of that be run by smart contracts on chain and whatnot. So we're really shooting for being able to create an environment as rich as any mmo that you can point to today, like top of the line MMo with that amount, hundreds of millions of players to billions of players, meaning a vast amount of interactions across many spaces, with real time tracking of objects and all that kind of stuff.
00:31:34.320 - 00:32:02.596, Speaker C: And being able to hit something like that with blockchain tech, most people think that this is completely impossible, that it'll never happen. The cloud of today can do it. Blockchains can do it too. We just have to reshape how blockchains work. And that's where the new architectures, like next generation blockchains will come in. So we're already kind of shooting for structures like that, but that kind of quality might be two, three years out. That's sort of where we're headed.
00:32:02.708 - 00:32:33.250, Speaker B: Yeah, no, that was great. And what I wanted to do now is invite kind of Blake. Blake's been working with critical labs and the wider ecosystem over there to develop thesis that we're now recruiting for into the program. And so I wanted to kind of invite Blake to talk to you a little bit about the thesis for the program and some of the things that we're looking to, and I'm going to hand over at that point, I'm going to have to leave pan. It was really great to catch up with you again and hear about all the progress. Thanks everybody.
00:32:36.380 - 00:33:06.340, Speaker A: Thank you, Jamie. Thank you, Juan. Definitely in trying to set out our vision for an accelerator program that essentially sees IPFs, Falcon and other parts of protocol lab stack as foundational components of the open metaverse, we were heavily relying on who and thought leadership, including the recent keynote he delivered in the diffusion conferences. So within our vision, how do we see this system growing?
00:33:06.760 - 00:33:10.150, Speaker C: We believe is.
00:33:13.840 - 00:34:27.760, Speaker A: One of the interesting use cases. We identified that further improvements, the protocols, data infrastructure and layer two middleware, with particular focus on further increasing speed or making it more accessible, present very strong market opportunities, despite needing very technical minds to work on those opportunities. And finally, I think Jimmy touched base upon it a little bit. Interoperability of the storage protocol enables a lot of cross chain distributed apps to benefit from integrating either Falcoin or ipfs in their technology stack for a variety of use cases from NFT media through gaming and social experiences to daos. So definitely we want to welcome strong technical builders focused on the data infrastructure and middleware in the program, but also do not close ourselves to more user facing components that are using ipFs, Falcoin or other parts of protocol lab stack in their backend. So we identified those areas, data infrastructure and middleware, which would include bridging other chains to falcoin and ipfs. Layer two solutions for perpetual storage and content delivery.
00:34:27.760 - 00:36:07.300, Speaker A: We also believe as outlier ventures we can add a lot of value by helping those builders hit the market with their technology with support from protocol labs, data upgrading and liberation finally, in NFT media and gaming, we envision IPFs and Falcon to be critical components to enable more dynamic NFT content, including video and streaming. We also have AI nfts as well as venturing more into the gaming territory, but making sure avatars and their wearables are persistent and can actually travel across those virtual worlds. Editor tools for virtual experiences stitching NFT rooms together which I believe who I mentioned, and introducing web two gaming genres into web three with the use of NFTs when it comes to open data economy and data unions, this is a no brainer for IPFs and Falcoin and we also have quite a big track record with those types of projects. So we can also provide a lot of strategic partners from the alumni portfolio that help those projects reach success quicker from data commons data co ops and data bounties, or simply trying to transfer the data supply chain as it currently stands from web two to web three. And finally a very popular topic this year. We would love to see how IPFs and Falcon can enable innovation within Dao tech stack user experience as well as DAO based applications from constitution creation and enforcement to essentially verifying contribution across daos. You can think of it as a new way to reinvent CV for daos.
00:36:07.300 - 00:38:21.424, Speaker A: So to talk more about outlier ventures, Falcon Basecamp in collaboration with protocol Labs essentially the way we support you throughout the duration of the three months fully virtual program as well as the two next months where we help you fundraise. Try to think of us as a co founder with superpowers that helps you with all the aspects of your web free startup from token design, governance, distribution, your tokenomics, marketing, community building, legal aspect, jurisdiction setup and most importantly fundraising, using and leveraging our network. And we do it through a mix of three components that we like to call three piece process, essentially trying to get you and your team to your best operational excellence self by helping you track your goals, set good priorities and essentially adopt some discipline in execution and support you to make you accelerate within that execution framework. It's people, it's outlier ventures, subject matter experts that are world class experts within their domain of expertise that you get direct access to as part of the program. Amazing guidance from protocol labs not only regarding the technical integration of Falcon and APFs, but also a wider vision of your business. Both Huan and ZX have been instrumental for some of the previous projects in the cohort to set out their strategic direction and help them question the assumptions they might have made along their journey. And finally, our wide network of mentors, from domain experts to sector experts and investors, and our wider partner ecosystem that we plug you into from day one, giving you exposure to investors, be it venture capital investors, corporate venture capital or business angels and syndicates, as well as support from previous founders that were either successful by leveraging Falcon and APFs, or simply previous founders from alumni portfolio of outlier ventures that might help you within a very niche question moving onwards to lay out the structure of the program.
00:38:21.424 - 00:39:16.076, Speaker A: The key effort takes twelve weeks and is divided into three phases. The phase one is mostly about basically discovering on both ends how we can get the maximum value out of program. It's about getting you matched to as many mentors in the network as we can. It's about having our technical team advise you on how to build out the roadmap and essentially setting the goals for the program and KPIs that will allow us to understand if we actually reached those goals together. In the phase one, it's all about knowledge building and best practices where not only you take part in expert workshops, but actually get tailored support for one to one meetings with those experts on all the areas of a web free startup that we mentioned previously, from tokenomics to fundraising as well as product and tech. And finally the phase three, building, execution and fundraising. It's where we put the last touches on your pitch decks.
00:39:16.076 - 00:40:57.336, Speaker A: Even though we give you exposure to potential investment stakeholders early on in the program, to be able to implement their feedback is when we help you build out your fundraising strategy and we make sure that we connect you to all the right people in the space that can help you bring the project to the next level as well as we increase the interaction with investors through introductions as well as investor pitch days. Post program we are introducing a large conference called Diffusion Digital and we continue supporting you with key areas of need with dedicated focus on fundraising. So we have this running joke that once you enter the funnel of Outlier Ventures family, you never leave. We're always there for you if you need to get some guidance or if you need help with a friendly introduction. When it comes to people, our management team represents a multidisciplinary approach from Jamie being a seasoned and experienced founder to other people bringing in technical expertise as well as financial and more mature corporate backgrounds from other people on the management team. And finally our network of mentors which spans investors, sector experts, domain experts. And you know that some of those domains within metaverse and web free are still quite niche and it might not be easy to get advice connectors that would help you to reach out to the person that can perhaps get you an investment running or simply talk to you about the project and find your strategy direction, as well as former funders within the space who recently went through that journey and successfully fundraised so they can share their experience and give you advice.
00:40:57.336 - 00:41:58.036, Speaker A: We also have a lot of support from protocol labs and introducing their own network into the mentor roster with exceptional founders that previously delivered successful projects that leverage IPFs and Falcoin so they can basically advise you on your entrepreneurial journey. And finally partners within our network, from exchanges to startups, investors and wider startup web three and metaverse communities. Essentially we believe this is a great value we can bring to the table, get you connected to the right people and the right thinkers in the space and make sure that your startup and your project get visibility it needs to acquire traction and successfully hit the market with the technology that you developed. So how to apply to the Falcon Basecamp program here I'm going to hand over to Anna, which I think is the best person to answer that question. So without further ado, Anna totally, thank you.
00:41:58.058 - 00:43:03.080, Speaker D: Blake, thanks for the insightful overview of Basecamp. So diving into how to apply, essentially we are looking for a couple of things when it it comes to the founding teams and the companies. So we're looking for eight to ten promising teams. So we keep our cohort small because we want to provide everyone with a very tailored support for their business. And also being in a cohort of eight to ten provides you a unique network of founders and peers that you can very quickly become close with each other and start working together and forming some sort of partnerships. We see this happening almost every program, so I'm sure it will happen to you as well when it comes to the thesis. So we're looking for projects building within data infrastructure layer two, middleware, NFT, media, gaming and dows.
00:43:03.080 - 00:43:57.390, Speaker D: So if you're solving a problem in any of these areas, we're very interested to hear from you. Even if you don't fit squarely into these boxes, we are still keen on hearing from you and we'll still review our applications on a one on one basis. And then we'll get back to the founders to learn more about the businesses. And when it comes to basically deciding whether that this is a program for you, as long as you're integrating ipfs or Filecoin, this is the program for you. You have the access to the file coin ecosystem, you have access to the network, and also you have access to growing staff of ovia for up to 100 people. So you have all around expert support for strategy, product design, legal, fundraising, community. You name it, we have it.
00:43:57.390 - 00:45:14.230, Speaker D: So our goal here is to unblock you and make sure you're successful as a founding team and you can unlock the next level of support for this. We provide 100k investment, so you will actually have a stipend to go through the program because we don't want people to be thinking where they spend money and how they spend money necessarily in terms of I spend $20 here, I spent $200 there, where everything fits and how it fits. We provide you with 100k for the duration of the program, so you can actually get the founding team full time and you can actually dedicate to the business. Also, we have up to $250,000 available in follow on investment, which is separate and most often as part of the next round that we're helping you fundraise. And yes, that's pretty much it. You get great access to mentors, investors and founders, so most people join accelerators because of the network. When it comes to the applications, our applications are finishing on the 11 March, and then you will get a confirmation of the offer by the 21st.
00:45:14.230 - 00:46:00.412, Speaker D: And then for programs start mid April. So we'll get back to everyone in the meantime, and we will schedule one on one meetings to proceed with due diligence and to learn more about the business. So we're scheduling these with candidates that have been shortlisted and also with candidates that further progress in the process. Will schedule pitch meetings, which will include some board members, about some staff, specialist staff, and some of the partners. So you'll have like ten to 15 people on the call. And it's important for us to get to know you, but it's also important for you to get to know us. That's why we do this in this format.
00:46:00.412 - 00:46:47.968, Speaker D: So we have 40 minutes to get to know each other, so we can use it in the best way possible. And then we'll send out the offers or the feedback, depending on the outcome. And then your program starts mid April, and then it runs until mid July, where we'll finish with diffusion Digital that Jason posted about. So diffusion digital is our conference, which is our demo day, which is not really a demo day. So we basically position our founders in panels and tackling the problems and answering the questions people normally ask them. So, yeah, thanks for coming. So I think Blake has like 1015 minutes for questions.
00:46:47.968 - 00:46:50.310, Speaker D: So, yeah, let's go over these.
00:46:54.710 - 00:47:19.850, Speaker A: Definitely, we've been talking for quite a while, so I want to take advantage of the fact that Juan is still with us on the call, and we have some questions that were sent in advance, as well as questions that were asked now. So one of the questions asked by David is, how does the metaverse as a virtual world relates to the physical world, and what's the role of sustainability within that framework?
00:47:21.390 - 00:48:19.806, Speaker C: Yes, a good question. Like I was saying earlier, I do think that the metaverse has to include some kind of spatial set of interactions. I think otherwise, without those spatial interactions, then it's kind of like just the web and so on. Once you include the spatial interactions, then I really sort of see the metaverse as the stage of the Internet. And the web kind of coming to spatial interactions doesn't have to be 3d, could be 2d. But I do think it's kind of like something that allows us to have a digital self that can interact with a lot of other participants in kind of more typical sort of ways. In terms of sustainability, I really think it's key that both the platforms that we use and build are sustainability here can mean a lot of different things, maybe address a few.
00:48:19.806 - 00:50:06.586, Speaker C: So one part is, I'm pretty conscious of the kind of production impact on the planet for different kinds of production flows. And so I think it's really key that computing platforms get dramatically better and kind of like being net green, where they're sort of like working to fix, doing carbon fixation and so on. I think that they need to also be sustainable economically in terms of the value creation that they do. And ideally, kind of participating in value creation and making that a drastically more decentralized is kind of the word, but it's not just decentralized, it's kind of like vastly more equitable way of participating in the value creation in wealth generation that a lot of these systems are going to enable. I think the Internet already, and the web and great part have helped to just kind of create a dramatically more community and network oriented economy. And I think the metaverse can head in that direction as well. If we can kind of create an environment where really high quality experiences can be created and composed by many people, not necessarily coordinated as one team, the reason why kind of like really high end blockbuster video production or blockbuster game production turns into kind of megaprojects in the tens of hundreds of millions of dollars worth of worth of budgets and massive teams that have to be coordinated and have to work together, just comes from kind of the very mass market oriented approach.
00:50:06.586 - 00:51:51.350, Speaker C: And they're trying to create these single works of art that kind of can appeal to as wide a market as possible and can do really well in kind of a market where people pay about the same amount of money, roughly per movie or per game that they play. And that kind of structure just kind of, it's an incentive structure that yields this kind of kind of behavior. In an environment where there's kind of like very differential participation and different economic flows, for capturing the economic activity of participating in those environments, totally different structures are possible, right? So if we're dealing with kind of individual rooms as art pieces, and those being kind of like priced all over the place, then you can create an environment where many more creators can participate in the creation of those environments and the creation of those rooms and the creation of those worlds. And there'll be some kind of very large market for that, will kind of match buyers to those creators, and it'll be more kind of like an art style transaction, as opposed to kind of like a mass market thing that everyone has to buy the same thing. Likewise, I think once you have a metaverse environment, that because it's programmable and all the economic entities are kind of there, sort of at the same time and so on, you can reason about that. You can do things like token gate access to certain environments, or instead of token gate, which I think is kind of like not as good, and kind of creates private spaces in another way. It's kind of like digital public environment, you can map economic flows exposed factor after activity happens, you can sort of get a sense of what that activity was and do value flows.
00:51:51.350 - 00:52:49.860, Speaker C: So, for example, if you have an event that's kind of like a music event or something like that, and there's some value generated there, either through sales of the music itself or other pieces of art or some subscriptions that get generated out of that experience or something like that, the pieces of those revenues and so on can go to all of the creators involved in producing the content for that environment, right? So you can talk about the rooms and the art on the walls and the 3d sculptures and the music and so on. And all of those pieces are just kind of, you can track all of those things as NFTs and you can track the kind of attribution network through all of the kind of the royalty flows, and you can have environments and economies that are dramatically more sustainable because they're mapping the value creation to the value flows and the payments as opposed to kind of the kind of distributor taking most of the cut kind of model of today.
00:52:51.030 - 00:53:12.540, Speaker A: Thank you for one very clear and probably inspired a lot of builders in the audience with new ideas. One program related question before we finish the broadcast. I have a web free idea I'm working on, but I don't have a technical co founder. Would I still have a chance to enroll into the base camp? And would we help you find partner? Anna, would you like to answer this?
00:53:14.990 - 00:54:14.330, Speaker D: Yeah, sure. Look, it really depends where your innovation lies, so it really depends which part of the stack you're building on as well. If you're building an application and the most important thing for your business, and generally the factor that makes or breaks your business is either domain expertise or access, then these will be the things we'll be looking into for the founding team. If you're building something that requires a lot of technical innovation or it requires a lot of technical know how, you should definitely get a technical co founder before you approach investors, just because it will help you clarify your business. You go to Market and the business as well. Also give you a technical co founder will give you an idea what's possible and what's not. There's no straightforward answer here, so the answer though is depends where you're within the stack.
00:54:14.330 - 00:54:23.620, Speaker D: Feel free to drop us a message or feel free to book office hours with us and we'll be able to give you more tailored feedback depending on your current situation.
00:54:25.670 - 00:54:55.180, Speaker A: Thank you, Anna. You can book office hours with our team either through following the link in the conversation window or clicking the action button. Learn more about Falcon Basecamp. You would have a link to book an office hours call with us at our earliest availability so we can discuss your business and your particular case. So with that in mind, I want to thank you Huan, for being with us today and presenting your vision for the open metaverse and advice to builders. And thank you Anna, for joining us as well and shedding some light on the Falcon basecamp program.
00:54:55.870 - 00:54:59.674, Speaker D: Yeah, no worries. Thank you, Blake. Thanks everyone. Thanks for joining us.
00:54:59.792 - 00:55:00.780, Speaker A: Thank you everybody.
00:55:01.310 - 00:55:02.166, Speaker D: Bye.
00:55:02.358 - 00:55:02.840, Speaker C: Thank you.
