00:00:00.170 - 00:00:36.390, Speaker A: You look at the platform now, right? It's been running entirely without EsGMX emissions. It's all just been, you know, ETH rewards, which just kind of shows you how sustainable the platform is on its own. And being able to do that in a bear market is one of the underappreciated aspects of GMX's success, because as we came onto the scene during the bear market, it kind of allowed us to very opportunistically take advantage image of being first on the scene within Arbitrum, so that when the arbitrum bull market came, we had all the ingredients to essentially just ride that wave.
00:00:39.290 - 00:01:20.850, Speaker B: Hi everyone. Welcome to the Edge podcast. I'm DFI dad and I'm here with my colleague and co host from Fourth Revolution Capital, Nomadic. In this episode, we'll cover the long awaited release of GMX V Two. GMX was a DFI darling of the crypto bear market, having established itself as a breakout protocol for trading decentralized perps with leverage on arbitrum. While centralized crypto finance experienced a nuclear meltdown in the face of FTX and Celsius, GMX injected hope that trustless, decentralized perps would replace centralized exchanges once next generation l two s, like arbitrum can scale. Since 2022, GMX has powered over 140,000,000,000 in trading volume on arbitrum and Avalanche.
00:01:20.850 - 00:02:01.460, Speaker B: Today, we'll cover all of the added benefits, features and enhancements made in GMXV two, so you as DFI traders are armed with the information you need to get started. But before we do, just a quick word from our sponsors who make the Edge podcast possible. Whether you're a trader, farmer, analyst, or newbie, you can trade smart with Kyberswap, the OG decentralized exchange and aggregator on 13 chains. Swap at the best rates farm with real yields, set limit orders, use their proprietary trading and AI tools with the best UX and DFI securely and permissionlessly get better rates, better opportunities, better alpha, and a better trading experience. TradeSmart now@kyberswap.com.
00:02:04.070 - 00:03:02.530, Speaker C: Welcome to Mantle Network mainnet Mantle network, the flagship product of Mantle ecosystem, is a high performance ethereum layer two network that brings scalability, security, and affordability to the forefront. Under a modular design, we're constantly growing and expanding. Since the launch of Testnet, Mantle network has enabled a significant gas fee reduction for L two transactions by up to 70%. By adopting eigenda technology, we also seamlessly integrated fraud proofs and concluded external audits on the code base. Together with its extensive ecosystem partners and hundreds of thousands of builders and community members. Mantle, powered by its native token MMT, is committed to enabling the mass adoption of decentralized and token governed technologies. You can now explore a multitude of projects already deployed on Mantle network, from gaming to DFI and beyond.
00:03:02.530 - 00:03:12.730, Speaker C: Call in web three entrepreneurs to accelerate their project growth with the Mantle Grants program. The time is now. Join us to be part of the decentralized revolution.
00:03:14.190 - 00:03:53.270, Speaker D: Hey everyone, my name is Kaido. I'm a co founder at Utopia Labs, and today we're really, really excited to be announcing and launching a feature called USDC bank transfers. We're basically allowing for any company based anywhere in the world to be able to send USDC to any US bank account, whether that US bank account is a US citizen or a person who might have something as simple as a wise account. If we zoom out since a year ago, there's been a chokehold on kind of the interoperability and seamlessness between traditional rails and crypto rails. We put a lot of time and effort into this to be able to provide a smooth end experience for you as a consumer or as a company. Using crypto and using traditional financial literal.
00:03:56.650 - 00:04:38.210, Speaker E: It all started so simply with cryptokitties and maker on Ethereum, but quickly became complex with more applications and many chains. Today, everyone agrees UX issues are the biggest blocker standing in the way of crypto adoption. Introducing avocado multi chain UX. Redesigned from the ground up. The first wallet to abstract networks, accounts and gas one gas tank to pay transaction fees on all chains in USDC, and native access to Instadap's powerful custom defi strategies. Avocado one wallet to rule all chains.
00:04:38.870 - 00:05:07.194, Speaker B: All right, in just a moment, we'll introduce Fred, known as Fredigar Christensen, on Twitter. He is a BD contributor with GMX. Fred is, ironically, a crypto cynic who feels there is much more potential in DeFi, but also much more to be desired. Most importantly, Fred is optimistic that arbitram native protocols hold the power to realize the fullest potential within Defi, with GMX leading the way. So let's kick it off. Fred welcome to the Edge podcast. Welcome back to the podcast that I host.
00:05:07.194 - 00:05:08.014, Speaker B: How are you?
00:05:08.132 - 00:05:33.382, Speaker A: Hello. Hello. What's up, Defi dad? Nomadic. It's always good to be on the edge podcast. I think it's been about almost a year now, right, since we last spoke, maybe like a month short of a year. And so much has happened in the span of that time. FTX has gone, but SBF might be here in bald token on base or something.
00:05:33.382 - 00:05:49.642, Speaker A: What's up with that? Right. Coinbase, right? Talking about an L two finance, cucoin cracking, all under scrutiny, Gary. Right. Making a scene. So it's all been a crazy year, but that's why we love the space, isn't it?
00:05:49.776 - 00:07:01.918, Speaker B: The last time we talked, September 2022 preceded the fallout of FTX, but it also was after so many other terrible things had happened, especially with like Celsius and other centralized crypto players. And I think 2022, while it was a super rough year for many parts of crypto, it was a defining year for GMX. It really proved the need for decentralized perps. I think the category as a whole has grown so much because of the obstacles that GMX and others in this space stood up against. But just in case folks are new to GMX, we are going to dig into some of the fundamentals of GMX V One, just to help them get caught up, and then we'll talk all about what really makes V two such a huge improvement over V one. But Fred, do you want to talk a little bit about what led you to get involved in GMX and then anything else as a pseudo anonymous contributor that you're willing to share about your background?
00:07:02.094 - 00:08:00.886, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. So just to touch briefly on that first question, because I do think it'll be an interesting point later on. We did see some record volume and fees during the FTX meltdown, so we can talk about that later. But what drew me to kind of be involved with GMX was, like I said, I've told you guys before, I'm a crypto cynical whatnot. So I was just kind of researching the space at the height of the yield farm hype. This is post food farming at this point we're talking, this is like the Olympus Dow hype narrative period of crypto. And so I'm seeing all these rug pulls, all these failed attempts at doing what Olympus Dow is trying to do, which I think what Olympus Dow themselves are trying to do is pretty great, but they're the ones doing it.
00:08:00.886 - 00:08:50.034, Speaker A: So to try to replicate it, you have to do something interesting and just wasn't seeing that right. That's kind of my thinking is if you want to do the next thing, it's like there's all these primitives and these fundamental pieces of infrastructure that have been done, but that's kind of the thing, right? They're primitive, we kind of have to move beyond them. And part of that is looking at them very squarely and seeing where they fall short and being like, we need to address these issues. And I wasn't seeing that. I was seeing people copy paste slap on X version of the same thing, fish swap, tuna swap, well, swap, whatever you want to call it. And so eventually stumbled across what was not at the time as gambit finance. And it had a ridiculous yield.
00:08:50.034 - 00:09:43.640, Speaker A: And I'm thinking to myself, okay, this is another one of those farms. Ridiculous yield, mercenary capital is going to rush in and out. Yield is going to deflate tokens going to get sold off as it comes in, and it's going to be just another one of those stories. But the APR was interesting enough. I'm like, I'm going to hop into the discord talk, see what's going on. And I prodded and what was interesting to me was that the dev at the time, one man team X, right, legend, was very open to answering questions, didn't shy away from criticisms, critical, hard hitting questions, and was even open to accepting positive feedback or suggestions. And to me, that was indicative of someone who was genuinely and earnestly trying to build something with the input of a community.
00:09:43.640 - 00:11:00.142, Speaker A: And more than anything, that's probably where you want to start, right? If you're looking for something in a project that is cutting edge and making a difference, you want to look at the base component of that project, which are the team members. And for me, right, X, his willingness to be open, his creativity, his willingness to be transparent about where that creativity is coming from and the reasoning behind it was very compelling for me. So I stuck with the project for a little bit, saw it evolve right before me. Like I said, it's very hard to talk about this experience because I don't know how common it is that people will stumble into a project, they find a developer at ground level, and they kind of like take you on the journey with them as opposed to showing up on the scene like, hey, I already got this thing built, I hope you like it. And if you have anything to say that's negative about it, I don't like you kind of thing, which is very common, I feel like. So, yeah, that was the initial part of the journey, is seeing this one man dev team kind of being the community along with them. And when things got really serious and we started and X was talking about, oh, I'm going to take Gambit from binance smart chain over to arbitram on day one and we're going to call it GMX and we need some help from the community wants to help.
00:11:00.142 - 00:11:24.294, Speaker A: I just took the opportunity to kind of just heed the call as an interested community member, because I also felt like it gave me a chance to kind of really give the edge know a Defi project in a way that I thought was lacking. Right. So I could talk about all these things that people can do afar I can get involved. Yeah.
00:11:24.332 - 00:12:24.250, Speaker F: Honestly, Fred, that's like one of those amazing success stories that I feel like sort of only crypto can offer. Just the fact that you were able to hop into that discord, talk to the lead dev at such an early time and interact and interface and kind of launch those hard questions at them. And like you said, it's a great sign when you're not met with hostility or you're not being accused of fudding and basically kicked out of the discord. It's funny that we have to measure those things as good factors, good indicators. Maybe before we dive into V two, let's stay on GMX a little bit longer. GMx v one. And maybe in your words, why do you think GMX V one was such a hit in DFI? And then for those totally new to it, maybe you could just give a high level overview of the GMX architecture.
00:12:24.750 - 00:13:51.000, Speaker A: Yeah. So real quick and brief, I guess. Trigger warning, big words incoming to make it brief. GMX to me is a premier on chain perpetual and swap decks. And what is unique about it is that instead of using either a centralized, isolated order book where you usually have to price the cost of liquidity into there, which can kind of introduce some inefficiencies, and unlike the typical decentralized XYK automatic market maker model, which was introduced and made popular by Uniswap, which is essentially kind of like a supply bound curve model where you have a pool essentially kind of create this supply and demand kind of feedback system, GMX. And the issue with that is impermanent loss, usually, and then severe price impact, right? If you want to enter a relatively small pool with size. So it's like you're restricted to just like whatever the liquidity that some random person is feeling incentivized to provide, GMX departs from both of those models with a counterparty risk model.
00:13:51.000 - 00:15:44.426, Speaker A: So GLP is the liquidity token. And unlike, say, uniswap, where you have to provide liquidity with a balanced parity of both sides, you have to have say, $500 of USDC and $500 of ETH to provide $1,000 of liquidity for a Uniswap ETH USD pool with GLP on GMx v one, you just had to provide whatever whitelisted assets were within the pool of liquidity because it operated like an index, and it was able to operate like an index because everyone at the same time was essentially acting as the counterparty to the other side of trades, which is to say, GMX in totality kind of operates like a decentralized or disintermediated counterparty risk clearinghouse, where liquidity is aggregated and large trades are able to be settled on a counterparty basis, essentially. So it does mean that technically, LPs are exposed to some risk in the event that traders are successful. But the long of large numbers, excuse me, and the nature of investments on margin mean that most people tend to not necessarily be winning traders in the large scheme of things. That's just like the nature of just trading with a large amount of risk. Right? So it's an opportunity, right? And so that kind of is the flywheel of GMX, right? People are able to trade on chain margin and with zero price impact because price of liquidity is kind of abstracted with price oracles instead. Right.
00:15:44.426 - 00:16:21.560, Speaker A: We don't have to use isolated liquidity to price the impact of a trade. We can just say, okay, you want to get 25 times leverage on the price of ETH. At this point, we just pull that price. Right, from a chain link price feed, as opposed to having to calculate also the cost of what that liquidity would be to provide that for you, which is pretty neat. And, yeah, I think that's generally how, you know, for those who are kind of familiar with trash buy equivalents, right. Think of a centralized counterparty clearinghouse. Something like the New York Stock Exchange is roughly, that's what that is.
00:16:21.560 - 00:16:29.660, Speaker A: But GMX is just that, but decentralized on chain and transparent instead of whatever the heck the New York Stock Exchange is.
00:16:30.270 - 00:17:31.862, Speaker B: I think what's really special about GMX, part of my explanation for the growth of GMX in the face of this awful bear market was that folks want to speculate, they want to trade. And if you look at the bulk of economic activity and whatever you want to call traditional finance, it is mostly call it gambling. It's trading. Yes, opportunity, right? And so this was delivering on a use case that had long been prophecied in Defi, that you'd be able to trade like you were on like a finance or coinbase with leverage by just connecting your, in this case, your ethereum wallet. But you were able to enjoy the benefits of an L two like arbitram with cheap fees and quick transactions. And so it was just like the perfect storm. And I think it's unimaginable.
00:17:31.862 - 00:18:13.318, Speaker B: How much more? Of course, you guys are going to grow in the coming years here. But I think it's a sign of just how insane that product market fit is for the decentralized perp space that was established here. So end of day, people want to trade, let them do what they want. They want leverage. They want to use a system that is trustless like GMX. And it's just checking all those boxes. It's listening to users and delivering the product that they want versus, like, I don't know, trying to shove real world assets down people's throats in DeFi, which is like a whole nother conversation.
00:18:13.414 - 00:18:43.758, Speaker A: Yeah. I mean, real world assets will have their place for sure. But I think part of the original appeal of DeFi, right, was to kind of get away from conventional assetization of things the way that. Just the conventional kind of way of doing finance, right. People wanted a little bit more access, a little bit more agency, right? And so in many ways, GMX is a peek into what that looks like. For the prep context. Connect your wallet directly.
00:18:43.758 - 00:19:08.646, Speaker A: No KYC, no asking what your life is, no asking for a picture of your face or anything like that. Just hook up your wallet, pick the markets you want to trade. And if you're curious about the liquidity, you want to know what do the books look like? Well, go ahead and go to the dashboard. Go to the Nansen AI dashboard. Go to any of the community created dashboards. It's all on chain. You can see all the liquidity is fully backed.
00:19:08.646 - 00:19:47.590, Speaker A: There's no threat of someone doing something goofy behind a bunch of gray bureaucracy or anything like that. It's all very straightforward right there. And I think that's just like you said, it's the magic of it. Plus, arbitram is just, I don't think GMX, for instance, run as smoothie on Mainnet, both as a matter of the Oracle price feeds giving reliable price data, or as a matter of the very complex code base being gas efficient. It probably costs, not even exaggerating, probably $10, just to claim rewards if GMX were, like, on main net or something.
00:19:47.740 - 00:20:27.750, Speaker F: Fred, I want to just quickly bring it back to something you said earlier. It kind of struck me that GMX launched September 2021. That was like the last legs of what was an incredible bull cycle. Essentially, GMX, most of its existence has been in what we call the bear market. How much of GMX to success do you think was attributed to launching in the bear? And then also, when I think back, it's probably one of the most successful performing tokens in the bear market as well. How do you think about all that?
00:20:27.900 - 00:21:57.714, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a great question because I think it allows me to kind of showcase maybe like one of the design principles about GMX, which I think is incredibly successful. So, yeah, we launched 2021, September, I believe, almost two years ago now, right, day one with arbitram. And it was indeed a bear market in that period. But because it was a bear market, what I think that gave us the opportunity to do was to validate a very compelling product concept to the most hardcore audience of crypto native users. Right. The people who do stay during a bear market, which kind of built this very sticky, very organic, very involved base of both liquidity users, community members who were willing to do create bots to get people information about positions about available liquidity, to just get people more information about the platform, to think about different ways of using it. And essentially it allowed us to show that GMX is a product that is inherently incentivized, which is compelling because all other projects before now even still kind of operate on the basis of like, oh, we have to issue out this token to incentivize people to use it.
00:21:57.714 - 00:22:31.686, Speaker A: And what that implicitly is saying, without saying it out loud, is that our product is not compelling enough on its own. Right? I don't understand as a cryptocync, right. I don't understand why we have not moved past that kind of logic. It doesn't make any sense to me that people are going out here and be like, oh, I have this product, I need to incentivize you to use it. It's like, why is your product not compelling enough on its own, right? Like no one pays me to use the brand of peanut butter I like. They just got me, right? They just know what I like. And the incentive is that I like that kind of peanut butter.
00:22:31.686 - 00:24:05.900, Speaker A: And I'm a fan of peanut butter, right? So with GMX, it's like you think about it again as a flywheel, right? What's the starting point of the flywheel? A compelling user experience for traders, right? Zero price impact, transparent funding, whatever. So yeah, users start using the platform, right? Volume goes up when the volume goes up. What does that mean? It means that stake GMX and stake GLP start to get a compelling APR, which compels them to either remain staked or to even increase their positions for those respective staking situations. And that in turn either reinforces, say, the commitment behind the conviction of the GMX platform, or it increases the thickness and the stickiness of the liquidity which traders are reliant upon. And so if we have users coming to the platform because it's a compelling user experience, and that creates a lot of volume, and that a lot of volume creates a lot of fees, which in turn create more stakeholders in the platform, or it creates stickier and more thick liquidity, then we're able to accommodate a higher capacity of traders, traders who want more leverage, who want to enter more size, which creates more volume, and so on and so forth. It's like the product is itself inherently incentivizing. Of course, as a new product, you do need a way to compel people attention towards your platform.
00:24:05.900 - 00:24:30.770, Speaker A: And so there was the initial esgmx emissions that we had, right. And even that was designed with a sustainable approach. Right. Escrow, GMX, I think, might have been one of the first kind of tokens to take that escrowed approach to the way that it did. Right. I think it's an innovation on the top of the initial vesting model. I think curve might have been introduced or popularized.
00:24:30.770 - 00:25:33.766, Speaker A: But, yeah, you look at the platform now, right? And even before we got to this point, I think it's been like three months now, maybe a little bit longer. It's been running entirely without EsGMX emissions. It's all just been ETH rewards, which just kind of shows you how sustainable the platform is on its own. And being able to do that in a bear market is what I think is one of the underappreciated aspects of GMX's success. Because as we came onto the scene during the bear market, it kind of allowed us to very opportunistically take advantage of being first on the scene within arbitram. So that when the arbitrum bull market came, we had all the ingredients to essentially just ride that wave. And not only do we ride that wave, I feel that we are still essentially able to float on top where most other tokens or projects, if you just look at their price alone, are not even trending water.
00:25:33.766 - 00:25:41.050, Speaker A: A lot of them are underwater at this point. Not to say anything about them as a business. I'm just talking about how the graphs look.
00:25:41.200 - 00:26:02.720, Speaker F: I have to say, in going over all the product market fit of GMXv one, I don't know if anybody could as eloquently tie it back to peanut butter and types of peanut butter they like, but you're speaking my language now, you know, to relate kind of complex topics back to food. So now I think I understand.
00:26:04.390 - 00:26:05.700, Speaker A: I'm glad you.
00:26:06.390 - 00:26:27.426, Speaker F: I think we should maybe just address some of the shortcomings, or if you view them as shortcomings to GMX V One, or some of the design makeup that maybe kept some of you up at night or still does. And that'll kind of segue us into why you went about building V two.
00:26:27.548 - 00:27:11.222, Speaker A: Yeah, no, that's a great question. I would say that there were maybe two or three main problems, just in general with the trajectory of GMX. I would just stick with that. And so the first would be with zero price impact. It made it so that large size traders who they get in at a really good opportunity, they can just park their capital there for like a long, long time. And because of that, it can, over time, kind of take up trading capacity. So that means two things.
00:27:11.222 - 00:28:58.790, Speaker A: It means, one, it can lead to a skew in the open balance, which isn't necessarily a bad thing, but when you have to have risk hedging parameters, right, to ensure that LPs are protected and those risk hedging parameters look like having trading capacities. If people over time are able to park large positions, that means without liquidity opening up or the open interest skewing a little bit more balanced, it means that if someone else wants to open a long, right, say on ETH, but ETH long capacity is tapped out, they can't do that, or they have to settle for doing a smaller position, right. And that starts to put a dent in the user experience that was supposed to be so great in the first place, right? So that's one of the first problems that we kind of like ran into. But it's a good problem because it means that demand is high, right? It just means right now that demand is almost outsizing the product's capability to handle it at the moment, right. Which is a good thing if addressed correctly. So I would say it's like a growing problem that we ran into. But the second part of that was in general, you do want, as the nexus point of a decks, you do want, ideally a balanced open interest, because a balanced open interest means that you're having your liquidity fully utilized as opposed to having capital that's sitting idle and not being productive, because then that's just lost opportunity costs, both for LPs and for the platform as a venue, right, to allow for trading.
00:28:58.790 - 00:30:15.120, Speaker A: So that was like the first problem was open interest and trading capacity being taken up by traders. But again, it was a good problem. It was people seeing that they could get this really neat user experience of opening up a large size position and not having any price impacts affect the entry of the position. So that was the first one. The second problem was that as a kind of like Defi Lego GLP, which. It's both great as a DeFi Lego, right? There's so many protocols that were able to utilize it. But if you wanted to do something like delta neutral hedge GLP or beta hedge GLP or something like that, as a index token of a composite of many assets, and not just a composite of many assets, but also a composition of the pending PNL and fees of those assets, it was a lot of noise, which made it very hard to do high level financial strategies on top of which kind of, in a sense, stemmed the extent to which GLP integration or derivatives could grow.
00:30:15.120 - 00:31:10.340, Speaker A: And we were kind of talking about this earlier in the show, right, Umami finance, you know, great team. Even with all their resources, they had to kind of take their USDC delta neutral vault back to the drawing board, which kudos to them for being able to come back to that. And they weren't the only people or the only project that ran into that issue. It's a very common thing that we heard rage trade for. Whoever's been following rage trade, right, has taken a very careful approach to their delta neutral strategy because it's just so much noise to go through, I think almost seven or eight assets in the GLP pool. And then on top of that, it's pending PNL for all each of those assets. It's just a lot to kind of calculate all at once and on chain, too.
00:31:10.340 - 00:31:53.086, Speaker A: So part of the issue was also just GLP. The composite nature of it was just something that I guess maybe a more accurate way to put was just like Defi wasn't yet ready to fully utilize or handle it yet. And maybe also just. It's one of those things that's almost like, maybe it's just the nature of a Defi index. It's very great for basic hedging, right? Having an asset portfolio that's already kind of allocated and hedged for you. But in terms of delta neutralizing that, it becomes a little bit more difficult. And maybe that's just how that will always be.
00:31:53.086 - 00:32:57.630, Speaker A: Who knows? But the move away from that was something that we had to consider. It also meant that it would be easier to balance open interest. So we got open interest issues, trading capacity issues as part of the open interest, and then building on top of GLP. And then I would say following that is the general kind of systematic issue of you hit technological limits, kind of like the ones that we're already talking about now. And that inhibits your ability to accommodate more volume. And if our flywheel is based on the ability to accommodate increasing levels of volume, then we need to figure out how do we increase that, right? So it's looking at things like user experience where we falling short on the user experience compared to centralized exchanges. One of those being the ability to customize orders with parameters like take profit, stop loss triggers.
00:32:57.630 - 00:33:28.638, Speaker A: These are things you can do on GMXv one, but you have to edit afterwards. You have to edit your position after opening it. Very clunky in regards to that for user experience. The other is just the charts, right. They want charts with more granular price updates, something that's hard to do with just decentralized on chain price feeds, because on chain is sometimes kind of slow. And if you're doing a lot of data or a lot of price updates, that can decongestion. That can lead to three put issues.
00:33:28.638 - 00:33:41.022, Speaker A: So I would say those are the main issues facing GMX V one. But they were all good issues. I would say there were issues indicative of a platform growing and meeting the limits of its ability to meet the demand.
00:33:41.086 - 00:34:35.774, Speaker B: I think this background segues us into all of the benefits, the features of V Two. You have to understand where we're coming from with V one and those shortcomings you just called out to really understand the impact of V Two. So the TLDR on GMX V two, if I was going to summarize it into just a few bullet points, first off, you have new markets available, which is exciting because we were limited by GLP to add new markets in V one. We have multiple collateral types then. And then we've got faster execution times, which I'll let Fred explain more about that. And it essentially is like less in terms of the fees, whether you're swapping or whether you're opening up a leveraged position. And I would encourage folks, if you go to the GMX app, you don't have to execute a trade.
00:34:35.774 - 00:35:04.218, Speaker B: You can just enter in the details, enter the same trade into V one versus V two, and you will quickly notice that there's a pretty big difference in terms of the amount of fees that you're going to pay. So Fred, could we start then with let's talk about the GM isolated pools. Can you just explain what these are, how they work at a high level and how they differ from GLP?
00:35:04.394 - 00:35:50.510, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. So as I was saying earlier, GLP is a composite index. So just think of your regular stock indexes, right? A collection of stocks represented under one GLP is the same bunch of tokens under one. And like I said, that was a lot of noise, hard to kind of parse through sometimes. But on basic level, a great hedge. GM pools allowed us to both offer more markets because we didn't have to worry about the risk of say like a high tail risk asset like doge or ripple, right. Tainting the price integrity of the GLP index, or index in general.
00:35:50.510 - 00:36:19.574, Speaker A: Right. Those are very volatile assets. They're fun to trade, right. But maybe not fun to hold necessarily. Or you don't want them, right, necessarily in a portfolio. And if you do, you're more than welcome to have them now in your portfolio. But it allowed us to introduce more tail end risk assets and it also allowed us to essentially offer more efficient pricing on the liquidity, specifically because it was now isolated in many ways.
00:36:19.574 - 00:37:13.160, Speaker A: You could think of GLP not having price impact and being a bit more expensive as kind of like compensating for that lack of pricing of liquidity, whereas now that we're isolating some of that liquidity, we're able to more efficiently price it, which means making it actually a little bit more cheaper. And that's why you're seeing higher utilization rates. But yeah, they're isolated pools. And so for whatever on chain asset for, right, that market will be that on chain asset plus USDC. And then for any markets where there is no native liquidity, it's essentially just ETH and USDC, where ETH acts as a proxy for that asset. And yeah, users as LPs can selectively choose different kinds of risk exposure. They can do all USDC on the ETH USD market.
00:37:13.160 - 00:37:44.066, Speaker A: If they want to be a little bit more degen and they want the fees, they can do ETH on the doge markets. It's all very composable and flexible. And that was kind of the idea of it, right, is making it more composable. Flexible means more efficient pricing and liquidity, and it also means more opportunity to fine tune your exposure as an LP. So that was, for me, the major changes for GM tokens or markets I.
00:37:44.088 - 00:38:59.850, Speaker B: Just want to quickly highlight in terms of those GM pools, and we will probably end up sharing a screenshot of those if folks watch this on YouTube later. Those rates have been relatively high and so we're still in a beta stage of GMX V two, but just as of today. And again, forgive me, I'm sure whatever I show on screen here when we edit this all together, but I'm looking at rates that are around like 12% APR for the ETH GM pool, 13% for bitcoin, as high as 20%. This is on August 14, 2023 for the uni pool. So these are pretty compelling yields for someone who wants to earn with just that asset. And this is a huge step forward compared to what all of us understood as the GLP composite model, where we had to accept the fact that we were essentially exposed to all these other assets. And it created some really interesting opportunities too, to hedge against the downside.
00:38:59.850 - 00:39:57.078, Speaker B: But at the end of the day, this is going to allow these different markets to, I think, meet the demand of traders who want more liquidity for ETH and they want more liquidity for as of today, it looks like Link is a really popular market, wrapped bitcoin is a really popular market, and we can add more pools. So just to reiterate the most obvious here, now we don't have to worry about having an effect on this GLP model. That was in v one, where I think it was. Fred, would you say that's a pretty fragile, delicate situation to have added it is more tokens, it could have been a vector for attack or for someone to potentially wreck the GLP?
00:39:57.254 - 00:40:52.266, Speaker A: No, absolutely. Part of it is everything in terms of adding new tokens to GLP would have had to go through governance anyway. And that means that any additional asset to the portfolio would have to go through deliberation. And that means there's going to be on one side the people who are stringent on the current composition of GLP, because maybe they're risk adverse and they don't want to add any more noise to the portfolio. And of course, you have the people who maybe aren't thinking about so much the composition of the portfolio as more, they're thinking of, oh, this will introduce more volume, which will mean more fees. And it's like, all right, but at the cost of what? Tanking the price of GOP, which is partly why people are attracted to it and why the liquidity stays for so long. So, yeah, it was one of those very tricky.
00:40:52.266 - 00:41:29.786, Speaker A: And it was funny because early on, for any OG GMX followers in the audience, they might have remembered one of the original government's proposals that was going up was to add some tokens very early on to GLP to increase the assets so that there could be more volume. But some of those tokens included what we thought at the time were very sound projects like sushi and Curve. But look at them now, right? I think at the time that we were thinking about adding sushi, it was like maybe six. It was ranging between like five dollars to seven dollars. I think it's now less than a dollar. Right. And I don't even have to speak about what's going on with curve now.
00:41:29.786 - 00:42:19.582, Speaker A: We all know what's going on there, right? Hopefully that issue kind of resolves itself, but goes to show you that in many ways, just like not doing that was a good decision in the long run, you know what I mean? But now GM pools gives us the ability to introduce those pools relatively risk free, right? And so whoever does want to be exposed to that risk, maybe because they more are interested in the volume and the yield than they are, the price exposure, can theoretically do that more easily than before. And it also means from the protocol side, if the protocol wants to add more markets, it's also just easier to do that than before without having to disrupt other people's preexisting positions, for instance.
00:42:19.746 - 00:43:03.030, Speaker F: Fred, I want to talk next about the fee structure for V two. We know that traders are very sensitive when it comes to fees, and it's really like an important part of the whole protocol. One element that was missing from V one was a lack of a funding rate, I believe, and this is now introduced in V two. I don't want to get like too into the weeds, but maybe keep it high level. And if people really want to dive into the fee structure, Castle capital went very deep on this and wrote an amazing report that I read before this chat, but highly recommend people check that out. But, yeah, maybe, Fred, give us the TLDR on the fee overhaul here.
00:43:03.180 - 00:44:25.362, Speaker A: Yeah. So the main difference for the fee change is that the fees were effectively just allowed to be lowered. Right. There's obviously still like open and closed fee, there's borrowing rate, but there's now also price impact. And so in many ways, kind of like that, price impact is, if you want to think about it, kind of encapsulates what would have been a lot of the initial fees in V one, right? So with price impact and kind of more efficient pricing of the liquidity, because it is isolated, things like opening and closing fees are more able to be lowered because price impact puts that cost on liquidity and kind of tightens up utilization, which means more capital is more efficiently used at all times. Whereas with the GLP, again with the trading caps, there was at times say maybe only 75 million of ETH liquidity being traded and then like 100, just kind of like sitting idle there not doing anything right, not generating any fees or anything like that. The fee structure means that the immediate liquidity that's there can be more immediately utilized at a cheaper rate.
00:44:25.362 - 00:45:25.300, Speaker A: So people can also open up smaller positions with higher leverage more frequently, which is the behavior that we're starting to see, which was interesting, and a positive divergence from the more older behavior we were seeing, which is larger wallets, parking, large positions, and just like staying there. And that's kind of just like what it was for a long time, which again, not necessarily bad, but we hit our growth limits with that kind of model with this. Right. Like I said, we're seeing small positions with higher leverage being opened up. So that means in many ways, more liquidations, which is great for LPs, but are also seeing higher volumes, higher fees for LPs, even though rates are cheaper. Right on the trader side, which is really interesting. And then with the dynamic funding rate, we're seeing things like I was trying to tell you guys before, where people are able to do things like park a doe short and then earn something like.
00:45:25.300 - 00:45:58.240, Speaker A: Or maybe, I think if you go in one of the community channels, someone's created this really neat bot that shows the funding rates spread out over 365. So you can see what they are as APY. And I think litecoin shorts right now get like a 644% APY. So you're really bullish on the litecoin short, or I guess bearish on litecoin in general. Right. Park a litecoin short, earn 644% APY on that, and go to town or something like that. Not financial advice, I'm just talking about publicly available figures here.
00:45:58.240 - 00:46:13.730, Speaker A: But yeah, that is the beauty of the innovation. So I'm just hoping that more people can kind of find out about that, start to play around with it, and really take advantage of the more efficient pricing for liquidity.
00:46:14.070 - 00:47:37.342, Speaker F: That's really cool to see the community jump on that so quickly. So one other thing I just want to highlight too, and I don't know if this is checked out kind of on your side, but in that castle capital report that I referenced, they did a few kind of like analysis of different trades and kind of came to the conclusion that v two looks like it could be 60% cheaper according to some of the simulations they ran through, which is phenomenal. And then just another thing I want to point out too, that with this funding rate addition, essentially dominant direction traders now pay minority direction traders. I think that's cool. Essentially. Now contrarianism is rewarded, whereas before, everybody could just pile into the consensus trade and not really be penalized for it to some degree. This kind of brings us back to that whole thing we've been talking about that theme of balancing the open interest and just balancing the protocol in general, and then not, I think that was also like an attack vector a little bit on the GLP, not an attack vector, but essentially, traders could be very profitable in certain bull market scenarios without this balancing factor here.
00:47:37.342 - 00:47:45.338, Speaker F: So it looks like it's addressing a lot of the issues that we've already talked about from V one.
00:47:45.444 - 00:49:05.130, Speaker A: What you're describing is kind of like the behavioral phenomenon we were seeing with V one, which is like, if there was momentum in one direction, right. Everyone was bullish on ETH, right, when it touched like 1600, right? So it's like everyone's going to go long, right. If they can, on GMX, on ETH at that point, because the cost to do so is very low, right. And that means that GLP, whenever those people exit their trades, is going to take a decent hit in terms of its Aum, as people take their profits and those profits get taken out of Glpaum. I don't even think that's just an example, but yeah, that trader momentum, I guess you want to call or open interest momentum was one of the bigger issues on GMX. And so with a dynamic funding right now, one side essentially going to pay the minority skew, as you were saying, it allows for, I guess, what you can call like fee arbitrage, where it's like if you see an opportunistic trade against the majority opinion, right, and you think it's not just a profitable trade, but you see a platform now incentivizing you with a positive funding rate to take up that position. Why would you not take up that position? And that's what GMX allows.
00:49:05.130 - 00:49:35.230, Speaker A: Obviously, in general, the market will obviously take a momentum one direction or another. But GMX has now introduced this window of opportunity for opportunistic trades in the opposite direction, where if you see a great opportunity contrary to general consensus, you can take that now and be rewarded to do so. So not only do you make a profitable trade in this situation, maybe, but now you're being rewarded for opening up that position. You're holding it in the meantime, which I think was what was missing from V one.
00:49:35.320 - 00:50:09.310, Speaker B: Fred, there's just two more major points we want to call out in terms of the advancement of v two. One of those is, I'll just say it's multiple collateral types. And one example given in one of the GMX blog announcements was a 0.1 ETH position can be opened with one ETH of collateral for a low cost and low leverage ETH long. Can you just dumb down the significance of this? And I guess, how does this differ from v one?
00:50:09.460 - 00:50:58.560, Speaker A: Yeah, so essentially, with how v two is set up, users now can enter positions with collateral of their choice. Whereas before with v one, they had to, like, on the back end, the collateral swapped out depending on what side you took. So, shorts, if you took like an ETH BTc uniswap or link short on v one, on the back end, your collateral swapped out for stables. And if you did a long, say you use ETH as collateral for like a BTc long on the back end, what happens is that ETH collateral gets swapped for BTc equivalent amount, and then the long is opened. Right. With v two, you're now actually able to open your position with the collateral in question. So that means if you think that there is a.
00:50:58.560 - 00:52:40.014, Speaker A: You think you hit the pico bottom of Ethereum and you want to go long on Ethereum with not too much leverage, because you want to give yourself a wide range of room in terms of the liquidation parameters, right? Because obviously higher leverage, higher liquidation parameters, you can do that and essentially ride the directional wave of ETH price appreciation both in your collateral and on your leverage. Whereas before that wasn't entirely the case. And that means if you want to take that long in USDC, you can also do that, right? And that might be more attractive to some people who have a locked in dollar denominated position, whereas before they couldn't do that, their position would be like ETH denominated, which it would fluctuate. So this also means if, say, you're bullish on doge or like litecoin, you take a position in ETH collateral while ETH is also at its bottom and litecoin is at its bottom, you then ride the appreciation in your collateral and the appreciation of the price of litecoin, which again, wasn't something that you could do before, right? Both because we didn't have litecoin markets, but also because GLP was a composite, right. Liquidity pool, whatnot. So all these possibilities are unlocked, and it's just really neat opportunities and how those things are managed. You can read the docs if you like, auto deleveraging and things like that to manage collateral, which is also kind of like moving relative to the price of the market, right? It's trading on and things like that.
00:52:40.014 - 00:52:57.682, Speaker A: But yeah, it opens up so many more possibilities. And that's just what V two was all about. It was increasing the amount of possibilities that users could kind of tap into, and we anticipate that that will translate into more volume.
00:52:57.826 - 00:53:23.054, Speaker B: Okay, so lastly, one of the biggest innovations improvements here to v two is we have faster execution times. It's related to the fact that I guess Chainlink is providing a brand new low latency oracle. Can you dumb down that for us? At the end of the day, what does this all mean? How do we get to faster execution times?
00:53:23.172 - 00:54:41.800, Speaker A: The faster execution times are tied both to the chainlink price feeds and also how orders are handled on chain by the GMX protocol. So it all starts though with the chain link price feeds. So currently how Chainlink price feeds work is I believe they're deployed on main net, the main price feed or oracle nodes, and essentially off chain data is brought on chain to mainnet and then all the price feeds for l two s are basically oracles. Which message between main net and that l two, which means it's very slow, right? There's lag, there's latency in between that communication on different networks or whatnot. And that makes chain pricing while reliable in terms of like you're going to get a trusted untampered with price read, it's going to be very slow and therefore not ideal for the margin trading experience. With these updated Chainlink price feeds. I believe what they essentially do is they take more periodic or frequent, and mind you, I'm not part of the Chainlink team.
00:54:41.800 - 00:56:03.754, Speaker A: I don't know how these work. So I'm not stating anything definitive here. I'm just understanding, I'm communicating my layman understandings of it is that they essentially more frequently update the price information and they're able to bypass either the cost or the throughput hurdles of messaging between L one mainnet and L two s. And on the GMX side, that allows us to essentially get more frequent price updates and to allow those frequent price updates to be earmarked essentially in a two step transaction process. So that when you make your trade, the little time in between interacting with your Webster wallet and the front end, just like loading all the information for you to press confirm and all that, and the time when it executes on chain, the price of execution is stored already on chain so that you can execute at that price. Essentially, I believe it's essentially a combination of messaging efficiency between main net and l two s, more granular and frequent price updates, and a two step transaction process which allows us to more accurately take advantage of that frequent price updating on chain.
00:56:03.882 - 00:56:32.106, Speaker F: So GMXv two is currently in beta. Can you maybe walk us through what guardrails, if any, are present in the beta launch. And then I'd be curious what it looks like coming out of beta. And then I don't know if I'm making this up, but I thought I saw that V two beta launch is already launching with more allowable open interest than even V one offered. Did I see that correctly or did I just totally make that up?
00:56:32.208 - 00:57:45.940, Speaker A: I'm not sure, because I'm not sure if that means like allowable open interest during launch or in general, but no, I'm just not entirely sure. I do want to say that technically with V one when we first launched, there were much more stringent risk hedging parameters to protect LPs, obviously, which meant like lower trading capacities. There was like a time lock for minting and burning GLP back in those days because we didn't want mercenary capital in and out of an actively traded composite pool. There was also like way early back I think there was like a time lock on positions for GMX way back in the day. So maybe that's what they might be referring to is like all those things that were initially kind of like just a necessity of being like a very early project on arbitram back when there was nothing going on on arbitram. Nowadays we can launch a V two product and not need those restrictions as much. So not necessarily sure if that's what it's referencing, but I wouldn't be surprised if someone was like talking about it.
00:57:45.940 - 00:58:41.166, Speaker A: I would say it's a great show of progress to be able to launch a V two product without needing the same safety guardrails around it as you needed for V one. Right now we are just limited by just like the liquidity available. So anyone out there who wants juicy yield and is looking for new place to park some capital, consider the GM pools, and they're very interesting rates. Again, not financial advice, just letting you know what the ecosystem looks like out there. But yeah, I don't think there are really any guardrails. I think there might have been talks of increasing leverage eventually on the front end UI from like 50 to 75 times or something like that. Because I think technically at the code base level there is capacity for higher leverage.
00:58:41.166 - 00:58:54.802, Speaker A: It's just not accessible on the front end or something like that. But no, I don't think there are any guardrails in the same way that we had them for the first time around, which was even before I was a BD contributor.
00:58:54.866 - 00:59:41.910, Speaker B: Well, Fred, this is a great place for us to start to wrap up I want to remind our listeners that they should follow you on Twitter. So this is Fredigar Christensen, or we call him Fred on Twitter. It's at zero X, Fred. Chris and then you should of course, follow GMX there at GMX underscore IO. And most important, you should go to GMX IO. They also have this awesome stats page which I think speaks know just the success, the product market fit that's been established by GMX. And as of this recording, I believe they've done collectively around 140,000,000,000 in total trade volume since early 2022.
00:59:41.910 - 01:00:25.810, Speaker B: Maybe it was start of end of 2021. But Fred, I want to give you the final word then. As always, just thanks for coming to talk with us. This is like such a fun conversation to talk about a product that we're familiar with as users and we see as just a mega sector of Defi. This is a sector of Defi that, in my opinion, is incredibly undervalued. It's going to grow exponentially in whatever market, but hopefully there's a bull run right around the corner. But yeah, Fred, anything else that you can share or anything else you're excited about in terms of the roadmap in the next like six to twelve months.
01:00:25.960 - 01:00:50.846, Speaker A: I would first just say thank you guys for hosting. Always a pleasure being on the Edge podcast Defi dad, nomadic. Always love talking to you guys. For those who want to follow GMX closer, feel free to check us out on Discord and Telegram. I like to think that we have one of the closer communities in the defi space. Join, ask questions, ask for help. Careful scammers though.
01:00:50.846 - 01:01:27.206, Speaker A: But we're more than happy to help answer questions. And yeah, if you're curious about what's on the roadmap, generally speaking, we've been saying this for a while now. After V two, what we would love to see next is like a chain expansion. So keep an eye out for that. Right? GMX is a great product and we'd love for people who are dedicated to other networks to experience what we got to offer. So that's something that we're looking at next. But other than that, just really appreciate you guys hosting us, giving us this time to just talk about what we've got going on.
01:01:27.206 - 01:01:52.254, Speaker A: And if you guys are curious for the audience, if you're curious about what it's like to use GMX, feel free to head out over there. Gmx IO. And if you'd like, you can use my discount code to go ahead and get a discount while you're using GMX it's just my Twitter handle, Zero X, Fred Kush Capital F, Capital C. And yeah, go ahead, check it out. See what everyone's raving about.
01:01:52.372 - 01:02:05.060, Speaker B: Thanks everyone for tuning in. If you're a talented founder or developer, please consider reaching out to our team at Fourthrevolution Capital. And for future episodes of the Edge podcast, please check out our link tree at Edge pod add.
