00:00:00.090 - 00:01:05.486, Speaker A: We're really excited to introduce you to Polkadex, the latest project to graduate from our ascent program, now with a live token. It's actually our second indian investment. We're really excited to see what's coming out of the indian ecosystem. So Polkadex can really be thought of as a Dex 20 decentralized exchange 20. If we think about the phenomenon growth of the decks over 2000 and 22,021 alongside DFI, the problems that they're still plagued with, such as liquidity risk, inefficient settlement times, high trading fees, means that it's still only enjoyed by a very small subset of trader within crypto. And because a lack of institutional tooling, it kind of keeps out that huge amount of institutional liquidity that could be entering the market. And also because of how most dexs are structured, they actually disadvantage the retail investor.
00:01:05.486 - 00:02:23.762, Speaker A: So how Polkadex solve for this is, firstly, they benefit from some of the advantage of building on Polkadot around scalability, but also their ability to kind of customize that experience for DeX. And they do that through a hybrid of both an order book and an AMM automated market maker, enjoying the benefits of both of those. But they also have created a rapid switching protocol which serves as a L2 solution which allows for fearless transactions, but with a three second snapshot of off chain state. And so what this means is these fearless transactions are real game changer in leveling the playing field for retail investors who are currently disadvantaged by the system. So with fearless transactions, it means you remove front running, but also solve for things like impermanent loss and price slippage. Not only do they kind of solve for all this, but they've built an awesome product, an awesome user experience that caters to both the retail and institution, comparable to a centralized exchange. And it can equally handle the same level of trading volumes.
00:02:23.762 - 00:02:32.060, Speaker A: So we're really excited to see what degens do with this new form of x, and we invite you to give it a go.
