00:00:00.160 - 00:00:23.870, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and it's Asana and today's 11 August 2022. Right everyone, let's get into it. So the girly merge is done. As you can see here, we had pandas on the screen pop up, as we usually do on the live stream. Hopefully you guys were able to watch that or kind of like tune in there on the bankless YouTube. If you didn't, you can go give it a replay there.
00:00:23.870 - 00:00:43.358, Speaker A: But it was fun. I mean, it was just like the other kind of live streams of Robson and sepolia ones. But that's it. That's the public test nets done. Now we wait for a main net TTD to be proposed, which could happen on the consensus core, which I believe is happening today, or the all core devs call next week. There is already a document floating around. I don't have it handy right now, but it's a.
00:00:43.358 - 00:01:18.078, Speaker A: It's a short document that basically proposes a bunch of dates or a bunch of TTD's and dates attached to that based on hash power changes on the network. And I discussed this yesterday, so I'm not going to rehash that here, but yeah, let's look at what happened with Girly. So basically it was a bit messier than, I guess, polio and Robson in terms of kind of what happened exactly. And there hasn't been any post mortems yet. I'm literally recording the refuel only a few hours after, I guess like Girly went live. I think if I can, doing my math correctly, it's about 7 hours later. And I'm recording it earlier today because I'm actually going to be doing something else later tonight.
00:01:18.078 - 00:01:46.390, Speaker A: So I'm recording the refuel a bit earlier. But basically you can see here on the Girly Beacon chain website that participation is quite low. And I guess we are finalizing, as you can see here, Mario said that, you know, we are finalizing and there were. There was a bit of instability or confusion on the network because of two different terminal blocks and lots of non updated nodes. So we didn't finalize earlier. So finalization happens roughly every twelve minutes on the network. And we didn't finalize earlier because of that.
00:01:46.390 - 00:02:21.934, Speaker A: Kind of like that confusion on the network there. Now you can see here that participation rate right now is about 70, anywhere from kind of I guess like 70% to 75%. And there's kind of like a few slots or blocks being missed here. This, the biggest chain website has also been a bit buggy today. You can see here that they're not kind of like looking at the most recent blocks and not looking at the most recent epics either. So yeah, basically don't take the, these sites as gospel when looking at them. Really the only thing that's going to give you the current state of the network is going to be your own node, right? If you're running your own node and running your own validator, that's going to give you the current kind of state there.
00:02:21.934 - 00:02:47.190, Speaker A: And there's also this visualization that people like to look at which I think is pretty cool. It just shows kind of like the blocks and I guess slots as they called on the beacon chain here and the kind of finalization percentage here. So why is this happening? Well, I mean the same reason as it happens on other test nets. People don't update their software. The software can't is misconfigured. Right. The Beacon chain website itself may be I guess like throwing up errors as well.
00:02:47.190 - 00:03:31.974, Speaker A: And I think the, the main difference between kind of like what happened with the superior and Robson merge and the girly merge is that Sepolia and Robson were proof of work networks whereas girlie is a proof of authority network running something called Clique which is a custom I guess like consensus mechanism on there. So bit different behavior I guess like was to be expected here. But the merge transition still happened at TTD and the network is slowly recovering here. And it's only, as I said, it's only been a few hours. It's not like it has, has been a very long time here. And we should get kind of, I guess like a recap of what happened from the, the core devs eventually. But yeah, I mean even though it was messier than prior testnets, I don't know, I look at this and I'm just like this just, I mean even if this happened on kind of like Mainnet, it would have healed itself very, very quickly.
00:03:31.974 - 00:04:27.534, Speaker A: But obviously on testnet there's no real incentivization to get your validators up and running or to update your staff or to make sure that you're running fine because you're not losing any money. And you can easily troll kind of like these testnets because say you had a lot of go ethereum or sorry, goeth or GTH or girly ETH, right. Say you had a lot of that. You could just send it to the deposit contract, generate all these kind of like all these new validators and never spin the validators up. You can, there's a lot of people who had a lot of GE and just basically weren't wanting to troll kind of like the network, and they could, and that would mean that until kind of, I guess, like, those validators get leaked out, we would have this low participation here. So there's any number of reasons. Can that happen on Mainnet? I mean, technically it can, but, like, you could imagine people scrambling to fix their validators very, very quickly if it's misconfigured, if it goes offline for whatever reason, or if it loses, I guess, like touch with the network for whatever reason, because they're losing money if they don't.
00:04:27.534 - 00:05:07.926, Speaker A: So, look, if, if I had to kind of, like, give an assumption here, and maybe this is a dangerous assumption to make, I don't know if dangerous is the right word. Maybe it's a bit of a, kind of like an assumption, a low chance assumption here. But I would say that we're probably going to see something like this during the main net kind of like transition. I don't think we're going to see, you know, 30%, 40% of the network being offline or kind of like not voting and their validators needing to kind of like, update or being misconfigured. But there will be some percentage like that for sure. Like, there's no way that we're going to get all the validators updated, you know, from, from the get go. There will be for sure some people who forget to update who weren't paying attention or who updated incorrectly, misconfigured, whatever.
00:05:07.926 - 00:05:31.534, Speaker A: Now, do I believe that's going to be a showstopper? No, not at all. I believe it'll be, it'll kind of, like, heal itself very, very quickly. I believe the chain will, will be fine. I believe I even, like, believe it will be finalizing within, you know, the first epic on the, um, on, on, you know, on the main net merge. So, yeah, I don't know. Like, I look at these things, I know some people kind of, like, sometimes have a go at me and say, oh, you're just sugar coating things. I don't think so.
00:05:31.534 - 00:06:18.534, Speaker A: I think I'm trying to look at it as objectively as I can, and I don't see anything in what happened with girly today, even though it was messier than prior test nets. I don't see anything that happened today that screams out to me that we need to kind of like, test more, that we could, could have done more here there's not really anything that could be done. I mean, at the end of the day we can put all the information out there, but if the people running the validators aren't configuring them correctly or aren't kind of like updating correctly, well that's on them. Like I, people, some people will kind of like hit back on me if I, when I say this, but basically being a validator on the network, you know, being a solo validator or being a validator in general comes with a responsibility, the responsibility to keep your software up to date and make sure that it's configured correctly. Now can we make it, you know, as easy as possible for people to do that? Of course we can. Right. Give them plenty of notice as well.
00:06:18.534 - 00:06:45.534, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, like, we can't force them. Like we can't go into their computers and do it for them. Like at the end of the day, it's the entities responsibility to do the do it themselves. So that's my kind of like, view on that. But as I said, we're going to have to wait a little bit longer for a proper, I guess, overview of what happened to come out from the technical side of things. But it seems like the network is, is kind of, is finalizing just fine. I've read some comments people running nodes on the network saying it's finalizing because the Beacon chain website isn't up to date right now.
00:06:45.534 - 00:07:21.414, Speaker A: But yeah, seems the kind of like network has fixed itself up there, which is very, very cool to see. And if you want to keep, I guess like on top of the, I guess, post mortem here and kind of like read from the voices that you kind of like getting it gonna get the most knowledge from. There is a list from superficial accounts you should be following on Twitter. Highly recommend following each of these people. Of course, you know, Tim Bico, Danny Ryan, Parathos Vitalik and Ben Edgington here, definitely go follow all of them to keep up to date of what's happening there. Now, as I said, next step is mainnet merge. Like we're there, guys.
00:07:21.414 - 00:07:48.868, Speaker A: Like we're only a few weeks away in terms of TTD. There might be kind of like some soft discussions about TTD on the consensus call. I'm not convinced that they're going to set one on that call. We'll have to see. But, you know, if they don't, it'll definitely be on the all core devs call next week. So we're about kind of like, I guess like we're in a week, within a week, or I guess eight or nine days of getting a TTD. So within the next eight or nine days, if we don't get it today, we'll get it on the all core devs call and then we'll know a kind of like timeline.
00:07:48.868 - 00:08:35.860, Speaker A: And I don't think that the timeline is going to differ from what we've kind of expected in the past, like the week of September 19, but it really does depend on, I guess like hash power changes leading up to the merge that'll make it happen, you know, quicker or slower or anything like that. So we're going to have to kind of monitor that as well. But yeah, that's the recap of what happened with girly today as far as kind of like, I can tell that, as I said, it's only been a few hours since it happened, so there's not that much information for me to, for me to go off just yet. But I'm sure there'll be more coming out over the next 24 hours and I'll be sure to cover any of that on tomorrow's refuel. But anyway, moving on from the merge stuff onto some other interesting updates from today. So Seth Hartland here, who is the global head of policy at Ledger, put together a really great thread about the tornado cash sanctions here. I highly recommend giving this a read.
00:08:35.860 - 00:09:27.016, Speaker A: But basically the TLDR of, the TLDR of the thread is that this is the first time the kind of like US Treasury Department has sanctioned code instead of kind of like a person or a corporation. So they've actually sanctioned open source code. And you know, obviously with, with that comes a lot of kind of scary things because if they're going to sanction tornado cash and kind of like say, okay, well we're not above sanctioning open source code, then that means like any code is, is fair game. They could literally, if they wanted to, they could sanction the entire bitcoin network. They could sanction the entire ethereum network. And basically, I mean, this is, this is the thing with these kind of like powers that are really, really strong powers that don't require, you know, a lot of, I guess, like sign off for them to be enacted because they're, I guess like quote unquote wartime powers, right. The problem is, is that in theory they could sanction ethereum and bitcoin.
00:09:27.016 - 00:10:08.926, Speaker A: And what do you think is going to happen to all the centralized exchanges and all the centralized services that are supporting these networks? Right. They, by law, right. They're gonna have to stop supporting them immediately or else be at risk of kind of like paying massive fines or being held criminally liable for it and going to jail for that. So like that's the, I guess, like probably the worst case scenario is if the US government wanted to sanction the Ethereum network itself. Right? Like that would be the worst case scenario. How do we defend against this? Well, I mean, it's hard because you have to basically go to court to defend against this. You have to basically prove in a, in a court of law that what the Treasury Department is doing by sanctioning the Ethereum network doesn't actually fit the letter of the law.
00:10:08.926 - 00:10:42.126, Speaker A: And in the US specifically, it doesn't fit with the constitutional rights that the citizens have. So what would, I guess, like, it'd be kind of like wild to see what would happen, but immediately the US based entities would have to stop supporting the theory in the network. Right. So what about the foreign entities? Well, it depends on where they are because there are obviously a lot of countries that have extradition treaties with the US and it depends how far the US wants to go with, with this. Right. Would they kind of lean on their allies and say, hey, you know, this company is based in your jurisdiction. We have sanctions on, on Ethereum and they're supporting Ethereum.
00:10:42.126 - 00:11:07.932, Speaker A: We want you to put a stop to this. And of course they're going to put a stop to it. So it's, it's kind of like, it's not just about tornado cash. Like, that's why when people kind of like speak up about this on Twitter and say, well, it's, you know, tornado cash is enabling, uh, kind of criminal activity, it makes sense for them to get sanctioned. It's not about that at all. It's about sanctioning literally open source code. I mean, and code is speech in the US as I believe there's a court case that kind of set this precedent.
00:11:07.932 - 00:11:58.066, Speaker A: But basically you, and that opens the door to any piece of code being sanctioned and any piece of code being basically made to, you know, interact with it being illegal. Could you imagine them sanctioning any of the code that runs the Internet like that? That's the kind of thing here that they're doing. And I think when taking that view, it gets, it gets scary, it gets frustrating because as I said, there's not that much you can do in this case. You have to literally just take them, take the US government to court over this and the Treasury Department to court over this, from my understanding, because, and just kind of like hope that maybe not hope, but like kind of like present a strong argument and hope that you, that you kind of like win the case. But on top of that, it's, it feels like a very uphill battle. Right. Because you're up against like the US government itself and building decentralized tools and Ethereum.
00:11:58.066 - 00:12:28.960, Speaker A: I mean, okay, let me take a step back here. I'm rambling a little bit here, but I'm trying to collect my thoughts here on this one and trying to explain myself as best as I can. But, you know, just because they sanction a theorem doesn't mean Ethereum stops working. I mean, I'm sure validators within, I guess, like the network, you know, post merge, if they're in the US, they'd probably, especially the centralized kind of like services and companies running validators, they'd probably have to shut them down. Right. So it would, it would hurt the network that way. But in terms of kind of like Ethereum itself and its decentralization, it would remain decentralized.
00:12:28.960 - 00:12:57.018, Speaker A: You would still technically be able to use the Ethereum network, right. But if you're a us citizen, you'd be breaking the law by doing that. If they sanctioned Ethereum itself. But, and that's the thing, like these sanctions, they wouldn't really stop Ethereum or bitcoin or any kind of like decentralized crypto network, right. But they would essentially stop all the support from the centralized entities. So, yeah, I don't even know what, I didn't want to think about what would happen in that scenario. It'd be very, it'd be very dark day for it.
00:12:57.018 - 00:14:01.234, Speaker A: And this is the thing, right? You would probably have people in the, I guess, non crypto circles cheering this on saying, oh, well, all crypto was good for was scams and money laundering and NFT scams and all these sorts of stuff, not realizing that the power being kind of, I guess, are used here is kind of like massive overreach from the US government itself. And I guess it kind of like pays to pay more, I guess, like pay more attention to this sort of stuff rather than having emotional reactions to it. And it's funny because, you know, you might think, oh, well, as, as long as they go after these kind of like things that I don't like, it's fine. But it's not about what you do and don't like. It's about the fact that sanctioning code is just really bizarre and really kind of like weird because it's basically sanctioning speech, least from the US centric point of view here. So it remains to be seen, kind of like if this is going to be challenged in court and who it's going to be challenged in court by the tornado cash sanctions. I don't know if the US government would go far enough as far as kind of like sanctioning the Ethereum network itself or sanctioning the bitcoin network itself.
00:14:01.234 - 00:14:57.304, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that they have the power to do that. And that's the scary thing, is that they have the power to do that. They have the power to instantly force every, every single entity, whether that be an individual or company within the US, to stops kind of like using and supporting Ethereum. Because those powers that they're using and kind of like the punishments that they have there are so harsh. I mean, up to 30 years in prison if you, if they want, you know, if you break the law, then if they can kind of like take you to court over that and get you sentenced as well as massive fines, like hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of fines. And obviously this has been done because those sanctions are usually put on hostile nation states and they're usually put in place for reasons that we saw obviously, with the recent Ukraine Russia conflict and stuff like that. But when you start sanctioning open source code, when you start sanctioning the kind of like literal tools that people can use to do good or bad things, that's when it gets into very, very murky waters, at least from, from my kind of like point of view.
00:14:57.304 - 00:15:27.280, Speaker A: And I think from any logical insane person's point of view anyway. Like, I don't think there's any sane way to say that what the US government did here was actually good for humanity at a whole. I don't think it is at all. I think what they've done is very, very bad. And I hope that they kind of like change course here or at least remove the sanctions from, from tornado cash without having to go through a whole lengthy court process because that's going to take years. It's not an overnight process. We'll have to see how that shakes out over the next kind of like, I guess, few months, maybe even years from here.
00:15:27.280 - 00:16:04.296, Speaker A: It's, as I said the other day, it's a sad day in crypto that this happened. And it's kind of like gives something that hangs over our head now of, you know, what else is the US government going to sanction? Are they going to go after privacy coins like Venera and Z cash? I mean, maybe they will, right? I mean, will they go after other privacy solutions on Ethereum, like aztec and Phonon network and other such things. Who knows? You know, we'll have to see how that kind of plays out there. But yeah, definitely give this thread from Seth Areid. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, onto the next thing from today. We have a really interesting tweet here from Cassie, who is an investment partner at Paradigm.
00:16:04.296 - 00:16:36.024, Speaker A: And so this is basically a new website called Gas Guzzlers. WTF? And she's posted a little thread here with a visualization of how, I guess, like the Ethereum Ga. I guess, like gas in Ethereum has been used over time. So on the left hand side here, the access is the percentage of gas consumed. And on the bottom you have the dates, or I guess like the years. Now you can see how this has evolved significantly over time. Zero X actually accounted for a lot of the gas consumed on Ethereum for quite a while here for basically all of 2018.
00:16:36.024 - 00:17:06.324, Speaker A: And it was basically, I guess, like half in 2019. And then its market share has gone down considerably in terms of percentage of total gas consumed. And then you can see that, you know, throughout time as well. Maker got, got big at one period of time, I guess, during 2019 or, yeah, 2018, 2019 tether as well. And then you had, I guess, Defi summer completely break out and Uniswap just became these dominant force. And I think that's also got to do a lot with meV. You can see on the bottom here there's an MEV searcher that popped up as well.
00:17:06.324 - 00:17:36.400, Speaker A: So Defi Summer really kicked off Uniswap's dominance and kicked off, I guess, like the whole mev story that we're, that we're used to. And then you can see the network isn't really dominated by one entity. A Uniswap accounts for a lot of the gas being used, but it's not like back in the day where Zero X was basically 100% of the network. And then, you know, make a dow eight into zero x a bit with a bunch of others below that you can see on the chart. But really these days it seems very diverse. And this is Ethereum layer one. It's obviously not counting the L2 networks, but it's still interesting nonetheless.
00:17:36.400 - 00:18:06.870, Speaker A: And you can see that Opensea was, you know, basically didn't even register until the end of 2021. And then in 2022 where they started, kind of like where the NFT bull market really started in, in earnest as well. And then, you know, there's a bunch of other apps here as well that kind of like register and are labeled. So I think this is a really cool new website and tool. I love this sorts of stuff. And as I said, you can go to gas guzzlers, WTF and kind of play with the data yourself. And I guess like it's got a better, kind of a better access here with better, kind of like timelines.
00:18:06.870 - 00:18:42.276, Speaker A: You can get a more granule view and then you can kind of go down to the raw values as well down here. And this data, I believe is coming from the Nansen AI service. So yeah, I think the most interesting thing about this kind of chart for me is just how significant the Ethereum network has evolved over, over just a relatively short period of time, right. And how you can basically pinpoint different events. Like you can literally see DeFi summer in this, right, like right there on kind of like early to mid 2020 was. Def was the beginnings of DeFi summer. And you can see uniswap just absolutely take off, right.
00:18:42.276 - 00:19:25.200, Speaker A: Because Uniswap was obviously one of the big beneficiaries because everyone was trading Defi tokens, everyone was yield farming. And it was all through uniswap. And you can see that compound kind of like was the first liquidity mining, or I guess the first big liquidity mining app to go to do. So the first big app to do liquidity mining in DeFi summer and then Synthetix as well, had done it earlier. And you can see their market share growing too. You can see wrapped ether grow significantly as well from what it was because of the fact that you needed to wrap your 8th to put it into deFi protocols. And then you can see other DeFi protocols like curve and, and obviously sushi swap and, and, and obviously kind of like balance our one inch and other as well, kind of start taking up more percentage of, of the network there in terms of gas fees.
00:19:25.200 - 00:20:02.026, Speaker A: But I think it's really interesting this mev searcher kind of like story because that really didn't even register until the start of DeFi summer. So before that, there wasn't really any mev to extract. An MEV was a very, very limited thing, was extremely specialized. It wasn't something that people were doing very much of. But then with DeFi Summer came a lot more opportunity to extract mev from, from people. And that's continued until this day. And you can see mev search still accounts for a, not a large part of the network, but still accounts, accounts for a decent part of the percentage of gas consumed here as well.
00:20:02.026 - 00:20:14.914, Speaker A: Which is a very, very interesting story. But, yeah, that uniswap dominance is just crazy to me. I mean, what's the percentage there? There's. There's a website. Tell me. I just love to know the exact percentage of what Uniswap's dominance is today. Yeah, it's about 37% of Uniswap.
00:20:14.914 - 00:20:40.078, Speaker A: And, you know, it was only 6% in May 2020. And then by September 2020, the, I guess, like the end of Defi summer, it was 35%. So almost a, you know, a kind of like, massive increase here from six, 6% kind of like market share to 30, 35, 36% market share in the. Over the course of Defi summer. And that hasn't gone back down either. Like, Uniswap has basically. I mean, what, it was like 35.7%
00:20:40.078 - 00:21:04.846, Speaker A: here in September 2020, and then you go all the way to May 2022 and it's 37%. So it hasn't really, in terms of, like, total gas consumed, hasn't, I guess, like, gone, gone up very much. But it has maintained that dominance. And also Uniswap is on other networks, like l two s and other kind of like EVM chains as well. So that, that's not counted here, of course. But, yeah, that's just a very interesting story, and I think that it was worth highlighting. So you can go check this out for yourself.
00:21:04.846 - 00:21:49.906, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so defi saver now has defi savers automation tools for Aave v three on Arbitrum are now live. So you can enable, trust us liquidation protection for your other position and know be protected while you get a good night's sleep or enjoy a few days away from a keyboard and keys. Now, obviously, you guys know my view on leverage, but, like, just generally, people are always going to do their own thing with leverage. So I'm not going to harp on about that here. But if you do have, I guess, funds borrowed on Aave on arbitrum and you don't want to be liquidated and you want to be kind of like alerted or kind of like, you want your position to be saved in case of liquidation, well, you can use defy saver for that. Now, Defi saver is live on optimism and Ethereum mainnet as well.
00:21:49.906 - 00:22:26.148, Speaker A: So you have various options here of, of kind of like using this tool. And I think it's a really cool tool. Um, I I've used it before when I had, like, maker positions open. And the thing is, is that even though you've got like a position open on one of these money markets, it doesn't mean that you're taking leverage out. Like for my maker positions, I usually borrowed stables and didn't buy ETH with it. I was doing something else with it and then I'd repay the stables at a later date. And obviously, I mean, because I'm collateralizing, I have a liquidation price and I used defy saver to make sure that I was alerted if, you know, there was a kind of like massive move there because obviously I didn't want to be liquidated, but I did have a very, very low liquidation price.
00:22:26.148 - 00:23:00.794, Speaker A: As I said, I wasn't degen leverage trading ETH or anything like that. So it wasn't that big of a concern, but it was still a concern. And I think for people that use these tools for leverage trading ethics, you should definitely check out Defi Saver and I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. Alright, so speaking of optimism, actually, they've got now a new video here from Ori, who works at optimism Labs to explain optimism in the simplest of terms. So this is on YouTube. You can check this out. Just wanted to highlight this for you guys because I know that there's still a lot of confusion around L2s.
00:23:00.794 - 00:23:52.274, Speaker A: I do my best to try and explain it, but I know that my, the way I explain it, I pretty much like, unless you're listening to the refill all the time, unless you've actually kind of like got a basic understanding of L2s, I tend to skip over the fundamentals of them and you may get confused because of that. So this video should get you up to speed because it's, it's basically titled optimism for non techies. I haven't watched it yet. I'm going to hopefully get around to watching it soon. But basically I'm seeing a lot of confusion still around L2s, around things like, you know, how censorship resistant they are, you know, why they centralize today where the funds are actually stored, you know, how they differ, how the L2 bridges, the official bridges differ from third party bridges and all that sorts of stuff. I don't know if all of that will be touched on in this video, but in terms of like, fundamentally understand how, understanding how optimism works and how L2s generally work, this video should be a good one for you. So you can definitely check this out.
00:23:52.274 - 00:24:27.130, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so polynomial protocol announced today the next generation, the launch of the next generation of earn vaults on optimism. These are built on top of Lyra and synthetix and you can go to earn polynomial fi to check these out. So four months ago polynomial launched Earnvault and I believe I covered it on the refuel, which were the first ever fully on chain option vaults. And now they're live with Ste. Sorry. Today they're live with the se call selling and se put selling vaults on Optimism's mainnet and dynamic defi option vaults.
00:24:27.130 - 00:25:09.756, Speaker A: Now with Earnvaults V two, it introduces dynamic option vaults with partial collateralization ERC 20 tokenized vaults and near instant deposits and withdrawals and multiple strikes across multiple expiries. So as the vaults are experimental, there is a cap on them as well. I believe that cap was, has been there from the beginning too. But you can read the rest of the thread for more details on, on this here. But yeah, I know a lot of you have become interested in options over the last few months. I see you talking about it in the Discord channel and you know, you're using kind of like centralized exchanges and stuff like that. Well, this is a protocol that may be interesting to you if you want to kind of go check out some options on here and do them on optimism powered by two really other great products, Lyra and Synthetix here.
00:25:09.756 - 00:25:53.224, Speaker A: And it's funny, I started noticing people in the Discord channel talk about options after the halpress bankless interview because on there he was talking about the options that he had kind of like bought. I think there were some kind of like call options that he bought with expiries in, I think one was in December and it was, I think it was like a 5000 or $6,000 strike or something like that. And the way it would work is that you would have like the right to buy the ETH at a lower price if the strike was hit. That's kind of like my understanding of it. And everyone was like, oh, oh, I'm super bullish on ETH, I'm going to buy these and this is going to be awesome. And then I believe ETH came down a lot and everyone's like, oh. Because if the strike price isn't hit, they kind of like expire worthless, which means that they're just literally worthless and you spent money on nothing.
00:25:53.224 - 00:26:18.916, Speaker A: So you really need to understand how options work and understand what you're getting yourself into. But if you do, then yeah, definitely check out polynomial protocol here. It's probably another one that you might be interested in. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Finally, here we have some metrics out of cow swap. So yesterday cow protocol smashed another new record. The protocol handled more than $100 million in volume, giving it a 26% market share in the aggregator space.
00:26:18.916 - 00:27:23.494, Speaker A: This is pretty cool and I reason I wanted to highlight this is because I know I've been bearish on I guess like aggregators before in terms of decentralized exchange aggregators because I think that something like a uniswap, their brand awareness and everything is just really really strong. But cow swap is not your regular aggregator, right? They are an MEV resistant aggregator. They try to make sure that you're not getting wrecked by MeV or that you're not getting kind of sandwich attacked or any of that sorts of stuff in that kind of like respect or in that kind of like vein. I actually think that something like an MEV resistant aggregator could be very very popular and could actually attain a large market share. The market share in this chart is just comparing them against other aggregators. I'd like to see them compared against, you know, the actual decentralized exchanges themselves, which I'm sure there is a dashboard for that, but I just don't have it handy. But I just wanted to kind of like yeah, retouch on the things that I've said in the past because I mean the reason why I've been kind of like bearish on these aggregators is as I said, like I feel like it's all about brand awareness when it comes to decentralized exchanges generally.
00:27:23.494 - 00:28:18.164, Speaker A: And it's all about kind of like obviously liquidity and stickiness and stuff like that. But people were bullish on aggregators because they were like well these aggregators get you the best price from, from kind of like all these other dexs, all these other liquidity pools that exist on Ethereum. Why wouldn't you use it? Well the reason why you wouldn't use it is simply because you don't know about it. And there's plenty of people who have absolutely no idea about these aggregators and they're just coming in and they're like okay, well I'm going to use Uniswap because Uniswap has such strong brand awareness and such a strong presence. It's basically everywhere. So they just use the Uniswap interface instead of using an aggregator. So when it comes to I guess like attaining market share in this space, I think one obviously there's awareness which cowswap seems to be getting more and more of, but also having a unique kind of feature here for the power users, which is the kind of mev resistant trades and making sure that you can kind of like prevent yourself from losing money to Mev.
00:28:18.164 - 00:28:32.092, Speaker A: So, yeah, just wanted to make a little comment on that there. You can check this out. This kind of like chart. I don't know if they've linked the Doona leaks dashboard. No, they haven't. But I guess you can check out the chart if you're listening to the podcast. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below, but that's going to be it for today.
00:28:32.092 - 00:28:40.084, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
