00:00:03.360 - 00:00:41.774, Speaker A: Welcome. Happy day three. Thanks all for coming out. Yeah, so I was going to talk about the next phase of only possible and talk about user experiences and UI, but I heard a lot from the community this past couple weeks that folks are really interested in understanding the marketing and how to build the campaign. So my opening will just be more about what we did and how we did it. And then I'm happy to talk to folks later on afterward about how to run your own marketing campaign. So just a heads up, that's what we're getting at the start, and then I'll kick it over to John to talk specifically about the technology that makes everything possible behind Solana.
00:00:41.774 - 00:01:17.384, Speaker A: So we started the campaign. I think you all know the only possible on Solana meme was taking off. And it really helped where we could see the opportunity to launch this campaign. And when we were facing the situation back in March, where there was just false information about Solana's technology or a misunderstanding about what it can do. And so we wanted to use this one hook as a chance to create a larger campaign behind that hook. We needed it to bring along the community. But mostly we needed to explain, like I said, the technology and decipher it within four or five simple bullets.
00:01:17.384 - 00:01:56.264, Speaker A: Right? We wanted to actually build sentiment, but like I said, for me personally, it was that factual information was one of the most important pieces of this. And having that hook made it really easy to kind of push along. Like I said, it was homegrown. Some of the things that are only possible on Solana. What we were doing with this campaign, though, I will flag this was just one, and I would recommend that to you all. This was one piece of ads and landing pages we were putting out. I don't know if you've noticed, but at the same time, we're also running developer advertisements and targeting folks who don't know about Solana on LinkedIn with specific, specific messages, as well as Reddit and Twitter.
00:01:56.264 - 00:02:32.324, Speaker A: So what I'm going to talk to you about with only possible, is just one of five or six things we're running at this time, but this one is very specific to this great momentum. So just to take a step back, when we started this out, we needed to get a look and feel for it. We wanted to have something fun. We're still going to do more icons and work on them a bit more, but we wanted something that ideally captured each individual aspect of Solana that we could take out to the streets. And then, as you all would imagine, we need a webpage and a place to send people to. So we created that landing page if possible. This is where we'll continue to put case studies.
00:02:32.324 - 00:03:18.788, Speaker A: We're going to do more filming of your teams out there and talking about what you're building and that will go here. And then it gives us a chance to drive folks to a specific location where we can continuously update it. And then, like I said, we'll shoot some more series of videos. One of the things we had to do, and this is, I think, a piece that's going to be a little bit more difficult to get into full details here in this presentation. But again, I'm happy to talk about it. After is the tracking and the clicks and how much should you expect to spend on something and when is something costing too much, when should you kill it? And so for a foundation, we actually had to put a lot of effort into the backend, into the website and set up. I don't know if you'll all notice, but now we have the cookie request on the page because before we weren't able to see where folks were going and what they were doing.
00:03:18.788 - 00:03:54.626, Speaker A: And, you know, this whole campaign has kind of kicked off a lot of back end tracking. So the other tip I would have for folks, and I don't know if you've all noticed on your seats you have some stickers, so please do take them with you. We launched in phases, so I would highly recommend just starting small. It's something that I've learned for the last ten or 20 years of this, where you do need to do a pebble versus a huge boulder into the, into the water. You need to start with a pebble and see where the ripples go. And so for us, we just launched in phases. I think we're only at like phase one or two out of four or five right now for our only possible campaign.
00:03:54.626 - 00:04:27.062, Speaker A: And by phases I just mean we put out posters in Berlin, right? Or we shared some of our details with some of the community members and asked them to post it. We just kicked off our digital ads on Twitter and we're just starting to track which ones are doing well and then we're taking down the ones that aren't or the ones that are. We're like amplifying them more and putting them more places. So don't think you have to do everything all at once. It's actually better to just kind of start seeding it, marketing and promoting your product. It should be a learning experience. It shouldn't be a one and done.
00:04:27.062 - 00:04:57.192, Speaker A: You should feel free to test things out and track it and like, know that you might change. It doesn't have to be everything perfect all at once. Put it out there, see what your audience takes away from, and then adjust accordingly. So that's kind of where we're at right now. Like I said, we're going to do Twitter, YouTube, Reddit, and LinkedIn for the audiences. I will share with LinkedIn and things. We are trying to reach more business decision makers and folks who don't quite know web3 or don't understand the technology.
00:04:57.192 - 00:05:31.084, Speaker A: So this campaign was interesting where we did need to explain the product, which is on the took some time to articulate the four areas we wanted to focus on. As you all know, there's so much more with Solana's technology that you can do. So honing in on very specific things were important. So we needed to reach developers, but we also needed to reach folks who didn't know about Solana. But we're making the decisions for large companies. Like they're the ones deciding what they're going to build on and they need to hear from us and understand what it is possible with Solana, too. So we had two audiences that were very different people.
00:05:31.084 - 00:06:01.944, Speaker A: But I think the higher level messaging reaches both. We actually are following along with long term extra beats. So I would highly recommend think about how your campaign can run through different phases and what content you can create that lasts longer. I'm not sure if you all noticed, too. When we kicked off the videos from the teams here, we got a massive spike. We got 96 million views to the videos and they came weeks after. So it's really nice to have a phased out approach of content.
00:06:01.944 - 00:06:37.566, Speaker A: With our posters, hopefully you've seen some here, but with our posters, we were trying to just tie them to key locations that you were all at. So for the posters, it was very much a community inspiration. And when you think about some of the things you do are going to have, like specific call to actions or tracking things that you want. You want to have a number of people that have looked at your LinkedIn thing, or you want a number of biz dev meetings that are set up because of a campaign. With things like this, it was mostly awareness. So we just wanted views and folks to see us and know that we were out there doing something that is only possible on Solana. And I don't mean like the marketing team is out there doing.
00:06:37.566 - 00:07:04.244, Speaker A: I mean, seeing Solana in the space amplifies the awareness of that message. So these were strictly just eyeballs. And as you know, we love to get the community involved. This was more of a grassroots effort. So what's next? So we're moving on to next phase. You may see different phrases from us like join the side of possible. I think we are going to stick with the possible for Solana and keep going with that for a bit.
00:07:04.244 - 00:07:32.632, Speaker A: We're going to do some more resources. We really want the landing page to be a place of information. I definitely don't want things to be marketing. I don't like the copy to be marketing copy. The next revolution doesn't help anybody like what's the actual specific value and the thing that this product brings to you? And that's the thing you should be leading it with. So anytime you want to write some of that stuff for the landing page, do try to make it more very value driven and very specific. I will say that stripe.com
00:07:32.632 - 00:08:17.000, Speaker A: stripe's pages are really good inspirations to look at how they talk about their products and how they get straight to the core of the value of it. And so that's what we're hoping to do with the possible landing page as well. And more tracking. This is like a really quick slide to show you how. This is the stuff that I mentioned earlier that would be maybe easier to get through on a phone call. I'm happy to talk how we do look at these impressions and what we saw just within a first two weeks, the clicks, the engagement rates and if you see as you see it and you're thinking okay, we're actually spending too much on this, we're not getting enough eyeballs or this one is running through a ton of impressions, but we're also getting a bunch of clicks and so that's really good. They're heading to our site and a click means they're actually taking the action of the thing.
00:08:17.000 - 00:08:52.370, Speaker A: And then obviously you'll have your click through rate which means the push through that somebody has actually come through the funnel and then you can test to see if this is actually working. And like I said earlier, I just highly recommend killing something that isn't working. But you got to get it out there first and see how your audience is, is adopting it. So I hope that was helpful. I think there's so much more we could discuss with only possible and Solana and the next phases. But I did want to share with folks since folks were asking how does this work and what you might be able to do for your own companies. We're here at the foundation to talk to folks and help out.
00:08:52.370 - 00:09:00.174, Speaker A: So do reach out. Okay, thanks. And now up next introduce John Wong, who's going to talk about all the tech behind everything that's on the site.
00:09:11.764 - 00:09:48.230, Speaker B: Hello, Amsterdam. Good morning. Thanks for showing up early. My name is John Wong, and I lead the ecosystem engineering team here at the Solana foundation. And one of the perks of doing so is I've had an awesome opportunity to talk with an enormous amount of teams, prospective teams, coming into the Solana ecosystem, as well as teams that are already here. And this goes anywhere from financial institutions to countries to banks to scrappy startups. And part of that process has been figuring out what exactly is so special about Solana.
00:09:48.230 - 00:10:25.104, Speaker B: We spend a lot of time having to educate people, having to correct misconceptions, but most critically, trying to figure out exactly what's going to matter for their business, because ultimately, that's the thing that everyone is looking for. They want to have a successful business. They want to understand how Solana is going to help them do that. And so we do that by going through a bunch of information about Solana, and I'm going to cover as much as I can. I'll call this the abridged version of what I typically do for this. I do have like 300 copies of the same presentation mixed around and all that sort of stuff. But I'm going to give you the goods and I'm going to do it in record time.
00:10:25.104 - 00:10:54.264, Speaker B: So the first thing you got to start with is what actually is Solana. Solana is a decentralized, globally distributed state machine achieving consensus at the speed of light. That's just a whole bunch of buzzwords. But you know what's cool about Solana and the speed of light is we actually named the gas token. It's not a coincidence that we named it the speed of light token. It is a coincidence. But to be serious, the decentralized, permissionless network of the future is here today.
00:10:54.264 - 00:11:21.284, Speaker B: And that's the most critical thing for most people. It's not something that we think about, or it's not something that we hypothesize about. It's not something that is just a dream. That network is here today, and it's something that's really critical for many businesses making decisions. Solana is already the world's most used blockchain. We're doing more transactions on any day than every major chain combined. We already doing this today.
00:11:21.284 - 00:11:59.832, Speaker B: We're also fast to finality. This is taken straight from the circle API docs as to how fast or how long you have to wait to make sure that something has settled on Solana. This is great, because if you're making a payment, if you're buying a coffee, you can't buy a coffee and walk away and find out that you got reorged. That just doesn't work for a business that's trying to build a great experience. The network is also a. We are also one of the leaders in node count and stake weight distribution, as measured by the Nakamoto coefficient. We're one of the most decentralized proof of stake networks out there.
00:11:59.832 - 00:12:39.850, Speaker B: But it's not just about stake weight distribution. If all that stake weight distribution are all nodes running in the same place, then have we actually gotten to decentralization? And happy to share more data here. This one is from Masari, around the data centers and data providers that are running different nodes on different networks. And if you take a look at that Solana one, it is fourth, and you will take a look at it. There's a big red section of it. But if you look real, real tiny in small text, it says 86 other providers. And that's a big piece of the story here, is that the Solana network is distributed around data centers all around the world.
00:12:39.850 - 00:13:11.706, Speaker B: And you can take a look at this incredibly pixelated map that used to come from validators app. And it looks kind of like a world map. And these are actually the nodes of the Solana network as distributed across the globe. So we are globally distributed. They're accessible from basically anywhere in the world. You will note, though, that there are some notable things missing here. You'll see that there are three, four, maybe continents that are maybe underrepresented here.
00:13:11.706 - 00:13:52.146, Speaker B: South America, Africa, Australia. There's not that many validators there. But that is actually a constraint of the system. The system being literally, there are no undersea fiber cables that go to these places. So these are the kinds of restrictions and constraints that the Solana network has to deal with and something that we have to kind of work to address in the future. But with such a great, fast performant network, there's a lot of value and benefit for you and your user experience. This is a screenshot taken from validators app, again, around what is the mean median confirmation time and for everybody in the crowd.
00:13:52.146 - 00:14:47.796, Speaker B: What this means is, when you click and you send a transaction, how quickly are you going to know that that thing is going to get confirmed and settle on the Solana blockchain? 300 milliseconds over here means that someone is clicking it. This thing is making it around the world and back. And you already know that you can have that thing finalized on this line of network. The most important stat on this one, though, is latency. If you take a look at that far right column there on latency, when latency is less than one slot, that means that when you are sending a transaction to the chain, you are getting it landed in the block that is currently being packed. That's as fast as you can get. Now, let's go back one slide here and think a little bit about the next sort of problem that the Solana network is attempting to solve, which is that if the network starts to get much, much faster, our competition is actually physics itself.
00:14:47.796 - 00:15:19.962, Speaker B: You just literally cannot get data from one place all the way around the world and back underneath 200 milliseconds. So we have to start thinking about how validators are distributed. We have to start thinking about how the blocks are getting packed and all the different algorithms. So this is a huge boon to Solana. This is the problem, and I think we can figure it out. What's nice about the validator network is that there is a diversity of clients. This is a huge part of resiliency on the network.
00:15:19.962 - 00:15:56.814, Speaker B: And today we have two sort of dominant ones on mainnet. And in the future, we want to have four different ones operating different things. And what that means is that if there's a bug in one of them, it doesn't cause a catastrophic effect on the rest of the network. The second big point is that salon is actually designed to power economies of scale. You've heard a lot about local fee markets, but a lot of people don't quite understand exactly how it all fits together. So on most chains, you have one big funnel of everything going. And so when something is happening, like an NFT mint or something like that, it causes gas fees to rise, which means that your business has to pay more to get things done.
00:15:56.814 - 00:16:44.146, Speaker B: On Solana, we can separate those things out, parallelize the execution of different things that are happening. And so if there is an NFT mint or if there's a bunch of arbitrages, we can actually spread that out and make sure that if your consumer experience is payments focused, that you can get that through to the blockchain. And as it relates to things like digital assets, it's critical for businesses to understand the kinds of costs that are associated with those things. With state compression, we can actually reduce the cost of minting a million nfts down to $141. This slide is a little out of date, as you might expect. But the idea here is that you can think about a whole different set of products now that digital assets can be abundant and wide ranging, and you can use them to track basically anything. And we're seeing that already impacting the network.
00:16:44.146 - 00:17:31.242, Speaker B: We've seen 96 million nfts already minted with compression just since April 2023. Now, the next part is thinking about what the developer experience looks like. Because most teams need to understand resourcing, need to understand skills and training, and quite often they're coming from an EVM background, like, how do we get from there to a place where we can actually ship product on Solana, I won't say that the developer experience is like buttery smooth, amazingly easy. I mean, chewing glass is kind of real. But I will say that the developer experience on Solana is incredibly high leverage. A few reasons. One is that you can use a swath of general purpose programming languages like Rust, C, Python to build smart contracts on the Solana blockchain.
00:17:31.242 - 00:18:10.274, Speaker B: The account model allows you to construct very complex features like smart contract wallets or things like account abstraction. These things have been existing on Solana for like two years. We just never called it account abstraction as it relates to building and deploying and auditing code. Sometimes you don't have to do that on Solana. You can actually reuse smart contracts that are on chain. And that's a big reason why things like tokens and nfts have been so proliferate on the Solana blockchain. And as it relates to tokens, you can reuse a battle hardened token contract rather than accidentally locking all of your funds from your raise in that smart contract.
00:18:10.274 - 00:18:50.518, Speaker B: And when we think about sponsored experiences, gasless transactions are a first party sort of property on the transaction itself. You don't need to find another company to do it. It's just as easy as something you can build yourself. And the third part that is really important too, for people to realize is that Solana is built for everyday use. We're seeing this with the kinds of brands and the kinds of products that are being built on Solana. Visa is piloting USDC settlement on Solana. Solana Pay provides a specification around mobile to sort of digital point of sale systems, but also can accommodate all sorts of different messaging patterns.
00:18:50.518 - 00:19:33.614, Speaker B: Shopify lets people use the systems that they're already used to tokugate with Shopify, pay with crypto, or maybe even your own cryptocurrency. So there's all these different options that are available, and we're seeing this with boba guys doing a loyalty program, decaf doing a point of sale. These products are designed around the fact that Solana is so easy to use and accessible for the everyday use and some other stats that are really valuable here. Up to 10% of the daily transactions on the Solana network are gasless. And what this means is that the wallet that is receiving it or the one that's sending it is not the one paying the fees, or they don't have any soul at all. They're just passing USDC to each other, they're passing games, tokens to each other, all that sort of stuff. So you can create this nice sponsored experience.
00:19:33.614 - 00:20:42.178, Speaker B: The average amount of USDC sent on the Solana network is like 135. On Ethereum, it's about 6500. So we know that Solana is being used for everyday uses and people are paying each other in USDC. Combine that with the sort of growth of stablecoins across the Solana network and the world, really, and combine that with the newest SPL token program, we're going to start to see a lot more everyday use cases in countries all around the world. When we add it all up and you think about a robust network that's built for resiliency, a network that can handle high throughput, fast finality, a network where you can forecast your costs, you can forecast the things that you're going to need for your business. And you combine that with a really, really blossoming ecosystem of protocols and programs, and the ability for developers to take advantage of that, you can operate at much smaller, you can operate at much higher operational leverage because you can have a small team, but work together with a lot more people. When we talk about that with businesses, sometimes they're just like, hey, I don't need all of this.
00:20:42.178 - 00:21:17.014, Speaker B: And that's okay. That's totally all right. But for the businesses who do, for the businesses who want to build at world scale, there's only one place that you can do it today. Thank you. One more thing. I know that a lot of, not everyone here are engineers. We do have a lot of BD folks and folks that just want to talk about this with their countries, their institutions, their businesses.
00:21:17.014 - 00:21:28.114, Speaker B: I'm happy to announce that we're going to be open sourcing all of our decks on compression, the one that you just saw, Spl tokens, so that you can go and talk about it the same way that I just did. Thank you.
