00:00:00.480 - 00:00:20.926, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesano, and today's the 14 September 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So, had a little bit of drama on, I guess, like not Twitter. Not just Twitter, but like crypto in general. Last night, I think, happened about one or 2 hours after I recorded yesterday's refuel.
00:00:20.926 - 00:00:53.350, Speaker A: But basically there was a bit of fake news that came out that Walmart was accepting LTC litecoin for payments. Now this was kind of crazy. I went on Twitter, everyone was talking about it. There were legitimate kind of like mainstream news outlets like Reuters, CNBC, a few others out there, I think, you know, zero hedge. I mean, there was, there was a few, a fair few, and I saw them on Twitter basically saying, you know, this is, this actually happened, right? This was real. This was, and then the official litecoin Twitter account also tweeted out that it was, that it was kind of real and that it happened. Then they later deleted the tweet.
00:00:53.350 - 00:01:16.782, Speaker A: I think it's just like a few minutes later or something like that. So there was a lot of confusion. And of course the price of LTC just skyrocketed as soon as this announcement was made. Even though it was fake, no one knew it was fake for the first few minutes. So the price went from like I think one seventy five dollars to two hundred thirty five dollars within like ten minutes or something. Absolutely crazy. Um, and you know, litecoin is usually, uh, not really doing much right.
00:01:16.782 - 00:01:46.030, Speaker A: It's, it's, it's an old kind of like fork of bitcoin. It doesn't really use for much. No one really talks about it. So its price just really just seems, sits sideways a lot of the times unless the market heats up and people are just kind of speculating on it, but because of this massive price move. And then it came out that the news was fake and I think the price was still hovering around $210 or something at that point. I was like, okay, how can I short this? Like, this was just the most obvious short to me ever. I never do kind of like shorting or kind of like leverage trading in general.
00:01:46.030 - 00:02:10.622, Speaker A: I've been doing a little bit on Dy DX just to test out the platform, play around with it because it's a layer too. But I, you know, I asked myself, like, where can I do this? And I don't have any funds on centralized exchanges or anything like that. I don't even want to use them, to be honest. So I was like, okay, well, I went to dy DX. I'm like, oh, wow, they have an LTC market because it's a perpetual exchange. It's all synthetic, so there's no need to have like an LTC token on Ethereum to have a market on Dy DX. They can just spin up markets as long as there's a price feed for it.
00:02:10.622 - 00:02:48.218, Speaker A: So essentially what ended up happening was that I opened up this short on LTC with whatever funds I had on there. I don't have too much money on there. It's tiny amounts, but I did it on there and I kind of like, opened up the shore, and then I closed it when LTC went back to pretty much the price that it started at, I think was like $180 or something like that. And I was like, okay, well, that was a little bit of easy money right there, but it's not really about the money. What I found really funny was the fact that I was able to kind of, I guess, trade LTC using a layer to perpetual exchange built on Ethereum. And LTC isn't the only thing that I've actually shorted lately. I shorted solana at the top.
00:02:48.218 - 00:03:28.590, Speaker A: I shorted Cardano before the smart contracts came out. And as I said, like, this isn't big money here. This is really small amounts of money just because I was playing around with the, with the exchange. But, you know, I shorted those and I actually made a little bit of money on, and I was like, okay, this is, this is fun, right? And so I've kind of like, just been trading more often on DyDx now. Just kind of like something fun to do. But I thought it was kind of ironic that I was able to short quote unquote Ethereum killers using a L2 on Ethereum as well, which, which was quite funny for me. But anyway, I think what I really wanted to talk about was what I wrote about in the newsletter as well today on this topic, where basically, Ethereum is kind of like our home, right? Like, we can do pretty much everything we want on Ethereum.
00:03:28.590 - 00:04:06.776, Speaker A: None of these other chains, from what I can see, offer anything distinctly unique. They may have unique apps, but the apps will do the same as what the ones on Ethereum do. And yes, they may have cheaper fees and things like that, but the thing is, Ethereum's high fee environment, I think, will, I guess, like, within the next few months, be like a thing of a pass for most users. I do believe most users will just live on L2. They'll be using whatever it is. Optimism, arbitrum, the polygon pos chain, if they want to use that kind of like these nft kind of L2 is like immutable, using the whitex, whatever I'm bridging between them and things like that. I don't think a lot of users are going to be sitting on layer one anymore.
00:04:06.776 - 00:04:39.720, Speaker A: So really, I just, I look at these other chains, I'm like, okay, well, what else can I do here that I can't do on Ethereum? And there really isn't anything else. A lot of them use incentive programs or yield farming programs to attract liquidity. And, okay, I mean, if I wanted to, I could go there and do some yield farming and then take the profits back to Ethereum. But the thing is, is that I'm going back to Ethereum. There is no way I would ever actually sit on that chain with those profits. I would take them straight back to Ethereum where it's like my home. It's where I feel most secure and kind of like, I just put it probably back into ETH at that point, whether that be on layer one or L2.
00:04:39.720 - 00:06:01.018, Speaker A: And this isn't to say that there aren't kind of chains out there doing innovative stuff or kind of like innovative apps on those chains, but I could still come back to it and be like, okay, well, if something spins up on another chain that is innovative, then we what's to stop it from just being kind of like cloned or another project coming along and competing with them, but doing it on a L2 on Ethereum? And I know that, you know, depending on the L2, the fees definitely, you know, higher than these other kind of competing chains and stuff like that. And I totally get that, but I don't know, like, I'm trying not to sound like an 8th max, you, whatever you want to call me here, but I really like, given the choice between Ethereum L2s, which, and ones that are properly constructed and fully kind of like decentralized, no guardrails, whatever, and kind of like living on Ethereum and an entirely new chain, I would choose Ethereum L2s any day of the week, even with their centralized controls, to be honest, because I just think that there's a stronger base there. It's, the tooling is much better. You know, as I said, like there's not many kind of unique things happening on these other chains or whatever besides, I guess, the guild farms, you can kind of like, we were making some funny comments about this in the deli gray discord the other day. We were saying, kind of like vikings going to pillage these, these chains and then just bringing all the spoilers back home. And that's exactly what I think is, is happening. I mean, I've, I've talked about how I think Ethereum is like an economic nexus before, where everything's just going to be bridging in and out of Ethereum.
00:06:01.018 - 00:06:21.488, Speaker A: But Ethereum really is going to be at the center point of this whole ecosystem because it is the most secure, most decentralized chain. It is where everyone has kind of like grown up. It's, it's what they call their home. But of course there's going to be new users that come in and that will never use Ethereum. They'll use the other chains, whatever, they'll be happy doing that. That's totally fine. But I do think that a lot of these users will also use L2s.
00:06:21.488 - 00:07:18.098, Speaker A: They may not ever use layer one because they just, to be honest, they're just priced out of using layer one Ethereum. But they'll use these L2s and potentially they won't even know that these L2s are built on Ethereum. Like, for example, if Coinbase was to do a bridge directly from their exchange to DYDX, like, say, withdraw from your ETH wallet on Coinbase to your wallet on Dy DX, would you know, like, as a new user, would you know that DYDX is a L2 on Ethereum? Unless you actually search for it, I don't think it gives you an indication. I don't think it just blasts you with it and say, hey, we're built on Ethereum or anything like that. And there's going to be plenty of apps like that that are built on these other kind of protocols, these L2 protocols, like arbitrary and optimism. And they won't explicitly say they're on Ethereum, and users just won't, won't know. And a lot of users won't even know because they'll just be accessing it through kind of like different front ends, whether that be mobile wallets, like argent, for example, or even kind of like a centralized institution, like a bank or whatever.
00:07:18.098 - 00:07:53.530, Speaker A: So it's kind of funny when you think about that, is that a lot of new users coming into this space won't even know that they're kind of like using Ethereum, which I don't think is a bad thing. I think if we abstract, at the end of the day, Ethereum is back end technology for most of the world. But it is also a movement. It is also for us who spend more time in the ecosystem. It's something that we are ideological about, something that we form a community around. But that doesn't mean that the mass adoption has to happen in such that people have to know they're using Ethereum. I mean at the end of the day we all use Linux and we, and most people don't know about it because it's back end infrastructure.
00:07:53.530 - 00:08:15.560, Speaker A: People only know about windows because it's plastered in your face. When you, you know, when, when you, when you kind of like use windows it's everywhere. It reminds you that you're using windows. Same with Mac and things like that. But they're kind of like brands and you know, they're centralized companies and all that sort of stuff. Whereas with Ethereum these kind of like things can be built on top. So you, you could imagine Ethereum being that back end infrastructure and companies building on top.
00:08:15.560 - 00:08:49.464, Speaker A: Just like Linux is a backend infrastructure for a lot of the top tech companies in the world. They use Linux to run on their servers. They use all sorts of different kinds of tools in the background as well that end users just don't know of. And I think it's just the phenomenon of how early we are that people know about Ethereum as a technology and Ethereum as kind of like powering all this sorts of stuff. And I do think that the balance will be shifted towards more people knowing about Ethereum because it's got a token attached to it. Like if you, if Linux had a token attached to it then of course people would buy the Linux token or the Linux, you know, share or stock or whatever you want to call it. And more people would know about it.
00:08:49.464 - 00:09:23.920, Speaker A: But because it doesn't and because it just sits in the background it can still power the entire world without anyone knowing about it. But the benefit of Ethereum is the fact that it can power the entire world while people still know about it. Because you can bet on it, you can buy ETH and you can kind of like buy all the other tokens and stuff like that as well. Which I think is really cool. But yeah, just wanted to kind of give a little bit of color around how I'm thinking about this and how I'm thinking that Ethereum just is going to remain the center point of the crypto ecosystem. I think bitcoin lost it quite a while ago because it doesn't support smart contracts. And actually maybe I should, I should talk a little bit about this as well as an aside here.
00:09:23.920 - 00:10:25.970, Speaker A: So people often kind of like, I guess say that Ethereum has basically become like bitcoin, where Ethereum is becoming a settlement layer that, layer one, and we're going to do everything at L2. And the funny thing is, is that I don't actually think that the bitcoin design was ever wrong. I think what ended up happening was that bitcoin as a layer one was way too limited, and it's still way too limited for a nice L2 ecosystem to be built on top. They can only do lightning network, really state channels, and they can't even do that well. There's still a lot of problems with that because bitcoin's layer one is, is so limited now with Ethereum because it's got an expressive kind of, it's an expressive platform. It has a virtual machine built in, has a smart contract, smart contracting language and all those sorts of things. We can build fancy solutions like roll ups on top of it, and we can keep layer one as this fully decentralized and secure settlement layer for roll ups and then do everything else at L2, which I've described on the refill the other day about kind of like the design philosophy around this roll up centric roadmap, which to me kind of like says that Ethereum will be and continue to be the center point of this entire ecosystem.
00:10:25.970 - 00:10:50.838, Speaker A: Bitcoin can be whatever it wants to be, a digital gold or whatever they want to call it these days. These other chains can feed into it. They can bridge in and out of ethereum, um, bridging and out of the Ethereum L2s. It's going to be seamless. And as I've discussed before, it's going to be a parallel distribution in terms of, I think market cap in terms of like market share in generally. I don't think it's going to be a winner take all. I mean, it already isn't a winner take all from a pure market cap and on chain activity perspective.
00:10:50.838 - 00:11:34.408, Speaker A: Uh, but at the end of the day, I, as long as Ethereum continues on the parts that it's on right now, it continues building out, uh, layer one with obviously the merge and then sharding, and then we continue building out the, the awesome L2 ecosystem that we have, I just don't see Ethereum losing its crown to, to anyone. I think ethereum is the, I think the roll up centric roadmap for a blockchain. Blockchain is the perfect design. I think that it's taken many years for us to get here, but it is much better than trying to do everything at layer one. I just don't think that's the correct design along for long term sustainability of these systems. And I'm trying to build, well, not me personally trying like, I think that as an ecosystem, as an ethereum ecosystem, we are trying to build something that lasts for a very long time. We want it to be as sustainable as possible.
00:11:34.408 - 00:12:04.586, Speaker A: We wanted to potentially last thousands of years as a network and last way longer than kind of like we're alive and we want it to be able to resist any kind of attacks. And obviously the final boss is nation states going after ethereum. If we can resist that, then we can resist anything, which I think is really, really cool. But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that for now. I've got a lot more other updates to get through today. So optimism announced that they have doubled their throughput limit on mainnet because this is because they hit their limit the other day. So they weren't, Albatram wasn't the only L2 that was getting a lot of usage over the weekend.
00:12:04.586 - 00:12:33.258, Speaker A: It was also optimism. There was a bit of a flow on effect there, but essentially they doubled it from 100,000 transactions per day to 200,000 transactions per day before it starts throttling with higher gas prices. So just to give you some context here, ethereum is layer one at maximum. I mean, it varies because it depends what transactions are being processed on the network, but I've seen it go as high as 1.6 million transactions a day. And really it tapers out at about that. And unless we raise the gas limit, it kind of like stops at about that.
00:12:33.258 - 00:12:57.962, Speaker A: So you can see here that these L2 networks aren't quite up to, up to kind of like that amount yet, but they are growing. I mean, arbitram has also grown to, I think, a couple hundred thousand transactions per day over the weekend. And they, I don't know if they're going to increase their limits anytime soon, but they may. But, you know, optimism started off at 50k transactions per day. They went to 100k, now they've gone to 200k. So it seems like they're just doing a doubling. So maybe the next one's going to be 400k.
00:12:57.962 - 00:13:30.972, Speaker A: But I guess it depends on how much, I guess, activity the network is seeing and everything like that as well. But cool to see this. Cool to see there's more capacity on the optimism network. And I have another big announcement coming this week. As they say here you know, this isn't the big news that they were teasing, but still worth tweeting about of course. So yeah, pretty cool to see that happening. Mihailo from Polygon here basically gave a friendly reminder that by saying here that many people are still not aware that nfts can easily be transferred from ethereum layer one to polygons pos chain and vice versa.
00:13:30.972 - 00:14:06.382, Speaker A: So the bridge that they have set up for this supports these transfers using a model similar to the one that they used for fungible ERC 20 tokens. So more details can be found in this blog post here. But this is something really cool that I actually didn't, didn't know about. Funny enough, like I should have known about this, but I I didn't. That you could basically bridge these kind of like nfts directly from l one to Polygon and vice versa. So if you have an NFT on Polygon that you minted there, you can take it across to ethereum layer one if you want to, um, and, you know, do it the other way if you want to as well. And there's a handy guide in this blog post as well if you want to check that out.
00:14:06.382 - 00:15:09.592, Speaker A: And speaking of bridges, uh, James Prestwich from uh, cello, cello or sello? I don't know exactly know how to say it, but uh, from sallow here put out an announcement today saying that a new bridge has been announced called the Optics bridge, which now it currently supports Ethereum, Salo and Polygon. You can bridge any roc 20 token between any supported network and you can read more on this post here. So what optics is trying to do, and what they say is setting themselves apart is they're basically using a new kind of like, I guess, bridging standard called the optimistic interchange communication standard. And they describe it here as by saying, unlike other cross chain communication systems, optics is neither a custodial bridge, validator based bridge nor header relay. Instead, it leverages an optimistic bridging mechanism to enable radically cheaper communication between chains while still preserving decentralization. And additionally, optics has a few killer features that make bridging easy, such as it connects change in a one to end model, making its bridges more like airport hubs. It can be deployed on any smart contracting chain and multiple chains at the same time.
00:15:09.592 - 00:15:39.320, Speaker A: It is gas efficient and cheaper than header relays by a factor of ten times on Ethereum, and it doesn't require any new primitives or elliptic curves to be added to the base layout. So they are selling this as probably the best bridge that is available today. I'm assuming that's what they're kind of going for here. I haven't played around with this bridge just yet. I haven't dived into the documents or anything yet. But this really is, I mean, the holy grail, not, not optics. I mean, like, the Holy Grail of bridges is to have it be, like, fully trustless and fully decentralized.
00:15:39.320 - 00:16:39.482, Speaker A: I don't think it's actually possible to have something as trustless and decentralized as the parent network. So, for example, I don't think you can actually have a bridge that is as secure, as decentralized, and as trustless as Ethereum is, because with bridging, you're always relying on the bridge to network as well. For example, if you bridge from Ethereum to Solana, for example, and something happens on the Solana side, well, that means that it doesn't matter how secure the bridge was or how decentralized it was, the bridge could break due to something happening on the Solana network, such as maybe a hard fork happens or the network goes down or whatever, and the bridge kind of like, breaks because of that. And I mean, there's a number of other examples of kind of attack vectors and things like that. But I think really what all these bridge kind of, like researchers are trying to do is create, create something as close as possible to being, you know, totally trustless and secure and decentralized. So optics is just another kind of, like, I guess, like, entrant to this kind of game here. You can definitely go check out these blog posts for more details about it.
00:16:39.482 - 00:17:03.314, Speaker A: But just generally, I think it's cool to see more bridges coming online. I mean, I've spoken a lot about bridges on the refuel before. There's plenty of them now. And I think that the more the merrier, because at the end of the day, there's only going to be, it's going to be another power distribution. But we want the best ones to win. We want the most, the most secure, decentralized, and trustless bridges to win. And the more there are, the more competition there is, and the better it is for the end user at the end of the day.
00:17:03.314 - 00:17:52.254, Speaker A: So Paulo here put out a, I guess, like a dune dashboard, dune analytics dashboard that I have actually been looking for lately that shows the total amount of gas that's being consumed by each of the L2 networks on Ethereum. So you can see here that today, I think, meaning September 12, arbitrum consumed 1% of the total daily gas space for Ethereum. So just arbitrum just, I guess, like, on September 12, over the weekend, consumed 1% of all block space on Ethereum, which was insane, right? Like, actually crazy. And you can see here that on September 12, 1.5% of all block space was. Was consumed by L2s on Ethereum. Not just arbitrary, but all the ones that they're tracking, such as aztec diversify, Dy DX, optimism, polygon, Hermes, so rare.
00:17:52.254 - 00:18:20.626, Speaker A: And ZK swap. That's crazy. I mean, I've spoken about this before and where I said that. I think layer one is going to be just this security kind of settlement chain for L2s. And eventually, L2s are going to price out every other user because they're going to be happy paying the highest amount of fees. Because if you saw yesterday when I went through crypto fees, dot in Fox, optimism and arbitrum are earning two to $300,000 per day of revenue. And because of that, they're happy paying the on chain fees.
00:18:20.626 - 00:18:55.214, Speaker A: On Ethereum, they're happy paying 2300, $400 per batch. The more these L2s kind of get usage, the more fees they're going to generate. So they're more than happy to pay thousands of dollars in transaction fees per batch. And if they start doing these things, you know, every minute, every kind of like two minutes, maybe even every block one day, then they're definitely going to price out. Absolutely everyone from layer one. Even the whales eventually won't be able to compete with these networks. Cause you can imagine a L2 as a whale because they're kind of, I guess I'm bundling up all these transactions, thousands, tens of thousands of transactions that are all happening depending on, I guess, kind of like the.
00:18:55.214 - 00:19:15.538, Speaker A: The time between batches and. And those have, like, I guess, fees associated with them. And then they go to. They go to layer one. They're. The L2s are gonna price at everyone. So I think my advice to people who may be worried about this may be thinking, okay, well, if I'm gonna be priced out of layer one permanently, then what can I do? Get on the L2s, as you know, ASAP.
00:19:15.538 - 00:19:35.894, Speaker A: Go to albatross, get your funds on optimism, get your funds on any, all these other things. Get your funds on the polygon pos chain and stuff like that. Do realize that there's a lot of those trade offs as well, going from Ethereum. Layer one. As I've mentioned before, the L2s have training wheels on them. They're pretty much totally centralized right now. The polygon pos chain has different security properties to Ethereum as well, because it is.
00:19:35.894 - 00:20:12.704, Speaker A: I mean, it, it's funny, I always struggled describing what the pos chain is. It's technically not a side chain, but it's technically not a layer too. It's kind of like a hybrid between a side chain, kind of like L2, a commit chain, whatever. But I'm not going to get into like, the details of that now. But essentially, just be aware that no matter where you go to, if you're going off Ethereum, there are going to be trade offs. And a lot of these L2s aren't going to be in their fully decentralized state where they basically don't have upgradable contracts, they don't have centralized kind of multi sigs, they don't have centralized sequences. That's not going to be the case for a little while because we're so early.
00:20:12.704 - 00:20:46.394, Speaker A: But still, I think it's worth getting onto these L2s with, with, with some funds as well, to make sure that you're not priced out from using kind of like the network on layer one. Once these L2s really start ramping up, they're gonna, they're gonna. I mean, I think they're gonna be 10% of all kind of gas consuming, consumed on Ethereum sooner than we, than we think. Just given the fact that we don't even have, I guess, like direct bridges into most of these things yet from centralized exchanges. The adoption is still happening in the background, I guess, for all these sorts of things. And as the market heats up, activity is just going to heat up as well. So, yeah, definitely get yourself onto a layer too.
00:20:46.394 - 00:21:10.700, Speaker A: And speaking of that, our curve is now live on arbitram. So if you are a curve user on layer one, you can now use it on L2. I played around with it today just using my money on arbitrum there. I did a few different swaps. I swapped ETH to USDC on Uniswap, and then I went to swap USDc to USDT on curve. Then I went and swapped that USDt to ETH on uniswap. And I did all this just as testing.
00:21:10.700 - 00:21:29.012, Speaker A: I wasn't. I mean, I know there was kind of like more efficient routes here, and it kind of doesn't make sense for me to go to, like, to ETH to stablecoin. To stablecoin to ETH, but I did it. Cause I just wanted to test out, see the different transaction fees between kind of like the different platforms and see how well it worked and curved. Worked fine. Like there was nothing wrong with it. And Uniswap obviously worked, worked fine as well.
00:21:29.012 - 00:22:23.264, Speaker A: But great to see another kind of like, I guess defi blue chip or I guess like top defi app live on the arbitrum network here. And speaking of, I guess like centralized exchanges having bridges into these L2 networks. So Coinbase announced, and I went through this on a refuel, that they're going to be supporting the Polygon POS chain, and then optimism, arbitrum and Starkware, and I'm sure other kind of like L2s in the future as well. But if you're using Coinbase wallet right now, then you don't need to kind of like wait for Coinbase. You can basically use their Coinbase wallet on your, on your mobile phone and, and be able to natively switch between the different networks here on their app. So you can see here that arbitram, optimism, Polygon XDai, and some of the other evm compatible chains like Avalanche and Phantom, both supported here for mainnet capacity as well. So no need to add a custom network on your mobile wallet here, which is really, really cool.
00:22:23.264 - 00:23:10.324, Speaker A: And final thing about L2 is immutable tweeted out something today called where they said no gas on immutable x l two, but still 100% ethereum. Now, I wanted to focus on something that Pauline said here, which I think is very important for people to understand. So he said, it's not 100% ethereum until transaction call data is also on ethereum. Immutable X is great, and off chain data availability is the right solution for low value nfts, but some transparency will be appreciated, at least until you become a volition and give users the option. So essentially what Polynya is saying here is that immutable isn't as. Immutable X isn't a Zk roll up, it's a validium. Now, I've described the differences between this before, but just to recap you on this, what a validium does is that it doesn't actually post its data to the Ethereum layer one chain.
00:23:10.324 - 00:24:04.942, Speaker A: It keeps the data off chain as part of a data availability committee, which is just a bunch of nodes running, keeping the data available for immutable x in this, in this example here, which means that it is not 100% ethereum, because if those data availability nodes were to go offline and you can't get that, the data from there, you could have, you could fall into a position where you can't get your funds back, or you can't get your nfts or whatever. And you know, that's just basically the design of it, which is fine, because as Pauline says here, this is fine for low value nfts, because at the end of the day, this is how you scale it on, I guess like a L2, where the transaction fees are basically free. Um, they are free on immutable x right now because they're subsidizing it. But I mean, the cost for them is, is very cheap. It's like pennies on the, on a pen. Not even pennies, like less than a cent sort of thing. But then Polynar goes on to say, you know, should be transparent about this, that this isn't actually a ZK roll up, it's a validium.
00:24:04.942 - 00:24:50.476, Speaker A: But in the future, there's actually an even better model called volition, which starkware is developing, where it will give users to choose where their data is stored. So they can easily store it in immutables, data availability committee, or they can store it on a, on a kind of like a network, like rweave or file coin, potentially, or they can store it themselves. So essentially that gives users control over their, their core data so they don't have to rely on a third party. But if they, you know, if you, if you lose access to it yourself, then you potentially can't get access to your funds either. But it's still a better kind of like solution than validium. But again, it may not be considered 100% Ethereum. I think 100% Ethereum might be something that's considered like the data is actually on Ethereum, where these L2s batch and put the core data on Ethereum as well.
00:24:50.476 - 00:25:42.500, Speaker A: But that's always going to be more expensive, I believe, than just like a pure, kind of like validium or volition here. But still good to understand the difference between them and understand why the cost, there's a cost difference there as well. So the Ethereum name service announced today that they've chosen a kind of, I guess they're a company maybe, or a kind of project called Spruce ID to lead the effort to standardize sign in with Ethereum. Now, I've discussed sign in with Ethereum before, but essentially what it is, it's basically a way to standardize what Dapps already doing organically in web3 across the entire kind of like web. You know, how you sign in with Google, sign in with Twitter, sign in with Facebook, sign in with whatever on different websites. This is basically initiative to standardize this so that you can sign in with your Ethereum wallet, because your Ethereum wallet is a, is essentially a public private key pair. So a username and password, I guess for lack of a better comparison there.
00:25:42.500 - 00:26:48.366, Speaker A: And Spruce ID is going to be leading the effort here on the ENS side to kind of like, I guess, sorry, commissioned by ENS to leave the effort here on sign up with Ethereum. So if you want more details about this and how, how it's going to work, you can go read their announcement blog post here and what they're kind of like working on currently. They've already begun delivery on the best practices survey, user research, specific draft and reference implementation. Not sure how long this is going to take. I don't think they've given any dates here, but it's really, really awesome to see movement on this. I do think that one day we could get to a position where the web is basically all sign in with Ethereum and there's no need for you to have like a username and password for every kind of like site or to sign in with Google or Facebook, any of these centralized kind of solutions, you can sign in with your Ethereum wallet and keep your identity and keep everything fully decentralized, you know, on your own kind of device, which I think is really, really cool. All right, so speaking of that, speaking of kind of like the decentralization, Lucas here from gnosis put out a tweet today saying that Apple is blocking the release of gnosis, Safe's new mobile app, sorry, mobile app update, because they display nfts in it.
00:26:48.366 - 00:27:53.652, Speaker A: And he goes on to say, after two weeks of back and forth, I felt that we needed to talk publicly about this to raise awareness. And you can see this thread here where he says, two weeks ago they submitted a new version of the NoiseSafe mobile app to the App Store and they got the following response that basically says, please provide detailed answers to the following questions in reply to this message, which is, what are the collectibles users can store in the app? Is this to store nfts? And then essentially the next day we got a question. Sorry, they got a questionable response again, basically about in app purchases. And essentially this is going back to, I guess like Apple kind of like not, not liking the fact that the nfts, I guess through notices safe, can be, well, not just nfts, but like tokens in general, can be bought by using GnosiSafe instead of going through the Apple kind of like App Store and using in app purchases through the Apple App Store so that Apple gets a cut from it. And then he says here they tried resubmitting the update again with a clearer update description, but no luck. They basically got the same kind of response back here. And then he goes on to say, this shows how access to web3 still relies heavily on gatekeepers like Apple.
00:27:53.652 - 00:28:35.430, Speaker A: It's an industry wide problem as the same arguments apply to any wallet displaying nfts or games making use of nfts. We need to find better ways to make web3 accessible on mobile permissionlessly. This has always been like a massive problem with, I guess, the fact that we have really only two App Stores, the Play Store and the App Store, that have like a duopoly on what users can access on their mobile devices. I know that with Android you can sideload apps and you can just download the APK and things like that. On Apple, I mean, if you jailbreak, you can do that, but I mean, most people don't do that anymore. But still, like, this is, I mean, I guess, like on Android it's still a power user thing to side load apps even though it's easier. And on Apple, it's definitely like a hardcore power user thing to side load apps onto your device.
00:28:35.430 - 00:29:35.868, Speaker A: So, I mean, I don't know what the solution is here. Is it creating a kind of like new open source kind of piece of hardware and software that can go together, that can kind of like create a new mobile ecosystem and then created like a fully decentralized App Store? I don't think so. Like, it's very, very hard to create a mobile device that competes with, I guess, Apple, Samsung, all the heavy hitters. It's even harder to create one that is, that is using open source hardware. And on top of that, it is even more difficult to create an App Store and to get people using that and to get developers kind of like deploying their apps to it, it's not an easy task at all. So either we hope that Apple kind of loosens their policies around this, or we have to kind of route around them, which basically means instead of going through the App Store, we basically tell people to use their web browsers on their devices to kind of like do these different things and use these different kind of things in kind of like web browsers and stuff like that. But yeah, anyway, you can read this full tweet that'll be linked in the YouTube description below.
00:29:35.868 - 00:30:01.304, Speaker A: It's an industry wide problem. It's something that we're not going to get, I think, like an answer to a clarity on or any kind of like good outcome with for quite a while, but still something to keep an eye on as we kind of like, progress through, I guess, the adoption cycle of crypto. But on that note, I'm going to leave it at that. So thank you, everyone, again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
