00:00:00.240 - 00:00:38.204, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deadly Gay refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan Denise Asano, and today's the 12 October 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So there was some news about PayPal that came out over the last few days that I haven't covered yet on the refuel because I was just waiting for it to soak a little bit. I wanted to see where it ended up here. But basically PayPal, as you can see here, Ian Miles put out this tweet saying PayPal released a press release and a walk back of its threat to fine people $2,500 for disinformation, but it still finds people $2,500 for discriminatory and intolerance. This is the page now, it's live and the policy is active.
00:00:38.204 - 00:01:15.284, Speaker A: So bit of context, bit of background here is that a few days ago PayPal put together a new, I guess, line in their terms of service where they basically said that if you're spreading disinformation, they're going to fine you $2,400 or take $2,500 out of your PayPal account. Now, there was confusion around this, whether it only applied to your PayPal account balance or that applied to your bank accounts that was connected to PayPal. I don't know what came of that. But basically there was a lot of backlash, obviously. And then PayPal walked this back. But I mean, they didn't walk it back totally. There's, it seems to, they've just kind of changed it to discriminatory and intolerance.
00:01:15.284 - 00:02:43.182, Speaker A: And rather than disinformation, which is still very dystopian, I mean, I think when looking at this sort of stuff, it's obvious why crypto is and is becoming more popular as time goes on, is because you see as time goes on that these centralized companies, they do things that, I mean, worse than what you would expect them to do. Like you expect sometimes for these centralized companies to shut people's accounts down for various different reasons, or you expect maybe one day for you to get banned for whatever reason, and that's bad in of itself and that shitty in of itself, but you don't expect them to start taking your money for, from you for spreading disinformation, or at least what they consider disinformation, because that's the crux of it, really. There is an arbiter of what is disinformation and what isn't and what Paypal that arbiter in this case, what if they get it wrong? Right? Are they supposed to be some kind of kangaroo court that basically says, hey, you were spreading disinformation, so we're going to take $2,500 from your account as a penalty, which is just bizarre, right? And obviously very dystopian. So enter crypto as the solution to this. If you own your own keys, you own your own coins. And not all crypto is created equal either. I'm really only talking about bitcoin and ethereum here, and I'm really only talking about BTC and ethanol, because at the end of the day, we know that there are stable coins such as USDC and USDT that have backdoors that essentially allow the issuers to arbitrarily freeze whatever amount, wherever it is on ethereum or other chains that they're on.
00:02:43.182 - 00:03:13.902, Speaker A: So they're not a solution either. The solution to this is building a bankless ecosystem and a truly defi ecosystem. But a lot of defi isn't true defi yet. A lot of it tries to say it is, but it really isn't. And if you're using USDC or USDT, for example, to escape something like this happening to you, well, it's only marginally better. I wouldn't consider it to be that much better. I would actually maybe consider it to be worse in some scenarios, because all your USDC could get frozen, even in your own wallet.
00:03:13.902 - 00:03:36.150, Speaker A: Right? Whereas with. With this PayPal thing, if. Even if they're trying to take money from your bank account, if your balance is zero or less than what they are trying to take is not. Not going to work. And also, you can disconnect your bank account, obviously, and things like that. Right? And this sort of stuff, it doesn't. Like, when I look at this, I think to myself, is this going to hold up in a court of law? I don't think so.
00:03:36.150 - 00:04:22.806, Speaker A: I mean, but I mean, PayPal's a big company, right? Going up against them would be quite difficult. But, yeah, I mean, when it comes to protecting yourself from stuff like this, it's really only Ethan BTC that you can hold as a truly decentralized crypto asset that's obviously liquid and that you can have relative certainty is going to be here for a long, long time. Right. So the thing about what people say, you know, crypto solves this. I hate when people say that for those reasons that I just outlined, because when you say crypto solves this, it doesn't. I mean, 99% of crypto does not solve this. It actually probably makes it worse or makes it worse in other ways, whereas there is that 1% that is being built, as I said, such as bitcoin and ethereum, that is truly decentralized and that is trying to offer an alternative to people.
00:04:22.806 - 00:05:05.320, Speaker A: And, you know, obviously on chain, there's a lot of active financial activity happening on ethereum. People refer to this as like a shadow banking system or a, I guess, parallel banking system. Now, the word shadow has always got negative connotations attached to it, but I don't think it should because it really is a shadow banking system, right. Because it is outside the purview of the traditional finance system for the most part. Obviously there are bridges there, but it, it acts kind of in its own little bubble there, and it basically lives in the shadow of the traditional finance system because it's much, much smaller. Uh, and it's also, I mean, you can call it a parallel system because it's also a parallel system, but, like, let's not kid ourselves. Defi, and, and on chain finance isn't anywhere near where it needs to be for a number of different reasons, but it still exists.
00:05:05.320 - 00:05:28.080, Speaker A: It's liquid enough for a lot of people. That's the thing. Like people always say it needs to be more liquid. I mean, yeah, okay, it's pretty liquid right now for regular people. I mean, maybe not for mega whales who need to move around hundreds of millions of dollars, but for regular people who are moving around thousands, maybe even tens of thousands of dollars. The on chain finance ecosystem is very, very liquid for these people, thanks to those, I guess, whales in large part as well. But it's there.
00:05:28.080 - 00:06:33.284, Speaker A: And again, I go back to people saying crypto is the answer. Just because things are liquid, just because you're able to use them without KYC, doesn't mean that they're not centralized. Like USDC, you can use without KYC, but it is super centralized. And at any time, at any point, the issuer of USDC could choose to arbitrarily freeze your funds, just like Paypal can arbitrarily take $2,500 from your account for, I guess, now discriminatory or intolerance, which just is like a whole can of dystopian worms that, when you really think about it, gets, gets really dark really, really quickly. But, yeah, I just wanted to highlight that one, explain some context around, explain how I view these things. Obviously, I'm in a theory, maybe not, maybe not obviously to, to newer listeners and viewers, but if you know me, you know that I'm in ethereum to make the world a freer place to make sure that people have the freedom to do what they want to do with their financial services, with their money. Because I don't like how I guess centralized the financial system is, I mean, it's so centralized to, to the point where it's not bad because it's centralized.
00:06:33.284 - 00:07:03.176, Speaker A: Like, it's not necessarily bad because it's centralized. But that centralization leads to a lot of negatives which we've seen play out over the last few years especially as well. So, yeah, anyway, I'm going to move on from that one. There's a couple of other big announcements to get to. But yeah, it's very, I mean, very frightening, very scary to see this from Paypal, but I guess not unexpected. All right, so Google is now showing Ethereum wallet balances. This was pointed out on Twitter yesterday, and then the block put out article showing this.
00:07:03.176 - 00:07:24.440, Speaker A: But basically I don't think this applies to everywhere in the world with Google. I had to open an incognito window to get it to show for me. I'm in Australia. I think it's maybe only applying to the US right now. But essentially if you search for a Ethereum wallet address, not an ens, you have to put the whole address in here. It'll come up with a blockchain address. It's saying that it's a blockchain address but with the ethereum balance.
00:07:24.440 - 00:08:03.730, Speaker A: And then it links to ether scan here. So it's obviously pulling the data from Etherscan. Now this is cool, but also, I mean, it's kind of shitty because I guess like it's just another index of everyone's addresses and balances. But again, that's because we don't have privacy anyway, and Etherscan is already indexing this stuff, so we really shouldn't expect any privacy there. But it's cool to see Google putting their weight behind Ethereum even more here because you remember that they had a merge countdown going, which, which was very awesome, very surprising, but a welcome surprise. And now they have this wallet balance here, which is, which is pretty cool. And the fact that it links to ether scans really cool as well, because it means that Google trusts ether scan as a source for this sort of information.
00:08:03.730 - 00:08:37.264, Speaker A: And then there were some rumors circulating that maybe Google wants to acquire ether scan. And look, to be honest, I wouldn't put it past them to acquire either scan, but does either scan want to be acquired? Who knows? I mean, either scan is one of the best things that we have in the Ethereum ecosystem. I like that it's not part of any big corporation, any big company. But if Google was to acquire it, I wouldn't be surprised because, I mean, it fits exactly into what Google does, indexing data. Right. And we should. And obviously, like there are private things on either scam, such as when you log in, you can have like watch lists of your addresses and stuff like that.
00:08:37.264 - 00:09:14.322, Speaker A: And if you signed up with an, if you have your name on there or if you have an email address that can tie back to you or that potentially that data could get, you know, integrated with a Google service which could basically dox your addresses, right, and docs your dox, your real name and your addresses and link them together. And just like what we saw with, with the Celsius data leak or data or that spreadsheet that came out the other day. So, yeah, I mean, there are negatives to consider, of course, with everything. But yeah, we'll have to see. I mean, as I said, these are just rumors. There's no confirmation or anything like that. But as I said, if Google was to acquire ether scan, I wouldn't be surprised.
00:09:14.322 - 00:09:33.380, Speaker A: But very cool to see them having this Ethereum balance show up. And the fun thing is, is that this doesn't apply for bitcoin. So you can't search at a bitcoin address and have that show up right now. Maybe they'll add that later. But they added Ethereum first. So people at Google are definitely big Ethereum fans, that's for sure. All right, so speaking of Google, just another announcement.
00:09:33.380 - 00:10:12.168, Speaker A: So Google and Coinbase have partnered up on a plan to offer crypto payments for cloud services. So basically you will be able to pay for cloud services from early 2023 using crypto. I'm guessing they're going to be using Coinbase's commerce service in the background to do this. Yep, yep. Co investors commerce product, which is really cool because, I mean, a lot of people use Google cloud services and they obviously use Amazon AWS cloud services as well. But Google's right up, right up there too, and a lot of crypto companies use them. So you imagine these crypto companies, if they're able to pay their cloud service bills in crypto, it'll make their accounting a lot easier and it dropped that friction as well.
00:10:12.168 - 00:10:31.070, Speaker A: So huge, I guess, very huge news here. And Coinbase has been a kind of renaissance over the last year or so. They've been doing a lot of really great stuff. Um, they had their documentary come out recently. Uh, the Coinbase documentary. I haven't watched it yet from what I've heard, it's, it's, it's pretty good. But, I mean, I can't help but think it's kind of like a pr move, which is fine.
00:10:31.070 - 00:10:54.558, Speaker A: I mean, companies do this all the time. Uh, but I think Coinbase got a bad rap for a while for a bunch of different mistakes that they made, but they seem to be trying to repair their reputation, which is, which is cool. I like that. Uh, but again, I mean, they're a centralized service. They're always going to be a centralized service. They play a key role in the ecosystem. But there are obviously negatives that come with being a centralized service and also being such a visible service.
00:10:54.558 - 00:11:27.622, Speaker A: I mean, they are the world's largest crypto exchange in terms of. Sorry, the US is largest crypto exchange. The world's largest is binance, obviously. But Coinbase being in the US, they have to trade a much finer line than something like finance does on multiple fronts, especially because people consider Coinbase to be a flag bearer of this industry. I don't think people consider binance to be a flag bearer in the same kind of caliber, but Coinbase, definitely. So cool to see them partnering up with Google to offer these services. All right, another big announcement comes out of France.
00:11:27.622 - 00:11:51.418, Speaker A: So it turns out Ethereum really is the future of France. So EDF, which is a french public electricity company, has announced that he's managing over 150 Ethereum nodes for itself and customers. So nodes here, I think, should be validators. So they're not running 150 full nodes, they're running 150 staking validators. But this is really cool, guys. Like, the funny thing about this. So there's two major things here.
00:11:51.418 - 00:12:26.496, Speaker A: One, it's a big french public electricity company running Ethereum validators and being public about it. That's awesome. Two, I mean, it makes sense for an electricity company to do this because we're on proof of stake now. You know, they're not going to get attacked for this. Could you imagine an electricity company being like, we're running miners, right? Like we're running ethereum miners or bitcoin miners. They probably copped some flack about that because of all the environmental concerns and also people saying, oh, you're just, you know, going to give yourself, like, cheap electricity in order to mine bitcoin or ETH or whatever. I mean, there'd probably be bad narratives around that.
00:12:26.496 - 00:12:52.054, Speaker A: But with this, there's not, obviously, because it's running proof of stake. And also, uh, they get all the good publicity from the ethereum community as well. Because this is pretty big news, and this isn't the first corporate to run Ethereum validators. It will not be the last. I think that. So actually, I should take a step back here and talk about staking in general for a sec. So I think that, I mean, EDF won't be, as I said, won't be the last, won't be the first, won't be the last sort of thing.
00:12:52.054 - 00:13:40.624, Speaker A: But I think that it's funny how the demand for staking hasn't actually gone up very much, and I think it's definitely due to the bear market. But I would have expected more ETH to be staked post merge because the yields are quite high. I mean, 7% ish or six 7% ish with the fee revenue going up now. So the yields Ethan nominated yield is quite high. But I think because rates are going up, people aren't buying risk assets and rather sit in cash or buy bonds and things like that. Um, and, you know, to get, obviously a quote unquote risk free rate or whatever, what have you. But I'm curious to see what the staking, uh, I guess, like, ecosystem looks like in a bull market post withdrawals as well, because we may end up having withdrawals before the bull market comes back, which is going to obviously throw another variable into the mix.
00:13:40.624 - 00:14:19.242, Speaker A: But, yeah, I mean, I wouldn't say I'm disappointed. I would say I'm just surprised because of the fact that the yields are so good. But I guess it just speaks to how much fear there is right now in the market. So many people are just sitting in cash not wanting to buy a new ETH to put into staking because I would suspect that, you know, maybe the ETH that's going into staking now, the little bits that are trickling in, is probably people that already have 8th and are just finally staking it. But I don't think there'd be many of those because those people have had a long time to stake it. So I think that any stake, I mean, there's already 14 million ETH in there as well. So I think that any stake, any staked ETH that comes in, well, most of it will probably come from new purchases, but that's probably not going to happen until the market heats up again.
00:14:19.242 - 00:14:59.516, Speaker A: And we're in this eternal crab range right now, which is just, it's, it's funny how much it reminds me of 2019, especially because right now Devcon is taking place. And I remember being at Devcon in Osaka, and, I mean, no one was really talking about the price or caring about the price back then. But I remember I went to Japan, right? Um, and then I stayed in Japan for three weeks and the price of ETH was pretty much exactly the same as when I left, right. And when I came back. And it's reminding me of what's happening right now, where the price of ETH seems to be just staying around 1300 btC, around 1900 to 20k. It's like kind of like that range that's happening there. So I mean, it makes sense that people are just like flat and they're like, oh, I'll just buy.
00:14:59.516 - 00:15:36.712, Speaker A: There's no rush to buy ETH right now. They're probably waiting, being like, I don't want to buy now because what if it goes down further because of all the macro uncertainty and that plays into how much ETH will get staked? But we'll see, we'll see how that plays out. We'll see how that shakes out as time goes on. Obviously we don't know when the market's going to come back, but I obviously believe that it will. We just, it's just a timing thing now. Alright, so crypto Spanglish had a really great thread out that they put out yesterday that came out just after yesterday's refill, so I'm covering it today. Basically they start this thread by saying since June when the bear market hit, I've seen some people argue that ethereum is dead due to the record low gas fees.
00:15:36.712 - 00:16:10.976, Speaker A: Instead I'll show you how ethereum is modular and roll up centric approach is already a success. Now you can go read this thread for yourself, but there's one chart in particular that I wanted to focus on here that shows how l two s are growing. So on this chart basically shows ethereum arbitrary optimism and roll ups as a percentage of, of the ethereum layer one transaction. So you can see at the top a theorem. Layer one transactions is pretty steady, right? I mean it's, it's come down a little bit, but it's pretty steady. And that's simply because ethereum layer one is always congested. I've gone through this before on the refuel.
00:16:10.976 - 00:16:53.762, Speaker A: There's only a certain number of transactions that can fit into there because of the gas limit. Same is true for L2s, but they have a more scalability than ethereum layer one right now at least I believe arbitrum does. I'm not 100% if optimism does, but arbitram definitely does. Post nitro optimism would post bedrock. But I'm not sure, pre bedrock, but you can see here that arbitrary and optimism has, have been growing and also they've been growing as a percentage. So they spiked at about 59% of ethereum layer one transactions in q three, and then they're about 44% I think, right now of, of layer one transactions. And that's growing, as you can see here, from 11% in June at the start of June, week one of June to 44% today.
00:16:53.762 - 00:17:31.058, Speaker A: So this is obviously a very nice way of visualizing that L2s are growing. And I think that people often get the wrong idea about L2s in that they look at them and they're like, oh, they're not really growing. You know, their fear of a news low, all these sorts of stuff. And I've, I've said before that I do obviously believe that fear revenue is a, is probably the best metric we have at measuring growth. But there are other ones that you take as well as fear of a new to paint a better picture. And that's exactly what crypto spanglish has done here. And on top of this, when you look at fear revenue, the L2s aren't going to generate as much fee revenue as layer one ethereum is because they are dictated by layer one ethereum.
00:17:31.058 - 00:18:12.966, Speaker A: So at least right now, before proto dank sharding comes out. So let me explain. When layer one, gas fees go up. Layer two gas fees go up. Why? Because core data cost for L2s goes up because they, it's part of the Ethereum layer one gas fee market. So if the gas fees are 20 way on Ethereum, right, which they are right now on layer one, then the L2s will reflect that 20 gray if it's ten, well, L2 should theoretically cost 50% cheaper now, because if you're on layer one costs 50% cheaper, right? So when you look at it like that, it makes a lot of sense that obviously L2s are never going to generate anywhere near as much fear for you as layer one. Maybe if they get extremely super congested and everyone's bidding for the block space.
00:18:12.966 - 00:18:52.126, Speaker A: But the whole point is that they don't get to that point where they're super congested. If they, if they are seeing that consistent demand, then we can scale up the L2 much easier than we can scale up the layer one. Now in a proto dank shining world, it gets even more pronounced because the L2s will be settling their, their, their data using blobs on Ethereum. Layer one, which is has, which will have its own fee market which means that it's not going to be affected by the rest of the fee market on layer one ethereum. So even if layer one of them goes to 100 way, the L2 fees should. I mean, they'll still be affected somewhat because of the proofs, but it won't be as pronounced as it is now. It'll be considerably less.
00:18:52.126 - 00:19:17.874, Speaker A: As I've said before, it's ten to 100 times improvement. That's the kind of ballpark estimate we have for that. So because of that, the fear of any other L2s are going to be, is going to be pretty muted compared to layer one. So you can't just look at fear revenue of the L2s. To measure growth, you have to look at so many other things. And we can see from this chart and from a bunch of other metrics that I've thrown around on the refill before, L2s are growing. And this is just arbitrary and optimism.
00:19:17.874 - 00:19:42.164, Speaker A: This isn't talking about any of the other ones right now. Well, I mean, if you throw in all the other ones here, the percentage of transactions of ethereum layer one probably exceeds 100% if we throw in all those. But this is just arbitrary and optimism. And they're collectively at 44% right now, which is almost half, which is really awesome to see. But yeah, go read this thread from Crypto Spanglish. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. It's a great one.
00:19:42.164 - 00:20:16.142, Speaker A: All right, so speaking of arbitrum, they are teasing something here on Reddit, Reddit on Twitter that I don't know what it is, but it looks exciting. So they've put out a turquoise heart or a blue heart, I guess an orange heart plus question mark equals. Soon people are speculating that this is a token launch. I don't know if it is or isn't. As I said, I don't know exactly what this is. I think it's going to be announced very soon, obviously, because they're at Defcon, hasn't been announced yet, just went to the Twitter profile to check. So maybe it's been announced by the time you're watching this, watching the refuel.
00:20:16.142 - 00:20:59.900, Speaker A: And I'm obviously outdated here, but yeah, these teasers always make me very excited because the arbitrum, I mean, the L2s, they tend to tease things when they've actually got something to show for the most part, which is obviously very exciting. But I've got absolutely no idea what this could be. I mean, outside of a token, like, what else can it be? I mean, Nitro's live. Are they announcing another major partnership, like with Reddit? Have they acquired a company or have they acquired another Layer to a company or something like that? Or have they made a big hire? I don't know. You know what I mean? Like, it could be anything right now. Maybe there is probably a code here that I'm completely missing, but I'm sure you're going to laugh if you're watching this after it's been announced. Maybe I got it right.
00:20:59.900 - 00:21:26.830, Speaker A: Maybe I got it wrong. We'll see. All right, so Xerox Splits has introduced Waterfalls today, which is tiered payout. So Waterfalls are a new type of contract that allow you to easily define the order in which people get paid. Just like splits, waterfalls are composable, gas efficient, and completely free to use. Now, I've covered zero x splits, or the splits protocol before on the refuel. One, because I'm an investor in them, but two, because I think it's a really, really cool little protocol here.
00:21:26.830 - 00:22:04.144, Speaker A: So just a recapper. What splits allows you to do is basically have a smart contract that splits payments into different addresses. That's like the basic, very basic explanation of it. And with this new waterfalls feature, it's, it's adding tiered payouts. So you can see here in the screenshot that the tiered payout is you would send the first two ETH to Alice ETH, and then the next 1.5 ETH would go to bob ETH, and all the residual ETH that's left over will be split three ways between goes to, goes to a three way split. So you can see how these things are very composable because you can have a split within a split, and then, like a waterfall within a waterfall within a split.
00:22:04.144 - 00:22:34.036, Speaker A: And you can have this crazy stuff going on all totally automated or on chain, all gas efficient, as they said. And I think this is like a really cool little feature here. And, and this is being used by a bunch of different projects. I think the protocol guild is using this to distribute out their funds from memory. I've used a split feature before. Not this one, because I don't think it was out yet, but when kidda and I did the daily way anniversary NFT, we used mirrors split feature in order to split the payment. And it worked quite well when it worked.
00:22:34.036 - 00:23:18.828, Speaker A: I mean, it was a bit clunky because we had to do some back end stuff and they had to do a custom deployment for us. But generally, these things work really well, especially because they're automated. Once they're deployed on chain, you can have them be immutable, so there's no way to kind of change it. And you can imagine using this for something like your, I guess, protocol revenue from your ethereum validator. So you could set the recipient address to a split, and then the split has the code coded language in there to basically say, okay, put, you know, put all this, ethan here, put this in here, or wait for it to stack up to this much ETH and then split it into here, split into there. And then at any time you can change your recipient address, sorry, your fee recipient address of your validator to something else. And then that split basically just stops processing anything.
00:23:18.828 - 00:23:36.624, Speaker A: Maybe you want to redeploy the split. Maybe you want to change some parameters. You can do that, which I think is very, very cool. But yeah, go check out this blog post. It dives a bit deeper into what waterfalls are and how you can get started using them. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so the quicz NFT.
00:23:36.624 - 00:24:01.704, Speaker A: I think I'm saying it right. QuiC's optimism NFT marketplace has announced today that they're introducing the optimism NFT bridge. I remember they teased this a while ago, or someone was teasing this a while ago. So basically this has been developed by the Quic steam in partnership with optimism. The bridge allows users to trade Ethereum nfts on optimism, where the average transaction costs less than $0.20 in gas and is up to 100 times faster than Mainnet. And you can use it right now.
00:24:01.704 - 00:24:52.362, Speaker A: It's, it's live right now. This is really cool because there's been a debate about, I guess, splitting liquidity between layer one and L2, because there's a lot of nfts that it were issued on layer one, Ethereum, and that are very popular and traded on there on Opensea and things like that. But now, I mean, Quix is on optimism, Opensea is also on optimism. But now they have this NFT bridge where basically you can send your NFT from Ethereum, layer one to L2 and trade with it on L2 and enjoy those cheap gas costs and everything like that. Now, it is a bit harder when you're bridging nfts across because you have to bridge it individually, right? They can't just be all bridged together. I mean, you could set up a thing that automates the bridging process, but still, they all have to be bridge individually to the L2. And then one could exist on L2 and, and not be on layer one anymore because it's been bridged over, but actually from.
00:24:52.362 - 00:25:29.790, Speaker A: From memory, I think that. I mean, I can't remember exactly if it works exactly like this, but from memory, I think that the way it worked was that it would just like clone your NFT or something so that you could still use it on layer one. I don't know if that was gone, if that happened that way. I don't know if basically, when you bridge it to L2, you can't use it on layer one anymore, or if it's cloned, so to speak, where you don't have two of the same to sell, but you can sell it on either. Or you can, I guess, do whatever you want with it on either optimism or ethereum layer one. And it would kind of keep the accounting between those two. But I don't know if that's been implemented.
00:25:29.790 - 00:25:46.630, Speaker A: I, as far as I am aware, I suspect this is just a one way bridge. But still, it's very cool that this exists. Obviously, for those of you into nfts much more than I am, this will be relevant to you. I am just so not into nfts. Actually, I was thinking about this before. Like, I don't know what it is. You guys know I'm into my collectibles.
00:25:46.630 - 00:26:06.542, Speaker A: You can see them all behind me. I don't know what it is about nfts that. I mean, I love the concept. I see the value prop, I see the use case. But, like, speculating on them, collecting them, doesn't really tickle my fancy at all. Besides, something like a pop, like pops, I love collecting. I'm not hardcore about them either, but still, I love collecting them.
00:26:06.542 - 00:26:43.944, Speaker A: I love getting all the hard to get ones and the unique ones and the ones that obviously will be historic, like the merge NFT at the merge pops and stuff like that. But the general kind of speculation and being in discords and being on Twitter and following all the NFT stuff is that just doesn't really appeal to me. And the thing is, nothing has ever appealed to me in that way, except maybe ethereum itself. Right? Like, I. Obviously, you guys know I follow a lot of ethereum protocol development. The only discord I really lurk is the ETH R and D channel. I lurk, I read a lot in there and then I look on Twitter for ethereum protocol stuff, but I don't look any NFT discords.
00:26:43.944 - 00:27:14.224, Speaker A: I don't lurk NFT Twitter or anything like that, or participate in it. It just didn't ever grab to me. But it's obviously extremely popular and that's totally fine. And I really like that that's, that that's the case because it means that there are use cases out there that, that, I mean, I used to be about all about everything on Ethereum, but there are use cases out there that I'm just not going to ever be really involved in. And that's awesome because it means the Ethereum network is just so much bigger than it used to be. But, yeah, if you are into your nfts, then definitely go check out this quic's NFT bridge. From Ethereum.
00:27:14.224 - 00:27:36.524, Speaker A: Layer one to optimism. Now, I have a couple minutes left here. Just want to make a quick note about the newsletter. Now, for those of you who've been following me for a while, the Daily Way actually started off as a newsletter in mid 2020. The YouTube channel didn't come till late 2020, so I think it was five months after or something like that. But for the last month ish, I haven't put out any newsletters. It's usually supposed to be a daily newsletter.
00:27:36.524 - 00:28:09.890, Speaker A: I'm gonna say it's because I got busy. It's mostly because I hit a wall, to be honest. I I mean, I've written over 500 editions of that newsletter since, uh, mid 2020 and around the merge. Like, the last one I wrote about, last one I wrote was about the merge, um, once the merge happened, and then I hit a wall, and I'm like, oh, my God. Like, I don't know if this is writer's block or what, but I just kind of hit a wall, and I said, okay, I'm gonna get back into it when I feel like it's time. And, well, it's time today. I'm publishing a newsletter today, so you can go subscribe to the newsletter, um, if you haven't yet, and go check it out there.
00:28:09.890 - 00:28:26.914, Speaker A: But, uh, yeah, I just wanted to make a note on that because I didn't really say anything. Uh, it just kind of happened. And I think that I'm trying to get back into the daily cadence of things. It may just be kind of a bi daily thing. Maybe every couple of days or something like that. Maybe Monday, Wednesday, Friday sort of thing, or maybe Wednesday, Thursday. I don't know.
00:28:26.914 - 00:28:47.244, Speaker A: Like, it just depends at this, at this stage. I think I've, I've overloaded my brain so much at this point with Ethereum stuff, obviously doing the refuel and just keeping up with everything. And then the newsletter, I was like, oh, my God. And sometimes I get really stressed about it because I'm like, I've really got to put out a newsletter. But I can't. I just can't find the words right now. But yeah, there's newsletter out today, so go check that out.
00:28:47.244 - 00:28:57.484, Speaker A: But that's it for today. Thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
