00:00:03.240 - 00:00:11.134, Speaker A: When it comes to defi security, why are there so many scams? And why is it that it seems like defi security is so hard to get right?
00:00:11.254 - 00:01:03.986, Speaker B: It's a couple of things, I think. First and foremost, this space is decentralized, right? There is already this expectation, especially because regulations aren't very clear, that every single person participating in this space needs to be in charge of their financial products. When you're in charge of your own financial products, and when you're participating in such a new space where you are solely responsible for all funds coming in and out of your wallet, it could be really hard to do the right research. You may not really know what to look for. There's a lot of scams where, you know, a metamask browser extension will pop up and it'll be branded like metamask. But if you look really closely at the URL, maybe a couple letters are off from the official metamask URL. And the next thing you know, people are now interacting with a malicious smart contract that is stealing the keys and access to their crypto.
00:01:03.986 - 00:01:50.658, Speaker B: The other thing is, defi security infrastructure is pretty much non existent. A lot of protocols were just going based off of what currently exists out there in terms of like how they launch tokens, what platforms they choose to utilize, and so there's really no infrastructure for security at all. The third biggest thing is general lack of education in the space. I think token due diligence is incredibly important. I think there are a lot of folks that don't fully understand how to do due diligence or what to look for. There are a lot of folks investing in the space that also don't even know what a smart contract is. And that's kind of concerning because blockchain and all of these tokens, they're all built on smart contracts.
00:01:50.658 - 00:02:06.194, Speaker B: You know, the smart contract controls everything in terms of functions being able to buy, sell, you know, all of these little tiny minute functions and details that if you aren't aware of, can oftentimes lead to you investing in a scam.
