00:00:00.250 - 00:00:38.774, Speaker A: Our vision is that DeFI should be built like the Internet, with trustless and immutable protocol that are extremely unoppinionated, extremely efficient at the core. And then on top of which we can rebuild the different abstractions. What we're going to do with morphoblue is to do something extremely simple, a lending protocol that does just one thing, which is the lending and borrowing of one asset against one collateral. The good thing is that it's permissionless, exactly like uniswap. So you can create any market you want. So you can enable lending and borrowing of any asset against any asset. So one more for blue market is 600 lines of code.
00:00:38.774 - 00:00:51.310, Speaker A: And it is just that. And because it is just that, you can make it completely trustless, so completely immutable because it's super simple, there is like no management at all. And you can make it extremely efficient.
00:00:53.810 - 00:01:33.946, Speaker B: Hey everyone, welcome to the Edge podcast. I'm DFI dad here with nomadic from four Rc. Today's show features morpho, the third largest lending protocol on Ethereum, with over $1 billion in deposited assets. In this episode, we'll interview the cofounder about their recent announcement about a new lending protocol called Morpho Blue. We'll discuss how this anticipated lending protocol aims to solve Dow bottlenecks in today's largest DFI lending protocols, which results in a more trustless, efficient, and permissionless manner. But before we do, just a quick word from our sponsors who make the Edge podcast possible. For most of us, our crypto journey started with Metamask, and now with Metamask portfolio, we can do so much more.
00:01:33.946 - 00:02:11.878, Speaker B: Metamask portfolio puts you in control. Use the dashboard to see all your assets and balances across your wallets in one place. The buy feature allows us to buy crypto assets effortlessly with fiat options such as PayPal or credit card. The swap feature allows us to swap any tokens anytime by finding a selection of available rates. The bridge feature allows us to bridge between networks, including Ethereum, L1s and L two s, based on the best price and fastest delivery time. And with the stake feature, anyone in a few clicks can stake ETH and earn rewards. Do more in web3 your way with a safe, simple and convenient tool that's all in one place.
00:02:11.878 - 00:02:52.318, Speaker B: Track and manage your web3 everything at Metamask IO portfolio whether you're a trader, farmer, analyst, or newbie, you can trade smart with Kyberswap, the OG decentralized exchange and aggregator on 13 chains. Swap at the best rates farm with real yields. Set limit orders use their proprietary trading and AI tools with the best UX and Defi securely and permissionlessly get better rates, better opportunities, better alpha, and a better trading experience. Tradesmart now@kyberswap.com. Mike before we get back to the show, can you explain what is liquid restaking?
00:02:52.494 - 00:03:36.462, Speaker C: Everybody at this point is familiar with liquid staking. It lets you take your staked ETH mint, a liquid staking token, and then use that token in defi. Well, the hottest thing in staking right now is restaking. It's the ability to reuse your staked ETH to provide Ethereum's trust layer to other services that want to benefit from it, services like data availability layers, Oracle networks, other blockchains and beyond. The benefit of restaking is that you get to earn additional staking rewards on top of your normal staking rewards. Well, currently, if you want to restake your ETH, your only option is to lock up your ETH. The reason that's a problem is because you can't use your restaked ETH in DeFi.
00:03:36.462 - 00:04:01.606, Speaker C: We are launching ETH, the Etherfi liquid restaking token, because with liquid restaking, users get the benefit of staking rewards. Restaking rewards and they get to collect loyalty points for Etherfi and Eigen layer through this token. So it's the easiest way to get exposure to two up and coming early protocols, and on top of that, get all the benefits of staking and restaking.
00:04:01.718 - 00:04:07.420, Speaker B: To learn more about ETH, liquid staking and liquid restaking, go to ether five.
00:04:09.470 - 00:04:51.030, Speaker D: It all started so simply with cryptokitties and maker on Ethereum, but quickly became complex with more applications and many chains. Today, everyone agrees UX issues are the biggest blocker standing in the way of crypto adoption. Introducing avocado multi chain UX. Redesigned from the ground up, the first wallet to abstract networks, accounts and gas one gas tank to pay transaction fees on all chains in USDC and native access to Instadap's powerful custom defi strategies. Avocado one wallet to rule all chains.
00:04:51.450 - 00:05:08.078, Speaker B: Let'S introduce Paul Freblo, the co founder and CEO of Morpho Labs. Paul studied blockchain at a french engineering school. He would go on to create and launch Morpho protocol with Morpho Labs on Ethereum Mainnet in 2022. Paul, welcome to the Edge podcast. How are you doing?
00:05:08.164 - 00:05:11.434, Speaker A: Good. Thanks for having me and excited to chat about Morpho.
00:05:11.482 - 00:06:14.590, Speaker B: It's really good to see you again because I think we did a podcast maybe just about a year ago. This was the DFI talks with DFI dad series that I was doing with founders of leading DFI protocols like Morpho. What's exciting is it's only a year later and you made this major announcement on October 10 about Morpho Blue. We really want to help folks to understand where are the shortcomings today in the DFI lending and borrowing space? And just how will Morpho Blue help to address those. So, Paul, why don't we start with your background? I do want to talk about Morpho V one before we get into Morpho Blue, but everyone always wants to learn about how did you get your start in crypto? And if I'm remembering correctly, you've got a pretty epic story about coming out of school having studied DeFi protocols and blockchain. So anyways, if you can share any more detail on that. And then what led you to start Morpho?
00:06:14.670 - 00:06:57.714, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So I was studying blockchain and defi at university in France. I was in an engineering school mainly, first studying distributed algorithms and consensus algorithms behind layer ones. And throughout those studies, I came to meet with a bunch of different professors and spent a lot of my time modeling DeFi protocols with some of them. And this is how progressively I got into designing Morpho. And the idea seemed right. And this is where we started fundraising back in the days I was in my second year of engineering school.
00:06:57.714 - 00:07:35.830, Speaker A: So we did raise the first round of like $1 million, and then soon after we raised the second round with Andrew Sinorovitz and environment of approximately $20 million. And this is where we really started to deploy the protocol like last year and build the team, grow the team, and got to the point where we are now, which is like a protocol with over a billion dollars in deposited assets. But yeah, it's been a long way and started from university. So that's great. We're finally here.
00:07:36.000 - 00:07:47.090, Speaker E: That's a pretty epic story. That's kind of like living the dream, right? You and some, I guess, other university friends just go and raise money and then start building an epic defi protocol.
00:07:47.990 - 00:07:48.866, Speaker A: Pretty awesome.
00:07:48.968 - 00:07:56.414, Speaker E: I think we should just get right into Morpho. Can you just describe what it is at a high level to people that maybe aren't familiar with it?
00:07:56.472 - 00:08:26.618, Speaker A: So Morpho is a lending and borrowing protocol. So basically enables you to lend and borrow crypto assets the same way. Obviously crypto enables you to transfer assets without intermediaries. Morpho would enable you to earn interest on one end and borrow capital on the other end without intermediaries. And this concept isn't new. Since 2017 2018, other protocols have been doing that. So the most famous of those were like Ave or compound.
00:08:26.618 - 00:09:23.534, Speaker A: And when I was in university, I studied those protocols and to me they appeared quite inefficient. It was inefficient in the sense that when you were lending on Ave and compound, you were earning a certain percentage, a certain rate, but on the other end, when you were borrowing, you would have to pay a much higher rate. So let's say 1% to lend and 3% to borrow. And so there's a big gap. And basically the initial idea of morpho is simply, okay, let's optimize for this gap and let's just meet in the middle. And lenders would be matched peer to peer with borrowers, and they would earn two, while other borrowers would pay two, and that would basically be more efficient. And so Morpho initially was presented as a lending and borrowing protocol, but in practice was optimizing existing lending protocols.
00:09:23.534 - 00:10:32.806, Speaker A: And from day one, I really wanted to do my own lending and borrowing protocol. But basics of entrepreneurship tells that maybe it's not good to start with the biggest market first. It's better to have a clear go to market strategy, like improving existing protocols, like we've been doing with Aven compound. So the first year between 2022 and now has been mainly focused on what we call morpho optimizer. So this protocol optimizing Ave, optimizing compound, and this has worked out super well. Like lenders and borrowers in DFI have been using Morpho because it provided better rates while providing similar guarantees to aven compound. And yeah, we've been integrated by more than 200 different startups, protocols analytics, like wallets, and we have over a billion dollars deposited in the protocol right now, which is quite considerable, especially considering the sort of defi, don't want to say bear market, which is less attractive than what it used to be like a year and a half ago.
00:10:32.806 - 00:10:39.458, Speaker A: At least that was the morpho's initial version.
00:10:39.554 - 00:11:39.638, Speaker B: I want to help to dumb this down further for folks that are newer to Morpho V One, because it tends to be a protocol that's being used by, I would say, the most advanced DFI users. But anyone can benefit from this. And so if I was going to give an elevator pitch, if you're looking at like compound or Aave, there is quite a spread when you look at what folks are lending, let's say, ETH, and then what they're borrowing it at, and you'll notice this in every single market. And so with Morpho, because of the way that they match you peer to peer in a trustless, permissionless manner, it's cool because the selling point is so obvious. If you're lending through Morpho Ave, you're lending at a higher rate than if you just lend on that same market on Ave. And then as a borrower, you borrow at a lower rate. So it's always been a no brainer.
00:11:39.638 - 00:11:59.746, Speaker B: Unless you're looking at a protocol that's not supported by Morpho. There's power tools too out there, like Defi saver that you can check out. That's defisaver.com is really helpful for that. Actually, Paul, you have to remind me as an instadap user, does instadap support Morpho now?
00:11:59.848 - 00:12:51.298, Speaker A: Yes, I think Freddie, pretty much every single smart wallet or big Defi app is supporting Morpho now. I can't think of any big DeFi wallet or app that does not support Morpho or is not planning to. So, yeah, I think it's coming back to the initial idea of Morpho optimizer is like, okay, have a clear go to market strategy, which is optimizing existing markets. Aven compound had a clear product market fit with a bunch of users and we're like, okay, let's just do better to start with. And this is what we did. Worked that well, but we're sort of like reaching a limit now where Ave on main net is something like four billions maybe, and Morpho is 1 billion. So you kind of see the limits here.
00:12:51.298 - 00:13:19.626, Speaker A: We can't grow forever on top of Ave. And on top of that, the growth of Ave itself has not been super good this last year. So we see ourselves limited with this current version. And this is why last year we've been working on this new protocol that we'll be probably talking about in a moment. But that really comes from the limits of not being able to grow further than that.
00:13:19.728 - 00:13:33.182, Speaker B: What are those limits? Can you be a little more specific about what are the limits you've run into with Morpho? V one? And then let's introduce Morpho blue and talk about how it helps to address and solve for those challenges.
00:13:33.326 - 00:14:41.499, Speaker A: Yes, absolutely. So our year, building like both the third largest lending protocol on Ethereum but also the largest lending protocol user, because Morpho is built on top of lending protocols itself, taught us a lot. Right. We really took the time to think about what should be our own lending protocol because it's always been the, you know, Morpho. The name Morpho comes from the idea that we start as a little caterpillar living in an apple, but at some point we take our own independence and that's always been the plan. But the thing is, how do you grow from the current state of things, which is Ave or compound? And after a year building on top of ave, compound, really my mental model for lending pools is that they're very much like on chain funds, decentralized broker if you prefer. So the way they work is like you deposit money into them and they manage it for you, and it's very passive from it.
00:14:41.499 - 00:15:50.778, Speaker A: It's a very nice financial product. Like you deposit your money and behind the scenes the DAO is going to do all the hard work to make sure your money is not going to be lost. And that means in the case of the avid protocol, basically selecting the right collateral to which your USDC is going to be exposed to, and selecting how much borrowers are able to borrow with what oracle, to what extent are they able to use their collateral, how much liquidators can liquidate those kind of parameters? And actually you have today more than 700 of those risk parameters. That's a huge number to monitor real time. So what people don't really understand is that when you're depositing USDC into Aave well behind the scenes, on a recurrent basis, the DAO is going to update those risk parameters. And this basically like this on chain fund model has three big limitations. The first one is that it's not really trustless.
00:15:50.778 - 00:16:38.810, Speaker A: The second one is that it's not scalable. And the third one is that it's not efficient. So it's not trustless because basically token orders have to real time monitor and update 700 risk parameters that are all very complex, all interdependent with one another and all dependent on market conditions. For example, you have to select the collateral factor. So the collateral factor of a given asset is the amount of liquidity you can borrow from your collateral. This amount is in the orders of magnitude of, let's say 80%, right. As a token holder of the avid dow, I'm not really supposed to understand why this parameter is at 80% or 82 or if it should be 90.
00:16:38.810 - 00:17:25.046, Speaker A: It's actually very complex, right. There's a lot of risk management considerations. And the truth is the Dow is not really suited for this. And it's acknowledged in the DAO as token orders. We don't know how to do risk management, so we're going to know companies and basically pay companies to do this risk management for us. But the problem with this consultancy model is that consultants have no incentive to basically open source how they've been calculating those parameters. And this is where it's interesting, is that very frequently, like every week, the DAO is going to vote for the updates of those parameters.
00:17:25.046 - 00:18:11.974, Speaker A: And each of those parameters are proposed by consultants, but we have no way as token orders to verify that those parameters are the right ones. What that tells basically is that the entire security of lending pools today are based on closed source algars. And that's the truth. The entire security of lending in DeFi today is not trustless at all. So that's something when you're lending to the ave platform is hidden from you, because it's actually very complex and it has to be abstracted away. Like you don't have to care about those very complex things. But at the end of the day, it was not a problem when we had like 1020 different parameters.
00:18:11.974 - 00:19:36.918, Speaker A: But now that we have 700, we could tell that by the number of recent incidents that have happened over the last year in compound ecosystem, the ave ecosystem, like we're for example, having huge borrowers that we had not noticed. We don't know how to update parameters to react to this basically shows that the model does not scale. Which brings us to our second point, where to scale the AVI platform need to list more assets and to be more aggressive with parameters. But the problem is the more assets you're going to list, the bigger the number of parameters and the bigger the trust assumptions, right? And it all comes back to this problem of having token orders deciding on parameters that they don't really understand, and they outsourced to consultants basically. And there is a third problem associated to this, which is efficiency. In the sort of like traditional lending pool model, you're basically doing everything at the same time you're lending USDC and enabling the borrowing of CRZ and accepting other assets as collateral. And you kind of get the general intuition that if you're doing too many things at the same time, you're not able to do one thing extremely well.
00:19:36.918 - 00:20:52.746, Speaker A: And to give you an example of this, the avid lending pool has, for example, long tail collateral. And so when setting the risk parameters of USDC, if you're able with USDC to borrow, you know you're going to get the idea that you want to lower the collateral factor of USDC because it's not correlated with a very long tail assets, for example. So you lose efficiency in terms of how much borrowers can borrow in terms of the interest rate. And one of the reason why you have such a big spread that Morpho optimizer has been optimizing for is because of those reasons, basically because the ave lending pool, the compound lending pool, are trying to do everything all at once. So those are the three main shortcomings, not trustless, not efficient, and not scalable. And when you think about it, it all comes down to one thing, which is dependency on the DAO, right? And the idea that everything is made such that everything is passive and everything is handled, everything is managed through the DAO.
00:20:52.858 - 00:21:26.934, Speaker E: Well, I think you laid out the shortcomings really well with the real world examples of what's being done in Aave and compound. And to be honest, kind of like the facade of some of the dao governance and parameters controls, when really it's being outsourced to a group that we don't really have a grasp on how the inner workings of that design is done and implemented. So I think with that, can you kind of walk through now almost like the same three examples and how Morpho blue is addressing these?
00:21:27.052 - 00:22:34.826, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. Maybe first, very quickly to come back on the consultancy problem. I think consultants here are not to blame at all. It's just that the system, the way it's built, is not incentive compatible for them to open source the work they've been doing. And I think it's important to emphasize that it's not in their best interest to show to everybody what is it like to set those risk parameters, because if they do, then probably won't be able to charge the same fee that they are doing right now anyway. Now, answering your question on how morphoblue is going to improve in those three different dimensions, the current state of defi lending, I think the first thing is we want to get rid of Dao management and we want to do a protocol, an actual protocol, the same way HTTP is a protocol, the same way SMTP is a protocol, not a fund, not a non chain fund that's being managed. Like HTTP is not managed, SMTP is not managed.
00:22:34.826 - 00:23:35.694, Speaker A: It's like an actual list of instruction that's completely trustless, that's completely immutable in some sense. And this is where we want to get to. And our vision is that DeFi should be built like the Internet, with trustless and immutable protocol that are extremely unoppinionated, extremely efficient at the core, and then on top of which we can rebuild the different abstractions that are needed for anyone to interact with. Defi so in practice, what we're going to do with morphoblue is to do something extremely simple, a lending protocol that does just one thing, which is the lending and borrowing of one asset against one collateral. So one morphoblue market is 600 lines of code, completely immutable, enables the lending and borrowing of USDC against width, for example. And it is just that. And because it is just that, you can make it completely trustless.
00:23:35.694 - 00:24:27.054, Speaker A: So completely immutable, because it's super simple, there is like no management at all, and you can make it extremely efficient. So like a market is going to be st e'es, for example, is just very correlated market. So you can get extremely high collateral factor for borrowers, meaning that borrowers can borrow very efficiently compared to existing lending protocols. The gas that morphoblue is using is really minimal. I think we're like in the orders of magnitude of like 70% less on average than existing lending markets. So that's like massive improvements compared to the current state of things. And finally, interest rates for different reasons, because we're just focused at lending and borrowing of just one asset, and we don't need to guarantee the liquidity of a ton of different assets.
00:24:27.054 - 00:25:11.278, Speaker A: At the same time, we can get to much, much smaller spreads. So the initial spread problem that Morpho had been optimizing for over the last year does not exist anymore on morpho blue, because the protocol is so efficient that the rates can be very, very close to one another. And it's actually so efficient that it makes morpho optimizer completely relevant. And so that's for the sort of like trust aspect and the efficiency aspect. The big problem though, is the passivity of it. As I mentioned, Ave is an awesome product. You can lend USDC, you don't have to think about it, and risk managers are going to take care of it for you and they're going to create the average protocol for you.
00:25:11.278 - 00:25:53.178, Speaker A: And that's awesome. And we don't have this in morphoblue because you have a ton of different markets that are all immutable. You have USDC backed by Stes, USDC backed by WBTC. So if I'm a passive lender, I don't know which market I should be lending to. And that's the problem with morphoblue. And this is why we have another protocol that was introduced a few days ago that's called Metamorpho. And Metamorpho is a risk management protocol that enables anyone to create a USDC pool, for example, the exact same way you would have the Ave pool on top of morphoblue.
00:25:53.178 - 00:26:44.974, Speaker A: So basically a risk manager can now create a USDC pool and say, hey, you can deposit your USDC into it the same way you would do on Ave. And I'm going to allocate this USDC to different morphoblue markets, and I'm going to risk manage it for you the same way I've been risk managing the AAvE. So Metamorpho is basically rebuilding aave on top of morphoblue. But the cool thing about it is that not only can you rebuild Aave, but you can also rebuild compound, you can rebuild spark, you can rebuild flex finance, you could rebuild AavE arc, for example, if you wanted to, on top of one single trustless and efficient lending primitive, which is more for blue. And all know, maybe we'll be able to talk about it, but all instances are sharing network effects with one another and benefit from one another.
00:26:45.172 - 00:27:19.610, Speaker B: Paul, I've got a few rapid fire questions for you, and these all go back to what you just walked us through, but I want to be as specific as possible with some of the features here, because these are the things I know we care about as Defi users. First off, what do you anticipate will be the LTV for a vault with, let's say it's a volatile pair, like, let's say you're borrowing something like Dai or USDC against ETH, I guess. How high could the LTV potentially go?
00:27:19.680 - 00:28:04.786, Speaker A: It highly depends on market conditions and everything, so don't use the LTZ. I'm saying right now, because market conditions can change, et cetera. The order of magnitude is that usually on the ave pool it would be close to like 75 82% orders of magnitude, whereas on Morpho Blue you can get up to like 90 92%. That's more the order of magnitude of what you can get to on Morpho blue. And it's really like a massive difference in terms of the amount of capital efficiency you're able to get as borrower. And that's like one of the biggest asks that borrowers have been asking for. And this is why ave decided to reintroduce emote.
00:28:04.786 - 00:28:57.350, Speaker A: But that's like complexity added on top of complexity, right? It's just like as a fund, as a broker, we're going to have this new feature which is like additional parameters, additional complexity in the same bucket, and it's like sort of the same one size fits all risk management while on more for blue, it's like breaks it down into mini micro primitives that are ultra efficient, that we can sort of build on top of. And it's much, much more scalable at the end of the day. So for borrowers, much higher capital efficiency. I think on average, I think we did some simulation internally. I think on average you can get twice more leverage on morphoblue than what you would have on AVI, which is massive. But that's not only for leverage. You have like an average five x time less gas.
00:28:57.350 - 00:29:45.586, Speaker A: You have also much better interest rate. Because the protocol is completely immutable, it does not need to take a maintenance fee, for example, like Ave is taking a significant fee on interest rate to maintain the protocol. In the case of morphoblue, we don't have such a fee because the protocol is immutable, there is no maintenance to be done. So that's better rate for borrowers. And also, finally, because the protocol is just optimizing, is just lending and borrowing on one asset. There are more complex reasons why you can get to higher level of utilization of capital, which translates into tailor spread. So better rates, better rates, better less gas and better leverage for borrowers.
00:29:45.698 - 00:30:17.780, Speaker B: I think one thing you just cleared up for me is you mentioned that you could rebuild something like an ave on morpho Blue, and maybe they will. Maybe a future version of Ave actually will be thought to be built on it. I was kind of thinking of that, preparing for the interview. But what I'm wondering then, or if you can just clarify, you can only borrow one asset against one collateral at this, right? There's not going to be multiple collaterals that allow you to borrow against that.
00:30:18.230 - 00:30:55.002, Speaker A: So at the morphoblue level, at the protocol level, morphoblue does much less than aavE. It does not let you do as many things as aave, just lets you borrow one asset against one collateral. That's it. The good thing is that it's permissionless, exactly like uniswap. So you can create any markets you want. So you can enable lending and borrowing of any asset against any asset, right? But it's isolated lending pairs. Now, on top of this, you can rebuild abstractions, because morphoblue itself is very primitive and can get a bit complex to use and select which market to use, et cetera, et cetera.
00:30:55.002 - 00:31:54.442, Speaker A: This is why on the lending side of things, for example, you don't want to wrap your head around, like choosing which market I should be lending USDC to. And this is why for the lending side of things, you could have a risk manager doing risk management for you and basically create a metamorpho vault. So it's an entire separate protocol where a risk manager can create their own USDC pool. You deposit USDC into it and the risk manager is going to be able to deposit this USDC into the different collateral markets up to a certain cap. And so this lending experience, not borrowing, but this lending experience is basically the virtualization of the AvE experience. So basically on ave you lend USDC and it's getting exposed to, let's say ten different collateral on metamorpho. You could have a risk expert that is going to manage the same exposure as the Ave one for your USDC loan.
00:31:54.442 - 00:32:02.254, Speaker A: So you can deposit USDC into metamorpho and get the exact same exposure that you'd get on Ave, but it's only for lenders.
00:32:02.382 - 00:32:10.150, Speaker B: Morpho V One is on ethereum main net. Can we expect Morpho Blue to go live on any of the major Ethereum L two s?
00:32:10.220 - 00:32:48.574, Speaker A: Yeah, so the reason why we thought Morpho optimizer like Morpho V One was not super relevant on other chains is again for the same reason that we're targeting multiple orders of magnitude of growth and going to another chain is more like 20%, 30% issue improvement maximum morpher blue is only 600 lines of code, completely immutable. So from operations perspective it's extremely easy to go cross chain. And I think it will be even more relevant once we have a couple of other products live.
00:32:48.692 - 00:33:00.002, Speaker B: Paul, any products you can point out or describe that you'd like to see built on morpho blue or that we can expect to be built on morpho blue?
00:33:00.066 - 00:33:40.862, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. So really anything lending and borrowing can be rebuilt on top of morphoblue? Morphoblue is so primitive. The biggest concern we had with AV is that it was doing too many things at the same time. So that did not let builders express sufficiently themselves to build big business cases on top of AAve. And we're the biggest use case on top of Ave and still we're extremely limited. So we thought we should do much less so that builders can do much more. And so anything lending, all the lending tools, all the lending protocols can actually be rebuilt on this morphoglue micro primitive.
00:33:40.862 - 00:33:50.866, Speaker A: And this is what we're particularly excited about, is that lending protocols themselves can be rebuilt on top of morph blue. So anything lending, basically one last rapid.
00:33:50.898 - 00:34:08.070, Speaker B: Fire question for you. Can you just quickly list off the fees that we would consider as users. And also, if you can repeat, there was a fee there that we pay with lending, borrowing markets, with Aave that morphoblue does not charge.
00:34:08.230 - 00:34:51.690, Speaker A: Yes. So my mental model for fees in DeFi is that you have basically two kind of that you have the network fee and you have the protocol network fee and the service fee. So the network fee is similar to what you have on Unisoft. And it's quite theoretical because so far it has not been activated. So it's basically a fee switch that can be activated if the protocol is so big that it has so much network effect that it creates value not through services, but through being a network itself. Right. And the protocol is then able to extract a little bit of profit from just being a great network.
00:34:51.690 - 00:35:53.978, Speaker A: And morphoblue has the exact same system, a fee switch that's initially deactivated, that could be activated through governance, the same way Uniswap fee switch could be activated through governance, but it does not have the second kind of fee, which is the service fee, where basically you pay a fee for a service, and usually this service is abstracting away complexity. In the case of the Uniswap labs front end, where you pay for getting access to a smooth front end, in the case of Aave, where you pay to get access to like a risk managed on chain fund. Right. And if you use metamorpho, which is on top of morphoblue, it's because you're a passive user and you don't want to be caring about the collateral factors and all those complex risk parameters. You want somebody to manage it for you the same way you want somebody to manage it for you on Ave. Okay. And so you can use a minimal for vote, which has a fee on the interest rate that you're taking, that goes to the risk manager directly.
00:35:53.978 - 00:36:01.870, Speaker A: So risk managers, instead of being consultants for DAOs, are now servicing the user directly, which makes it particularly interesting for them, by the way.
00:36:01.940 - 00:36:30.346, Speaker E: Yeah, that's actually a really neat arrangement there. There's an interesting incentive for them to kind of manage risk on all these different vaults and I guess take like a small piece of the pie, essentially. One thing I think we should touch on, I'm curious if morpho blue is doing anything different with liquidations, or maybe you can walk us through how those would work if it's kind of like a more typical arrangement, or maybe. Yeah, give us some clarity there.
00:36:30.448 - 00:37:26.330, Speaker A: We've been researching liquidation for a year, and it's a very interesting problem. I won't go into the details, but really, I think we got to a very good conclusion, which is there are a ton of ways to do exotic liquidation systems. Euler introduced with Ango protocol dutch auctions, where your liquidation happens over time and it's softer for borrowers. You could think of, like, other kind of options, english options, for example, could be interesting. Aven compound introduced the notion of close factor, which is liquidating only a certain portion of the position. And really, we don't think there is a good way or a bad way of doing liquidation. This is why we're doing the primitive way, on top of which you can rebuild the liquidation you want.
00:37:26.330 - 00:38:24.110, Speaker A: So we're going for the fastest, most primitive liquidation system, which is similar to the one you have on ave, where if you go above the liquidation threshold, well, you get liquidated for a fixed amount of your collateral. So that's the fastest possible liquidation mechanism, so the safest. And then on top of that, if borrowers want to subscribe to a dutch auction, or if they want to be liquidated bit by bit a little bit before this primitive liquidation, well, you can subscribe to this on top, and it's always the same paradigm, which is having a trustless and minimal and unopened and efficient protocol at the core. And then on top, you can re abstract away things, but we really want to narrow it down to only the very necessary things so that it's completely immutable and up, and you need it. And then on top, rebuild abstraction layers up to mass adoption. Basically.
00:38:24.260 - 00:38:58.054, Speaker E: Something else I was just thinking, if users can be exposed or create markets for literally any asset, I guess. What are some of the risks to that when you're walking through building this that you foresee? Because obviously you can spin up pools, I guess, or vaults with highly volatile, low liquid assets that can have dramatic price changes and stuff like that. I guess you're building the tool. It's up to the users to do with it what they will, essentially. But how are you thinking through that?
00:38:58.172 - 00:39:26.926, Speaker A: Exactly? So this is where our vision with the Avid team diverges along. Avid is looking to build great financial products. We're looking to build Internet protocols. And when you think of HCP and it, there's a bunch of things you don't want to. There's a lot of bad things on the Internet, right? And there's a lot of bad things on uniswap too. Like if you go beyond the front end, that where they created for you. On uniswap, you have a bunch of scam tokens, you have a bunch of illiquid tokens, et cetera.
00:39:26.926 - 00:40:14.782, Speaker A: And the idea for us is that, okay, the protocol should remain unoppinionated and very simple, and maybe people are going to create scams with it, right? But then it's the goal of abstraction layers to create that for the passive users. And this is how the Internet has been built. And obviously there is a certain downside to that. But I think the upside largely outweighs the downside of this approach. Right? And so in the front end of Morpho, for example, which by the way will be very minimal, you'll have a created list of assets and you won't be able to create a market with a scam token that will be directly listed in the front end. However, if you really want to get to this market, then you can go through it on the CRM blockchain.
00:40:14.846 - 00:40:28.966, Speaker B: Paul, what else can you tell us about the risk management protocol this Metamorpho? I'd love to understand, how does this unlock or enable us to build new and interesting products on Morpho blue for.
00:40:28.988 - 00:41:51.594, Speaker A: Us, Metamorpho is one of the biggest unlock when it comes to growing DeFi to the next orders of magnitude. Basically what it enables you is to rebuild the current DeFi lending abstractions on top of a single trustless and efficient lending primitive. What that means is that one risk manager, instead of doing consultancy for a Dow like maker or like Aave, those kind of consultants, they can build their own Metamorpho vault and accept passive USDC and allocate this USDC to various primitive morph blue markets. And they're going to basically manage the exposure of USDC to those different collateral the same way as they're doing it on AAve. And the great thing about it is that it's completely permissionless. So it's a permissionless risk management layer where anyone can spin off their own metamorpho vault, and you could reproduce the exact same exposure that you get on compound free, or the exact same exposure you get on Aviz free, or the one you get on spark. And where it gets interesting is that you can rebuild any lending pool, but also if two lending pools share two different assets, collateral assets, it would share liquidity.
00:41:51.594 - 00:42:44.658, Speaker A: So let me explain that part specifically on compound and on Ave, they both list ST is for example, like on compound free. And turns out they have similar risk parameters on those two markets, but they don't share liquidity like liquidity is isolated. Now imagine someone recreating compound free on top of morphoblue and avid free on top of morphoblue. Well, the lending markets are going to share liquidity to the extent that they share risk, because at the end of the day, the liquidity will be deposited in the same morphoblue microprove. And that's very exciting, because it has very interesting network effects. When people are creating metamorpho vaults, there is already liquidity in the morphoblue network that they can tap into. And so they can recreate existing lending markets, but they can go beyond that.
00:42:44.658 - 00:43:47.318, Speaker A: They could create real world asset based lending markets. And maybe at some point, institutional want to also create some kind of market for their own use. And when we've been talking to them, one of their biggest remark was like, the reason why we're not using Ave is, okay, there is QIC reasons, but the main biggest reason is because we don't want our risk to be managed by token orders. We know how to do risk ourselves, and we don't want token orders to manage it for us, which is understandable when you're like a multitrillion dollar asset manager. And so basically, those guys are more than happy to use an opinionated, trustless and efficient protocols if they got to do the risk management themselves, and if they're in control. So that unlocks a wide variety of institutional use cases as well, but also use cases on long tail assets, et cetera, et cetera. So it really helps grow the pie in terms of asset listing, in terms of players involved, notice in terms of efficiency, which makes it particularly interesting for the years ahead.
00:43:47.484 - 00:44:25.730, Speaker E: Yeah, that's really cool. One other thing I've been thinking about is just the morpho token itself. I was just reading up a bit on it before this interview here, and there's definitely some interesting characteristics going on with it around things such as non transferability, and then some future distribution mechanisms built in. And you mentioned two words earlier that gets crypto people really excited, which is fee switch. So maybe, I don't know how any of that ties in, but would just love for you to elaborate just on this sort of novel and interesting design and kind of where you're going with it.
00:44:25.880 - 00:46:21.800, Speaker A: In my mind, tokens are a new form of ownership that are extremely powerful to raise capital, but also to incentivize behaviors in certain behaviors that are helpful to bootstrap a protocol or to bootstrap a business whatsoever. And I think sometimes people want to do a lot of things with their token. I think the focus should be narrowed down to, for the most part, governance and help a utility for bootstrapping a network, basically, where in the case of Morpho, we want to incentivize people for the long term to basically use the protocol, because in many two sided markets, like Dexes or lending and borrowing protocol, you have lenders, you have borrowers, but borrowers won't come if you don't have lenders, and lenders won't come if you don't have borrowers. So in most multi sided markets, you need to first incentive to bring the first players. And I think tokens, because they're very programmable, are excellent for this purpose. But the downside then is that if you make them very liquid on the early days, it can literally kill a project, right? Like the early so called farmers are going to come in and they are interested in the token because they will be able to sell it right away, right? And you have a new kind of farmers which are not only are they interested in getting your tokens, because they believe in the project, and they believe the project is going to succeed. And so you could think of those players as were like liquidity mercenary, that are aligned with the project and sort of invest in the project through behavior rather than through actual money.
00:46:21.800 - 00:47:39.914, Speaker A: And making the token non transferable was an exceptional way to get this sorted, basically. And I'm very happy we went that route for this first reason. The second reason is that it was super important for me that the token was not launched with a large information asymmetry. I think one of the biggest problem with token launches is that the price of the launch the day of the launch is extremely valuable information that are known to a very close set of users. And I think decentralizing the protocol before making it transferable, the same way we're doing where ownership gets distributed to contributors, investors and users before the event of transferability itself, enables decentralization of the project even before the token is liquid. And the decision of making the token liquid should be and will be truly decentralized, like genuinely decentralized and made in the open, such that everybody, every possible investor, get to know all the information about the project before making the decision of making it transferable. And I think those are the biggest two virtues of making the tokens transferable.
00:47:39.914 - 00:47:54.890, Speaker A: It's like much more aligned and fair token launches, and second, such a better tool to incentivize specific behaviors with long term aligned farmers.
00:47:55.070 - 00:48:47.170, Speaker B: I love to point out also that Morpho has over a billion in assets deposited, and although that token is non transferable or the fact that it is not transferable means that we don't have this reward that is subsidizing. Folks, obviously we can all speculate on what that will be in the future because to be clear, it's not up to me. Of course it's not up to Paul, but it's up to everyone that's holding that non transferable token. I can't imagine that it won't be transferable in the future. And so when it is, I think obviously then that will be a reward to those who have been long term users and contributors to the protocol. And this is not the easy road. You've definitely kind of taken the long patient road.
00:48:47.170 - 00:49:12.010, Speaker B: I'm sure there were times during the crypto bear market you had to have felt like a genius, not having launched a token during that time. But it's going to be exciting to see just how much more morpho blue grows. And honestly, I think Morpho V One still has lots of room to grow like that as a protocol itself will continue to grow with the likes of Ave and compound.
00:49:12.350 - 00:49:49.222, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. I think Morpho optimizer could still grow, but not sufficiently for it to become really interesting. I think we're not targeting like Morpho is not targeting to become the biggest lending protocol in Defi on Defi Lama and leaderboards. We're looking to become present in tradfi leaderboards. That's the real goal. The real goal is not to get 20% extra or two x our currency. Yet we're several orders of magnitude behind what traditional finance is able to do in traditional lending markets.
00:49:49.222 - 00:49:58.934, Speaker A: And what we're looking for is orders of magnitude. Right. And to us, there is no other way around than just big paradigm shifts.
00:49:59.062 - 00:50:42.422, Speaker B: Yeah, that's really exciting to hear. I think that's a perspective too, that I wish more builders would take on in our space. That instead of trying to nibble at each other's market share, recognizing that the pie is still so tiny compared to what it's going to be. So that's exciting to hear. And I think it reflects what I have seen in terms of the focus and progress of the team at Morpho Paul, this is a good place for us to wrap up. So I want to remind listeners first off that they can learn more about Morpho. This is Morpho the protocol@morpho.org.
00:50:42.422 - 00:51:19.794, Speaker B: They can go on Twitter and they can follow you at just, we'll show it up there on screen. It's just your first and last name and then we've also got the Twitter x account for Morpho Labs, which is just Morpho Labs, so you can keep up to date on news and announcements there. And then I'd love to end with, of course, the most important question of, like, when can we expect Morpho Blue to go live? And then any other milestones you're willing to share or Alpha you're willing to share for those of us who will look forward to using Morpho Blue.
00:51:19.842 - 00:51:48.670, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. I have a bunch of alpha, to be frank. I don't know how much I'm able to tell right now. So Morphoblue and Metamorpho are all set to go live on testnet. It's just a matter of getting the code contest finished. Like we have a code contest of price pool starting in a week from now or two weeks from now, probably more. I can't remember, to be frank.
00:51:48.670 - 00:52:22.602, Speaker A: After that, we will be able to go live. The alpha remains on, like, all the different partners that have been building with us for some of them for more than six months already. And we have a lot of people that already have their integration audited going live the first day for some of them, the first week and the first few months on Morphoblue. So I'm very excited to share, one after the other, all the different companies that someone would never expect would be building on morphoblue, but would be.
00:52:22.656 - 00:52:55.342, Speaker B: Well, Paul, thanks for coming on the podcast to talk with us about Morpho Blue. I know that nomadic and I are excited to actually be able to use that again. You've checked off a lot of the features that I know we've been looking for in new lending and borrowing protocols, and we'll have to have you back once you're live. We'd love to have you back on so that we can actually show people what it looks like and how to navigate the application. So anyways, congrats on all the progress. And yeah, I can't wait to actually see this on testnet.
00:52:55.406 - 00:52:56.978, Speaker A: Thank you. Thanks for having me.
00:52:57.064 - 00:53:09.570, Speaker B: Thanks everyone for tuning in. If you're a talented founder or developer, please consider reaching out to our team at Fourthrevolution Capital. And for future episodes of the Edge podcast, please check out our link tree at Edge pod.
