00:00:03.360 - 00:01:15.719, Speaker A: Everyone, super glad to be here. Exciting to see such a huge crowd. Yeah, I'm here to talk about sky on Solana. So, all right, let's start with what exactly is Sky? Well, we used to be called Maker, just up until very recently. Sky is an upgrade and rebrand of the Maker Protocol, which is the oldest and most profitable defi ecosystem, the world's largest decentralized stablecoin with about, yeah, a bit more than 5 billion stablecoins in circulation. And what's coming, or rather what has already been launched with sky, is an upgraded stablecoin called usds, an upgraded governance token called sky that you actually can upgrade one to 24,000 when you upgrade your MKR, and then some new and unique features including the ability to get sky tokens as rewards on your USDs stablecoins. And this has been really successful.
00:01:15.719 - 00:02:16.216, Speaker A: So in the last 36 hours, there's already been 400 million USDs minted into existence that are currently getting these token rewards and utilizing all of the integrations that are have been made with USDs. So that's super exciting. And well, basically I'm here today to talk about how this is coming to Solana. So very soon, just around the corner, the USDS stablecoin, the Sky Governance token, and then the tokenized form of the savings rate is all going to launch on Solana with Wormhole. And to accompany that, there will be a large liquidity incentive program that will offer sky tokens to people who use all the different defi protocols and solana that integrate USDs. Sky. Thanks, guys.
00:02:16.216 - 00:03:42.625, Speaker A: So why is this such a good fit? Well, obviously sky is going to bring big defi energy to Solana. You know, we're talking about a collateral portfolio of, yeah, like more than 8 billion. And that's going to be. It's going to be possible to allocate that collateral into defi protocols in Solana and help with things like bootstrapping the RWA ecosystem on Solana. And the reason why sky just generally is such a big, I mean, it's so focused on Solana is because there is a history and an experience in researching and understanding the tech stack, going all the way back to the efforts of sky basically towards building its own L1 and looking into the SVM stack as a candidate for that. And just generally sky itself is engineered in a way to be able to properly exploit the performance of something as performant as the Solana tech stack because of the ability to have parallelized governance. So yeah, this is just a really good fit, I think and it's basically just the beginning because where this really is going is towards the native deployment of the Sky Protocol onto Solana through Solana skylink.
00:03:42.625 - 00:04:45.415, Speaker A: So what this means is in addition to all the tokens there'll also be nearly unlimited native one to one conversion between USDs and USDC on Solana. The Sky Token rewards and some of the other token rewards that are coming with sky will also be available natively on Solana as programs on Solana and all of this will be available from the main Sky Money front end and the goal is to synergize and integrate and help really boost and incubate the growing and really really exciting and dynamic ecosystem on Solana. So of course the whole point is to work with a lot of really cool projects and ecosystem and as I mentioned earlier there will be a major incentive program to basically drive adoption of the new tokens on all of these platforms. So yeah thanks everyone and I hope you're going to be using some USDS and Sky on Solana soon. Thank you.
