00:00:14.010 - 00:00:56.842, Speaker A: If you're an early stage web3 founder, apply to our award winning accelerator program Basecamp. At Outliventures IO Basecamp, we write your first $50,000 check and give you access to 200 mentors, including many of the leading web3 founders, and a network of 1000 of the world's leading investors and exchanges. We've helped over 30 startups from 15 countries from all around the world raise $130,000,000 in growth funding, and can help you fast track product, market fit and, where relevant, the launch of your token economy. So today I'm really happy to welcome to the show Betty Chen, co founder of Akala Network and Laminar Protocol. Welcome to the show, Betty.
00:00:56.986 - 00:00:58.830, Speaker B: Thank you, Jamie, for having me.
00:00:58.980 - 00:02:02.974, Speaker A: So Acala is primarily a cross chain stablecoin platform based on substrate, Polkadot substrate, and a fundamental part of the Polkadot ecosystem. You focused on powering this cross blockchain open finance applications, and it's interesting why you call it open finance, not DeFI. I guess we'll get to that a little bit later. And it allows you to send and receive usd across any blockchains connected to the Polkadot network. But more than that, as I understand it, there are kind of four main primitives or building blocks that make up Acala, and we'll again unpack that a little bit later. So some of the reasons why I wanted you on the show, you're one of the leading projects working on Polkadot on substrate right now, and I believe it's the ambition to become the power chain for DFI, or as you refer to it, open finance. You have a very close working relationship with the web Three foundation, which is run by Polka Dot, and you received a grant to develop the Akala stablecoin.
00:02:02.974 - 00:03:20.518, Speaker A: In fact, I believe they reached out to you and the team directly to make this happen. And Akala is actually a collaboration between two organizations established in Asia, Southeast Asia, Polka Wallet and Laminar Protocol. I believe you're from the Laminar protocol side, based out of New Zealand, and the Polka Wallet team are from mainland. So Laminar protocol is an open finance platform for synthetic assets, so similar to synthetics, and allows margin trading with the ambition of becoming a consortia. And I know a topic that's really interesting is around governance for you guys and what you refer to as this progressive pathway to decentralization. But I think what's really interesting about you as a team, as a project, is, on the one hand, you're very much at the heart of the asian crypto scene, and web3 ecosystem, but at the same time you've attracted a great mix of both western and asian vc. This is kind of really interesting for other founders to understand how you've managed to bridge both of those worlds.
00:03:20.518 - 00:03:23.726, Speaker A: So looking forward to going deep with you on all of that.
00:03:23.908 - 00:03:25.258, Speaker B: Sounds fabulous.
00:03:25.434 - 00:03:56.360, Speaker A: So normally I kind of do a quick summary of the origins of the guest to contextualize them. So I'll do my best to summarize it. If I've missed anything out, obviously feel free to elaborate. It's more likely I've not fully captured your entire history that's got you here. So, as I understand it, you started with a bachelor of engineering at the University of Auckland in New Zealand. You then did an MBA at the University of Otago. I don't actually know where that is.
00:03:56.730 - 00:04:01.238, Speaker B: That's also New Zealand, but the southeast part of Zealand.
00:04:01.334 - 00:04:05.180, Speaker A: Ah, okay. All right. It sounded like Japan or something to me. There they go.
00:04:06.030 - 00:04:09.606, Speaker B: Where the best wine was made in Otago.
00:04:09.798 - 00:04:55.334, Speaker A: Oh, I should know that now. You've embarrassed me. Now I look uncultured. So you also went to the School of Business at Duke University, which was your second MBA from what I could see, and you helped found the blockchain club there. And then you went on from 2005 to 2010 to do a number of different engineering and consulting roles, both at hit or hit, I don't know how you pronounce it. And first data corporation. In 2009, you were, I guess, appointed as Asia New Zealand young leader for the Asia New Zealand foundation where you were a representative and chosen to participate in the Shanghai World Expo.
00:04:55.334 - 00:05:47.098, Speaker A: In 2010 and 2011 to 13 you worked in SAP, I believe in mainland China as a consultant, project manager, working with clients like VW, Cinepec, Coca Cola, Petrochina. And once again you were recognized as the Shooting Star award, I guess. How prophetic. They clearly saw your potential as you were moving through the ranks and it looked like you focused specifically in a vertical around automotive. I believe you also worked with Peugeot Finance in China as well, right? In 2014, what was it that you ended up kind of focusing specifically in automotive? Was it just because that's the clients that you're working on at SAP or was it something that specifically interested you?
00:05:47.264 - 00:06:00.480, Speaker B: No, I think it just happens because as a professional product manager and project manager, you basically go in and solve a problem and then it doesn't matter which industry your client is in.
00:06:01.170 - 00:06:29.602, Speaker A: Right. So then I could see that you worked on the first kind of decentralized thing that I could see in the cv was an advisor to something called Ahu Ahal, which was a decentralized data and digital identity management platform built on maori principles and values, which sounds fascinating. Firstly, did I pronounce it right and did I describe it aha?
00:06:29.666 - 00:06:30.950, Speaker B: Yes, that's.
00:06:32.010 - 00:06:44.810, Speaker A: And so what was it that drew you into that project? And was that the kind of first foray into understanding decentralization of data and exploring things like identity?
00:06:45.630 - 00:07:45.840, Speaker B: Yeah, that actually happened after I've made a career transition into blockchain. Yeah. At the back of all of these things is actually developed personal interest into blockchain and crypto and spending more and more of my personal time trying to figure out how does bitcoin thing work and how ethereum work. And then I made a career transition around that time, moved from the South island of New Zealand, the beautiful part of New Zealand, to the city of New Zealand, Auckland. And then I worked in a blockchain company there as a product manager. And then along that journey I met a lot of startups. And then one of them that I very fond of more from an idealistic or sort of the passion point of view, is Ahao, because of the sort of the things that they try to address and also the value standpoint they come from is very much aligned with what I actually want to achieve in the decentralization world.
00:07:45.840 - 00:07:51.714, Speaker B: So hence I help them out a little bit on advisory or product development and things like that.
00:07:51.912 - 00:08:19.922, Speaker A: So this was the thing that must have come out of centrality AI then. Right, so you're a project manager there from 2018 to 2019, and that is a blockchain venture studio. And I believe you did everything from product leadership, product management, from everything from platforms, protocols and dapps. And you even did some token design. Right. You designed a dual token economy as well. Was that for an exchange, a decentralized exchange?
00:08:20.086 - 00:08:57.510, Speaker B: It is just for a blockchain platform itself. So a standalone blockchain that requires a special type of token models. And then even back then, we recognize that just the native token itself may not be sufficient to actually power the operations on the platform because business require stability as well as predictability of the costs. Hence the attempt to actually design algorithmic, sort of the stabilization of the currency on the platform to be used as unit of accounts, if you like.
00:08:57.580 - 00:09:07.654, Speaker A: Yeah, I see. Okay. And so is that the same thing or is that different to the project that you managed, which was Singular X, which was this decentralized exchange on Ethereum.
00:09:07.782 - 00:09:31.600, Speaker B: Yeah. So that's a separate product within that whole company portfolio that I was working in. And Singularx is just a decentralized exchange. It's nothing too special about it. It's one of those decks that the company has in their portfolio and then has a bunch of customers that we need to serve and then continue improvements on the platform itself.
00:09:31.970 - 00:10:15.440, Speaker A: Understood. Okay. Well, it looks like they kept you busy there for that first year, and then you co founded Laminar and you were kind of a chief operating officer. Still are. So that was founded in August 2019, and then pretty much straightafter you co founded a Carla network in October, I believe. So it'd be really interesting to understand how you led to co found both of those things almost simultaneously. And what was it? Was this your first venture that you did and why that particular problem or opportunity set?
00:10:15.810 - 00:10:50.198, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, good question. Because when I look back, a lot of this looks like luck and coincidence, and probably a lot of them are not, especially people you meet in your career. It's probably the make or break or the transition into different pathways in your life. Right. So in my previous work, I actually met all my co founders there. So I was the product manager. So I look after the product roadmap and also help a little bit of product marketing and also look after development teams.
00:10:50.198 - 00:11:18.870, Speaker B: So it's quite a diverse role that I'm in. And then my other co founder, so Brian, so he's a very, very talented engineer, probably the 200% nerd in the team right now. And he's the engineer as well as later, he got promoted to be the product architect because his talent got discovered. Right. So I worked very closely with him back then. And also my other co founder, Raytel at Lemina. So he was the CTO at the time.
00:11:18.870 - 00:12:39.438, Speaker B: So he's already entrepreneur on his own rights prior to all of the things that we've done before. So you can probably already tell the three of us, although we have quite a common passion, so we are all very much into web3. So even back then, when compound wasn't as hot for you farming, we were already personally using metamask, using all the apps, and then putting our money and converting it to Dai, and then doing Defi and lending and earning interest, and just couldn't help ourselves to get so excited about what this actually means to everyday people. Right? Because back then, there wasn't this thing very hot to be you farming or Defi, and very, very few people are putting their interest in the area. But we were just like almost every day when we got free time, we actually discuss these things and also think about what we can do with it. And then that kind of later on evolve into, we start thinking more seriously into what we want to do with our career and also what we want to create. Because I think in crypto, probably in tech, it's like the window of opportunity is very, very short.
00:12:39.438 - 00:13:31.550, Speaker B: And then now we've got people actually with complementary skills, I would call. And also we all have background in finance and also connections in the field. So we thought we want to do something quite focused and also be able to deliver products, right? Not quite platform, but products that can actually deliver value directly to people. And how do we do it? And then that's where Lemina actually come from. So we want to bridge the gap between the traditional finance, which we have good connection with, and those people actually back us to do this project, and then also bridge the gap between that. And then the crypto world, which we know very well, we can build products on, and bridge both liquidity as well as traders and users, et cetera. So we thought that we actually make a good contribution to web3 and blockchain in general.
00:13:31.550 - 00:14:29.086, Speaker B: So that's how the whole thing actually got started. And then very quickly we've built our prototype. So I think it's only like, I think November that year, we actually went to Singapore for the fintech festival and then bought our demo products that it's a platform completely built on ethereum that does synthetic asset and also margin trading. Right. So it was quite impressive that a lot of people got quite interested in the product. But also at the same time, we recognized that to actually build a product that is highly efficient, high performance, that can compete with the traditional finance trading platform, we need something much better, not at the protocol level, but at the underlying sort of ledger level, that the technology needs to be upgraded from a dial up to a high performance connectivity, or Internet as an analogy. So we decided to use substrate.
00:14:29.086 - 00:15:04.318, Speaker B: And then one of the reasons is being we've been building on substrate for quite a while, even before this project. So in our previous work, we have been one of the probably the first commercial teams building on and also contribute to the substrate cobase. And a way back when we evaluating different technology, stacks, substrate and Polkadot, a parity team actually stoked out. There was a number of reasons which I can go into a bit more later, or now if you want me to.
00:15:04.404 - 00:15:44.586, Speaker A: No, yeah, let's go into it, because I think it's interesting. Obviously, I'm aware that Polkadot has a really strong ecosystem in Asia generally. I know Gavin would put a lot of time into personal time, into traveling around China specifically, and building up that ecosystem. But it's interesting to know, as I understood it, they approached you specifically to create this stablecoin across Polkadot. But it'd be really good to understand how that came about. I wasn't aware that you were already building on parity prior to that.
00:15:44.688 - 00:16:34.998, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. So it was about two years ago we started looking at some sort of blockchain platform that we can build on that we can customize for our own needs, rather than just either have to deploy on a public network or have to build anything from the ground up. So is there anything in the middle? So there are a number of reasons we actually chose substrate and also the parity technologies. There is the technical side of it, there's also the non tech side of it. Technically, I think substrate itself, even back then it was bleeding edge. Right? So there's a lot of breaking changes and we have to make a lot of hard work to actually make things work. But still, way back when, it's still one of the toolkits or libraries out there that we can actually take and actually innovate on top of relatively easily.
00:16:34.998 - 00:17:18.854, Speaker B: And the features are quite complete because for those who are actually unfamiliar with substrate, it is amazing. It is like this App Store that you can just install the App Store and then you can keep installing new apps on top of it. It is like that, but from a developer perspective, for example, if you are a protocol developer, you can still build a chain, but without worrying all the underlying the hardcore stuff. For example, peer to peer communication, you don't need to worry about. If you don't want to consensus, you don't need to worry about that. Or how the web assembly or how the bytecodes gets interpreted. If you don't want to touch any of those underlying hardcore blockchain stuff, you don't need to.
00:17:18.854 - 00:18:35.790, Speaker B: Right, cryptography, you don't need to touch it. You can just focus on the logics that you want to build for your, say, application or the purpose that you want to fulfill the problems you want to solve. You can actually develop your own module and then deploy on top of those chains to make it feature complete and then continuous upgrade, right? And then another cool thing about it is forklift upgrade. I think only when you get to a point where you have applications deployed on a chain that you realize, especially like smart contracts when you deploy, that you kind of think about it. You need to be very careful, right? Because once it's deployed, even though you've got, nowadays you got many mechanisms for migration, but still you need to migrate, right? There's a process, there's also disruption of experience to the user end and also to all the applications integrated with you. But with this substrate framework, you can do almost anything very smoothly and also without Fox. So an example that you can think of is like you can have a playing blockchain, and then whenever new tech comes out, for example, now on substrate, you can have Ethereum virtual machine.
00:18:35.790 - 00:19:40.994, Speaker B: It is developed like a module, so you can just basically install that EVM module. And now your substrate blockchain is EVM compatible. So you can now drop solidity smart contract onto your substrate chain, and it can be deployed and run like an Ethereum blockchain. And then think about going forward. There could be other new technology being developed, new innovations comes out, and it will be as simple as going to the marketplace of substrate and then download and install that module, and then all of a sudden, your blockchain has that functionality. So this is actually the first time I actually talk about it publicly myself to actually, people probably didn't realize how powerful this is because this actually fundamentally increases the innovation time and also speed to market dramatically. So obviously, that's only one of the small shining points that we look at substrate more from a technologist or engineer perspective.
00:19:40.994 - 00:20:27.310, Speaker B: But two other points I want to point out why we actually chose Polkadot in general, and one is actually the ecosystem, right? I think undoubtedly Dr. Gavin Wood has a huge follower. And then personally and with all my founders, we all look up to what he's done on Ethereum. He basically wrote most of the EVM code and also his track record of delivery. Right? So we went to Hangzhou, the first substrate hackathon, where my co founder Brian was a judge alongside with Gavin. In the evening. He gave a talk at a university.
00:20:27.310 - 00:20:57.194, Speaker B: So we were there listening to his talk. And then right after his talk, he come back down to the audience seats. And then I think Alastair, his colleague, went up and talked. And then we saw Gavin put out his computer and start typing some code, because we actually very close to the parity and subject, GitHub, repo. So we all subscribe to Star or their project. And then a few minutes later, we saw a pull request. So we saw the pull request from Gavin.
00:20:57.194 - 00:21:48.170, Speaker B: So he's actually at that scene. And then after his talk, he just did a pull request right there. So how many actually founders are still doing that? Still coding, still very close to the technology, and still pretty much 100% focused on delivering the technology apart from preaching about it. So that was very impressive from that perspective. And also, of course, that creates a huge following for people who is actually believing in Gavin, as well as the team he's built around him, as well as the technology that he's delivered right now. I think Polka Dot is probably one of the projects that's got most projects building on it. I think it's got 100 plus projects building in the ecosystem, parachains, parathreads, et cetera.
00:21:48.170 - 00:22:48.126, Speaker B: And then the third thing that's probably also not most talked about is the bootstrapping. So we have different options for scalability. So I think east two is pretty cool, but it takes a bit of time to come out. But for east two, each of the shard, what they call, I think it's got 32 or 64 different shards when east two come out, but each shard will be exactly the same. But all of them will share the ethereum's proof of stake security, right? So that's one option, and then another option that you can sort of compare and look at is probably like Cosmos, right? So cosmos also is sharding, but it's very different from east two because each shard is very different. So each shard, you can just customize it and do very much different things. However, what it doesn't do is it doesn't provide security to all of those hubs.
00:22:48.126 - 00:23:17.750, Speaker B: I think that's what Cosmos calls it. So each hub will have to come up with its own stake or security. So basically, each hub will actually need to do fundraising, right, to raise enough money so its shard is actually secure. So if you look at things from that angle, then Polkadot occupies a different design space per se. So for Polkadot, each shard is more like cosmos. Each shard is completely different. So it's completely customizable.
00:23:17.750 - 00:23:50.278, Speaker B: Right. And you can do anything on top of it. You can make a domain specific or anything you want to build on top of. You can build proof of work chains using the substrate framework. You can build a gaming chain, et cetera. So I can go into a bit more of that, how I see things later. So from that regard, each shard is different, but also, at the same time, it's a little bit like east two, where polka dot, the main chain, the relay chain, what they call, actually provides security for all of us.
00:23:50.278 - 00:24:38.614, Speaker B: So from an entrepreneur perspective, for us, building the technology is already hard enough. Right. If you ask me to actually come up with, say, $100 million to bootstrap the network because we're building DFI, right? So DFI already requires a very, very high level of security. So if you ask our team to actually also fundraise for $100 million, or even probably higher to actually bootstrap the network, I think that's you're trying to set yourself up for failure, basically. So I think in that regard, polka Dot has also lowered the barriers for entrepreneurs to actually build and also bootstrap the chain. Because on day one, say for Akala, on day one, we actually enjoy polka dot. Right now I think it's 5 billion market cap.
00:24:38.614 - 00:25:12.014, Speaker B: So we actually enjoy that much market cap translated into network security that enjoined for Akala network. Right. So we don't have to worry about that perspective from day one. But we also get a choice because as we move along and become a more mature network, we do get a choice to break out of Polkadot if we do want to, to become independent. So we have enough stake on our own. We can be our own sort of relay chain and then also have other chains connected to us, but we also at the same time connect to Polkadot. Right.
00:25:12.014 - 00:26:33.450, Speaker B: So we have a pathway to graduate down the track. But at the start, I think right now, this is probably the sweet spot that we currently in the tech can allow us to quickly innovate and build things that's very usable for our users, but also at the same time, economically, it is also helping us to bootstrap our network quite easily. So I think those all in all are sort of the main reasons why I think right now, more and more so we sort of very passionate about Polkadot is going to bring quite a different flavor to the market because Polkadot is not quite a layer one, it's more of like a layer zero, because it's going to empower other blockchains. It's going to be able to integrate with bitcoin, with Ethereum, with all the bridges, but also at the same time host a number of independent but connected chains like Akala. So that the cross chain, the cross chain picture is going to come to life quite quickly. Because of that, I think the future will be multi chain, and it's healthier to be multi chain and it's healthier to be inclusive and have all the liquidity and also usability all connected rather than everyone's operating and trying to optimize in their own island. Yeah.
00:26:33.450 - 00:26:34.746, Speaker B: So that's sort of my view.
00:26:34.848 - 00:28:11.530, Speaker A: I think it's a brilliant explanation. It's the best explanation I've heard, actually, both of a multi chain world, but also specifically about Polkadot's unique proposition or selling point in that I think, you know, it's really interesting to hear from a founder, an entrepreneur know, we're potentially at this point in the evolution or the cycle where finally a lot of the technology risk is being taken off the shoulders of the entrepreneur, who have often had to kind of just to execute on a use case, build down in the stack to solve for their problem. So I think that the promise of interoperability, the idea that we can have a blockchain of blockchains, we can break out of silos, and of course, as you say, begin to have a shared security, but then also shared liquidity, I think are going to bring some very powerful network effects. So if we look at Acala specifically, it would be good to kind of break down its proposition. As I said, on the one hand, it's this stablecoin proposition and a power chain where you're looking to effectively enable lots of different forms of open phi use cases, or defi. But it'd be good, actually, to understand why you say open finance rather than defi. Is that deliberate?
00:28:11.870 - 00:28:59.810, Speaker B: Yes and no. We just feel that Openfi is more inclusive because it doesn't restrict to just the defi people and also limit ourselves to crypto. But we do recognize there is probably a pathway for us to expand our sort of impact and adoption, because initially it's going to be still defi, still focused on the crypto users. But ultimately, I think this is not just Akala, but more of like everyone in the space. There will be one day that we actually expand out of, just call ourselves crypto world, actually expand to the mainstream. Right. And then when that actually happens, it's better to use more generic terms and then use the language other people can actually understand and accept and also build the products.
00:28:59.810 - 00:29:52.860, Speaker B: That probably hides away a lot of the complexity of blockchain and people don't even need to know blockchain exists. As long as it can provide them the cheaper, faster, easier and more stable, accessible financial services to all of these people, then they will be happy. Right? So whether you're using Internet, using web3 technology, or other type of technology, that may come at times, it probably doesn't matter. So that's sort of when we first founded Akala, we sort of used more generic terms, open finance. And now, though, we use more of Defi only because we think we have sort of a gradual path towards that. Openfi, I think ultimately it's going to be open to everyone, but right now we're just like working our way through the circle of influence, if you like, from crypto all the way out.
00:29:53.790 - 00:30:26.390, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's interesting that you kind of plan for where you want to land, not where you are now. So on the one hand, of course, you're servicing this demand around defi. But equally, as you say, you need to have a vision that grows the market, that can resonate and connect with a different customer base. So I think it's really interesting that you've elected to do so. Let's explain. Let's unpack what Akala is from a kind of feature or function perspective.
00:30:26.730 - 00:31:14.290, Speaker B: Right now, we say Akala is the Defi hub or finance or decentralized finance hub on Polkadot's multi chain universe. And then for that Defi hub, we provide a suite of financial primitives. And the reason why we don't just build a chain and then call it a finance chain is because we believe there is a minimum set of primitives. It needs to be developed to actually be able to bootstrap the whole sort of defi ecosystem. And then these basic building blocks, namely are decentralized stablecoin. I don't think I need to explain too much why that is the reason, but there are a couple of others that are unique to our network. The second primitive we built is the trustless staking derivative.
00:31:14.290 - 00:32:32.814, Speaker B: This is built because on a proof of state network, the dynamic is quite different from proof of work, right? So right now, bitcoin and ethereum, so on Polkadot, in a sense, proof of stake also generates yield. So it's naturally in competition with any of the yield generating activity, namely defi activities, right? So there's a natural competition there. And on one hand, you don't actually want DeFi to have too high a yield, because then you attract all the staking assets to defi, and then it may actually compromise security, which actually compromise also defi security. So you don't want to do that. So what we've done is we created this trustless staking derivative where we can release some of the derived value out of the locked staking assets. So for example, you can actually stake your dot through Akala, and then you will get a receipt called liquid dot or ldot out. So that relationship is a little bit like when you deposit your dai into compound in order to earn an interest, and then in your wallet you actually get a CDI out, right? So for us, it's the l dot that you get in return.
00:32:32.814 - 00:33:16.890, Speaker B: And then if you just sit on the l dot token, basically it's yield bearing. So you'll be earning staking yield by just holding that token. And obviously it is a liquid token as well. It's like an ERC 20 type token, so you can transfer it. You can also use it for other default activities. For example, you can use that as a collateral to borrow more us dollars out of it, right? And then that actually creates quite a unique scenario where your LDoc token is yield earning. So you're earning some interest or yield out of that token, but at the same time you collateralize it, right? So you pay some interest to actually get more stablecoin for trading or other purposes.
00:33:16.890 - 00:33:42.146, Speaker B: So that creates sort of a new use case there for folks to use. That's the second primitive that we have. We think it's necessary. And then the third one is a decentralized exchange. So it's a Dex. It is a constant product Dex, just from hearing that. There's nothing unique about it, but there's reasons why we built it.
00:33:42.146 - 00:34:33.426, Speaker B: So first of all, obviously, when there are a number of tokens happened on the defi chain, you need somewhere to trade and list those coins, including dots and also coins from other parachains, right? So there are quite a lot of them. So Dex is required, but that's not sort of the core reason. Another reason is our Dex actually serve as a unified liquidity provisioning mechanism on the chain, so on akala, because we say so. My view is like Polkadot provides the underlying communication and also security and trust layer. And each chain built on top of Polkadot. So those parachains, they're meant to be. So technologically they will be full stack, right? Because as I said, with substrate, any new innovation come out, everyone can just in store.
00:34:33.426 - 00:35:48.140, Speaker B: So chains can hardly differentiate from a technical perspective per se, but they can differentiate themselves from a use case or domain per se. If you solve a particular problem really well, then your chain will be a preferred sort of lending area for dapps or users, et cetera. So for akala, we sort of try to optimize or occupy the domain of finance or defi. And then one of the things that we did was we have this flex fee feature built in. So any of the accepted tokens can be used as fees. So for example, for bitcoin that's bridged onto Akala, you can immediately use bitcoin as the fee token, because the chances are, if you are new to the ecosystem, you don't own any dots, you don't own any akala tokens, you only got your bitcoin, right? So once you land on Akala, if bitcoin is an accepted fee token, you can use that to transact it's completely transparent to user and you can do trading, you can claritarize your bitcoin to get some us dollars. All of that are paid in bitcoin if you want.
00:35:48.140 - 00:36:37.242, Speaker B: And technically how they actually happen is we use the DAx as the underlying liquidity pool, also as a settlement layer for that to happen. So that's one of the main reasons we have it. And then another one is also related to stablecoin, is when the liquidation happened. We also use Dex as one of the supplementary liquidity provisioning alongside with our auctions, et cetera. So that's also quite key to provide stability to our stablecoin. So those are the number of reasons why we built those primitives. And we think with this set of primitives it will be enough for us to power the ecosystem, serve the initial sort of the Polkadot users, but also at the same time enough for others to come and build on top of us.
00:36:37.242 - 00:36:59.698, Speaker B: So I think right now it's probably serving us well. So for example, projects like Ren, they chose to land on Akada and bring bitcoin. And also soon enough I think there are other assets that they will be like from Ethereum, et cetera, to bring onto Akala, but also wider polkadot ecosystem. So that's sort of the direction that we are heading as well.
00:36:59.784 - 00:37:43.234, Speaker A: Interesting. So do you think that what you're creating as a power chain specific to DeFi, does that compete with Ethereum or how does it compete with the monopoly that Ethereum currently has on certainly the liquidity and the range of different DeFi applications that are happening, do you compete? Are you synergetic or are you actually as a kind of low hanging fruit there? So rather than go after the whole thing, there's some obvious low hanging fruit where your configuration and trade offs are going to be a better fit?
00:37:43.352 - 00:39:03.962, Speaker B: I would just say building a domain specific parachain is a new category. I do get asked a lot. How do you compare which product specifically you are like on Ethereum? It's hard to pick one because right now Akala is actually a blockchain on its own, right? So it is a different category that we are creating out there because now we actually jump out of the solidity sandbox. Because every single smart contract or protocol that you deploy on Ethereum, you are inside the solidity sandbox. There are things you can do, and most stuff concerning economics, concerning how the transaction works, how the fees are paid, et cetera, you cannot change, right? So whereas on Akala and what Akala chain provides is you can actually break the sandbox, right? You don't need to develop or innovate inside that sandbox in here. You can actually change down to the chain logic. That's why we can quite easily implement flex fee type of feature that allows people have better use experience, right? And this thing is like you can do a lot of hacks on Ethereum to achieve, but not quite change the chain logic to actually do it seamlessly as a first class citizen per se.
00:39:03.962 - 00:40:32.562, Speaker B: And then another thing that we can also do on here is like oracle, right? So we can build in a quality of service to make oracle transactions as a prioritized transaction. So doesn't matter how congested, if ever the network is going to be congested. And your oracle transaction can always be accepted into the block, which actually means any depths built on top of akala, they will always get the up to date price feed, right? So obviously this is just an example, but it actually shows how much customization and flexibility that you can actually employ on a color chain, right? And this is outside of solidity box sandbox that you can do those innovations. And also I think it just shows the potential, because what we've done so far is only the problems in front of our eyes. And then we look at what happened on Black Thursday and also other sort of issues that we face collectively in the industry that we now provide solution and solve those problems and hope to provide a better experience. But I'm sure as we move forward there will be other new ideas and also new problems we face. And the fundamental thing to that is have the ability to address those problems by having ability to innovate and also upgrade the chain.
00:40:32.562 - 00:42:00.100, Speaker B: And this is what Akala is capable of. So we've gone through a number of upgrades, even on our testnet to be able to incorporate new features, new fixes without actually breaking any of the user experience flow as well as any of the integration. Right. I think from that regard it is quite a different beast to say Ethereum or any other chain, and also specifically to Defi. I don't think it's sort of trying to compete per se, but it's more for trying to grow the category of Defi together because I think now I don't need to say the word arguably because Defi on Ethereum now is getting more and more congested and also it's probably reaching the ceiling or the capacity of what Ethereum can actually handle, right? And also at the same time, I think it becomes a whale game. I don't know whether it's by intention or not, but it's just the market and also the incentive and also the gas price push the market to that direction. If you're not whale, it's not economically viable for you to do any transactions on the theorem, and that's not web3 or decentralization stands for, because it's meant to be democratizing finance for everyone, right? And obviously we are not heading that direction right now, but I think we can help out Ethereum a bit, because right now you're doing everything on one generalized computer.
00:42:00.100 - 00:43:38.306, Speaker B: We can do better by creating more options and also more trading spaces, more cross chain liquidity for people to trade in. If you have more farmlands, right, and a bigger space and more places to innovate at different levels, then I'm sure then sort of the ethos of decentralization and democratizing will come back to the scene and everyday people can actually start using those systems again. So for Akala we are more of like trying to see how we can actually help out some of the protocols right now on Ethereum, how they can actually scale up. So for example, although I can't disclose names directly, but there are a couple of projects that we're helping with is they're looking at, they still have majority of their values and users on serum, but how can Akala help them out to maybe do the more computational, intense or trading engine on Akala and make the user experience much cheaper, faster and better for their users without losing the community over at Ethereum. So there are many different ways, right? So because on Akala we've got smart contracts, you can deploy directly solidity contract. There are multiple bridges being built, both from bitcoin and also Ethereum and with different flavors, right? So there are many ways that now we can explore to help those folks out to actually bring to up level the user experience. Basically I don't see too much competition, but more of like complementary, or try to grow the DeFi category together.
00:43:38.306 - 00:43:39.646, Speaker B: That would be the summary.
00:43:39.758 - 00:44:46.642, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's a really good way of putting it and of know the idea of sharing some of the economic load both with Ethereum and bitcoin, and then allowing DeFi to serve different segments, as you say, perhaps a more classic retail participant. I mean, you could argue in a way it's been a blessing in disguise that more retail investors haven't been able to participate in a lot of the things that have been going on. But at the same time, if we're to fulfill the ambition and the dream of web3 and DFI, then clearly that democratization is very important. So I also know, I think I mentioned earlier, this idea of decentralization or progressive decentralization is very important too. It's something I've written about in the past. I refer to it as a pathway to decentralization. So in a way it allows you to iterate as a startup in a perhaps more centralized way, but then increasingly decentralize.
00:44:46.642 - 00:45:06.990, Speaker A: And I know your ultimate KPI is if you can effectively dissolve into the network and remove yourselves. But it'd be really good to understand how you approach decentralization and that progressive pathway from a planning perspective.
00:45:07.410 - 00:45:51.454, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. That's a great question, Jamie. There, right from the get go, we set ourselves what we think is a reasonable goal just to be able to remove ourselves from the SiM one day and the network is still functioning and have enough resource and also decision making apparatus for it to continue to operate. So that would be the ultimate goal. And then how we get there is we thought about this concept of gradual decentralization. So it's like initially you still need a startup or an organization off chain organization like Akala. Right now the team and engineers to actually bootstrap both the development as well as the community.
00:45:51.454 - 00:46:43.342, Speaker B: And then gradually some of those controls and decision making will be ported onto the chain. Because part of Polkadot and also Akala's actually shining point is the governance. So on chain governance, so there is a decision making apparatus and also execution apparatus on chain that we can vote for things, for example, vote for new changes or upgrade or changes to economic parameters, even change the monetary policy if needed. All those can be voted on chain and also can be executed. Right? So we can say now we want to change the monetary policy or we don't want to change the interest rate, for example, say from 5% to 20%. Right? Quite a dramatic change. And we can say on chain, please execute it over the next three months so we don't blow up the economy in one go.
00:46:43.342 - 00:47:35.918, Speaker B: So it's like soften the blow per se. So technically we can do all of that. So with that guarded sort of technology there, our plan is like gradually we'll move a lot of this decision making onto a color chain, and then initially it will be a council governed system. So council is more like elected members of the community. So they will be dedicated decision makers to help guide the development as well as some of the changes in the network. So that is more decentralized than just like one team govern it. And obviously the founding team will play a role in the council, will probably take some seats from the councils, but there will be external members or the community members participate in the council election as well as decision making.
00:47:35.918 - 00:48:32.890, Speaker B: And then that will be sort of the initial phase, just to make sure that all the economic parameters that we set right. And if there's any dramatic things happen, we can act really quickly. And even for the councils, we divide them up into general council to look after the entire chain's operation. But also we have a technical committee who actually will look after maybe attacks, maybe significant bugs that require immediate action, that need to prioritize all the voting and also execution of the upgrade to fix the bug, et cetera. So the council is actually divided up by their function and then move forward, though beyond that point, we're going to enable democracy on the chain. So democracy means all the councils will be elected by all the token holders. And at the same time there's a referendum being enabled on the chain.
00:48:32.890 - 00:49:31.486, Speaker B: So that means anyone with that kind of token, they can propose new changes to the chain. And also they can also do things like there's a treasury in Akada and they can propose they want to do some work for the chain or do some development or bug fixing. They can ask for chess rate to fund them or tip them, for example, and we'll enable that part of it. And that will actually move more control away from the founding team and into the hands of communities by enabling that democracy function. And also alongside with that mechanism, that governance mechanism, we also have a decentralized sovereign wells fund. Because for each chain on Polkadot, you actually require certain amount of dot being bonded for you to actually enjoin or get access to polkadot security. That's a long story, but I won't go into details.
00:49:31.486 - 00:50:33.874, Speaker B: But basically with this wells fund, we can actually collect all the surpluses that have been generated by the network and then put it into this wells fund. And then you can take the analogy of a country or the nation's wealth fund, like Norway's wealth fund. The purpose of it is basically you don't spend all the money that you earn within the financial year, but you save it and then you reinvest it in valuable assets that probably can hedge your domestic economics. So for example, for Norway, they will just invest in foreign companies, non oil related, which is their main economic income generator. So it's basically like a hedge, but also invest into the future. So for Akala, we take the inspiration and then we will use those surplus to for example, invest in foreign reserve, like foreign currency. So for example, we can invest in DoT for a number of reasons these reserve will need to be valuable, maybe also yield earning and also have certain utility.
00:50:33.874 - 00:51:43.482, Speaker B: So dot probably fits all those three categories, right? Apart from we can stake the dot and earn return, we can also use those dot to purchase more security for akala. So if we have enough of those, then Akala can be truly self servant, right? So we don't need to require external sort of support for us to be sustainable and perpetual going forward. And most importantly, out of all of those, I said is those wells fund is a trustless one. So it's going to be owned by, collectively by the entire chain through those governance apparatus, right? So through referendum and individual voting and governance. So this is really, I think I'm going to coin it as Dow 3.0, right? So this is where it's not just a simple smart contract that you deposit funds and not sure how to deal with it, but this is both. You have a way to acquire resources and also you have a way to make decisions and also make your legislation and also execute all those laws and changes, right? Yeah.
00:51:43.482 - 00:51:46.000, Speaker B: So down through porno. There, I said it.
00:51:46.370 - 00:53:02.950, Speaker A: I love it. A decentralized sovereign wealth fund. And again, I really love the way that you described how you can effectively function as this self sovereign entity. And I can imagine many more similar digital states adopting this kind of policy. So if we look at DeFi, on the one hand, we already know the kind of complexities of governance around just a decentralized network are already pretty complicated now in DeFi, which effectively is a war for liquidity and increasingly a war for collateral, new forms of collateral to be staked within the network. But effectively, if I try to simplify this down, and you may do a better job than me at this, there is this tension between efficiency and yield. So on the one hand, that liquidity is seeking yield, as much yield as it could get, you could argue there's perhaps another dimension of risk against that yield.
00:53:02.950 - 00:54:17.562, Speaker A: And then if you look at efficiency, you could say there are subsets to efficiency. So on the one hand, there is, of course, anything that is a tax, fees, and that may or may not be linked to governance, which is kind of, I guess, the perception of either a real inefficiency or the perception of an inefficiency. So, for example, one of the big trends at the moment, at least in theory, is this idea of a fair launch, the idea that a DeFi project can be launched without vcs participating. And people are trying to delineate now that, well, this is a vc project, therefore, presumably it is inefficient in a way that it's going to be governed versus something that's seen as much purer because it's backed purely by what is classed as a retail investor. But of course there's a spectrum there. So in my mind, it seems like DeFi is trying to seek this equilibrium between efficiency and yield. And that is the dilemma that every project in DeFi must try to balance.
00:54:17.562 - 00:54:36.318, Speaker A: I think Kyle of multicoin, referred to as the Defi paradox, do you understand it in the same way? And what do you think are the points of substance and perhaps things that are a distraction?
00:54:36.414 - 00:56:09.826, Speaker B: I think that in a way is super great questions because I'm sure you're going to get all sorts of different answers to it. But my personal view is that I think so called you farming, right, is basically putting an incentive, a mechanism, to actually bootstrap a community, right? So more in the crust of it. I think it's a great mechanism. Especially at the very beginning of community bootstrapping, you're putting some incentive there will actually help that process. But if you are taking u farming to an extreme where your entire product is U farming, then you will get into that sort of like a rabbit hole, right? You can only go deeper and deeper without being able to coming out of it if you farming is the only purpose of the entire launch or majority of the product suite. So I think ultimately, even though a lot of those new innovations come out to incentivize your community, I think one thing we always need to fall back onto is the fundamentals, right? So what is your product doing? What values do you create? And then are there many actual users using your products? And what are the transaction volume and those sort of fundamentally how you judge a good product and also what sort of impact and value it actually brings to actual people, right. May have one way or another, impacts their actual life.
00:56:09.826 - 00:56:48.910, Speaker B: I think those are the sort of things that we always need to take a step back and look at those fundamentals. Sort of aside from just like incentives and u farming. If we are using u farming and incentives as a means, that's great. If you trade it as an end, then you're doomed to collapse one day, right? It's just like today or tomorrow. This is like timing, right? So that's my personal view on U farming. And we can see a lot of many happening right now on Ethereum. Some of them are very interesting experiments, right? But some of them are probably just for the purpose of you farming.
00:56:48.910 - 00:58:09.254, Speaker B: And I think greed is something that we can consciously tell is there, but sometimes when it's you, individual is quite hard to actually avoid it. I think time and time again, I think history can tell that every time individuals fall into it, right? So I was reading a book recently on history on France and Europe, and it talks about Mississippi bubble and also South Sea bubble, right? So those are quite well known sort of economic bubbles that happened in the past, a long time ago, right? But we seem to repeat those patterns again and again and in a shorter time period. Now in DFI, right? What used to happen like in a 50 year time frame, now it's like in a five day or even five hour time frame. I think that's something that everyone needs to sort of be aware of in general, I think it's not an either or question. Like if you want to bootstrap a project, you either go for VC or you just go for token distribution, right? I don't think it's either or. I think you could have both. And then they optimize for different purposes.
00:58:09.254 - 00:59:11.134, Speaker B: So to me, going for VC, obviously you get capital from VC, so you optimize for capital raising. And then the second thing is you optimize for partnership, because usually. So for a team like Akala, ten of us, nine are engineers, right? So we have no idea about say market making, how liquidity works, how anything other than engineering work. So a lot of the vcs that we meet, they have complementary skills to us and also market knowledge and also various different connections that could help us to actually boost up the network. So we optimize for that. And also the third thing I would say for VC is they are built for to suck up the risk. So that's why we fundraise from these folks, because they can suck up all the risks or potential loss, right? Because the chances of a startup will actually be successful is quite limb, to be fair.
00:59:11.134 - 01:00:03.520, Speaker B: So those will be the reasons why you would go for a VC. And also you can have a VC fundraise as well as a token distribution. So a token distribution doesn't matter which form will optimize for a number of things also. So token distribution. So either ICO or some other ways that I'll talk about in Akala, we're doing initial parachain offering, which is a different, very, quite a new way to distribute tokens. So obviously it's for distributing our tokens to as many people as possible. It is also bootstrapping the network, bootstrapping a community, and also providing an incentive for initial users to come and use the network, right? So if you are doing token distribution, or so called fair launch, then you are trying to optimize for that.
01:00:03.520 - 01:00:30.790, Speaker B: You may also fundraise through token distribution. I think ICO falls into that category. But obviously you're putting a lot of risk into the retail users if you are doing that. I believe you can actually have both and optimize for different purposes. And for Akala, we've done a bit of fundraising. We didn't raise too much money. We raised enough to be able to operate in the next couple of years.
01:00:30.790 - 01:01:11.166, Speaker B: Basically for our token distribution, we don't need to raise fundraise from individuals per se, but we can still distribute our tokens out pretty fairly. So for our token distribution, we have this initial parachain offering. So what we call a ethical, useful net positive token distribution. So basically you lock your dots in order to help Akala to secure a parachain on polka dot. So that is the useful part of it. So you lock your token for purpose, right, to help us to gain access to polka dot security. And in return we distribute our tokens to users.
01:01:11.166 - 01:02:03.294, Speaker B: And majority of Akala's token at 34% are actually reserved for this type of distribution. So we're going to distribute majority of that 34% in this initial parishing offering process. And also a portion of that will be used for the initial liquidity mining to distribute to the users. And also at the same time, how do you avoid speculators? Because all those bubbles that I pointed out in the past is that the intention is always great. So the intention is always good to actually have liquidity in the economy and the market. So you can build things and you can have more activities and more labor in the market to do things. But ultimately it becomes a bubble because of too many speculation, right? So people only chase the face value of the token.
01:02:03.294 - 01:03:13.002, Speaker B: Or back then was the notes right from the bank. And how do you avoid that? I think no one has the perfect answer right now. So a number of things that we thought about is, one is like we can put on a vesting schedule on the distributed token, but we want people to participate in a network activity, but also at the same time to reduce certain amount of speculation. So what we're going to do is we are going to distribute the whole amount of the balance to individuals. So say if you put down certain number of dots and you receive certain number of ACA tokens, we're going to give you the whole balance and you can use that full balance to say, participate in voting and governance of the chain, so you can still operate as a stakeholder of the Akala chain. But the transfer functionality, the speculation part of it, like transfer and sell part of it, is going to be vested through a number of time, and then we could release that per block. So you're gradually getting more and more tokens in your wallet that you can transfer, but that sort of reduces the speculation part.
01:03:13.002 - 01:04:07.066, Speaker B: So there's probably more ways that we can think about to improve that process. But I think everyone who's launching a product should actually think about that way, rather than just pure trying to get as many user into the door as possible when you launch, but without worrying about how you actually keep them. Right. And then we also put in mechanisms on each one of our protocol, so that people who participate, and also early participants, they will also be able to do liquidity mining, but also in a way that is less speculative. So in that way, I think we also attract the audience or the users that we want, like a community that's more sticky, that actually believes in our longer term vision, and also who actually want to participate in things like governance and various activities on the chain. So that's our current thinking right now for that part, yeah.
01:04:07.088 - 01:05:06.062, Speaker A: And I think that's really useful for a lot of founders, of course, as we're entering. Whilst it's still volatile, I think the general direction has been upwards in the markets, and certainly it's been a seller's market. Projects that are raising capital have been finding it much easier than certainly they had been doing even six months ago, let alone a year ago. So not rushing into a lot of these decisions just to quickly mop up money is going to be a temptation that many founders are going to have to resist. But clearly there's some precedents set by projects such as Acala that they can learn from and borrow from. So, finally, I'd love to talk to you about Defi in Asia. I know that you're in New Zealand, you're in Oceania, you're slightly removed from what's going on, say, in mainland China, although your kind of co founders have more of a presence there.
01:05:06.062 - 01:05:41.260, Speaker A: But I looked at a few people to gain insights on that market, and David Wanza, one of those people, and it wasn't until very recently that she was saying anybody in mainland China was remotely interested in Defi. I believe just in the last week, we're now in early September, the number of mentions of defi has dramatically increased on WeChat. Anecdotally, what are you seeing happen in Defi in Asia right now?
01:05:41.710 - 01:06:20.610, Speaker B: Yeah, good question, Jamie. Obviously, I'm not on the ground in China. I am having quite a number of conversations with my co founders who's in Shanghai. So I have my personal take on why that happens. Right. So a number of reasons is, you know, the chinese sort of users, they have very different user habits, so they don't use browsers very much. So I use compound and all the other Defi products, most of them, I use it on a browser, right? So I have to get my metamask plugin and then I have to go through those routes.
01:06:20.610 - 01:07:51.294, Speaker B: So most of the Chinese maybe, or if I'm not exaggerating on mobile, so the sort of normal defi experience is not too normal to those users. I think that's one of the reasons why they weren't that hot previously. And then the second thing is most of the defi I can see, they haven't got internationalized or localized to the chinese audience, right? So there's a huge language barrier there for these folks to actually use. And then that language also translates into not just the product translation, but also how those D five concepts gets packaged up and educated to those users are also lacking as well because you can see from the web two world, usually it's divided into two western and chinese sort of tech companies, right? Their products may from a 10,000ft might look similar, but very subtly. There's a lot of behavior and also user experience differences that actually divides up the two markets, right? So I think those two are probably one of the reasons why previously those folks haven't got very engaged into the scene. And then the thirdly is I'm in touch with quite a number of kol, so they call key opinion leaders in China. So these folks actually have done a great job, I think, in the past that actually translate or use their own way to interpret and also educate the markets in China.
01:07:51.294 - 01:08:36.340, Speaker B: So they usually have a great following in the chinese crypto community and then they actually break down the things into chunks. And then quite a number of them, I know they use the U farming products themselves, right, like Wifi and others. And then they actually bring their personal experience and then to a much wider audience. And all of a sudden you get this sort of following effect of people trying to participate. But at the same time I think there are also products being built that's more catered for the chinese market and hence you will see like a surge of activities and interests from mean. That's just my sort of personal view looking from a distance, what actually happened.
01:08:37.190 - 01:09:03.494, Speaker A: Yeah, Betty, really insightful. It's been fascinating talking to you. I think you've really helped a lot of listeners firstly, understand what's going on at Polkadot, but given them some food for thought when they're thinking about how they're designing incentives in their economy and then, of course, understanding how they may be bridging out into Asia, Southeast Asia. So thank you so much for your time. It's been great having you on the show.
01:09:03.692 - 01:09:07.640, Speaker B: Yeah, thank you very much, Jamie, for having me. Great chat. Thanks.
01:09:09.890 - 01:09:18.060, Speaker A: If you enjoyed today's podcast, please make sure you subscribe, rate and share your feedback to help us reach as many people as possible with the important mission of web3.
