00:00:08.170 - 00:01:39.414, Speaker A: Sean Garin, founder and CEO of Pixel Vault Pixel Vault aims to be a web3 studio of sorts, really bringing to life IP in a new and exciting way. Leveraging the blockchain to enhance the entertainment experience, allowing users to be more than just an audience, to actually be participants in the it. So far, we've developed two of our own IPs, being punk's comic, which was sort of inspired by the historic crypto punks collection, and then the Metah universe, which is our play on a fun, sort of zany superhero world. So thus far, we've used Chainlink for our core drops, which is the distribution of our sort of core characters in the Metaho universe. To ensure that that distribution to our existing collectors is verifiably fair. We also used it to set up an on chain queue system for the Punks comic issue two collectors edition mint, which had tremendous demand. So we were able to set up time frames that people could mint during, and we were able to verifiably randomize that selection of the sample.
00:01:39.414 - 00:03:00.870, Speaker A: So our participants were able to have that sort of pack opening type experience and stay true to what it means to be open, transparent and embracing blockchain technology. The services that Chainlink provides, specifically VRF, which we use most, are strategically aligned with our embrace of this technology in the ecosystem. And certainly we want all of our collectors to feel that when we have a drop, things are handled in a very transparent and fair manner. Integrating with Chainlink has allowed the Pixel Vault team to earn a reputation for gas efficient and verifiably fair drops for our collectors, which is incredibly important. We don't want our collectors wasting any money, and we certainly want them to feel like things are done in a fair manner. Also, our use of chain link products has allowed us to take advantage of this blockchain technology to make sure that things are truly trustless, really just continuing to build alongside our community. These ecosystems, much like ecosystems of web two, web one and prior, are really built around the concept of collective vision.
00:03:00.870 - 00:04:08.454, Speaker A: Entertainment, sports, et cetera, have always been things that people can rally around. And so leveraging crypto technology, leveraging the blockchain, to enhance the ability for our collectors to actually participate in how the IP takes shape, is really our core focus. So just trying to continue to build out, stay on the cutting edge, and make sure that this whole process is fun, because that's why we're here at the end of the day, of course. I mean, we've been extremely happy in working with Chainlink. Each of our drops that we've leveraged the technology have gone extremely well. And at the end of the day, if you have a reputation for providing a quality service to collectors, I think they'll keep coming back and want to interact within your ecosystem. So whatever we can do to make our experience as seamless as possible, as fair as possible, we always want to do so.
00:04:08.454 - 00:04:17.930, Speaker A: And Chainlink's been an amazing partner in accomplishing that's.
