00:00:00.160 - 00:00:27.510, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the delegate refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sozano, and today's the 15 June 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So what, another crazy 24 hours in the crypto markets and just the crypto ecosystem in general. I got a bit to get through today, so gonna get right into it. First thing, I put out a tweet earlier today where I said, I don't think the crypto markets have ever humbled so many people so quickly before. This is absolutely wild to watch.
00:00:27.510 - 00:00:55.470, Speaker A: Play out front row seats to the greatest show on earth. This has happened before where a lot of people within crypto will get what's called humbled. And what I mean by that is that, like during the bull market, a lot of people feel like they're invincible, right? Like you're making a lot of money. It's really easy to make money. Everything's going well, it seems like everything's working, and you feel this sense of invincibility. And obviously with that comes a lot of greed. And then the market inevitably turns and people get wiped out.
00:00:55.470 - 00:01:37.248, Speaker A: Even the people that you think are really, really smart or really good at kind of like managing their risk, they get wiped out. And the latest victim here is three arrows capital, which you can kind of like, see here, a scoop from the block. And also just a bunch of other kind of news around this today that three arrows capital is basically having a liquidity crisis. They can't pay their debts and having a very, very tough time right now. And I guess for those of you who don't know what I guess a liquidity crisis or a liquidity crunch is, it's basically got to do with a lot to do with leverage. So, for example, 3 hours capital or a lot of the funds, they love to kind of like take on leverage positions. Now, now that works in a bull market pretty well, right, because everything's going up, you don't have to worry too much about it.
00:01:37.248 - 00:02:37.960, Speaker A: But the problem becomes is that when you leverage up and you use crypto assets as collateral, which obviously the price of that collateral goes up and down, it becomes very, very risky, especially when the price goes down way too quickly and you can't sell enough of your, I guess, like collateral or I guess, crypto holdings to cover that debt. Because let's say you put up ethos collateral, you borrow stable coins, and then you go buy more ETH with it. Well, if you're trying to pay off that debt and you're in a losing position because the ETH price is going down, you get less and less capital. So to pay off that debt fully, unless you've like, over collateralized by a lot, you have to get money from elsewhere, which means selling off other assets that you have, which, you know, incur further, probably further losses and further tax events as well. Depending on if you're a company or an individual, it obviously differs and where you are in the world. But basically, I think what ended up happening was that 3 hours capital, from what I can tell, just didn't have the liquidity to pay their debts or, and um, they seem to have kind of like panicked a bit as well. They sold a lot of Ste at a discount.
00:02:37.960 - 00:03:04.228, Speaker A: I don't think they would have been doing that if they didn't need liquidity like ASAP. And uh, there was an on chain position that was credited to them, which I think is actually being revised. So there was this position on Aave that was going to get liquidated at the ETH price of $1,014. We got there, but the oracle didn't update. Cause Aave works off Chainlink Oracles. It didn't update in time, and we're back at like 1100. It's, I mean, it can still get liquidated, but this position had about $200 million worth of debt.
00:03:04.228 - 00:03:40.002, Speaker A: But apparently it doesn't belong to 3 hours capital. I mean, I was under the impression that it was because it was marked as that in the nansen tool that people use to track these things, but that has since been removed, so it's not confirmed that that is three AC. But still, that's a pretty big position. I mean, it was over 200,000 ETH worth of collateral backing that position. Pretty big position to get liquidated if that happens. So I'll kind of like share more details about three arrows as it comes to be, because I think the thing with three arrows capital is that a lot of people thought they were one of the kind of like better funds in this ecosystem that made a lot of money. And I don't think, I don't mean better from like an ethical standpoint.
00:03:40.002 - 00:04:11.738, Speaker A: Obviously, they have kind of like been hit or miss there. Obviously there was this fame, the famous tweet from Suzu a few months ago where he said he abandoned ethereum. They obviously spent a lot of time pumping alternative layer ones. They were very involved in terror. But in terms of performance, a lot of people assumed that these guys were making a killing. I mean, so did I. I was you know, when I heard about this, I'm like, you know, surely not like they must be making so much money, but it seems they flew close, too close to the sun, and they basically wrecked themselves, right, from, from what I can see and from what I can tell and the people that I've spoken to.
00:04:11.738 - 00:04:56.890, Speaker A: So I think this is a reminder that this stuff can happen to anyone, guys, like, just because you have a lot of money doesn't make you smarter than someone with less money than you. Four digits or four figures portfolio or a ten figure portfolio, it's the same human behind the screen, right? It's the same brain, it's the same greed is the same monkeys behind the screen at the end of the day. And yes, I mean, maybe you'd expect these people with more money to have better risk management, but it depends, like, if the money doesn't belong to them, if it's like, you know, money from LP's or money that they're managing for other people, then they probably, you know, probably have better risk management. I mean, not always, but, you know, more so than the. More often than not, have better risk management. And they're regulated more heavily too. Whereas I think with 3 hours capital, most of their money was personal funds.
00:04:56.890 - 00:05:36.386, Speaker A: So they probably felt, I guess, like, invincible because they probably had a lot of big wins. I think they did have a lot of big wins last year, and it was their own capital. So they were feeling a bit, I guess, more confident in playing with it hard and faster than they would if they were managing other people's capital. And it's led to this. So this is, I guess, what, what can be considered a black swan event. I don't think anyone expected 3 hours capital to become so I guess, like stressed and distressed and, you know, people are kind of like attributing the price dump of ETH from 1700 to 1100 to three arrows and other firms that just needed the liquidity. Because if you needed liquidity to pay off debts and you're on leverage and you're gonna get liquidated, well, you're not going to care what, what price you sell things at.
00:05:36.386 - 00:05:57.570, Speaker A: You're just going to sell indiscriminately to get that liquidity. And other people are attributing that price move to that. Which makes sense, I think. And that's not to say that we can't go down further, that people can't kind of like get liquidated. There can't be more stress in the system. But usually those big moves like that definitely point to panic, right? It's not just normal selling from people. It's people panicking for one reason or another.
00:05:57.570 - 00:06:15.426, Speaker A: And it doesn't matter if it's a new person that's panicking because they're. They bought the top or an experienced fund. Everyone kind of, like, panics when they have to at the end of the day. So there's, there's that. And then back to kind of like my tweet where I said that, you know, so many people have been humbled. I mean, it's not just three arrows, like terror. Humbled.
00:06:15.426 - 00:06:31.878, Speaker A: So many people, so many funds. It humbled do Kwon. I mean, I don't think he learned his lesson, but he's lost pretty much everything that he had. Not just the money, but all the prestige that came with it. He lost the entire community. He lost everything, basically. And as I said he would, he's either going to end up in jail or lawsuit hell.
00:06:31.878 - 00:06:48.006, Speaker A: It seems that he's in lawsuit hell right now and doesn't seem like he'll escape jail in the long term. I mean, maybe he will, maybe he won't. I'm not. I'm not sure. But that it kind of, like, seems like he doesn't really have much anywhere to run from, from here. Right. And then we saw Celsius blowing up as well.
00:06:48.006 - 00:07:20.366, Speaker A: Another, I guess, centralized service that most people seem to think was legit. I mean, I remember warning against this quite a while ago because I didn't think they were legit. And whatever else there is, there's always kind of, like, contagion that spreads throughout the system. There's a lot of different lenders that talk to each other, that kind of, like, work with each other, that have exposure to each other. And it creates, like, a daisy chain of risk. At the end of the day, you guys know my opinions on risk and how I view risk in things. And I think that because a lot of the CFI space is very, very opaque, and you can't actually see what's going on.
00:07:20.366 - 00:07:55.298, Speaker A: It's very hard for normal investors to see all of this until the market turns, because, you know, a lot of people, one, won't pay attention in bull markets because they don't really care that much. But two, it's. It's just something that we don't really have much insight into. On chain we do because we can see all the positions. But off chain stuff in the c five world, you don't really get to see what's going on there unless you're involved in those ecosystems. And even then, there's only a few people who get to see the real big picture of everything. So when you take all that into kind of, like, consideration, uh, it kind, it kind of becomes very, very hard to see the state of the system unless people start getting wiped out, unless the.
00:07:55.298 - 00:08:21.558, Speaker A: Unless people kind of, like, start unveiling, you know, the weaknesses of the system. And there are a lot of weaknesses, but in saying all of that, look, guys, I don't think anything's fundamentally changed for Ethereum in particular, in terms of, like, a technology. I think Ethereum as an ecosystem, a technology community, whatever you want to say, whatever you want to call it, is in the best place it has ever been. I mean, like, come on. Like, the merge is still coming. The merge is still happening. It's not even about what the merge can do for the price.
00:08:21.558 - 00:08:46.550, Speaker A: It's about what the merge will do for Ethereum. Layer twos are still growing and thriving and building. I mean, everyone's still building that was building before in terms of the ones who are here for the long term. Obviously, there's a lot of short term builders who are just here for the money that are leaving or will leave relatively soon, and they'll kind of, like, just bow out or run out of money as well. So, but just generally, it doesn't. I don't really care if the price is where it's at. Like, this is just kind of like, what the markets are going to do.
00:08:46.550 - 00:09:18.612, Speaker A: I explained my view on the markets the other day. I'm not going to rehash it here, but I think that in terms of, like, the tech side of things, Ethereum is in the fundamentally, the best place is. Has ever been in for a bunch of different reasons. And you guys know those reasons if you've been listening to the refuel. And, you know, on that note as well, the, the people watching the refill, the number of people watching the refuel and listening to it on the podcast and reading the Daily Gray newsletter hasn't gone down, guys, at all. Like, I think on the videos, we average two and a half thousand views or more. And then on the podcast, it's about a thousand listens there.
00:09:18.612 - 00:10:05.754, Speaker A: And then on my newsletter, I have, uh, tens of thousands of subscribers there, and the subscribers keep growing, and the open rate is like 40% or something, which is really, really high. So I think that, you know, I think that if you look at the Daily Gwei community as one, that he really is in it for the tech, and that's, that's how I've curated the community and that's why I've set the deli Gwei up as I have, because I really wanted to optimize for people who are in it for the tech. You can see that the people who are in it for the right reasons haven't left at all. They're still here and they're still very, very dedicated to, I guess, like listening to me ramble on about Ethereum 30 minutes every day and reading the newsletter and being in the discord. So that gives me a lot of, a lot, a lot of stuff to be hopeful for because it, it just shows that there's so many genuine people in the Ethereum community that just aren't here just for the money. Right. And we'll stick around even when ETH has dropped so much.
00:10:05.754 - 00:10:29.900, Speaker A: Like, like, I won't sugarcoat it, it's been a very brutal drop, especially for people who got into this ecosystem last year. Like we are below the old all time high. Like the last time ETH was at 1100 was January 2021. And it didn't, didn't stay there very long. It went, it kind of like, went up really quickly from that. And, you know, it's, it's, it's definitely not a fun time for, for many investors. But the thing is, is I think people see the long term vision.
00:10:29.900 - 00:11:05.008, Speaker A: They see the vision of Ethereum as a technology and what it can do for the world, and they want to stick around, which gives me a lot of hope anyway. So I'm going to leave that at that. But I just wanted to give some more, I guess, context around my thinking with regards to that tweet. Uh, and also, I guess, to wrap that little portion up, there's one other thing that I wanted to talk about, which is more positive, where I said, uh, the firms that have a lot of cash right now, such as a 16 z and paradigm, must be very happy. They quite literally get to buy the blood of their competitors at bargain bin prices. So you guys know that a 16 z and paradigm both raised mega funds recently. I think combined they have, what, seven or $8 billion to deploy.
00:11:05.008 - 00:11:59.942, Speaker A: Yes, a lot of this is going into private markets, but a lot of it can also go into public markets, right? And it kind of like, gets to a point where the public market valuations of some of these things get so attractive that it's actually worth it for these teams to buy on public markets or buy tokens that are publicly traded rather than going in the private kind of like sector or private markets, because it's just such a good deal to have on the public market. So I think that these firms in particular paradigm are really well capitalized. I mean, I replied to someone who said that they didn't think these firms were happy. And I asked, you know, why not? They operate on pretty long timeframes, five to ten years plus Fred and Matt, who are the co founders of Paradigm, but bought a lot of ETH during the bear last time and made out like bandits. They bought hundreds of millions of dollars worth of ETH last time and made billions off of that trade, I'm pretty sure. And then I said they're well capitalized, capitalized liquid and have a long term thesis on the space. Can't think of many other firms in a better place right now.
00:11:59.942 - 00:12:32.886, Speaker A: And the same is true for individuals. If you have dry powder and if you have a long term thesis and if you are able to kind of like deploy that dry powder without putting yourself in a shitty position, then you have opportunities. Right now I'm not going to tell you whether, you know, it's a great time to buy ETH or not. Right. But you have opportunities right now and it's not just ETH. There's a plenty of other things out there. So if you do the research and if you're kind of like content withholding it for the long term, then yeah, I mean you have much more opportunities now than you did back when the bull market was raging because things just got overheated then.
00:12:32.886 - 00:12:49.030, Speaker A: But now it's karma. Less noise, more signal. Probably easier to spot those, those bargains and those deals out there. So. So yeah, just wanted to kind of like wrap up with that. All right, so speaking of fundamentals, we got some merge updates today. So the sepolia testnet configuration is now out there.
00:12:49.030 - 00:13:23.056, Speaker A: Genesis time for the suppolia beacon chain is Monday, June 20. So you guys know the drill here. We need to spin up a new beacon chain for I guess like the superior testnet, just like we did the Ropston testnet. And then this beacon chain will be merged into the suppolia kind of proof of work chain or I guess execution layer chain at the time of the sepolia testnet merge, which I'm expecting to be later this month, at worst early next month. And I will be hosting a community call for that one, like the Robson community call. I think I'm going to be co hosting it with each staker. So that should be pretty fun.
00:13:23.056 - 00:14:02.560, Speaker A: But there'll be more details about that as we get obviously a merge window once the kind of like superior stuff really gets going here. But yeah, the, the testnet configures out which is really, really cool to see there. And then we have another tweet here from Mateus who says we are ready for the superior beacon chain Genesis. We deployed a bunch of nodes on a Kubernetes cluster using nethermine and lighthouse combination. Yet another contribution to the merge here. So you can just see this kind of like video of it being deployed there. So as I said, these will run the beacon chain Genesis will happen on June 20 and then the merge will happen hopefully late June, early July, and then after that goes through successfully, which I think it will, I don't really think there's going to be any issues there.
00:14:02.560 - 00:14:25.896, Speaker A: We will schedule girly and then once that is done successfully we will schedule main net merge. Really really close, guys. Like it's so close. I'm just so excited. Right? The merge is still happening. As I said like this. The price action has not really done anything for the merge in terms of timelines or in terms of like fundamental stuff like the work on the merge continues indifferent to whatever the price is.
00:14:25.896 - 00:15:01.340, Speaker A: So very, very cool to see that last update on the merge was that Mainnet shadow fork seven configuration is now available. The TTD for Mainnet shadow fork seven is planned for Wednesday, June 22 at 02:00 p.m. At UTC here. So as I said guys, these main net shadow forks will be running in parallel to the Testnet merge transitions or to the public testnet merge transitions. And this will just keep happening basically right up until main net merge. I would suspect just because we want to keep running these things, we want to just test as much as possible as I've gone through it before. Test test is the most important thing when it comes to everything got to do with the merge.
00:15:01.340 - 00:15:23.584, Speaker A: Doesn't matter if it is on public testnets or main net shadow forks. Having both is better than just having one. So if you're interested in getting kind of like contributing to this, you can check out these links from Andrew here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so another update from the ethereum.org team today. So you're preparing for the merge with the new merge readiness checklist on the launch.
00:15:23.584 - 00:16:03.688, Speaker A: On the staking launchpad, which is a new tool they've got here you'll find action items, merge related resources, and information on testing the merge to make sure you're ready. So you can see here the merge readiness checklist. I guess this is mostly for solo stakers and kind of like application developers as well, in terms of if they're running their own infrastructure and things like that, and if you're running, I guess like an ETH one node or an execution layer node, this may be relevant to you as well. So it's just a task list. So there's three tasks and then a bonus as well to make sure that you are ready, especially if you're a solo staker. So this is obviously very, very important to myself because I am a solo staker. Hopefully some of you are as well.
00:16:03.688 - 00:16:35.112, Speaker A: But definitely go check this out. Even if you're not, there might be something in here that may be of interest to you, or maybe you just want to kind of like read up on this and have the knowledge ready just in case you're working towards being a solo staker. Because it's, it's never, it's never been easier. Well, I mean, I shouldn't say never, but it's probably the easiest time in the last 18 or so months to be a solo staker because it's cheaper to be a solo staker. Like 32 ETH right now is what, just over $32,000. I know that he's still expensive. It's not cheap, but it is much cheaper than what it was a few months ago and it was over $100,000.
00:16:35.112 - 00:17:17.842, Speaker A: Right. So I think if you're working towards your own 32 ETH to become a solo stake, even if you don't have it yet, it's still interesting to check, to check this out and to be aware that this exists simply because you, you know, I'm confident a lot of you will get there eventually and you'll kind of obviously need to look at this and be aware of this once you do get there. So I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so announcement out of Opensea today. They've officially moved to the C port protocol, which is their, I guess, kind of like set of decentralization tools that they're building out for kind of, I guess like NFT marketplaces. So they estimate that this new contract will save $460 million in total fees each year. But that's not all.
00:17:17.842 - 00:18:02.248, Speaker A: Let's go through all the updates. So there's a thread here with the updates. Very, very kind of like small thread, but the major updates include collection offers. No setup fees are coming with, with kind of like a bunch of other features coming soon. And, you know, they're saying, look, this is just the beginning and everything like that I have mentioned, I guess, what was it gonna say? I have mentioned Seaport before on the refuel, and I have mentioned how I think that the, they're kind of like doing this because I reckon Seaport will have a token eventually, because obviously Opensea was kind of shy about doing a token. They wanted to IPO, then this would make sense for them to do that where OpenSeek, and basically IPO is a centralized company, and then seaport is that decentralized infrastructure that Opensea is just running on top of. And then Seaport could have a token.
00:18:02.248 - 00:18:40.664, Speaker A: So I don't know what the timeline will be like on this. I don't know what the distribution will look like. I don't even know if there will be a token. This is just me speculating. But if kind of like if I was a betting man, I would bet on them doing a token for C port, not for OpenSea. It just makes more sense to me from that kind of like perspective. And I think we're going to see more of this hybrid approach where they centralized companies build decentralized infrastructure in the form of a protocol, then they migrate their centralized entity to that protocol and just build on top of it, and then allow other people to build on top of it as well, and kind of have a token for just the protocol, not the actual infrastructure that the centralized infrastructure, because it just makes sense from the protocol perspective to have a token there.
00:18:40.664 - 00:19:13.510, Speaker A: So we'll see how it shakes out there. But cool to see that OpenSea has migrated to C port protocol here. Alright, so Calvin Fichter from the optimism team has updated this simple optimism node setup with more beginner friendly instructions. You can go run an optimism node today if you would like to do so. And as he said, that there is kind of like more beginner friendly instructions here. So in terms of the recommended hardware, there's 16 gig of Ram needed, 500 gigabyte of disk. You can use a hard drive for now, but solid state drives obviously better, and a ten megabits per second download speed.
00:19:13.510 - 00:19:53.596, Speaker A: So not too crazy on the hardware requirements here. You could probably run this in parallel on your own staking box if you wanted to. So once you've got that kind of like hardware, you'll need the docker software and then you can kind of follow the steps here in order to run your own optimism node. This is really cool. I like the fact that optimism is already encouraging people to run the, their own nodes, because at the end of the day, we want these networks to also be decentralized and we don't want them just kind of like being run by optimism, yes. With L2s, it becomes like a one of n trust assumption where you only need one honest sequencer, one honest kind of like player in the game in order for your transactions to get through. But that still comes with censorship trade off.
00:19:53.596 - 00:20:30.784, Speaker A: So we definitely want as many people running full nodes as possible and as many people running sequences and stuff like that later down the track as possible as well. So, yeah, if you're interested in this, definitely check out this little guide here. I'll link it in YouTube description. All right, so superfluid announced that they have been, that they've built a working prototype for the world's first cross chain asset asset streaming bridge with Connext and Nomad. So the ability to stream money between blockchains will transform on chain businesses is what superfluid is saying here. And there's a thread about what kind of like, what this enables and how this all works. This is pretty cool because obviously we're going to live in a multi chain world.
00:20:30.784 - 00:20:52.902, Speaker A: And I think that, I mean, obviously you guys think know that. I think that the multi chain world is basically ethereum and it's l two ecosystem. And if we are, well, then we need ways to bridge. Basically everything connects. Is one of the leaders here in that space. Nomad as well, is kind of like working with Kinect and working on that technology with them. And superfluid is a leader in the money streaming, I guess, kind of like space as well.
00:20:52.902 - 00:21:37.294, Speaker A: And I should disclose here, I'm an investor in both superfluid and connext there just to get that out of the way. But they're kind of like leading the charge here. And I think money streaming in general is such an underrated feature in crypto, an underrated use case. But I think as it gets integrated with more of the stuff that requires payments, more of the stuff that require that kind of like people can get value out of, such as the use case that I given before is basically being able to be paid by superfluid on like a block by block basis and then be able to automatically stream that money into like a money market protocol, for example. So you're automatically earning yield on it. And this obviously wasn't economically viable on layer one, ethereum, but it becomes very economically viable on L2. So from that perspective, having a bridge between the L2 is also very important.
00:21:37.294 - 00:22:07.924, Speaker A: So it's really, really cool to see this from superfluid connects and nomad here. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to check out below. All right, so the ZK rollup directory has been upgraded to version 2.0 and it is now live at Zkrollups XYZ. So it seems to have like a brand new design, much better UI UX overall. And you can basically see all of the kind of like different projects and infrastructure and middleware and all that good stuff building in the ZK space. So there's categories on the left here.
00:22:07.924 - 00:22:39.254, Speaker A: You can search between roll ups, you know, rollets, infra, dapps, et cetera, et cetera. Roll ups is pretty cool because there's 16 ZK roll ups right now, I guess like ZK related roll ups from various different teams. Obviously you can see here that stuff, stuff like Starknet, Zksync, Scroll, Polygon, and a bunch of others here as well. And then you have the wallets that are supporting them already. So there's about 20 wallets. Dapps is pretty interesting. There's 89 dapps right now, some alive already, some are on the testnet, and then you've got nfts, games and other kind of categories here.
00:22:39.254 - 00:23:10.186, Speaker A: So definitely go check this out if you're interested in what's happening in the L2 ZK space, because I think that's one of the most interesting spaces right now in the Ethereum ecosystem. It's definitely something where it's very geeky, very nerdy, very, very builder focused. Not much stuff for an end user to play around with just yet. So if you are a builder, it's probably a place where you want to be. But this is kind of like what the future of Ethereum is going to look like, what the future of L2 is going to look like. So definitely don't sleep on it as a developer and get involved. Maybe you can build an app that you've always wanted to build on a blockchain.
00:23:10.186 - 00:23:42.092, Speaker A: You were just kind of, I guess, limited by layer one Ethereum. But you won't be limited on these ZK roll ups here. So I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go check it out. So speaking of ZK roll ups, just wanted to quickly highlight that Polygon is teasing that a ZK roll up is coming soon. So as you guys know, Polygon has like many ZK stuff that they're working on. They have like Midn and Hermes and zero and the hybrids, like, like, what's the nightfall? And they have a bunch of other things that they're working on as well.
00:23:42.092 - 00:24:05.070, Speaker A: So I mean, I think they've teased before that they're going to get a ZK EVM to mainnet by Q three or Q four, I think it was. So that's maybe coming soon. They've said, like, they just tease the roll up coming soon, right. Don't know what this is, but we're gonna have to keep an eye on that and see what it is. But I'm very excited for it. I'm very excited for ZKVM's to go live in general and see how they fare. There's, there's more than just Polygon working on them.
00:24:05.070 - 00:24:39.876, Speaker A: There's, there's scroll, uh, working on ZkVM and a few other teams, I believe. And I think it really is a race to get to the. To get to get to that in order to kind of like, have something workable for developers to build on and to see how it fares against something like optimistic roll ups. But as I've said in the past, I think there's room for both of them. I don't think one is going to usurp the other, at least not for a very long time. And I do think that if something like ZK roll ups is strictly superior to, uh, optimistic roll ups, there is a path for an optimism or an arbitrum to migrate to being a ZK roll up, which is really, really cool as well. So all that's coming, scaling is getting better.
00:24:39.876 - 00:25:15.210, Speaker A: Scaling is just on fire, I think. Still, like, they haven't slowed down in terms of the actual infrastructure and the applications. And as I said, a lot of these teams are very price insensitive because they're building for the long term. So they just kind of release stuff when it's the right time to do it. They just keep building and then they probably feel less pressure now, which is always a positive thing for these teams. Teams. All right, so speaking of Polygon, again, just a quick shout out here that obviously there's been a lot of cuts in the kind of c five space lately, such as Coinbase and blockfi, but Polygon is increasing their head count, so they want to increase it by 15% this year.
00:25:15.210 - 00:25:49.670, Speaker A: And if you have impacted being impacted by these layoffs, well, Ryan says here they have a number of open roles for business development, engineering solutions and partner management. So definitely go check them out if you want to work for Polygon and if you fit into any of those categories, but don't just stop there. Cryptocurrencyjobs Co is another place where you can kind of look at a lot of the jobs available for you kind of right now, and a lot of the kind of like, different paths you can go down. Doesn't matter what it is. I mean there's pretty much a job for you. Just because you're seeing layoffs of kind of like these big companies doesn't mean that other companies aren't hiring guys. Like it's never like that.
00:25:49.670 - 00:26:12.848, Speaker A: I mean I personally think that Coinbase just way over hired during the, the bull market or kind of like during the mania and now they're like, oh shit. Like we're in a really deep bear market. We need to cut because we've, we need, we've looked at our revenues and we probably can't keep up with this. And I explained this all yesterday, so I think there's a lot of that going on. So don't be dissuaded. Don't think that, oh no, that these big companies are cutting staff. It must mean all these other small companies aren't hiring anymore.
00:26:12.848 - 00:26:57.576, Speaker A: Not at all. I've seen plenty of companies say on Twitter that they're still hiring and there's literally hundreds if not thousands of jobs still available. So if you are still looking for a job in crypto, definitely go check out polygons, open roles, but check out all the other open roles at cryptocurrency jobs dot Co. Alright, I got a few minutes here. Want to quickly just give one last thing, one kind of like last I guess nugget of wisdom about the markets that I've really been thinking about today. There's this kind of saying that I think a lot of people ignore when it's a bull market where people will tell you bear markets can get a lot more brutal than you think they can. Did anyone think that ETH would go below its all time high last all time high of what, $1400? Most people did not.
00:26:57.576 - 00:27:25.010, Speaker A: I'm telling you right now, like all the people that I spoke to pretty much didn't. I think there was maybe one or two that said it was a possibility. Did anyone think that ETH was going back to triple digits, which it hasn't technically yet, but I mean, I wouldn't be surprised if it does. Certainly not. So bear markets, it doesn't matter what happened in the past. It doesn't matter like if the fact that there was a precedent that, you know, these coins have never gone below their old all time high, none of that kind of like matters. I think.
00:27:25.010 - 00:28:13.034, Speaker A: I think history, you can look back on and learn from it, but at the end of the day, it doesn't repeat. It may rhyme, but it doesn't repeat. So I think going forward for a lot of people, they really need to hammer this lesson home into their brains that in a bear market, things can get way worse than you think they can for a number of different reasons. But the same is true for a bull market where things can get crazier than you think they can. But at the end of the day, when it comes to, I guess, investing in these kinds of markets, if you're buying or selling, I still think DCA strategy is probably the best way to go about it, especially if you've got like a constant income coming in because you're never going to sell the top, you're never going to buy the bottom. Well, I guess like the exact bottom or the exact top. And kind of like by trying to do that, you, you're kind of like risking a lot for little upside.
00:28:13.034 - 00:29:04.616, Speaker A: It's better to DCA when you down, feel comfortable doing so. And DCA goes both ways, either buying or selling, then just kind of, I guess, picking a target price or picking some percentage down or percentage up where you start selling. And also having a plan before a bear market hits and before a bull market hits can also help you a lot. So, for example, if you are buying ETH now, you should have a plan for two to three years from now, or, you know, how long it takes for us to get back to, to the all time highs and the peak of when you'd start selling and how much you would start selling. Like, at the end of the day, not everyone's going to hold their ETH forever. Like, I don't expect people to do that either. But if you plan to use ETH as an investment vehicle, well, if you're buying it today, maybe you think to yourself, okay, well, I'm going to start selling when it hits, you know, $2,000 and $3,000, $4,000, and you could kind of like, I guess, adjust how much you sell at each point and things like that as well.
00:29:04.616 - 00:29:29.748, Speaker A: But it's totally up to you the way you want to play it. And I think the people who have succeeded most in these markets are ones that did that. Some of my friends did that and they started selling on the way up at about a time. I remember thinking to myself, wow, these guys, like, they're selling really early. But the point wasn't that they were selling early. The point was that they were actually taking profits and they weren't getting carried away by greed. They stuck to their plan that they made during a bear market, and they're doing fine now.
00:29:29.748 - 00:30:09.692, Speaker A: And they have a lot of dry powder to buy the dip. Like, yes, they've started selling at $1,000, but they also sold the $3,000. And now using that ammo to buy ETH at this price point is pretty attractive, right? So when you consider all that, I think that that's the better strategy to take. It's not investment advice, but that's just kind of like a strategy that I've seen work for a lot of people. But you have to kind of come up with your own targets for where you buy, where you sell, how long you hold something for, and when it comes to anything except ETH, there's a lot of other things to consider, I think, as well. In terms of, like, do you cut your losses because the project looks like it's going to fail? I mean, with ETH, you can be relatively certain it's not going to fail. I mean, I'm 100% certain Ethereum isn't going to fail, but you guys may not be.
00:30:09.692 - 00:30:31.404, Speaker A: But with other projects, I mean, I can't even put like a 50% certainty on most projects, you know, out there right now. So it becomes much, much harder as you go down that risk curve, as I've discussed before. But anyway, I'm going over time now, so I'm going to end it there for today. Thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
