00:00:00.280 - 00:00:43.070, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Nathan Denise Asano, and today's the 4 May 2023. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So we have an update from Paul Growl here, who is the chief legal officer at Coinbase. Now, I discussed, I think it was maybe a few days ago or last week that Coinbase sued the SEC and basically said, hey, we want to reply to something. They had kind of filed, I think, quite a while ago now, maybe over a year ago now. And while there is an update on this, Paul put out a tweet saying the third Circuit just issued a text only order directing the SEC to file a response to our mandamus petition within ten days and gave us seven days for a reply.
00:00:43.070 - 00:01:41.934, Speaker A: Here's the text of the order at the direction of the court. Respondent is ordered to file an answer to the petition for writ of mandamus within ten days of the date of this order. Petitioner may file a reply to the response within seven days of the date of filing of the response. Um, this is pretty funny because it's kind of like, okay, is the SEC actually going to reply within these ten days? What are the consequences for not replying? I don't know, obviously, because I'm not, not a lawyer and the legal system is, is quite, quite complex here, but this is a pretty short time frame, so we'll know within ten days if the SEC chooses to reply to this mandamus petition that Coinbase has been trying to get them to reply to for, as I said, like quite a while now, I think over. Over a year at this stage. And of course, Coinbase then has seven days to issue a reply to that, which I'm sure they'll do in a speedy manner because they are the ones that want to move this along as fast as possible. Now, the actual details of what they asked for, really, it just speaks at the heart of everything that they've been asking for for a long time now.
00:01:41.934 - 00:02:35.414, Speaker A: More guidance on your regulatory front, more kind of like things put in place, more easier to follow rules, basically any kind of help that the SEC can give Coinbase and other crypto companies to actually stay on the right side of regulations and the right side of the law, especially when it comes to deeming assets to be secure. It is or not. So we'll have to see what this reply is here. Look, honestly, if they do reply, if the SEC does reply to this, I expect it to be some kind of canned reply. I don't expect it to be anything substantial. There is definitely going to be a lot of back and forth here. And the most annoying bit is that the, in the legal process that generally is this, it's just back and forth, slow moving, especially when you are dealing with something like, like the SEC, where there's just full of bureaucracy and then, and especially the current SEC where they don't seem interested in actually changing anything for the, you know, on the positive side for crypto.
00:02:35.414 - 00:03:01.294, Speaker A: And they feel like just putting their, I guess, guard up the whole time and basically letting all the crypto companies leave the US. As I've discussed a lot on the refill before, but I'll keep you updated on the SEC's response here and we'll see if they actually do respond. All right, so Tim Baiko has published the latest all core devs update. So he on hack MD. So he used to publish these quite a lot. Now this is update 15. I haven't seen one in a little while.
00:03:01.294 - 00:03:33.566, Speaker A: Don't know how long it's been, but as Tim Bayko said here, it has been a while. So in this update, he talks about Chappella going live and how they're in the final stages of planning the Den kun upgrade. And I've talked about that a lot recently about how 48, 44 is the driver up of the upgrade. And there are a bunch of other eips that are passengers, some that are already included, some that are still considered for inclusion. But of course these things aren't 100% going to go in. They could, they could end up being dropped. We just have to see how that, that kind of that, that plays out there.
00:03:33.566 - 00:04:15.612, Speaker A: And then he also kind of announces him talking about Ethereum governance at a few places in the summer with a full list below of that. So it's quite a healthy update. I highly recommend giving it a read, of course, and checking out the bottom here where Tim Bicarb will be doing a bunch of remote talks around Ethereum governance, which I think should be pretty interesting. But yeah, I mean, I've said it before and I'll say it again, the Ethereum development machine right now at the core protocol is such a well, well oiled machine. It is moving at such an amazing pace. And I actually still in disbelief about how amazing of a pace it's moving in because we went straight from Chappella to den kun like nothing had really happened. I mean, it's kind of like there is no meandering around.
00:04:15.612 - 00:04:45.220, Speaker A: There is no kind of like being lost in the woods trying to figure out where to go next. Everyone kind of knows where to go next. There is a defined roadmap, there is a plan. There is, everyone is very, very motivated to build this stuff out, to get it onto main nets, and everyone really wants to stick to that six month or so network upgrade cadence, which I think is just amazing because that means that we should get Den Koon before the year is up. You know, if we go from April, it's six months from April. May, June, July, August, September, October. Right? October, November could be when we get dengue.
00:04:45.220 - 00:05:12.134, Speaker A: It's not going to happen in December. I think obviously because of the holiday period, you don't want to be doing network upgrades during that time. But October, November seems right there. And then after that we'll go into the new year and we might have another upgrade in April again. Right? So it just depends, obviously, if things are ready and are not ready. I think the next upgrade after Den Kun will be one that probably involves vocal trees or some kind of like some form of it. I don't think PBS will be in that upgrade.
00:05:12.134 - 00:05:36.024, Speaker A: Maybe mev burn is in that upgrade. I don't know if the MeV burn design that they end up going with will require PBS. It may require EPBS, which is like a modified version of it. So there are a lot of open questions still, but there are people working on that. There are people working on the things that are coming after Den Kun, which is obviously very promising. But anyway, you can check out Tim Baiko's blog post for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:05:36.024 - 00:06:27.734, Speaker A: All right, so Frederick here from the Ethereum foundation has published a blog post titled secured number five Public Vulnerability Disclosures update. So this is just an update for all of you, I guess, aspiring security research researchers out there who like to keep on tabs on top of these stuff. But even if you want to, just give it a read. If you're curious with what's going on in the vulnerability disclosures world, then this is for you. So there is a list here where the blog process since the last vulnerability disclosure has been quite eventful, with events such as the merge and the Max Bounty reward increased to $250,000. The highest paid reward during this period was $50,000, and this was awarded to someone called PSIO for reporting an issue in which Lighthouse beacon nodes crashed via malicious blocks by range messages containing an overly large count value. And you can read more about the vulnerability here.
00:06:27.734 - 00:07:24.632, Speaker A: So there hasn't been any vulnerability that has been found, that has paid the maximum bounty yet, which is $250,000. But if you can find a critical bug in any of these client softwares that will justify that payment, then you stand to make a quarter of a million dollars for finding that bug. And the clients that are covered are Aragon, Gethsemane, Lodestar, Nethermind, Lighthouse, Prism Tech, who Besu and Nimbus, all the ones that we are obviously very familiar with, and all the ones that are being used actively on the network. So you can read this blog post for details on that, as well as details on vulnerabilities that have been disclosed up until now, and you can learn more about all of that there. Now, speaking of different clients on Ethereum, I did want to touch on client diversity again, and I've got the client diversity kind of site up here, as you can see on your screen. So we have still kind of like, stayed around the same when it comes to execution layer client diversity, where Geth is about 63% of the network, Nethermind is about 17%. That kind of chops and changes, uh, you know, every other day.
00:07:24.632 - 00:07:56.118, Speaker A: It can go from like 20% nethermine, 60% geth, and then back to 63% get 17% nethermind. The data isn't 100% accurate, is definitely kind of more of a, kind of, I don't know, the percentage accuracy, I would call it, but it's. It's not 100% right. So that's why things can move around. But we can get a general idea of, of what the network looks like, and it's looking quite healthy. Obviously Geth, we would like Geth to be lower than what it is right now, but there are still a bunch of things that the other clients need to do to get it up to geth standard. And it's obviously just a time thing as well.
00:07:56.118 - 00:08:13.292, Speaker A: Whereas on the consensus layer side of things, things have stayed relatively healthy. We remember quite a while ago now, Prism was. Was. The majority of the network was like 70 or 80% of the network. Now it's under 40%. Lighthouse is basically the same as prism at 37.3%, prisms at 38%.
00:08:13.292 - 00:08:41.458, Speaker A: Tech and Nimbus are at 17.4% and 6.3%, respectively. And Lodestar is, you know, just went live a few months ago, I think, or not even a few months ago, but they have around 0.7% of the network right now. Now, in an ideal world, we want to see tech and Nimbus and Lodestar adoption higher than what it is but I think the current makeup of the consensus layer, client diversity, is not as good as we're going to get it, but it is pretty good. Like, it's not something to cry about, that's for sure.
00:08:41.458 - 00:09:33.634, Speaker A: Whereas an execution layer side of things, there is still work to be done, and that's being done, obviously, and will continue to be done. I don't see any cause for concern here. I mean, honestly, the biggest concern is when any one client has over 66% of the share, because that means that we could potentially, if there was a bug in that client, finalize on the incorrect bug chain, and it would require a very messy hard fork to fix. And this is like an unscheduled half hard for. This is not a network upgrade. This would be something that would have to be done and coordinated at a moment's notice socially, and it's very, very messy. So as long as it's below 66%, it is obviously not, not critical in saying that it is still not great, because if get is at 63% right now, for it to get the 66% is only a 3% growth in market share, whereas if geth was at 50%, it would require a 16% growth in market share.
00:09:33.634 - 00:10:11.208, Speaker A: So obviously, the lower it is, the harder it is to get it back up to that danger zone, that kind of critical threshold there. So yeah, we want to see that, that kind of come down more from here, which segues me perfectly into an update from Nethermind. So Nethermind has released their client version at 1.18.0 today, and you can check out what's new at the GitHub repository here. But the major thing, and I've discussed this on the refuel before, is a significant memory usage reduction, or ram usage reduction here. And you can see it in the chart that I've also showed on the refuel recently about what this looks like. So if you are running the current version, 117.4,
00:10:11.208 - 00:10:51.880, Speaker A: and you upgrade to 1.18.0, you will see here that the memory reduction is pretty massive. It is a two to four times reduction, I believe, with 4000 megabytes of memory budget, and a four to seven times reduction with 8000 megabytes with diminishing returns above 16,000 megabytes here, so. Or 16gb. Right. So if you are running nethermind and you, even if you're not on a resource constrained system, you should still consider upgrading here. And you should still consider upgrading, especially if you're on a resource constrained system, because it means that you'll be able to kind of bring that usage down by a substantial amount here.
00:10:51.880 - 00:11:41.486, Speaker A: So that's very cool. There's also a bunch of important stability fixes, improving on sync time and block processing, and progress towards the next hard forks. So. And there's also a bunch of new features such as disk saving space, savings for non validator nodes, configurable startup disk space, check pass through rocksDB options, additional metrics output, and some experimental features. A full change list can be found on the GitHub for you to check out, but amazing to see such a substantial upgrade live for Nethermind today. And this goes hand in hand with what I was talking about before with client diversity, about how these clients, the clients other than Geth, I mean even geth, they're getting better all the time, right? And the more stable they become, more resilient they become, the more secure they become, the more adoption they will get. Now, obviously we would like to see, I mean, Nevermind is already got, has already got like a nice healthy chunk of adoption.
00:11:41.486 - 00:12:39.418, Speaker A: We would like to see Nevermind, Aragon and base who growing at a, at a kind of like similar pace, and geth going down because of that. But even if we had the same situation that we have on the consensus layer side, where both Geth and Nethermind are around the same percentage, just under 40%, and Aragon and Besu are at what they are today, that would be a lot better than what we currently have, which, which would obviously still be very awesome there. And not, not to say that Aragon and base sue are bad clients, but you know, when looking at the way that it's played out in the consensus layer, you can kind of see that it probably is probably going to play out in a similar way on the execution layer once the other clients kind of get to the point where people feel comfortable running them instead of Geth, which is obviously very, very nice to see. So yeah, you can go check out Nethermines post for yourself on the full change list. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, moving on. So Etherfy, the decentralized and non custodial Ethereum staking protocol has announced the phase one main net launch today.
00:12:39.418 - 00:13:00.746, Speaker A: Now, there's a blog post here which is a little bit confusing to me because they said that their phase one main net launch is coming Tuesday, May 2, and will consist of delegated staking. But the tweet was put out May 4. Let's just see the blog post. The blog post was also put out May 4, so I don't know if they're live right now. I think they are. They may have just forgotten to kind of change this to that. They have already launched.
00:13:00.746 - 00:13:50.008, Speaker A: They're doing a gradual rollout out of an abundance of caution and will deploy their own funds first and then allow larger stakers to participate and then smaller stakers. They are unfortunately going to restrict us persons from participating in the protocol directly, but us persons who are accredited investors will be able to participate legally through their ETH fund here. Now, they did mention here that they have an audit that's currently under review. I don't think that's live yet, but you can check out the details about that in the blog post as well. But great, just great to see another staking protocol live on the Ethereum mainnet here. As I've said before, there is a huge market opportunity here that Lido proved out very early on, and obviously Rockerpool has also proved it out that lsds are here to stay and they're the thing that everyone wants. Now, Lido has a pretty large market share that is just ripe for disruption.
00:13:50.008 - 00:14:38.884, Speaker A: There's no way that people and entrepreneurs are looking at that market share and being like, oh, well, I'm going to let Lido eat all of that up when there is no good reason for them to actually eat all of that up. So that's why you're seeing more and more competition come online. Obviously, rocket pool has been around for a while, but you also have swell that just went live, you have Etherfy, you have stakewise. There are others that I'm forgetting right now, but there, there are plenty out there and there are going to be more and more coming online now. Of course, they're not all going to succeed, right? And they're not all going to get large chunks of the network, but enough of them coming online and some of them doing things like vampire attacking, which is definitely going to happen. And for those of you who don't know, vampire attacking is basically when one protocol takes liquidity from another protocol, usually through the use of token incentives. And this was done very often during DeFi summer in 2020.
00:14:38.884 - 00:15:20.988, Speaker A: Most famously, it was done by Sushiswap, a vampire attacking uniswap. It didn't work out long term for sushiswap, but there is no reason why it can't work out long term for staking protocols or the staking services, but we'll have to see how that plays out. And, but it's also going to be a slower process for staking protocols because of that deposit withdrawal queue for estate and for validators but there are ways around that as well, and I'm curious to see what people come up with on that front. But yeah, just great to see. As I said, another staking protocol live today, and you can check out the blog pros for full details on that one. All right, so I just realized before, while I was getting the content ready for this episode, that I hadn't spoken about polynyard in quite a while. On the refuel, I used to talk about them all the time.
00:15:20.988 - 00:16:29.942, Speaker A: They had a really large effect on my thinking around, particularly things like L2s and how the modular modular design for blockchains is the one that is going to win over the monolithic design. Well, they're out with a really interesting new blog post today titled ethereum l one zke evm, which touches on two things. The first thing is that ETH as an asset is being exported to all of the crypto ecosystem as a money and as a store of value. And the second thing is about how Ethereum layer one is scaling. Just because Ethereum l two s are scaling and we have a roll up centric roadmap doesn't mean ETH l one isn't scaling as well. So I want to speak to both points, and I think that it will start at the beginning, right? So polynomial makes makes the point that no matter where ETH is bridged to, whether it's an l two or a side chain or another l one, Ethereum is exporting its monetary asset, known as ETH right to these other ecosystems. Now why that's good for ETH, even if it's not an l two, even if it's another l one, is that it reinforces the ETH liquidity network liquidity effect and also its network effect.
00:16:29.942 - 00:17:11.004, Speaker A: And it reinforces ETH as a money and a store of value. So it's a net positive. Even if ETH is bridged to other completely separate l one s and not even the EVM compatible l ones, even other ones like Solana that aren't EVM compatible, right, or aren't just forks of Ethereum, it still reinforces its monetary properties and its its money ness and its store of valueness. So I thought that was just a really salient point. But that was not the point of their article. The main point of their article was that they were talking about the concept of enshrined roll ups, specifically in shrine zk evm at layer one. Now, this isn't the only way ethereum l one is potentially scaling, right? Ethereum l one is scaling via different means.
00:17:11.004 - 00:17:51.756, Speaker A: Vertical trees are scaling a few l one, raising the gas limit because of improvements that can be done at l one is scaling it. There's a bunch of other things on the roadmap that could potentially scale it as well. So just because we, the ethereum ecosystem has gone all in on l two s doesn't mean that we've left l one for dead. L1 is still scaling a little bit at a slower pace than the l two s are. But a lot of the l one scale, like such as 48, 44, is going to improve the L2 scale, and all just feeds up the chain here. Now, Polina talked mostly about this concept of an enshrined zke Evm. Now, what this means is basically having the ZK EVM at layer one, but still offering the scalability that a L2 would.
00:17:51.756 - 00:18:27.532, Speaker A: And this comes with certain trade offs that I think are mostly untenable for pretty much like everything, maybe like most of the l two s, I should say here, because the major trade off is that if you are enshrined at layer one, it means you have to go through the layer one governance process if you want to change anything about that roll up. And no one team would own that roll up. It's not like it'd be the arbitrum ZkVM or the polygon ZKVM or whatever it is. It would be an Ethereum ZKVM. It would literally be part of the core protocol. It would not build, be built on top. It would be enshrined as part of the core protocol.
00:18:27.532 - 00:19:21.230, Speaker A: Now, because of that, it would mean that the thing belongs to the Ethereum community. Right? But all the governance decisions have to be made by the same governance process that the Ethereum core protocol goes through, which adds, obviously a lot of overhead to the core developers and researchers, and a lot of overhead to the governance side of things, and also limits the speed at which that ZKVM or enshrined roll up can innovate, can change. And honestly, it's not a great thing from that perspective. The benefits of this, though, are that it really makes it so that if the l one ZKVM, or I guess like l one roll up and try and roll up, generally gets a lot of traction. It can't just pick up and leave and go to another ecosystem because it is part of the Ethereum core protocol. Now, I don't think that risk is actually something to be worried about, to be honest. I honestly don't think it's actually easy for an alt two to change where they're settling on.
00:19:21.230 - 00:19:57.280, Speaker A: I don't think, for example, arbitrum one could just one day say, okay, well, we're no longer settling on Ethereum. We're going to go settle on another l one because there is a lot of considerations there. Chief of those considerations are the assets, and the assets bridged across, because those assets are bridged, bridge into arbitrage one from Ethereum. So you would have to do a lot of groundwork and, and a lot of migrations and just, just to kind of port it over. And then what would you be porting over for? Does this l one have anywhere close to the activity of Ethereum? Probably not, because none of them really do. Right. So I just don't consider it a big risk there.
00:19:57.280 - 00:20:36.810, Speaker A: But that, that is a major benefit where it's basically because it's enshrined as part of the core protocol, it basically means that it's at like no risk of kind of like fleeing from the ecosystem because it literally can't. Right. Because it's part of the core protocol. It's not just something that can change where it settles. Another big benefit would be that it allows for, I think, just more compatibility with, with the chain and true, kind of like type one ZKVM, like fully equivalent to Ethereum, which can still be done at normal altoos. So yeah, as I said, there are trade offs, there are pros and cons here. But you definitely recommend poly, recommend reading Polynya's post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:20:36.810 - 00:21:30.314, Speaker A: But on top of that as well, I think the reason why I think enshrined roll ups are a cool idea, but honestly will probably cater to a niche market is because with the normal l two s, with the normal roll ups, what we get is a very expressive development ecosystem where we don't just have one community focusing on one thing, where it's limited by, you know, one thing, like Ethereum protocol, we have many communities, many teams, many projects focusing on many things, which gives us a lot of innovation. And Polynya actually makes the note that without all the l two innovation that we've had, an enshrined roll up wouldn't even be possible because we wouldn't even have the concept of an, of a roll up to begin with. So an innovating at the l two s can be done a lot faster. They can move a lot faster. Yes. They're not like truly decentralized from day one. Yes, they have to work at that.
00:21:30.314 - 00:22:00.176, Speaker A: That's another very big positive of an enshrined roll up where they basically just automatically inherit everything that the layer one already has. They don't have to design for it. It's basically part of the design from day one. It's out of the box. But again, like, I don't think that's that big of a deal. I don't think that's something that's actually going to move the needle and get people using the enshrined roll up instead of these l two s. And I don't think it's a positive thing that an ecosystem or an l one only has an enshrined rob and doesn't have an expressive set of diverse l two s building on top of it.
00:22:00.176 - 00:23:01.576, Speaker A: I much prefer the the latter option of diverse l two s than an enshrined roll up. Not to say that I don't want to see an enshrined roll up come to market or even like a hybrid of it where you could essentially have the l one doing sequencing for the l two roll up so that it has decent, like truly decentralized and sensory resistant sequencing without having to use a token to do that. That could be something that gets done in the future. But generally I just much prefer the expressive l two kind of like cambrian explosion approach, which of course I'll link the blog post in the YouTube description below so you can learn more about this. But that's just my general view on things, and we'll have to see how things evolve from there. All right, finally here I just want to announce that this new fund launched by Victor Bunin and Lisa Bunan here, called credibly neutral, has gone live. Now the reason I'm talking about a new fund launching on the refuel, which I don't usually talk about these sorts of stuff, but the reason I am is because I am an LP or a limited partner in this fund.
00:23:01.576 - 00:23:36.172, Speaker A: Now, uh, someone asked the other day or got confused about what the term LP meant. So normally when you use the term LP, when talking about kind of like ethereum or crypto, uh, you mean like liquidity provider, right? Like you provide liquidity on uniswap or something like that. Whereas in the VC world, LP means limited partner and it basically means you're a liquidity provider because you're just investing in the fund, you're investing your own capital in the fund. And that's exactly what I have done. Incredibly neutral. Now this is the first and probably only fund. I mean, maybe I won't say only fund, but it is definitely the first, uh, fund that I have LP'd with on bankless society, the bankless VC.
00:23:36.172 - 00:24:04.686, Speaker A: I'm only an advisor. I'm not also an LP with them, but I am an LP with credibly neutral. And the reason is mainly because Victor has been a good friend of mine for a very long time. I know how he operates both on, you know, as an investor, as a community member within kind of the crypto ecosystem, as someone who's. Who's worked on a lot of things. Like before, he was at Coinbase working as a protocol specialist, he was working at Bison trails doing the same thing. And I've had a lot of conversations with him, and we align on a lot of different things.
00:24:04.686 - 00:24:30.668, Speaker A: I've met him a bunch of times. I don't think I've ever met Lisa, but I have definitely spoken to her a few times as well. And she, and she's great. And she actually also works at Aztec as the. As the chief operating officer there. But the reason why I kind of, like, gave them my capital to invest is because I just think that they're two awesome people and that they know and they align with a lot of my. A lot of my values and a lot of what I care to see kind of funded and built in this ecosystem.
00:24:30.668 - 00:25:02.698, Speaker A: So the fund itself is a early stage venture fund, investing 50 to 20, $50,000 in protocols, infrastructure, and crypto, SAA, or software as a service solutions here. And there's a thread here from Victor that you can read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And the total announcements to date, I think, is about six. So they really are targeted with their investments. They're not just trying to be like, spray and pray, invest in everything. They really want to invest in things that they have high conviction on, which is another reason why I kind of became an LP with them, because I just aligned on that as well.
00:25:02.698 - 00:25:48.812, Speaker A: I really want to just kind of invest in things that I can see actually being value add, especially to the Ethereum ecosystem, but also crypto more, more broadly, which is exactly what Victor and Lisa doing with their credibly neutral fund here. So congrats to them on launching the fund. Very proud to be an LP and them, but just wanted to talk about that a little bit, but because obviously I'm involved with it, but also the massive disclaimer and disclosure that everything that, um, that credible neutral invests in, I have exposure to. So that's just something that I'll be disclosing going forward as well. Uh, but also I have spoken about that website with all my disclosures on it so many times at this point that I just need to put it live. Um, I. I think I need to at this point, because it's going to be hard for me to keep track of everything that bankless is investing in and everything that credible neutral is investing in.
00:25:48.812 - 00:26:22.126, Speaker A: And I want to disclose those things for you guys because I don't want you guys ever feeling like I'm showing you something or trying to sell you something or trying to kind of like pump and dump bags or anything like that. That is not what I'm here to do. And that's why I always disclose these things to you guys, so you can make your own informed decisions on that front. Now, finally here, before I move on for today, just a quick thing that I wanted to talk about. How about those gas fees, guys, this is insane, right? Like, we've actually sustained over, like, what, 30, 40 GUI for. For many weeks now. And I was actually looking at the ultrasound money website the other day.
00:26:22.126 - 00:26:46.478, Speaker A: Actually, I probably was looking at it today because I love this website. But if you scroll down a little bit, if you change this time frame here to 30 days, we have been above the ultrasound barrier for 30 straight days. This has never happened before, guys. Now, what is the ultrasound barrier? Well, right now it is sitting at 17.4 GwEI. What this is. Is basically saying that as long as the gas fees are above that amount, we are net deflationary.
00:26:46.478 - 00:27:07.468, Speaker A: So we have been net deflationary for 30 straight days. Now, if you go 231 days, and this is since the merge, you can see kind of like that. We've been above this ultrasound barrier for quite a while. Right. And at times, we've been above it a lot with only dipping below it. Very briefly. Now, what has this resulted in? Well, over the last 30 days, we have burnt.
00:27:07.468 - 00:27:23.474, Speaker A: Let me just do this here. We have burnt 70. Oh, no, sorry. We have changed the supply by 71,000 ETH. So it's gone down by 71,000. Ethics. We have burnt a total of 126,800 ETH, which is equal to $243 million.
00:27:23.474 - 00:27:48.808, Speaker A: This is just crazy to me, guys. The amount of ETH that's being burned here and the fact that each supply has kind of peaked since the merge, because since the merge, the supply has gone down by almost 150,000 ETH here, which is equal to. What is it equal in us dollars? Almost a billion us dollars at. At the ETH price that was measured out there, which is just insane. But, yeah, these high gas prices on layer one are not nice. I did warn about this a few months ago. I said, enjoy the low gas prices while they last.
00:27:48.808 - 00:28:20.430, Speaker A: Guys like, I think we're a sub ten way for a little while, but I did say enjoy these low prices because they are not lasting very long. And you, you know, hopefully you took the opportunity to do what you needed to do on l one, get onto the l two s. You don't have to go through l one to get to these l two s anymore. You can go through the centralized exchanges like binance and coinbase and stuff like that. So it's less of a concern these days that the fees are this high, but still, it's kind of crazy. And what's been driving it, particularly over the last seven days, actually has been a few different things. You can see here that the usual suspects are in the top list.
00:28:20.430 - 00:28:41.250, Speaker A: But Zen crypto has been a big burner of ETH. Uniswap obviously is a big burner. But there's also these meme coins that have been trading a lot on these, on things like uniswap. So those things have been driving it. But man, we're at 75 gray right now. We've actually been like, if you go over the last seven days since the 30 April, so about. For five days now, we've been above 30 Gwei.
00:28:41.250 - 00:29:06.664, Speaker A: We've actually been like as high as pretty much like 50 to 70 Gwei for that entire time period of last five days, which is pretty crazy. But yeah, I just wanted to kind of talk about that for a little bit because everyone's been talking about the gas fees lately, but figured it was something interesting, worth talking about and just amazing to see how much ETH is being burnt here. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:29:06.664 - 00:29:07.164, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
