00:00:00.170 - 00:00:26.754, Speaker A: My protocol hat says, yes, you need to be where the liquidity is. You need to deploy it to all these different places, you know, not try and pick winners on the L two or see where the liquidity will flow. And then I put my infinex hat on. I'm like, who fucking cares? It doesn't matter. Just like, build a thing that abstracts it away and figure out where the users are and put the liquidity there kind of in real time. And one of those feels very sensible and straightforward, and one of them feels kind of insane name. And that's why I'm building infidex.
00:00:26.802 - 00:00:41.050, Speaker B: This episode is brought to you by Jito. Jito is the easiest way to start earning mev rewards on Solana through liquid staking. Get your soul, stake it with Jito and get instant access to liquidity through their liquid staking. Token jito soul get started today at Jeeto network slash staking.
00:00:46.990 - 00:00:47.850, Speaker A: What's up, everybody?
00:00:47.920 - 00:00:53.754, Speaker B: Welcome to another episode of Lightspeed. Today we are joined by Kane Warwick, the founder of Synthetix. Kane, welcome to the show.
00:00:53.872 - 00:00:55.326, Speaker A: Hey, guys. Thanks for having me.
00:00:55.428 - 00:01:01.840, Speaker B: Kane, you've probably explained this before, but I saw on your Twitter profile that you're the head of DeFi. Can you tell me how you got that position?
00:01:02.610 - 00:01:18.514, Speaker A: It's kind of a dumb meme. There was an article that was written that I think quoted a few people and I was one of them, and somehow they quoted me as the head of DeFi. And so from there, I thought it was a funny meme, so I stuck it in my Twitter profile.
00:01:18.562 - 00:01:22.326, Speaker C: I think I saw one with you being the head of agriculture as well.
00:01:22.508 - 00:01:38.778, Speaker A: Oh, yeah. Father of modern agriculture. So that goes back to the old yield farming days. Pre d five summer. So this idea of basically changing the way we farm in the world, beautiful.
00:01:38.864 - 00:01:58.186, Speaker B: Those are two good names to have. It's much more fun than just, like, founder or CEO. If you're from the Ethereum community, you definitely know who Kane is. If you're from Solana or another, maybe you don't, but it's about time you do. So I'm glad you're tuning into the show with Kane. Cain is an OG in the space. It first founded Haven, I think that launched basically in 2018, which then transformed into Synthetics, which is live.
00:01:58.186 - 00:02:23.354, Speaker B: And today it's a derivatives platform where there's a big focus on perps right now, but it's also becoming a liquidity layer for other synthetic protocols to be built on top. Kane, you've been in the space for a really long time, been reading your writings. Some people would say that you are an ETH. Maxi I'm not saying you claim yourself as that, but it looks like you're becoming a user experience. Maxi even more than that, the focus is on user experience over everything else. What has kind of changed over that time? And why do you say now is the time that we need to focus on that.
00:02:23.552 - 00:03:16.634, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm definitely still an ETH. Maxi I would say that's true. The thing that has changed I think over the last couple of years is we went through this inflection point leading up to DeFi Summer where all of a sudden people realized that DeFi was working. There were a bunch of interesting projects that had deployed contracts onto Ethereum and there was a whole bunch of interesting things that were happening and being built and you could interact with those things. It wasn't like the ICO days where the only sort of value proposition was just like dumping money into a treasury somehow, right? Buying tokens via an ICO. And so I think that there were a lot of people in the space who were caught by surprise by that. And when DeFi Summer happened people were like oh wow, there's all this activity going on.
00:03:16.634 - 00:04:06.182, Speaker A: Right? The problem was that when we sort of hit like March 2020 we got to a point where the kind of flash crash showed that we had some issues in terms of scaling, that there were a lot of different things that were now connected. Composability is double edged sword. All of these different contracts were connected to each other. So you had flash loans in Ave and things in Compound and people arbitraging between those two and maker positions and all of these different things that were going on. And so the first kind of indication that I think we were going to have issues scaling was March 2020 and then it just got worse from there. And so by the time we got to the end of DFI Summer it was like what are we doing here? This is not going to work. We can only accommodate a really small group of users.
00:04:06.182 - 00:05:03.370, Speaker A: And so that was where I think a big focus shifted towards layer twos. Layer two scaling the L2 roadmap of Ethereum became a bit of a thing and this idea of Ethereum as a settlement layer where you stored data and sort of executing transactions became a bit of a thing. And so I think that we spent a lot of time between DFI Summer in 2020 and today building out the scaling solutions and building out all of this infrastructure to be able to support the second wave of DFI if you will. And I think that we're finally here. I think we now have demonstrated pretty credibly that layer two S are working. There's a whole bunch of things you can do on them that you couldn't do on L One. And now it's time to actually take those things that we've built over the last few years and bring them to the users, meet the users where they live.
00:05:03.370 - 00:05:03.674, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:05:03.712 - 00:05:27.990, Speaker B: Ken, when you first started, I think synthetics was one of the first protocols to work with optimism on layer two scaling. And at that time l two scaling was not really consensus yet. At this point it just seems like everybody in the Ethereum community has kind of decided that's the best way to scale is this modular roadmap. Can you talk about what was the disagreement at the time on that L2 scaling? And how were you able to kind of see and get the synthetics community to start working with Optimism?
00:05:28.490 - 00:06:48.640, Speaker A: So I think that in the Ethereum community, there had been a number of proposals for how to scale Ethereum, right? State Channel, all kinds of things that had been going on for years, right? And there was also this transition to proof of stake that was planned. And so I remember watching Vitalik talk in 2017 and being like, we're six months away from the merge, basically. Obviously, it took a lot longer than that, right? And so I think we had this problem where it was unclear what the solution was, but it was this growing issue, right? And there were alternatives out there, right? Like Solana at that time, Nier, even some of the other Alto ones that weren't necessarily going for scaling like Polkadot or Cosmos, but were going for like a Sharded approach or these different chains that were kind of interconnected, et cetera. So there are all these different things, and it wasn't really clear what Ethereum's solution was going to be. And I think that there had been, again, a lot of confusion due to the roadmap changing over the years, right? And we saw the Unipig demo, and it just clicked for me. I was like, no, this is the thing. Finally.
00:06:48.640 - 00:07:25.114, Speaker A: This is clearly the thing. And so the community got really excited about that. We started talking to Optimism. They were looking for a project that had a complex smart contract suite that they could work with to basically bed down the network and figure out what was needed to actually get this into production. And so it was a very powerful symbiotic relationship between us and Optimism because they were coming from, at the time, a very theoretical standpoint about how to do this. And we were coming from a very practical standpoint of running a project on L One and needing to solve some immediate problems. So I think the combination of those two things got us to a really good place.
00:07:25.114 - 00:07:30.380, Speaker A: But it did take a long time. It's taken a couple of years to kind of get to this point.
00:07:33.390 - 00:08:03.640, Speaker C: There are other teams, so, for example, dYdX probably the most notable, which chose to go on Cosmos and do their own app chain. I'm sure you saw Rune's announcements of Maker Forking, the SVM as well, and maybe doing their own app chain for some of the parts. So it does seem like maybe some of the earlier D Five folks are also interested in the app chain thesis. But it seems like you went with kind of L2 S, I guess, for maybe other D Five founders who are thinking about this. What made you choose L two? S over app chains. Just how do you think about this in general?
00:08:04.330 - 00:09:03.526, Speaker A: Yeah, there was an interesting debate between myself and Antonio a couple of years ago about this idea of composability versus scaling or a siloed app chain sort of thing. And this is in relation to stockware at the time, right? So dYdX had chosen stockware and I said, look, I think optimism is going to be a better place to be because you're going to have all of these other contracts and other protocols like Aave and Compound and things like that, that will be on these networks. And composability is the kind of the secret sauce. Now, the reality is that I think as a Perps platform, you can actually get away with not having composability. You can be a bit siloed. And so I think in hindsight, dYdX kind of won that one and they were able to scale up faster than synthetics. But I do think now that we've caught up and the execution engine is sort of feature parity between dYdX and us, and I would argue even between us and centralized exchanges.
00:09:03.526 - 00:09:11.050, Speaker A: Now it's a question of is that composability actually valuable, that other property that we have, versus going to a pure app chain?
00:09:11.790 - 00:09:36.390, Speaker B: Yeah, when you were talking about composability, I think this was a Tweet you had the other day. You mentioned dYdX and you said actually, right now at least it's their UX and token incentives that have probably won out. And that's one thing that's led to Infinex, which is a new project that you're working on that's going to leverage synthetics protocol. Can you give a high level of what synthetics is and why infinex is something that's needed, you think, to actually get to that level where DEXes can compete with centralized exchanges?
00:09:36.810 - 00:10:22.450, Speaker A: Yeah. So synthetics the current version, B two X, is a system that pools liquidity, people deposit SNX, the staking token, and liquidity is pooled to support a bunch of different markets. So spot markets, Perp markets, different instruments, things like gold, silver, et cetera, and then obviously a bunch of cryptocurrencies. So basically it's a trading engine, it lets people trade. And then we've got a number of different approaches to enabling that liquidity to kind of support trading. So one of them is Perps. So we have a specific module that kind of connects to that liquidity and enables leverage trading.
00:10:22.450 - 00:11:30.122, Speaker A: And all of these different components are being upgraded all the time. But V Two X right now is currently the one that's live on main net, and V Three is going to be coming out fairly soon, which basically upgrades a bunch of things. And then we've got a new version of Perp. The Perps module is actually being upgraded as well to allow cross margin and a bunch of other features and things like that. And so this trading engine has been built over the last five years and it's been getting better and better and better. And I think in the last six months, it's kind of crossed an inflection point where it went from not really being able to compete with even other DEXes and definitely not able to compete with centralized exchanges to now able to compete with centralized exchanges. And that shift, that kind of inflection point has put pressure on us to say, okay, well, if this thing's as good as finance, why is Binance doing 30, 40, $50 billion in notional and we're doing 30, 40, 50 million? Like, what's going on there? Right? There's something wrong.
00:11:30.122 - 00:11:52.080, Speaker A: And so the solution to that, in my mind was that the UX and the onboarding and all of the kind of trading experience itself is missing, that the execution engine is great, but that user experience is still lacking. And so the solution to that, in my mind, was to build a new user interface that was focused purely on the user experience.
00:11:53.810 - 00:12:19.670, Speaker C: One thing that I'm curious about, as somebody that's not too familiar with L2 S and how they interact with DFI is a common criticism, kind of is the fragmentation of liquidity across maybe the different modular stacks, as opposed to all being on like, a general purpose L One and maybe enabling better capital efficiency. How do you think about that? Is there any merit to that? Or what is the deal with fragmentation and altus? Do you think it's overblown?
00:12:20.030 - 00:13:05.670, Speaker A: No, I think it's really problematic, actually. I think it is a big issue. If you have a monolithic L one, like we did back in D Five summer, there's a whole bunch of things that happen, right? All the liquidity is there. Someone deploys a new contract. People think it's exciting. All the liquidity flows in, right? That system is now broken in ethereum to an extent because bridging in and out is costly, and there's a whole bunch of points of friction, right? Different tokens wrap tokens, et cetera. And we've seen the impact that this has had even on token systems, on Arbitrum and optimism, where they're very interesting projects, that if they're running on L One and they can't right? So they actually can't run on L One, they can only work on an L two.
00:13:05.670 - 00:14:37.306, Speaker A: But if they were running on L One, then these projects would be, I think, doing much better in a bunch of different dimensions, right? Having more liquidity, there'd be more awareness, there'd be more token holders, there would be more participation. And so being on an L2 right now is definitely a disadvantage for a project versus being on a monolithic L one. But what I think we're looking at doing with infinex is to abstract that away and to say, okay, you've got all these siloed pools of liquidity in terms of L ones, but what if you put an interface on top of them that abstracted away where those things were, right? And a lot of people have been talking about this account abstraction and different solutions and different web wallets and different mobile wallets that kind of don't require you to do bridges or to sign transactions or whatever. But I think that if it's done at the application layer, it can be done in a way which really does abstract it away. And then it won't matter whether the liquidity is on Arbitrum or optimism, or it won't matter whether the token you want to trade is on base, for example, right? If you want to trade friendtech shares or something like that, you will just turn up to an application, and that application will give you different options to trade. Your assets will already be stored inside that application on chain, and you'll have access to liquidity wherever it is. And that will kind of unify and create this layer that abstracts away that liquidity fragmentation.
00:14:37.306 - 00:14:39.160, Speaker A: Ideally, that's the idea.
00:14:39.930 - 00:15:01.834, Speaker C: So maybe two follow up questions to that. One is that how far away do you think that is? Because technically speaking, that seems relatively challenging. And two, and sort of unrelated is kind of I argue there's like almost the l Two wars happening right now. You have optimism. And then there's arbitrarium. There's Polygon. There's scroll, z, caseing, StarkNet fuel.
00:15:01.834 - 00:15:22.500, Speaker C: I guess there's just a bunch of and then now Eclipse with the Svml Two, as well as a founder who was you made your company, your company went big on the L One. Now you went to L2 S. How do you think about the landscape of L2 S? Like, what the decision factors do you look for when choosing to work with an L2?
00:15:23.510 - 00:16:59.586, Speaker A: So, for us, the decision was kind of made a long time ago, right? We went to optimism, and we're on optimism now. The decision that we're trying to work out, and it's kind of playing out in the community right now, is where do we go next? Right? Because there is this idea, this thesis that there are unique and distinct users who are on different chains who will not transact on another chain, right? And we know this is true for things like Salana, right? I think it's fair to say there are people that are on Salana that are not on Ethereum L One, right, and they're just distinct users. Right. But what's interesting is, I think that we're starting to see this play out even on L2 S, that there are arbitrary users and optimism users, and they're not the same people. And so this is a question, I think, for all projects to figure out, is like, if there is a pool of users who you can't access, right, then you need to be on that chain. So what do you do? Do you deploy to every chain and do you fork your project and deploy it to every chain? Do you try and create some unified set of contracts where all the governance happens on one chain, et cetera? And I actually had a very long blog post about this challenge a couple of weeks ago. And the conclusion that I think I came to from a protocol level is that the solution is maybe to build your own app chain where your governance can live and maybe some liquidity can live, et cetera, and then deploy and create a beachhead across all of the other chains that you want to play in.
00:16:59.586 - 00:18:10.626, Speaker A: In our case, these are mainly EVM chains, right? So things like avalanche and whatever, optimism, arbitram, polygon, et cetera. But as you say, these are still unsolved technical challenges, right? These are things that we need to figure out how we sort through. People have sort of asked, why an app chain? You've already got all these other problems, like, why create another problem, right? And my theory behind that is that an app chain allows you as a project, as a protocol, to be kind of credibly neutral, to say, like, this is the place where our governance exists. We're not picking winners. We're not saying arbitram is better than optimism or base is better than polygon or whatever, right? We've got our own place where we exist, and then we have a neutral deployment on every other chain. And wherever there is demand, liquidity can flow, right? And so on Polygon, people can deposit ETH or on Avalanche, they could theoretically deposit the native token there, right. Or any other EVM chain that could go for it's not clear that that is a sensible thing to me, right.
00:18:10.626 - 00:18:29.214, Speaker A: It might be the thing we're forced into. But to Mert's question earlier, is this the problem of fragmentation, of liquidity? Yeah, that problem doesn't exist if you just have a monolithic L. One, right. There's no other places to go. You just go to that place. You focus on that community. Now, you could argue that, okay, even if you have a monolithic L.
00:18:29.214 - 00:19:09.580, Speaker A: One and let's say it's ethereum L one and Salana and Cosmos, let's say let's say there's three, right? You still kind of have this problem, and you still need to think through, okay, well, where do we deploy? But given how hard it is to connect those chains, it kind of forces you into a decision of just deploying a distinct instance and saying, let this operate over here. There really isn't the option to try and merge them and share liquidity and do all this stuff, whereas I think there is a bit of pressure to kind of try and do that on l two S and merge them. But I think that there's another solution, which is infinex, right? Like, infinex is a different pathway of solving the same problem.
00:19:11.070 - 00:19:58.460, Speaker C: So one thing that I ask, I think I've asked every D Five founder so far is, so you talked about kind of going to where the users and where the users are and liquidity is. And one thing that I find interesting is for a perfect change, you don't actually need. You can kind of be in an island like the YDX to some extent. And one question I always ask is to what extent do you want to be chasing or expanding to where the users are, which are crypto native users? And then how do you contrast that with onboarding new people onto crypto who probably won't care which chain you're on, but just want that user experience and experience what crypto has to offer? How do you think about that?
00:19:58.830 - 00:21:50.302, Speaker A: Yeah, so I was actually talking to a good friend of mine who is another OG in the space, and I thought that this was trivially obvious, right? Like we're having this conversation. He was like, I don't really get this whole idea of trying to abstract it away. Why are you doing this? Right? And I was kind of looking at him like, what do you mean? And so I walked in through my reasoning and all of a sudden it clicked for him. And I think some of us, unfortunately, are so DeFi pilled and we've just been living in this DeFi land for so long that the other non DeFi users we don't think about. And so here's how I think about it. I think each cycle you have new users coming into the space, right? And those new users found out about crypto from someone, right? I'm sure in a year's time, mert will be getting a bunch of DMs from people being like, hey, is crypto back? What do I do? Where do I go? Right? And they have some person in their network that they trust or whatever, and they say, Tell me what to do, right? And every cycle there's been this kind of harsh trade off, I think, for most of the people in the space where you kind of want to tell them to go on Chain and download MetaMask or download some wallet or whatever, right? Even back in the day, like download the Mist browser to go and do ICOs or whatever, you want to tell them that, but then you're kind of like, this person's going to lose all their money. Is this a good idea for me to be recommending this? Right? And so you kind of sort of grin and go, just jump on Binance, right? Like you want to get exposure to these tokens, just go to, you know, they're probably not going to lose their money on Binance today, right? Over a long enough time horizon, they will absolutely lose their money on any centralized exchange, right? It'll get hacked or blow up or steal all the money or whatever.
00:21:50.302 - 00:22:54.370, Speaker A: But in the short term you're like and this is true even for me, right? My mother, I gave her some wrapped bitcoin a while ago and I was like, oh, I set up MetaMask. And I was like, you know what? Honestly, just put on finance. It'll be easier, right? You're not going to rug yourself. You're not going to lose your private keys or whatever. And so the big question is, when these new users start showing up, where do they flow through to? Do they flow on chain or do they flow into centralized databases like finance, et cetera? And the thing that I think we have not been able to achieve 15 years into this crypto experiment is when that influx of new users happens that we are capturing even a meaningful percentage of them to bring them on chain, to use crypto tech to engage with crypto. It's kind of insane that we're still using web two tech, we're still using databases and closed source software and proprietary systems to interact with crypto. And that's where the majority of people do.
00:22:54.370 - 00:23:40.126, Speaker A: And the obvious answer to why that is the case is because of usability risk and safety and usability and all of these different things, user friction, onboarding friction. And so this is where again, the solution that I see is for a DeFi application that uses DeFi for the execution engine, but abstracts away all the complexity and lets people on board. And so my hope is that next cycle when people are turning up, that you guys are like, actually, instead of going to binance, go to infidex because they can't rug you right. You can onboard easily. You put a username and password in and an email in. If they lose their password, if they lose their email, they lose something. This social recovery system, right, they can recover their funds.
00:23:40.126 - 00:24:20.350, Speaker A: They don't need to worry about someone stealing the funds. It's transparent. The funds are on chain, they're still on chain and they can do all the things they want to do. They can trade all of the different assets they want to trade. We've got a bunch of different markets, they can trade leverage if they want, but it's a much safer solution to be using. And this is just something that has not existed. Like in 2017, it was like go use IDEX or even the last cycle, like go and use uniswap and how many people got or NFTs, right? Like NFTs are an even better example because centralized exchanges never really got much of a foothold.
00:24:20.350 - 00:25:06.118, Speaker A: How many people lost their NFTs because centralized exchanges didn't integrate NFTs? If centralized exchanges had integrated know, a lot fewer people would have lost their NFTs right up until FTX collapsed than they would have lost a lot of them. But there was a period where they were getting rugged left and right because they were forced to be on chain and they just didn't have the knowledge, right? And some people over time they'll get that knowledge, they'll learn and they'll get better and they'll understand the UX and they'll understand all of that stuff, the security that they need to. But on day zero when they first send a DM saying how do I get back into crypto? Sending them into the weed thresher of MetaMask is just not an okay thing to do. So we need a better, safer place to send them. Yeah.
00:25:06.144 - 00:25:31.400, Speaker B: Ken, I'm curious, does that mean that your bet on this next cycle, the users that are coming in, they're not going to be as tied to one ecosystem? Because I know you talk a lot about including yourself. Like unfortunately in crypto we have these things called tokens and it makes you passionate about a certain community and wanting to transact on a certain tech stack. Do you think that's going to change because something with Infinex, do you think people still relate that back to say, optimism? Or is the goal to just abstract that completely and you think that's a feasible way just because the user experience is going to be so much better?
00:25:32.090 - 00:26:01.662, Speaker A: Yeah. So there is another component of this, which is brand, like brand trust, right. People go onto binance in 2017 when finance really started dominating and they had every asset that you wanted to trade and people were creating new accounts or their friends were recommending going use binance and crypto. Twitter is talking about finance, right. That new users who first used finance in 2017 have a lot of brand loyalty towards finance. Right. They'll probably stay there right up until the moment when hopefully not.
00:26:01.662 - 00:26:40.042, Speaker A: But if CZ is planning to rug them, they're not going anywhere. They're going to stay there until the last second. Right. And the same thing was true of FTX, right? That they just stuck around way too long because there's brand loyalty. People are loyal to brands and they trust the things that they know. And so the idea that someone would come into the space and get onboarded into Infinex and therefore trust Infinex and believe that Infinex is doing the right thing for them and has the right tech and all the safety and transparency and all of the stuff that we want. It's not to say that they will be completely agnostic to the tech or whatever.
00:26:40.042 - 00:26:50.270, Speaker A: They will have a brand loyalty. It'll just be to something that is actually built on decentralized infrastructure, not centralized infrastructure. That's the idea. That's what we're hoping that makes sense.
00:26:50.340 - 00:27:20.518, Speaker B: Kay and I think you lead a lot of the trends that are in crypto. You can see farther out than most people can. And I think an interesting debate that we're going to see coming up over the next few years is these front ends building on top of protocols like synthetics. Because obviously what you're trying to do is aggregate demand in one place as great UX, but you also see some pushback or a little bit from the synthetics community itself because you already had a front end like Quinta. And you're going to see this because one thing you have in crypto is it's permissionless to create a front end and plug in into these crypto protocols. So I'm really interested to see what you've learned from that, because once. You do this, you have to learn like, okay, what are we going to.
00:27:20.524 - 00:27:21.554, Speaker A: Do with fee splits?
00:27:21.602 - 00:27:32.240, Speaker B: Because does the front end get x percent of the fees and then synthetics gets the other half? What token should you use to governance the front end? What are some of these issues that you've come across and also just how you think this is going to play out?
00:27:32.930 - 00:29:29.346, Speaker A: Well, again, thinking about it from the infidex perspective, right, our view is that perps are the pointy end of the wedge here. This is how you drive the wedge in. And so the fact that there are no new users in crypto right now, and there probably won't be for another six to twelve months, right? All the users that we have are here, right? And so then you look around, you say, okay, well, all of these users, where are they? Right, there's like 20 on Salana and like 50 on Ethereum and a couple of hundred on L, two S, and then there's like 2 million over in binance and it's like, well hang on a second, who are we focused on here, right? Are we trying to cannibalize users from existing on chain users or are we trying to pull people from these databases and pull them out? And so when I think about that, I'm like, this is the opportunity before new users arrive to go and actually prove that we can credibly take on centralized exchanges. And if we can, and we can start to siphon some of those users away, then when new users show up, the people that they talk to will be using decentralized technology, not centralized technology. And so for me, that's kind of the crux of it, right? How do we ensure that we are not still running in this next cycle on centralized technology, right? That's the thing that I'm trying to solve for. And I guess in terms of seeing trends and seeing all of that sort of stuff, really it just comes down to if you're doing hard things, if you're trying to solve hard problems, the solution is really right in front of you. The solution is kind of far out, right? And so if you look at everything from first principles and say, okay, what are we trying to achieve? How do we get there? You're forced into doing something that is not necessarily available or trying something new.
00:29:29.346 - 00:29:47.640, Speaker A: And I think infinex, in my mind is a huge example of this, right, of like, okay, wait a second, we're now ready to try and go after the existing user base that we have in crypto and convert them out of centralized exchanges into decentralized tech.
00:29:49.210 - 00:30:26.914, Speaker C: So I want to go a little deeper on had, we had Drift protocol here from Solana who kind of has the same vision, which is like no one should have a reason to trade on binance in a few years. And so this theme of getting away from centralized exchanges to go into decentralized exchanges seems to be one of the core missions of DeFi. And one thing I'm interested in is, so my girlfriend's mom watches this and she has money on Coinbase, and so if I want to sell her, hey, stop using this protocol or stop using this exchange or database, use DeFi, right? Go on.
00:30:26.952 - 00:30:27.570, Speaker A: Chain.
00:30:28.230 - 00:30:33.558, Speaker C: How can I sell this to her? Why should she use it? If you had to convince somebody to.
00:30:33.564 - 00:31:15.730, Speaker A: Do this, what would you tell them right now? To be totally honest, you shouldn't even try. Right? If you were to try to convince your girlfriend's mother to go and use DeFi today, you would be doing her a disservice. That's just the reality, right? Because there's two things that can happen to you in crypto. You can rug yourself or you can be rugged. Right? It's just trying to avoid those two things. Right? And so if you send your girlfriend's mother out into DFI, she's going to rug herself in 20 minutes, right? She's going to get fished or she's going to lose private keys or she's going to hand over a password. Something bad is going to go wrong.
00:31:15.730 - 00:31:42.126, Speaker A: Right. Whereas on Coinbase, she's pretty unlikely to be rugged. Not zero. There's not zero chance she gets rugged. Right? It's a centralized entity, and her assets are not her own when they're sitting on Coinbase. And even though they're a publicly listed company, they're in a fight with the SEC, and who knows how that's going to come out? Bad things could happen to you by being in Coinbase, right? Ideally not. And they're probably one of the most trustworthy exchanges out there.
00:31:42.126 - 00:32:25.602, Speaker A: They're certainly under a lot more scrutiny than most, but something bad could happen. But your girlfriend's mother's ten or 100 times more likely to rug herself than to be rugged by Coinbase, right? And so you're actually switching her into a more dangerous situation. And so then the question is, okay, well, what is the alternative? Just sit on Coinbase and hope that everything's fine? No, we need to build something that is the middle ground approach, where she has the same usability, the same safety, the know, kind of ease of right, but is built on decentralized tech. Right. So her funds are her own. Her funds are in a smart contract. It's transparent.
00:32:25.602 - 00:32:29.382, Speaker A: You can see where they are, and she can't be wronged. Yeah.
00:32:29.436 - 00:33:02.114, Speaker B: Kane I've heard you talk about why synthetics sent to More marketing over the last few years, and you're like, well, couldn't really say it at the time, but the product was kind of crap, so I wasn't going to market it. You don't market a product that's not ready to be used, but you're like, we're at that point, and really, from me and Mert's perspective, solana is there as well, like in the last bull market, I think at least. Me personally don't think Solana probably deserved all the credit that it got but at this point it's actually there. We just don't have users in the space, so we need that next cycle. But we all have products that are more scalable and ready for those users. Quick break to tell you about our sponsor, Jito. Jito is the number one liquid staking provider in Salana.
00:33:02.114 - 00:33:28.202, Speaker B: You probably already know about Jito because they're a leading mev client and now they're the fastest growing liquid staking provider in Salana with over 2 million soul staked. So you take your soul, stake it with Jito, you immediately get liquidity with their liquid staking token, Jito soul. And then you take Jito soul and you can start earning yields in D Five today while at the same time earning staking rewards powered by mev. Three reasons that I use Jeto. One, it's simple. You take your soul, you stake it, you get Jeto soul back, all in three clicks. Two, not only is it simple, but most importantly, it's secure.
00:33:28.202 - 00:33:44.934, Speaker B: The Jeto Protocol has seven audits and they're one of the most respected teams in DeFi. When I'm playing around with DeFi, one of the most important things to me is security. And that's something that Jito takes seriously. Three, Jeto just launched their points program. The more you contribute to the Jito protocol, the more points you get. So if you hold Jeto soul, you get points. If you take Jito soul and play around in DeFi, you get points.
00:33:44.934 - 00:34:01.030, Speaker B: Also have a referral program where, you guessed it, you can earn points. So use Jito to get immediate liquidity on your soul while earning staking rewards and DeFi yields and even points at the same time. Go check out Jito at Jeeto network slash staking. That's Jeeto network slash staking. You don't have to remember that. I'll put a link in the show notes. Use that one.
00:34:01.030 - 00:34:43.026, Speaker B: Now get back to the show. One thing I just wanted to double down on to see what insights you'll give me is on these permissionless front ends that you're building on top. Again, I think this is going to be a really cool trend because I've seen that impenex on the profit that you make. You're going to essentially buy SNX and become an LP in the synthetics protocol, which is essentially aligning the front end with the back end to some degree, right? And as part of that, I think it creates this whole new competition that you're going to see that's from these front ends trying to align with the protocols that they're using. And that's something that we haven't really seen in the space yet. And yeah, I just think it's going to be really interesting. How do you see that playing out? Because you mentioned one reason that you like crypto.
00:34:43.026 - 00:35:17.700, Speaker B: When you think of permissionlessness, censorship, resistance, it's really platform risk that you were looking to get around because you come from a tech background and that's something that you really like about crypto. But with all this competition on front, do you not see potentially not synthetics itself or specifically, but these protocols, when they're choosing a front end, almost giving generous terms to an enshrined front end, where it kind of kills that competition. Because I just think that's natural human tendency is like we want to pump our token, we're going to naturally choose an enshrined layer and then you almost recreate that platform risk at the front end level. I'm just curious, how do you see that playing out?
00:35:18.310 - 00:37:12.482, Speaker A: Yeah, there's a lot to unpack there. I think the primary thing in my mind is we have never really seen anything in DeFi, any platform, any system that had market power, right? The power has always been at the protocol level, like, okay, sure you can go and build a front end, but what are you going to get out of it? It doesn't give you much control, right? The core infrastructure is permissionless. Anyone can do it, can fork it, whatever, right? There's been a ton of market power, however, in centralized exchanges, right? Centralized exchanges were the gatekeepers of which tokens got listed, which projects people talked about even for a while they were doing fundraising, right, and they still invest in a lot of projects, right, so the centralized exchanges have had a lot of market power, but what centralized exchanges can't really do is integrate with DeFi. There's been a few that have kind of tried it in bits and pieces and doing staking things or whatever, but they end up just kind of building a centralized wrapper around it, doesn't really utilize it. But if we have, and this is kind of the interesting thing is that the user base of people in DFI is really not stored anywhere, right? There's no platform that is kind of capturing those users. They're just kind of on Ethereum, right, or they're on L two S or they're on Salana or they're on some chain, right, and they're in some wallet or some wallet plugin or whatever, but they're not really captured by anyone. Like you could argue maybe MetaMask has a little bit of market power, but it's such a transparent pass through thing that really the only place where they have any market power is in their MetaMask swaps sort of situation, right? Like everything else is just like a transparent path through you connect a button and it's all open source.
00:37:12.482 - 00:38:48.514, Speaker A: So, okay, that's the current state, right? Market power in centralized exchanges, minimal to zero market power in DeFi. What would happen if there were a DeFi front end that actually kept its users, that actually had user loyalty and brand loyalty and had assets as well to deploy? What would that look like? And so we can imagine a scenario where if Infidex does its job well and it goes and takes on decentralized exchanges and captures the existing users who are in the space right now today and starts to migrate. Some of those on chain migrates their assets on chain and now sitting there with a big pile of assets and there's a ton of stuff going on in terms of perps, but what's next? Right, well, okay, we want to create a new margining engine, let's say, and we've got five different options for how we could create that margining engine. We could go and integrate compound or Abe or cream rip or whatever, some new lending protocol, right? And when we are deciding which one to integrate, we have a lot of users, we have the ability to send a lot of flow to those protocols and we actually have negotiating power to say we want this kind of fee share, right? Or maybe we want to buy tokens in that project so that we can stake those tokens and get a percentage of the fees that are being generated and create a flywheel and a feedback loop. And in Synthetics, that's obvious, right? Like that's an easy thing to do. It's all set up already. It's already been like this for a while.
00:38:48.514 - 00:39:16.490, Speaker A: There's fee share, there's all kinds of things, but it's not as clear how that works on something like Aave or Compound or whatever. And so this is going to be one of the interesting challenges is that a DeFi front end that has market power, that has the ability to go out and advocate for its users and leverage the fact that it has a ton of users and a ton of AUM is going to be able to streamline things that currently there is no actor in the space can even do that.
00:39:16.640 - 00:40:07.486, Speaker B: Yeah, I think this is so exciting because this goes to aggregation theory. When you have somebody like Facebook and you can monetize the suppliers underneath it, which are maybe like the new suppliers or just like me and you posting on Facebook, right, like everyone's treated the same on your timeline, and it is like commodity and in the sense that synthetics has been focusing on liquidity for the last four or five years, right? So they've kind of solved that side. You have stakers, you have the liquidity there. But now with Infinex, you're going after demand and at least how it's played out in Web Two. Whoever controls the demand really controls the revenue flow. They control the supply and people start coming to them because you're going to have a competition between not specifically synthetics, but these underlying protocols, the apps built on top, like infinex, and then also the wallets on who is going to be that front end and that aggregator. It's going to be really interesting because you already pointed it out, if Infinex or another app becomes that, you actually will have influence on the protocols underneath you and the wallets on top.
00:40:07.486 - 00:40:26.100, Speaker B: And I wouldn't be surprised, for example, if you eventually got into the wallet game yourself if you did control that distribution. I know that's probably down the line, but I think this is really fascinating because this is like the next step. Once you actually build out the back end of crypto and DeFi that you get to. And that's like focusing on demand, which is the actual fun part, because we'd all like to see some.
00:40:27.430 - 00:41:12.846, Speaker A: Absolutely. And you know, just to be clear, right? Like, I think Infinex is already in the wallet game, right? Like, the way that Infinex is set up, you create a username and password. You deposit your assets into the Infinex contract. They're non custodial, right? They're on chain, but those assets are there and they're deployable, right? You can basically only use those assets in things that Infinex UI supports, right? So, you know, synthetics initially, right? But there's nothing stopping us from integrating some cool new thing on salana, right? Because we're abstracting away. It's not an EBM thing, right? It's not an L two thing. It's not an ethereum thing. It's just assets that are stored somewhere.
00:41:12.846 - 00:42:29.638, Speaker A: And obviously you need bridging and there's some other stuff that would need to be integrated. But if there's some cool new salana thing that's blowing up and this again gets back to my thesis around where do users come from each cycle and why do they end up in one place versus another? The place they end up in is the place where the cool new interesting thing is always there. Every time they turn up and they open up that application, it's got all the stuff they want, right? And so if Solana, someone on Solana deploys some crazy new yield farming scheme or some weird stablecoin or something, and people want to interact with it, they've got two options. They can go and figure out how to bridge to salana, install a salana wallet, start signing transactions, all that sort of stuff, which some people will do, but that's a huge filter, right? 95% of people are going to be filtered out of that, or it can be integrated into something like Infidex, and their assets are already there, and it's now just another button. And they're like, oh yeah, cool. I wanted to play around with that weird new Ponzi stablecoin click button, and now it's and you know, the more you reinforce that behavior, the more powerful it becomes. Where I just go, well, there's some weird new thing that I just heard about on Twitter.
00:42:29.638 - 00:43:03.590, Speaker A: If I open up Infidex, it's going to be there. Like, I just know it's going to be there, right? In the same way that you open up Binance and whatever new crazy ICO Token had just launched, it was there every time within a couple of hours, right? They were just bang, bang, bang, every listing, right? And so I think that the ability to integrate every new DeFi system or protocol or whatever scheme is there is going to just open up the floodgates on all of these users who were just not able to kind of interact with that in DeFi summer and even all the way through last cycle.
00:43:05.450 - 00:43:43.970, Speaker C: I want to ask a question about the state of decentralization in crypto right now, but before I do that, I want to pull up this tweet that you made that I really liked and use it as a segue, okay? So the tweet is, look, I get it. You can trade XRP and make money. Congratulations. I'm sure there's also money to be made in liquefying orphans as fuel for street lamps or something, but you have to have a line you are not willing to cross. So what do you mean by that? What approach? Obviously, you're kind of trolling, but what fundamental message are you trying to convey there? What is the line to cross?
00:43:44.710 - 00:45:28.360, Speaker A: Look, speculation drives everything, right? Speculation is what gets us to deploy capital into new things, right? If we remove speculation from the world, then we would be living in a far poorer world, right? And so I think that there is this kind of view of, like, speculation is inherently bad or something, right, and that you should discourage speculation and you should discourage investment. But every type of investment is somewhere on the speculation continuum, right? You go and buy bonds for your pension plan or whatever, that's a form of speculation, right? You can't just say, well, speculate, like you're assuming that something will happen in the future, right? You're assuming some return or some financial transaction in the future, right. You're making a bet essentially on what the future state of the world will be. That's speculation. Right? And so discouraging speculation is a bit insane to me, right. That said, there are things that I would say are probably net negative in the space. And one of those things is if you have a group of people who are selling snake oil and are selling something that is clearly not real and hasn't been real for a very long time, by that thing happening, and by you participating in that form of speculation, you're creating, essentially, a deficit of capital that would otherwise go elsewhere, that would be invested in a better thing.
00:45:28.360 - 00:46:45.760, Speaker A: And this is where I think that a lot of ETH maxis were very negative towards Solana, right? And there's a whole bunch of reasons of why that was the case. But my view was always like, look, I'm not going to support Solana, I'm supporting ethereum. I think that's where my capital is best deployed, right? But as an experiment in the world, it is valuable. If we are wrong and Solana is right, and we somehow had the ability to shut down Solana or Avalanche or Cosmos or Polkadot or any one of these, right? That the Ethmaxis, if they had the power to, would absolutely have shut down. If the regulators were full of ETH maxis, they would have found ways to shut down all for sure, right? There's this idea that, okay, speculation and these things are very valuable, but at the same time, if you participate in something like XRP, all you're doing is removing capital or allowing people to remove capital that otherwise would be reinvested into. So you need to find a line, right? You need to find a line in terms of speculation, of what you're willing to countenance and what you aren't. And for me, something like XRP is just across that line.
00:46:45.760 - 00:47:41.870, Speaker A: In the early days, cool, fine, it wasn't clear that it was nonsense and wasn't going to work, right? But ten years later, it's like, very obviously nonsense, and any money that's invested into it is just being extracted by a few people and it's not coming back into the ecosystem. Right? So trying to avoid that and trying to discourage people from participating in systems like that I think is beneficial. Same thing with Hex, right? Don't encourage hex. You could trade hex for sure, and I'm sure a lot of people did, and they're like, no, I'm just a trader, it's fine, I'm just trading this thing and whatever, but it's a net negative to the ecosystem and it's obviously so. Right, and so my view would be, don't trade hex. Yes, you can, and you can make money or lose money or whatever, and it's speculation on some level, but it's also, I think, a net negative. Right? And there's some things you just need to make call that you're not going to participate in because it's not going to be beneficial for the entire ecosystem.
00:47:42.690 - 00:47:53.934, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that's fair. Okay, I completely misinterpreted that tweet. I thought it was going to be about decentralization, but it's actually about speculation, so my segue doesn't make sense anymore.
00:47:53.982 - 00:48:37.858, Speaker A: Well, no, I think the reason why XRP is actually about decentralization is that it is a scam. It's not a real thing, right? Like, XRP is not a real cryptocurrency in the sense of, I don't know, phantom. Right? Like phantom, you could say, okay, it's a bit centralized, there's some issues with it. The ecosystem's had some problems or whatever. I'm personally a fan of Andre and know ultimately they're trying to do the right thing and there's been some issues with it, for sure. Right, but it's not like an obvious scam. XRP is just a grift, right? It's like selling this thing that is not real, that will never work.
00:48:37.858 - 00:49:15.230, Speaker A: Right. Like the idea that XRP will be used to transfer money around the world as a replacement of Swift, and I've tweeted about this as well, it's just nonsense, right? It's demonstrably, obviously wrong, right? And yet the right thing to do for a startup at that point would be to say, okay, we're going to pivot away from this. We're going to realize that we've fucked this up and we're going to fix it. We're going to pivot away and we're going to try and do something else. They've got billions of dollars. That would not be hard, right? They could decide that actually, this was not the right approach and we're going to shut it down. That's what a normal startup would do.
00:49:15.230 - 00:50:09.214, Speaker A: The problem with cryptocurrencies and the ability to sell tokens is that you're not kind of forced into that, right, because you can find unsophisticated actors who are willing to buy into your narrative and you can keep pushing that narrative long after the reality has kind of fallen apart. Right? And that's what XRP is at this point. It's people that are selling a narrative that is nonsense to unsophisticated participants in the ecosystem and those funds and that investment could go elsewhere. Right? The right thing for Ripple to do would be like, hey, we tried this thing. To be really clear, I don't even think that ripple didn't make sense in the early days of crypto. It's okay to be wrong, right? It's okay to have an idea for a thing and be like, this would make sense. We all thought that tokens were good media of exchange, right? Like, we're all idiots, right? They're not.
00:50:09.214 - 00:50:55.854, Speaker A: They're terrible, right? No one's blaming you for thinking that was a really good idea in 2011, 2012, right? Even all the way through to probably 2017, right? There was a point where it's like, all right, guys, let it go. This is not working out. Right? But the fact that you have decentralized company that is selling this narrative to people and extracting value from the ecosystem and is not even really like a cryptocurrency in the sense of what we would know of what we'd call a cryptocurrency now or an L one or something like that is kind of insane. That it's still, whatever it is. Top ten token. Like it's madness, right? The things should be shut down not by a regulator or by some entity coming in, but by the market. The market should have the ability to shut it down and realize that it is a dead end and let it go.
00:50:55.854 - 00:51:10.610, Speaker A: And a big part of the reason for that is it's centralized. If it were actually less centralized, you probably would be able to pivot and a community would be able to fix some of the inherent problems in it. But it's just controlled by four dudes. So what are you going to do?
00:51:10.680 - 00:52:14.310, Speaker C: What you said about XRP makes a lot of sense and it's probably taking my point to the extreme. My question was going to be, and I'm actually curious about this, is L two is in their current state, right? Which is some of them have some centralization vectors and essentially some of them are multi sigs. But then it's not apparent that the sequencers should be decentralized, right? I think FUBAR commented that, well, it doesn't actually make sense for the sequencers to be decentralized. You just have to be able to get a force inclusion in the L one. Some people will say, well, then you're opening value capture up to mev and the execution is where the value exchange and whatnot happens that's something like what Tolly from Salana would say. How do you and maybe I'm curious what the sentiment around just earlier East D Five folks is on the state of L two S, but also, like, the decentralization of the sequencer and if that even makes sense to decentralize, or if that's fine being centralized providers and exit hatch.
00:52:15.450 - 00:53:46.234, Speaker A: Yeah. So I think I'm a big proponent and one of probably the people that caught a lot of heat for progressive decentralization. Synthetics was like, one of the first projects, I would say, that has kind of, on some level, proven that it's a thing. And the reason why it was so hard in the early days to convince people of progressive decentralization is there have been so many people that had said, no, we're going to decentralize, and they never did, right? And so it became almost this guilty until proven innocent sort of thing. So how are you supposed to prove yourself innocent when you're trying to start a project that's going to be centralized and going to slowly decentralize people just write you off, right? And a lot of people wrote off Haven, they were like, this thing is a scam or whatever, right? And we prove them wrong by progressively decentralizing and ending up in a place where I think we're actually more decentralized than most of the projects that started decentralized, right? So that is something that I think you can do. I think that it's really valuable. But when you're doing progressive decentralization, the key is that you need to be in a marketplace where there's competition, right? And so in the case of Haven, it was like, well, Haven is an experiment in this marketplace of ideas, right? If it were the only thing, then, okay, that's a bit of a problem, right? If the only thing started centralized and there was no competition, that would be challenging, right? But we had other things with different approaches.
00:53:46.234 - 00:54:42.182, Speaker A: Decentralization maker basis, earlier things like BitShares, et cetera. There are a whole bunch of experiments that are running and then later on, things that are more decentralized, like liquidy immutable code to their apparel, right? So people learn lessons, right? Like, different things are tried out. And I think the same thing is true of L two S. If L two S completely fail, we still have ethereum L One, right? Like, if we spend two years going in circles and we end up in a situation where we're like, actually l two s were not a thing which is possible, we could absolutely get there and be like, wow, optimistic. Roll ups were a dumb idea and we should have just waited around and sharded ethereum until zero knowledge proofs or something like that was available. Right. Like, who knows what the future might hold, right? And maybe it would have been better to just stick as a monolithic L One and somehow, you know, increase block size or something.
00:54:42.182 - 00:55:39.762, Speaker A: Crazy like that, right? Like, we don't know, right? And so I think that the fact that we have a bunch of L2 S that are all competing, that are right now far more centralized than L One is okay, provided that there is a genuine effort to decentralize these things, right? And that as more value is on there and as we rely on them more, that they become more decentralized. And this is one of the reasons why I think decentralized sequencers are important. Not necessarily because there's, like, a practical implication. Because, as you say, there's an escape hatch, right, in most of these schemes where you can go and get transactions on L One. But to me, that feels like a bit of a that's your absolute worst case scenario. We should be aspiring to something better than that. We should be aspiring to something that is like, on a day to day basis decentralized, right? And then it's not like it's completely decentralized.
00:55:39.762 - 00:56:43.100, Speaker A: And if they censor you, then you can go and do this really hard, annoying thing. I mean, we saw that with Starquare, right, where it was like, no, this is fine because you can construct your own zero knowledge proof. And then when it went down, people were like, wait, how do we do that? And everyone's like, I don't think we know how. And it's like, okay, you can theoretically do something, but if you can't practically do it, that's problematic. So my view of why I think l two s are fine to be centralized now and are much more centralized than l one is that we've got a whole bunch of l two s that are competing and trying different things, and some will stay more centralized or some will be more decentralized and ultimately the market will sort it out. That you want markets to solve these problems, but that we should be aspiring to something that is close to and reliant on the decentralization of l one on a day to day basis. If that's the thing that is going to be processing all of this economic activity, if we can't get there, then we need to find some other technology in my mind, right? We need to be pushing that decentralization vector as much as possible.
00:56:43.550 - 00:57:12.210, Speaker B: Yeah, I 100% agree with that. I think the messaging becomes hard because you want to say what you just said. Kane which is like the honest interpretation of it, but also when you're trying to attract new users and investors, it's kind of like if you're doing a pitch to a VC, you don't pitch to them what's happening today. You pitch to them the future, and then that causes the conflict. It's like, you're not decentralized today. Like, yes, we are, and it just causes a lot of friction and crypto that we probably don't need. But assuming that L2 S are the scaling solution that Ethereum uses long term, do you think it's going to be a parallel outcome.
00:57:12.210 - 00:57:23.100, Speaker B: Do you think there's going to be three to five? Is there going to be this thing where every app is going to have its own roll up? Do you think once an app like Synthetics gets big enough, do you just go into your own app chain? How do you think about that?
00:57:23.630 - 00:58:12.794, Speaker A: Yeah, I tried to kind of have us coordinate on one L2 and that didn't work out very well. Obviously, I pushed optimism for a long time and we ended up with 50, so I definitely missed the mark on that one. Don't always get it right. But I think the reality is that once you have more than one if we were genuinely trying to say, let's put all of our effort like, for example, if the L two had been built by the core Devs and the EF, and it wasn't an independent entity. And it was like, no, this is actually a core piece of infrastructure that is going to be added on to Ethereum, which I think would have been a bad idea. We'd still be waiting for it, right? Most likely. I think that the market moves much faster than any kind of coordination process like that, so I think we're better off.
00:58:12.794 - 00:59:48.280, Speaker A: But absent some canonical L2, that was going to be the thing. I think that multiple L2 S is probably the situation that we need and we kind of need to let this play out again. I come back to I put my protocol hat on, right, and my protocol hat says, yes, you need to be where the liquidity is, you need to deploy it to all these different places, not try and pick winners on the L2 or see where the liquidity will flow or whatever. And then I put my infinex hat on. I'm like, who fucking cares? It doesn't matter, right? Just like, build a thing that abstracts it away and figure out where the users are and put the liquidity there, kind of in real time, right? And one of those feels very sensible and straightforward and one of them feels kind of insane and I'll let the reader kind of decide which one makes sense, right? And that's why I'm building infinex, right? But, yeah, look, just in terms of saying the quiet part out loud as well, right? I think one of the nice things about being an OG and not sort of being dependent on particular people in the ecosystem or whatever and having some independence is I can say the quiet part out loud, right? Things that people might be concerned to say if they know they've got to go out and raise a funding round in three months time, right? They don't want to piss off VCs or piss off this chain or that chain or whatever. Luckily for me, I'm in a position where I can kind of say whatever I want. Sometimes it works out well, sometimes not so much.
00:59:48.890 - 01:00:14.210, Speaker C: That was actually going to be my next question. So it's good that you already went there, so you obviously don't need to work anymore. You're one of the earliest people in the entire ecosystem, actually. Industry certainly DeFi, but also ethereum, so you don't need to work anymore. So maybe getting a little philosophical here, right? Why are you still here? What are you trying to accomplish?
01:00:15.270 - 01:00:50.074, Speaker A: Yeah, so I tried to not work and I went insane over the course of like, 18 months, right. And when I say not work, right, for a very long time, I was doing startups even before I got into the crypto ecosystem. And there were times where I would work 100 plus hours a week, right. I was probably addicted to work. But also, startups are that demanding. If you've got a startup that's losing money and on death's door, you need to decide to either shut it down or you just keep putting more effort in. Right? And so I've been in that situation multiple times where it was just like, get up at 06:00 a.m.
01:00:50.074 - 01:01:22.278, Speaker A: Go and pack boxes and ship them out and then do the emails and then just like, you're doing everything right. There's five people in a startup, so that's not necessarily a fun experience. But for me, I found it quite satisfying. And I think by the time I got to say 2021, I was in a place where I was like, look, I want to take some time off and take a break and I don't really need to work, to your point. Right. And Synthetics is now sufficiently decentralized. There's a bunch of people that are working on it.
01:01:22.278 - 01:01:50.254, Speaker A: The community is coordinating things. Governance works. I had kind of dipped in and out of governance enough times to get a sense that actually governance didn't really need me. It was kind of fine on its own and in some ways it was beneficial to not have that single point of failure there. So I got myself to a point where I was like, all right, take some time off. And it was just not good for me mentally. I'm not someone that does well not being occupied, even trying to put time into hobbies and stuff.
01:01:50.254 - 01:03:09.250, Speaker A: I needed problems to solve and I ended up just manufacturing chaos to keep myself engaged in life, I think. Right? And so I took quite a bit of time, really thought about, what am I doing? What's the point of any of this stuff? Right? Like, I don't need money, right? But I got to a point where I was like, there are still unsolved problems here. And while I feel very much that Synthetics has kind of delivered on its vision of creating an exchange engine that competes with centralized exchanges, which has been our goal for a long time, we're there, right? That works. There's still no users there, right? It's not 13, thankfully, but it's not enough to be able to be like, all right, mission accomplished. See you later, right? And so I started thinking about why is that not the case? And as soon as I reached the conclusion that the issue is usability and onboarding and all of these things bridging and all of the user friction that we know and love in the space, right? I was like, I just need to go and solve this. And I'm actually in a really good position to do it. And one of the nice things about participating in a decentralized organization is anyone can do that permissionlessly.
01:03:09.250 - 01:04:02.938, Speaker A: Like me building infinex is not reliant other than having capital to do stuff and having cut through in the industry and being able to talk about things and have people listen to some extent, right? Other than that. But if I didn't have any of that, I could still turn up and build infidex. And that's kind of crazy, right? It's not like it's someone who's coming back. This is not like a Steve Jobs coming back to Apple sort of situation, right, where the guy actually puts himself at the top of the hierarchy again and makes all the decisions, right? This is like an open permissionless protocol, and someone with a good idea who happens to also be the same person who built the thing in the first place, turns up and says, I'm doing this thing. And the crazy thing to me, which, to be honest, I was unprepared for, is some of the community and contributors were like, no, we don't like this. Don't do it. And the even better thing is I was like, I don't care.
01:04:02.938 - 01:05:01.290, Speaker A: I'm doing this anyway. You can't stop me from missionless, right? Like, I gave up power so that anyone could turn up and do something, right? I stopped myself from being this overlord, right? And now you need to live with that because guess what? I'm back and I can do whatever I want and you can't stop me, right? There's some kind of brutal irony there, right? So I do think that there is definitely something to be said for being occupied and solving hard problems. I've always really loved that. And honestly, I've been more energized in the last, like, three months working on some of these infinex problems than I felt in years because they're genuine problems that I think we haven't paid enough attention to because we've been building the emperor and now the emperor is done. And it's like it's just crazily obvious things, right? We'll sit in a room and we're like, okay, we got this problem. Let's solve it. And we spend 20 seconds and we're like, wow, that's the solution.
01:05:01.290 - 01:05:23.940, Speaker A: Why did we not think of that before, right? And it's like we just weren't even looking in that direction. We're looking in the complete opposite direction. No one put much thought into it. And now we turn around and we're looking over here and there's, just like low hanging fruit everywhere, like, just obvious, really easy solutions to make people's lives better. So that's exciting and it's been pretty fun.
01:05:25.030 - 01:05:52.300, Speaker B: Kane, I would call you an artist just as much as an entrepreneur and not to make a shot at people working on protocols because we obviously have a lot of geniuses in the space right now and highly creative people. But do you think there is a long term conflict between people like you who might consider more of an artist looking forward, working in a dao? Because you've probably bumped into when you have this governing body that wants to move slow and it's hard for them to look ahead, does that not push out people like you into something else?
01:05:53.230 - 01:07:54.500, Speaker A: Yeah, look, it's been interesting. It's been really interesting, right? I've had a couple of clashes with people in the core contributors and even in the community where they have just a different mindset, right? And there's multiple layers to this, obviously, because people have different incentives, right? People who have been fairly successful but have not made what Talib would call like, fuck you money, right, to be able to just say, I can say whatever I want, I don't care what anyone and you know, there's a lot of people in the space DeFi OGS who've done that, right? Some of them have gone on Hentai, Twitter careers like Djen Spartan, right? And some of them are still sticking around and building stuff, right? Like they're onto their second project or third project or something like, you know, Stanny building, Lens and Robert building. So I think that there's always some new thing that if you're a builder and you want to solve problems, you can go and do, right? You don't need to go and build something in the ecosystem that you were already involved in. And Lens and Ave are a great example of that. Very different projects in very different spaces. But I think they're both quite amenable to the vision that someone like Stani has, right? And so what I found funny in dealing with the synthetics community is the synthetics community, with me gone, has gotten much better at optimizing for the obvious path. They're much more efficient at getting down that straight line, right? And of course they are, because it's not some lunatic distracting them every two minutes with like, what about this thing? What about that thing? Right? They're just like, no, here's the thing, and we're just going to go and do it, right? And that's cool, but it's a little bit like the Innovator's dilemma sort of problem, right, of like, they're not seeing the weird stuff.
01:07:54.500 - 01:08:45.380, Speaker A: The industry is evolving all the time and they're not seeing the stuff that's on the periphery that could influence and impact what they're doing, right? They're just like, no tunnel vision, this is what we're going for. And so I do think that that is a trade off, I guess that you need to manage when you don't have someone who is leading the project, who started off with that kind of weird vision sort of thing. Of looking way to the future of how we're going to solve these problems versus kind of practical day to day reality of like, we need to do this, and then step two and step three and step four, sometimes you need to branch out. And so it does create a bit of conflict. It has been interesting to see, but the nice thing is that if there's too much conflict, then you just go and build something else in the space. There's still tons of unsolved problems.
01:08:46.470 - 01:09:38.422, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the last little bit I'd add to that, which I think a lot of people don't really realize yet in crypto when you have these dow decisions is, for example, Synthetics was using chainlink for like four years to be their Oracle. And then you switched over to Pith just to help performance, have fewer front runs, et cetera. Even though Chainlink was like, hey, we will come out with a product for you, it's just going to take some time. But the community decided to go with Pith because it's something that could be like in production soon there. But then it has these secondary for example, if Synthetics does get to the point where you want to use CCIP, which is Chainlink's cross chain communication protocol, while you partnered with Chainlink, you may have had more influence over that, similar to how you had more influence over optimism, where it could be specifically designed to help support synthetics. So it is interesting to think that Dows probably have a harder time, maybe I'm being too critical here, of thinking about those secondary effects instead of just those short term options.
01:09:38.556 - 01:10:43.578, Speaker A: Well, I mean, one other component is you essentially have even the Dows that I would say were led by someone who's maybe strong product or engineering or whatever. I'm not an engineer, right? I'm much more of a product person, I think, through solutions and how to kind of put all these things together, right? Synthetics at this point is really run by engineers. That was the majority of people who were there, right, when I kind of handed over power, right? And even within the council, the councils are there's multiple engineers within the councils, right. And engineers have a very specific way of looking at things, right? And they've got a bunch of biases. And one of the big biases for engineers is if I didn't make it, then it must be a piece of shit, right? It's just an inherent bias that they have. Right. And even when they say like, no, it's okay, I like other stuff, right? You say that.
01:10:43.578 - 01:12:02.500, Speaker A: And so one of the things that I have found quite interesting in watching the Synthetics community over the last couple of years, as I've been not controlling decisions, has been to see this sort of desire to make things internally versus using something that's off the shelf, right? And I was actually having a conversation yesterday with one of the CCS and I said, you know what? If the people who are running Synthetics today were running Synthetics back in 2019, I don't think they would have used Chain link in the first place. I actually think they would have doubled down and said, no, we're going to fix our internal Oracle because we'd already built an Oracle, right? Like, we built an Oracle because there weren't Oracles, so we had to build one. Right? And then there were three or four different Oracle projects that were out there at the time, teller and Chainlink and a couple of others. And we went and reviewed them all and we came to the conclusion that offloading this to someone else who was building a specific thing was going to be the best bet. Right? And this was a bit of a leap of faith because Chainlink wasn't even live at that point, right, but we got confident that they could deliver this, and they did and they have, and they've ended up underpinning a significant portion of DeFi activity in the industry because of it. But there was definitely a leap of faith. It was not clear that this was the thing that was going to work.
01:12:02.500 - 01:12:42.880, Speaker A: I'm very confident that the synthetics team, whatever that's running things now, the people that are kind of in charge of these decisions would not use Chainlink. It would be too hard to get it through Dow governance. The engineers would be against it. They'd want to build it themselves, which obviously it's a counterfactual, we'll never know, but I really feel strong that that's the case. And to me, that's a bit insane, that's a bit problematic and a bit worrisome, right? That we're at a point where we're so confident in our own ability as Synthetics that leveraging some external protocol is not a good idea.
01:12:44.530 - 01:13:06.550, Speaker C: All right, well, talking about insanity, let's do a quick segment of rapid fire. I'm sure you know what it is, but just going to ask some quick questions, answer with the first thing that comes to your mind and then Garrett might jump in and ask them as well. All right, so first question. What do you think is the most overrated idea in crypto?
01:13:09.470 - 01:13:29.210, Speaker A: Soul bound NFTs can you expand soulbound tokens? Yeah. Like tokens that are locked to a specific address. Right. Like, this is like one of Vitalik's ideas and it's nice to know that he does have dumb ideas every once in a while, but yeah, soul bound tokens, I think are just like very inane and pointless.
01:13:29.290 - 01:13:32.400, Speaker B: It's like the worst form of spam that you can't get out of your.
01:13:33.810 - 01:13:35.520, Speaker A: It'S not I'm not a.
01:13:37.730 - 01:13:48.150, Speaker C: But you've said you've done a lot of startups and you're essentially going to die if you don't do startups. You kind of have that urge to just work on these problems. What is the number one lesson you've learned about startups?
01:13:49.210 - 01:14:06.386, Speaker A: That you have to question assumptions? You have to continually question assumptions because humans just fall into the status quo and biases very easily. And so if you're not questioning assumptions every day, then you're going to go down the wrong path.
01:14:06.578 - 01:14:19.354, Speaker B: All right, I've got to follow up on that. Matt Max token supply is a meme. So, for example, I think at one point you wanted synthetics to only have, I think it was maybe 300 million tokens. Is that something that we just adopted from Bitcoin? Is it a meme? Is it useful?
01:14:19.482 - 01:14:49.370, Speaker A: What do you think? I actually think it's default. Defaults are incredibly powerful and in the, ERC 20 contract, the first thing it says to you is, how many tokens do you want? And so the default is that you have to answer that question. Right? If that wasn't there, if it was like some function that you could import or some interface, right, and you didn't have to put a static number in there, then I think it would have opened up a lot more experimentation and it eventually did. We eventually got there, but the standard contract and the default is really powerful. And so the default was how many tokens?
01:14:50.590 - 01:14:53.180, Speaker C: Will decentralized stablecoins ever work?
01:14:53.790 - 01:14:55.020, Speaker A: Yes, absolutely.
01:14:57.630 - 01:15:01.630, Speaker C: What vertical, other than DeFi, are you most bullish on in crypto?
01:15:02.770 - 01:15:15.540, Speaker A: In crypto, I think weird bonding curve games. I've been waiting for bonding curves to make a comeback for a while and I think that people underestimate how powerful an incentive mechanism bonding curves are.
01:15:16.150 - 01:15:21.810, Speaker C: And what do you think is the worst or maybe most overrated vertical in crypto? That doesn't really hold that much weight.
01:15:24.070 - 01:15:42.780, Speaker A: Right now, sadly, music NFTs because I'm a musician and I think that they're overhyped and they're not the solution looking for a problem. I would love to see something in the music crypto thing that works, but so far I think it's been not that interesting.
01:15:43.710 - 01:15:48.170, Speaker C: What's something you've turned your mind on completely since you've started in crypto?
01:15:51.230 - 01:16:25.720, Speaker A: God, there's so many things. I would say using tokens as payment mechanisms, the idea that using tokens as money, right. Stable coins are just a much obvious, much more obvious and better solution. I think the other thing that probably a better one is real world assets. I came into crypto thinking that real world assets are a really good idea and within 20 minutes I was like, actually, this is nonsense. And now I've come back full circle and I'm like, Actually, real world assets are a good idea.
01:16:28.270 - 01:16:34.060, Speaker C: What is your most controversial opinion, do you think, that you're absolutely convinced is right?
01:16:36.030 - 01:16:52.350, Speaker A: I'm a strong determinist, so I believe that everything that happens is predetermined based on macroscopic interactions.
01:16:53.410 - 01:17:05.140, Speaker C: If you had to pick one crypto application other than DeFi to get everyday people to start using crypto, what would that app be?
01:17:05.910 - 01:17:13.282, Speaker A: I think it's gaming. Pretty obviously, there'll be some breakout game and that's going to drive a ton of activity.
01:17:13.426 - 01:17:18.582, Speaker B: Kane might be biased because his brother is building alluvium just going to put it out there a little bit.
01:17:18.636 - 01:17:47.090, Speaker A: No, but people care so much more about games than they care about finance, right? Finance is a means to an end for people. You don't care about your bank that much. You don't care about the tech behind your bank. I think social things are so much more powerful. Movies, games, TV, those things really drive attention. Even books are far more interesting than finance. And so I think that'll be something in media landscape.
01:17:47.510 - 01:17:50.450, Speaker C: So on that train of thought, what do you think about Frentech?
01:17:51.430 - 01:18:42.690, Speaker A: I really like think, you know, it's a super interesting experiment, but like all of these things is the experiment, right? The fact that in spite of it being utterly unusable for weeks and weeks and weeks at launch, that it still got traction, there's something there, right? And ultimately there's bonding curves at the core of it, right? And I think that this is where really the bonding curves are doing the heavy lifting and people don't realize that that's actually what's happening. It's like a bonding curve that's been dressed up in a fancy wrapper. And I think that other experiments in bonding curves have the potential to be much more powerful because the bonding curve on Friendtech I think is a bit messed up. And again, it's an experiment. There'll be other experiments. And I think that it wouldn't surprise me if some friend tech clone or some other bonding curve type social thing ended up being much more powerful.
01:18:43.910 - 01:18:53.110, Speaker C: Last question. What is the most crucial piece of advice you would give to an aspiring or current DeFi founder?
01:18:55.210 - 01:20:30.662, Speaker A: You need to lean into the narratives, right? It might feel like you've got some domain expertise or specialized perspective on the world or whatever, but if you go into the market with some very specific idea of how you're going to do something or solve some problem, most likely you're going to find out that actually you're wrong and that you're kind of pushing things uphill. Right? And so leaning into things that the world wants is always easier, right? And so tapping into whatever the narratives are. So things like in crypto at the moment, there's a bunch of narratives, a bunch of meta, right? Like even social games like Friend tech, et cetera. So if you came in into the market right now and said, I'm going to build developer tooling because I'm an engineer and I know developer tooling or whatever, right? Like, good luck to you, no one's interested in it. The effort that you would need to go through to build something in that category that would get enough traction to be interesting, to get investment and therefore scale up is going to be multiple orders of magnitude higher than something that taps into an existing narrative. And I think that first time founders really fall into this trap of thinking that they need to really care about the thing that they're doing. But there's so many counterexamples of that of founders who launch things like Airbnb, right.
01:20:30.662 - 01:20:47.082, Speaker A: Did any of those guys care about houses or hotels? No. Right. But that wasn't even the idea. The idea was something totally different. Right. So there's just so many examples of you don't need to be a domain expert in thing you're doing. Come in and see what the world wants and try and solve that problem.
01:20:47.082 - 01:21:15.166, Speaker A: Don't decide what you think the world needs, necessarily, and try and do that now. The counterpoint to that is users have no idea what they want, typically. Right? And so if you go and interview users and say, like, hey, what do you want? Right? You get 16 cameras on the front facing, cameras on your phone. Right. Like a firephone. So don't necessarily interview users. Find out what the world genuinely wants by seeing what the narratives are that are powerful.
01:21:15.166 - 01:21:32.098, Speaker A: Which doesn't mean user interviews. It means really understanding the world. Right. And you're kind of getting the zeitgeist. So, yeah, if you do that and you lean into that, you'll have a much, much better time, and it'll be much easier for you to get attention and capital and build something that is meaningful.
01:21:32.194 - 01:21:41.520, Speaker C: I think Henry Ford has a good quote on that. I don't know if it's Henry Ford, but I think it's something like if I asked what users wanted, they would have said faster horses, or something like that.
01:21:42.130 - 01:21:45.118, Speaker A: That sounds apocryphal, but it's a good.
01:21:45.204 - 01:22:03.694, Speaker B: Illustration of listen to their problems, not their wants. Kane, thank you so much for coming on. This is a really fun conversation. I'm excited to see what happens with Impenex. I think it's one of the coolest projects happening in crypto right now. I love like, you have a slogan for it's, like, nothing is sacred with the user experience. I think that's really how me and Mert like to think about things.
01:22:03.694 - 01:22:07.282, Speaker B: And I think that's probably something crypto could adopt to a wider scale.
01:22:07.346 - 01:22:07.814, Speaker A: More of that.
01:22:07.852 - 01:22:12.600, Speaker B: We need more of that, definitely. But yeah. Thanks so much for coming on. We'd love to have you on in a couple of months.
01:22:13.210 - 01:22:15.634, Speaker A: Yeah, awesome. Thanks, guys. Appreciate it. Sweet.
01:22:15.682 - 01:22:16.420, Speaker B: We'll see you next time.
