00:00:00.360 - 00:01:11.524, Speaker A: First let us introduce some background circle parking. P is a collection of clothes disks with disjoint interiors. The contact graph GPLP is the graph having a vertex for each disk and an edge for each pair for a tangent disk. And a basic theorem of copraging is for in corpus theorems. And I think everyone here is familiar with these topics so I just skip it. And the circuit plugin can be used to approximate conformable mappings. A generalized object is circle Python in this case where or in this situation we also have a contact graph and another information the exterior intersection angles and the foreign theorem was proved by Madden Rodding.
00:01:11.524 - 00:02:12.110, Speaker A: It says that when t is a triangulation of the sphere and theta is a function, satisfies some proper conditions. Then there exists a second pattern p on the raymosphere with the contact graph isomorphic to the one skeleton of t and the exterior intersection angles is given by this function. Moore p is unique up to conformer atomorphisms of the Raymond sphere. And this theorem is a generalization of corpses. The closely related result is NGF serum. And this theorem is about hyperbolic polyhedron. And it is observed by certain that there is a direct connection between circle patterns and hydraulic polyhedron.
00:02:12.110 - 00:03:22.144, Speaker A: This theorem says that if p is a trivalent polyhedron with more than four faces and theta is a function satisfying some proper conditions, then there exists a compact convex hypobolic polyhedron compliant Rayleigh equivalent to p with dehydrangles given by theta and q is unique up to isometries. And so this is the set of conditions. And we mentioned that the fourth condition is a consequence of the second one, the third one when t is not a triangular plasma. This was proved by observed by Royce and Harvard. So this condition is needed only when p is a triangular plasma. So this condition seems complex. But it is only when p is triangular plasma, it is used.
00:03:22.144 - 00:04:20.734, Speaker A: And the following result was proved by Bolson and Stevenson. This condition provide same pro to some extent. It provides a unified version of modern rolling serum and angel serum. And in this location we need metro modification on the compliant legs. We modify the contact graph to a t type circuit pattern. So what is a t type circle pattern? A sec pattern p is said to be key type. If there exists a geodesic triangulation of t with the vortices coincide with the centers of the risk p.
00:04:20.734 - 00:05:30.832, Speaker A: And to some extent this theorem provides a unified version of modern rolling theorem and end of theorem. In Marin rolling theorem, each triangle corresponds to an interface and in angular theorem there is no end sleeves and for the slip theorem there is no such constraint restriction. We can allow instance or not in series. But a key type pattern may not realize the one skeleton of t as contact graph. But this holds true when we restrict to acute angles. And this theorem is nanograph substance theorem for hygiene surface. So this is an example why when a t type circle pattern may not realize here as the contact graph we anticipate.
00:05:30.832 - 00:06:38.984, Speaker A: The contact graph is the union of the union of two triangles. But this list and these discs intersect each other is a unexpected. This gives an extra edge. So, but when respect to acute angles, we can prove that a key type circle pattern always realized k as contact graph. This is because the risk can be caused by the union of triangles incident to these voltages. So this risk belongs to the union of triangles in to this the center for this disc. So there are one question, when the bowel theorems all restrict to non opposite anchors.
00:06:38.984 - 00:08:04.534, Speaker A: So we have the following question. It is possible to relax the requirement of long orbitous angles in the bar theorems. We know these theorems are restricted in long orbital case. There are some ten raises that for example, our characterize all idea of hydrological procedure with given arbitrary complaint rates and dehydrate angles. And the similar result was obtained by and Bobanko, Springborn and Schlenker recently in a joint work with Ge and Hua, we obtained the foreign results and this result is a direct generalization of margin rolling theorem and we partially relax the requirements of long object angles. We replace the longoptus angle condition with the fourth condition. This condition says if e one, two e three forms a boundary of a triangle of t, then this inequality is hold, where I e equals the cosine of theta ei.
00:08:04.534 - 00:09:17.158, Speaker A: Note that if theta is restricted to long opposite anchors, then oi is larger than zero. So these conditions naturally hold. But this condition, but this theorem cannot cover order, cannot cover forward stiffness result. Because we need a intersects to do stereographic projection, we must have an interstitial and we also use the k typescript pattern or obtain a k typescript pattern. So and the existing part of the bowel theorem can remains widely if the. If the fourth condition is replaced, the following condition. Unfortunately, in this case, a t type circle pattern may be common more weird.
00:09:17.158 - 00:10:38.474, Speaker A: For example, this example, we don't anticipate this risk and this risk intersect. But this also gives an extraordinary unexpected edge. So this remains two problems. The first one is in which case does a t type sigma pattern realize the one skeleton of t as contact graph? Another question is can we drop the third condition. This condition, this seems a technical condition because we want to do stereographic projection. So can we drop this condition? Fortunately, recently I obtained the foreign result. This result says if we pose a extra condition, then this result holds this let p be a triangulation of a sphere with more than four vertices.
00:10:38.474 - 00:11:24.614, Speaker A: Theta is a function satisfying in some proper conditions. This is a set of conditions. Then there exists an irreducible ther pattern. P on the ram sphere with a contact graph ismorphic to the one skeleton of t and x theory in the secular angles q by theta. But we have not the logistic result. We only prove the existence result. We say part p is irreducible if part of the union of part of disk cannot cover the entire ram sphere.
00:11:24.614 - 00:12:38.464, Speaker A: So in other words, if we want to cover the ram sphere, then every disk must be used. So this is the set of conditions. The former three conditions are very similar to the former ones, the formal result. So we only concentrate on the fourth condition. This condition says that if e one and e two form a homologically longer adjacent arc, then we have this in correctly. So what is a sample arc? A simple arc formed by edges of t is said to be homolog adjacent if there is no edge between the ends of omega. So let me give an example to see how the fourth condition behaves.
00:12:38.464 - 00:14:04.734, Speaker A: So this is a bipyramid, triangular bipyramid, and this two edge form a chronologically longer adjacent arc because the wall is, there is no, there's no edge between these watches and these watches their ends. But these two edges, these two edges form homologically adjacent because there is an edge between their endpoints. So this condition says, if we want to. This condition implies that the weights on this edge and this edge is less than two PI. Similarly, the width of this edge and this edge less than PI and so is this edge and this edge. And when p is the boundary of a triangular bipyramid, one of the equalities is strict when in this condition. And we will see this condition actually implies the fourth condition of angiof theorem.
00:14:04.734 - 00:15:24.094, Speaker A: Moreover, we have the following result and let's doubt denote the set of functions satisfying these four conditions. Then omega is a convex subset of these sets. We prove that for almost every theta up to conformal auto format, then there are only finite finite many irreducible circle patterns on c. Realizing the data, although we do not produce the rigidity, but we can prove that statistically almost every theta is local activity and there are only finite any evolution bc patterns realizing the data as a corollary we obtain generalized Andref theorem system. This theorem says in this case we have the radially result. The radially result actually was. In this case the radially result actually was obtained by Rio and Hohse.
00:15:24.094 - 00:16:35.182, Speaker A: This is compact convex polyhedron in hybrid three space with travelers are determined up to growth by their compliant rates and dehydrate angles. So this is overset of conditions and it's just the draw the condition of this one. And since we have no interstates so we need to the sum of the edges is larger than PI. So let's give a sketch of the proof. All mantras are configuration space and topological grid theory. And we adopt the topological degree theory because it has advantage of dealing with existence and logistically in a separated way. And the traditional way is continuing method.
00:16:35.182 - 00:17:21.844, Speaker A: But the criminal method deal with the existence and rigidity in a corporate way. They must deal with existence rigidity simultaneously. So our key point is to prove the foreign impropress. Under suitable conditions, a sequence of irreducible cycle patterns can produce a beams. To produce these key points we need we will divide into two steps. The first step is balance. That pinforent exists in some reasonable complexation.
00:17:21.844 - 00:18:58.474, Speaker A: It is very similar to find a weak solution in PDE series and the rest steps was to show psychifies the required properties and is very similar to the regularization process. And so to bridge the connection we need to establish some prior estimates. And the configuration space actually plays a very similar role to solve space in pv theory. So we first introduced rhym sphere with a spherical matrix and we will use the spherical geometry. So the key point is prior estimate. So we need the following configuration spaces and the fourth space is the space of patterns of whale disks on the rams flight c and so is this space. The second space is the circle patterns with complementary adjusting viscous meeting angles in zero to PI.
00:18:58.474 - 00:19:45.564, Speaker A: In an open interval we do not this. This is this condition. Why we do not announce zero case? Because we want to be to make this set is an open set. In this set, if we use the half interval then it is not opening this. So we first deal with the case of the interval case. And the third space is t types of patterns. The subspace of t types of patterns.
00:19:45.564 - 00:20:42.186, Speaker A: This is open condition. So this set is open in this state and this is open in this state. So they all are smooth manifolds. And the fourth condition is t type patterns which realizes scaling of t as a contact graph. In other words that means combinatively long adjacent discs are disjoint. The fifth condition is the subspace of irreducible sick patterns. Note that irreducible subpart means that a subset of discourse of the patterns cannot cover the ramisphere and the last condition is a normalized condition.
00:20:42.186 - 00:22:03.750, Speaker A: We normalize the condition with the following condition. The first disc is centered at zero and the second condition is centered as positive potential axis and the third condition is a condition of the radius of the first three gliscous. So this condition minus minus six freedom and we have a smooth mark from the this condition to the this space by taking the exterior intersection angles of the patterns given by this configure given by the configuration. So they argue a third pattern and the third pattern gives the exterior intersection angles. Moreover, we have the following observation that they have the same dimension. So this is why we need to pause the normalized condition. Otherwise this condition has more and this has a freedom of mobile transformation.
00:22:03.750 - 00:23:49.596, Speaker A: It has six dimensions. So we use the normalized condition tool cancel the normalization, cancel this frasm and thus we have the same same dimension. So the problem is transformed into the following is reduced to the following problem is any function satisfies the conditions c one to c four is in the image of the map. So if, if we can prove this, this, this proposition, then thera is proved and for simplicity we were forced to we well prove our theram in an extra condition, this condition and we will remove the condition of the way. This condition is not essential, but for simple we add this sample. So how can I prove this proposition? We will use the topological grid theory. We first find a relatively compact open state and determines the degree and the basic property of topological degrees says if the degree isn't zero, then theta is in the image of the map.
00:23:49.596 - 00:25:09.694, Speaker A: So the problem is it's related to how to compute the degree. To compute the degree, we will use the homotopy trick. We deform theta to another regular value at this non obvious case, satisfies the condition and computers degree at the and we consider the convex compilation as a convex combination, actually forms a continuous curve and this continuation curve, iris theta t satisfies this five conditions and we have the invariance property. If this property holds, then the degree at theta will equal to the degree at theta k. Now the k eight, the carbon deficient theory for acute angle case implies the degree are equal to one or minus one. So which implies the degree as theta also equal to one or minus one. And this gives the generalize the kg theorem.
00:25:09.694 - 00:26:14.974, Speaker A: So the very key point is here. So with this property, hold in other words we need to find find a. So the key point is to find a relatively compact open set such that the inverse of the pre image of this set belong to this compact relative compact open set. So this is our key point. And to show this theorem we need this lemme we need to show is about to show any sequence contains in the image contains some sequence in this space. So the proof is the split into the foreign steps. First we prove that there is a subsequence converging to a point in the closure of m.
00:26:14.974 - 00:26:52.844, Speaker A: So this find a weak solution. So next step is to show c infinity and I infinity belong to M. That means we need to show no discuss ten to PI or zero. We will prove by contradiction. If some values tend to PI, it is not hard to see this wallet is irreducible properly. That's some properties. The union of some disks will cover the entire disk.
00:26:52.844 - 00:28:19.170, Speaker A: And if some writers tend to zero, this web controls control gives control by certain type of formula. This formula said the disgrace curvature is equal to the oral color cosmic under the compilation actually thanks wake. Our obstacle pattern are smooth. So this curvature or equal to zero and this over Kymm equals to this and this is negative. So if the number of where h is the number of the kinetic components of the complement, so if h is larger than two and this is negative. So this leads to a contradiction. And if h to zero, then this space is just equal to the remainder, which is now happened because our normalization condition should implies that we have three values doesn't tend to zero so this only remains to the h equals to one case.
00:28:19.170 - 00:29:14.060, Speaker A: In this case h this space is simply connected space simply connect the surface and by the following number we can show that this also leads to contradiction. This number says that under the condition c one to c four, we have the following inequality. And the second step is to show theta infinity belong to zero to PI. And this is true. The third step is to show the these points belong to mt. That means we need to show no triangle degenerate. This actually is a result of the foreign number.
00:29:14.060 - 00:30:23.034, Speaker A: This number says that if theta r three angles satisfying the following properties, then for any number for any radius, there exists a threesork configuration. Realizing the data of this theta and radius. So this is the figure. And this number says that if we let Lijk be the distance of the centers, then Lijk satisfies the triangle inequalities. So this triangle cannot navigate. Generate this this proof that no triangle degenerates and we have the following number. This number is about the n angles at the centers behavior and this number implies the suspense formula gives.
00:30:23.034 - 00:31:23.894, Speaker A: This formula is proved by the foreign property. So the key points is the first step. This step says we need to check compliant radiant long adjacent to discuss do not overlap. And for each pair of nodes just what is way alpha way better when you actually show the corresponding disks are disjoint. We divide the proof into the following situations. If the intersection has long amplitude interior and this implies and this for Nk sufficiently large, their intersection also has long amplitude interior. But this contradiction, the assumption that z, Nk and RNk belong to this space.
00:31:23.894 - 00:32:31.094, Speaker A: The second space is that their intersection consists of a single point, a point. But this will violate the condition. The first condition and we needed some, some lemmers. This Lemmers says if p is a kitab python for the experiment section angles satisfies c one, then the intersection for any point section is called by another disk. So we have a figure. This figure says if d alpha and d beta is a compliant radio remote disk component disk, then any points in the intersection is actually belong to the interior of another disk. And so this point is belong to this disk and this point belong to this disk.
00:32:31.094 - 00:33:17.418, Speaker A: So when they are tangent, their intersection consists only one point and this point is called by another disk. And finally, fortunately, we have the following name. This name says that if the intersection of two disk is called by a third one, we have the following relation. And we found that in our situation, the street inequality holds. And note that this, this condition, this, this relation control equals to our sump. Our assumption, the fourth. This contradicts the force.
00:33:17.418 - 00:34:08.556, Speaker A: The fourth condition, our fourth condition says that they must less than PI. But if they have intersection, we will deal this inquiry. And similarly we can show that the third situation is that the intersection, their intersection is a circle. And we will show that. We can show that. And this violates the third and fourth condition. So the last step is to check the irreducible property, and that's a subset of discs cannot cover the disk.
00:34:08.556 - 00:34:57.831, Speaker A: Actually we can. We have the following key observation. Suppose if IDG, where b versus of a triangle, then the intersection of these three discs is disjoint with all the other discs. So we choose our point of what is in v minus eight. Then there the intersection, we choose neighborhood of this point. And there has a point belong to any. It is beyond any, is located outside every disk except this one.
00:34:57.831 - 00:35:36.744, Speaker A: So this checks the evolution properly. And the last step is check the normalization condition. And this is easy. Okay, this, because of these steps, we proved, we prove our k lemur. And the remaining task is proof the locker theorem and is actually a result of such theorem and implicit function theorem. Okay, I'll stop here. Thanks for your attention.
00:35:36.744 - 00:35:45.264, Speaker A: Thank you. That was really interesting. Are there any questions?
00:35:48.644 - 00:36:05.214, Speaker B: Yes, I have a question. I was curious whether. Well, a couple questions. One is at some point you avoided tangency, but tangency can reemerge in the limit. Is that right?
00:36:06.154 - 00:36:08.254, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
00:36:09.514 - 00:36:40.074, Speaker B: And the other thing is, is there an algorithmic hint here about how to find these, these packings? Because you're sort of modifying the parameters continuously. And so, have you ever considered whether there's an algorithm to generate these packings by starting, for example, with tangency, and then increasing the overlap angles?
00:36:42.734 - 00:38:20.834, Speaker A: Okay, okay, so let's, so this property actually replies the question, that's why the DMT, why the pair of longer adjusting discs in dimple case, even in dimple case, they cannot insect each other. So when these discs are intersect at a point, and by this point, by this neighbor, the intersection consists at a point, this point must belong to a third risk. But if the intersection is covered by a third risk, then we have the foreign inequality. But this inequality violates our assumption. This assumption, note that the inquiry is inverse. If there exists that become tangent, then we have the inquiry that's minus PI, that is larger than PI, but over condition says they must less than PI. So.
00:38:20.834 - 00:40:23.276, Speaker A: And this is the motivation why we pose this condition. And for your second question, I am considering some algorithm, but I have, I have, I'm not familiar with the code. I'm not, well, I'm not good at programming, so I have never tried to produce the desired sub pattern. I think, I think your algorithm with where the coins may work and some other algorithm, and such as compliant rail rich flow, or any other algorithm may work, especially at this condition. In this condition, everything almost the same as the non optical anchor conditions. And in this condition, at this condition, in fact, in this condition, the, the monologue probability was hot. And we know the property number implies the logic, and it also implies the function introduced by coding is convex, is strictly convex.
00:40:23.276 - 00:40:30.004, Speaker A: So we can use the gradient distance of that function.
