00:00:00.280 - 00:00:26.022, Speaker A: Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of the Deli Grey refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 15 September 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So the 15 September means that it is the one year anniversary of the merge. It's already been one year. Crazy, right? I put out this tweet just before basically celebrating the one year anniversary with a few metrics here. So since the merge, we've burned almost 1,000,008th.
00:00:26.022 - 00:01:11.326, Speaker A: So about 980,000 ETH was burned and I think that the net issuance is like negative 300,000. That's, that's the kind of like supply of ETH going down because of the burn offsetting the issuance in and as well, in that same timeframe, 11.6 million ETH was staked, which equates to an additional 362,000 new validators coming online on the beacon chain. So obviously a lot of healthy stuff going on with Ethereum staking. And as I said here, you know, the markets have been bearish over the last year, but the Ethereum ecosystem has never been more bullish. And it's not just the staking ecosystem, of course, it's everything, L2s, all the general stuff that I talk about on the refuel from day to day. And yeah, I mean we really are kind of laying those foundations for the next bull market.
00:01:11.326 - 00:01:47.070, Speaker A: But I can't believe it's already been a year. Honestly, it feels like yesterday to be, to be honest, even though some people will say, oh, well, this year, you know, has felt so sluggish because the markets have been so, I guess, down and up and not really doing much. And crab, you know, the crab market that we talk about. And there's been like a slew of negative news from regulations to other things. And the only kind of light that people seem to latch onto is like the ETF stuff. But that's brought a crypto to me. Like when it comes to the Ethereum ecosystem, I mean, I've done an episode almost every weekday of this year, right, going over the technology side of the crypto ecosystem, obviously, specifically ethereum here.
00:01:47.070 - 00:02:05.014, Speaker A: And it's just been up only, really. And I mean, I've been doing this for years and it's been up only. So, yeah, personally I don't really feel the sluggishness. I always feel like there's things to get excited about, things to cover, you know, things to dive deep on. And I'm sure a lot of you feel the same way. And the daily grade discord channel is always popping off. So, yeah, I'm having a lot of fun, obviously.
00:02:05.014 - 00:02:31.622, Speaker A: But yeah, I can understand why some people, you know, may feel like it's, it's already been like a year, whereas I don't. I feel it feels like yesterday to me there. But yeah, I guess like you'll see a bunch of people posting stuff on Twitter today around this and things like that, so keep an eye out for that. But yeah, here's to another year of Ethereum on proof of stake. All right, so. And also, before I jump into. So I've got a mini rant lined up for today.
00:02:31.622 - 00:02:56.726, Speaker A: Before I jump into that, just wanted to give a quick shout that the holiski, or, you know, I keep pronouncing it different ways. I remember saying this, that I would, I would keep pronouncing it different ways. I say whole sky, then I say Holski and then I say Holeshki. There's different pronunciations here. So if you hear me saying any of those three, I'm referencing the same thing. But that, that public test net is going live in what, 2 hours from when I'm recording this. So it'll probably be live by the time the episode goes out.
00:02:56.726 - 00:03:18.606, Speaker A: And you can actually monitor this at this link here. I mean, it's probably going to be irrelevant by the time, by the time the episode goes out, but yeah, that, that public test net is going live today with 1.5 million validators. So the biggest Ethereum public test net in history. In Ethereum's history. And then girly. It's replacing girly, but Girly will be kind of phased out towards the end of the year, I believe so, yeah.
00:03:18.606 - 00:03:44.270, Speaker A: Still got a few months left there of, of girly, but yeah, whole sky, whole ski, whole eshki should already be live by the time you guys are watching this episode or near watching or near live watching this episode. All right, so actually I. Where's my rant? I think it's here. Yeah. Okay. My Randy's here. So I'm going to move, move the rant over here because I think it's important for me to get this out of my system before we move on to do some other things.
00:03:44.270 - 00:04:34.978, Speaker A: And this is going to be a very ETH kind of like core dev heavy episode today. I think I've actually only got like one or two other things that are not core dev related. But yeah, the reason why I say there's going to be a bit of a rant today is because we had the latest all core devs call that I mentioned yesterday that that happens, and that EIP that I was talking about around the churn limits. So EIP, I believe it's 7514, got approved for Deng kun, and so did another EIP 7516, which is adding a blob base fee opcode here, which is a purely technical change. There's nothing controversial about that in my mind, and it is definitely needed, as kind of like a sister AIP to erp 48 44. But what I'm really concerned about is EIP 7514. Now, this is going to be a bit ranty, but I'm going to give a bit of technical background here before I start my rant.
00:04:34.978 - 00:05:33.162, Speaker A: So what exactly is ERP 7514? Well, it was an EIP that was proposed not too long ago, I think maybe a couple months ago, maybe not even that, right? It's very, very fresh as an EIP, and it proposed to add a max epoch activation churn limit. So right now, you know, when validators are entering the ethereum beacon chain, twelve validators can enter per epoch. So there was debate around basically pausing this at twelve as part of a previous EIP, or reducing it, sorry, pausing it at twelve and also pausing the exit queue as well. But then this new EIP replace that old one, and it only affects the entry queue, it does not affect the exit queue. So what happened was basically that erp 70 514 got approved and the churn limit is going to be set to eight. So essentially we're actually reducing the current churn limit from twelve to eight. Now, the reason why this was done is actually technically sound.
00:05:33.162 - 00:06:10.340, Speaker A: I actually do think that this EIP is necessary generally, but my main issue with this AIP is how fast that happened and how it has definite negative consequences in my eyes that haven't been discussed enough. And I don't think the community had enough input on this before it was approved. I feel like it was rushed in, honestly. And I kind of like try to keep up as much as I can with the core dev stuff and try to not get involved too much if I don't feel there's a reason to get involved with anything or not try to kind of like spread. It's not fud, but like spread kind of dissent against decisions that are made. But this is something that I feel really strongly about. So yeah, this EIP, as I said, is it's part of the Den Koon upgrade.
00:06:10.340 - 00:06:57.030, Speaker A: Now the churn limit is going to eight. And as I said, I do believe that it is a technically sound AIP it actually is, is needed. I just wish that it was given more time to have more research done on it, and it was given more time to have more community input. And I said before, I think I say for the last few weeks that I wanted this to actually be pushed out to Electra, which is the next Ethereum upgrade, rather than going live in Den Kun. Now, there was a pretty good post from Dankrad out today that actually explained why the core devs and researchers decided to do this change and why they think it's necessary. So I highly suggest you go and read that. But the TLDR of why they think it's necessary is basically that they're kind of concerned that the I guess like validator set is going to grow too quickly and cause instability on the Ethereum chain.
00:06:57.030 - 00:07:47.964, Speaker A: Because there has been a kind of like a thought process to limit the amount of validators on the Ethereum chain for a long time now. I mean, I've talked about this on the refuel. There was that for, I think it's been at least two years since this research started. I'm basically limiting the validator set to 30 million validators and then just doing a round robin of selecting validators so people could still stake. But you would do a round robin on the validator set there. And then there are other kind of proposals to reduce the validators, like increasing the map max effective balance so people would consolidate their validators and a few other things hanging off of that there. But because none of that stuff is ready right now, and because the core devs and researchers are worried about the current growth rate of the validator set, it was proposed that we put in this kind of band aid EiP into den Koon in order to alleviate those concerns and give the core devs and researchers more time to decide on the actual fixes.
00:07:47.964 - 00:08:12.926, Speaker A: Right. And as I said, I am totally fine with that. But my issues begin at how fast this was allowed to basically be approved. So I'm gonna cap off. Not cap off, I'm gonna start off this with the issues themselves. So they're them dropping the churn, limit them. I mean, this AIP dropping the churn from twelve to eight is, in my view, a hit to Ethereum's credible neutrality.
00:08:12.926 - 00:08:56.158, Speaker A: It's a small hit. It's like it's not gonna kill Ethereum or anything. It's not gonna, it's not a huge hit, but it's a small hit. And I'll explain why there is a social contract around the chain at any given time. And that social contract is enforced via protocol rules and via expectations out, not just a few weeks out, not just a few months out, but potentially years out on how those rules will change. Now, because this EIP was allowed into the network, or allowed to be scheduled for a network upgrade within a matter of a few weeks, what ends up happening is that the social contract is not given enough time to adjust to that and to get community feedback on that. And it basically gets broken because the existing social contract is not, uh, uh, is not changed, is changed too quickly in, in my view.
00:08:56.158 - 00:09:54.600, Speaker A: Obviously this is all my opinion here. Other people are going to disagree with me on this, but that breaks it in my view, because now essentially what you've done is by reducing it from twelve to eight, the expectation of what the churn limit was going to be has, has gone away. So it's not just a cap on the churn limit at twelve, it's actually actively reducing it to eight, which breaks that uh, that, that social contract to me. And it also, as I said, has a, has a bit of a hit to Ethereum's credible neutrality here. But on top of that as well, this is effectively a monetary policy change in my eyes, a very, very small one. But it is effectively a monetary policy change because now only eight validators per epoch can go in, whereas before, well I guess like post then kun, only eight validators per epoch can go in, whereas currently it is twelve, which means that the validators that come in will be, be slower than it otherwise would have been with the current rule set right. And that means that the, I guess like issuance goes down essentially doesn't, I mean it doesn't go down, but it doesn't, sorry, it doesn't go down.
00:09:54.600 - 00:10:30.482, Speaker A: It increases at a rate that is less than it would have been without this update there. Now, honestly, this is not a huge deal to me. I don't think it's kind of like a big monetary policy change. And honestly it still fits in with Ethereum stated monetary policy of minimum necessary or minimum viable issuance, where essentially we only issue enough ETH that is minimally viable to secure the network. And really in this sense we still are kind of like sticking by that. So I think that's fine. And then the third issue I had with this and that the one that I brought up was that it was rushed through in a matter of weeks.
00:10:30.482 - 00:11:11.340, Speaker A: I don't like how that was done. I don't think there was enough community input on this at all. I feel like that it was definitely a rush through. And then fourth, I actually don't consider this to be a critical thing to get into the network in dengun. I actually believe it could have been pushed out to a lecture because, and this goes back to what I was saying at the beginning, where the justifications given for doing this EIP to begin with was because there was concerns around the validator set growing too quickly. Now, what are these concerns based on? Well, of course, they're based on the fact that we've added a lot of validators recently. Right? Post withdrawals, the validator entry queue went up to like 90,000, stayed there for a bit, but since then it has been trending down.
00:11:11.340 - 00:11:47.020, Speaker A: Now, I believe this, this entire EIP is basically just based on that, really at the heart of it. It's based on that kind of relatively short period of time that we've had where the deposit queue was so large and so full. And the only reason in my mind about why that happened was because we had withdrawals, right? We had withdrawals in April. That was a massive de risking event for the beacon chain and for ethereum. And more people wanted to stake. But not only that, people were reshuffling their stakeholders. Kraken had to force withdraw all of their, all their, all of their retail customer stake.
00:11:47.020 - 00:12:18.384, Speaker A: And you know, there was probably a significant portion of those retail customers that just went and staked with someone else. So they re entered the queue, right? They came back into the entry queue. So there was a reshuffling going on there. That in my mind is, at that scale is a one time thing, right? Enabled by withdrawals. And the, the influx that we saw is also in my mind a one time thing, because I can't think of any other event that would lead to that. I don't even think a bull market would lead to that kind of demand all at once for kind of like ETH staking. Maybe you could argue some kind of like staked ETH.
00:12:18.384 - 00:12:50.134, Speaker A: ETF might do that. But that is so far away in my eyes, I don't even think it's worth worrying about. Because what the core devs are worried about is the more medium term future, the more six to twelve month future. And if you look at it from that perspective, I really don't think that we would add enough validators by the time Electra came out. Even if electric came out on like July of next year, I really don't think that, that we would add enough validators where it would cause the network to become unstable. So that's, that's my view of things. Maybe I'm wrong here, but Dan Crad and the reason why I say that I think this was the.
00:12:50.134 - 00:13:27.854, Speaker A: The impotence for this AIP was that Dan Crad actually put a little sentence here in his post where he said, if the deposit queue remains full, we're looking at 50% of all ETH stakes by May 2024, escalating to 75% by September 2024, and potentially 100% by December 2024. This is based on nothing. In my eyes, this is literally, honestly, this. This entire sentence, I read it and I was like, wow, this is just shocking to me. This is, as I said, this is. This sentence is based on the assumption that the deposit queue is going to act like it has over the. Over the last few months, since withdrawals was enabled.
00:13:27.854 - 00:13:59.590, Speaker A: In my mind, this is not even. Not even based in reality, because there's no way that the deposit queue is going to remain full until May 2024. Here, when it's been coming down over the last few months, it went down from 90,000. Now it's at 35,000. We're literally kind of churning out, or churning in all those validators already. And within two weeks, I think the queue is going to be zero, unless we get, like, a massive influx again, which, as I said, I don't expect to happen. So giving these numbers here, in my mind, is not a justification for anything.
00:13:59.590 - 00:14:45.338, Speaker A: This is just assumptions, and these are shaky assumptions at that. So if these are the assumptions that the core devs and researchers were working off in order to rush this AIP through, I don't think that that is a good way of going about it. And that really is at the heart of, I guess, like, the whole issue for me is that I believe that this ERP was rushed through based on shaky assumptions, based on not enough research and not enough, I guess, like, community inputs. And I understand why it was done because obviously, the core devs and researchers know the protocol better than I do, and they know what will happen if that amount of ETH was to get staked and the network can't handle it. You know, obviously we want to prevent the network from becoming unstable. As I said, I'm all for the EIP on a technical level. I just don't think that there was enough research and community input and everything done around this EIP.
00:14:45.338 - 00:15:31.006, Speaker A: It didn't go through the ringer, so to speak. It didn't go through the normal, in my mind, governance process for such a big change, because it might seem like this is a small change on the surface. But as I explained to you, there are big consequences here of this change. And on top of all of this, the last point that I'll bring up, because as I said, this is going to be ranting, and I've ranted for a while here, the last thing I'll bring up is that by limiting the churn, you actually now play favorites with large staking providers. They're already at an advantage because they can socialize the, I guess, like quote unquote opportunity cost of the entry queue, but the smaller players can't. So essentially, if Lido is stuck in the entry queue for two weeks, they're just socializing that across all of their validator set. If a solo staker is stuck in, in the entry queue for two weeks, they have to wait two weeks.
00:15:31.006 - 00:16:07.436, Speaker A: They're earning nothing, basically. Right. So you're now favoring the bigger pools and you're actually making staking centralization worse with this AIP. And I don't think that that was thought about at all because I believe if it kind of was, then this AIP probably wouldn't have got in again. This goes all the way back to what I was saying at the start about the fact that my main issue with this AIP was that it was rushed in. I don't think there was enough research done on this, and I don't think it's as critical as the core devs and researchers think it is. Anyway, end rant there because I don't want to spend this whole episode ranting, but I feel very strongly about this and I feel like everything that I have said or most things that I have said have not been considered.
00:16:07.436 - 00:16:47.356, Speaker A: I don't know if my rant is going to reach the core devs and researchers and they're going to rethink their decision here about including 70 514 in dengun. Honestly, if you had a gun to my head and I was forced to include it or not include it, I would probably include it, even though I just ranted about the fact that I thought that it, I didn't like how it was included because I understand that when it comes to the protocol, we need to err on the side of caution. We need, and we need to be as conservative as possible. And this is exactly what it is. They're just being super conservative here. But my main issue is that it was just rushed through too quickly. I feel like it could have been pushed out to electra and still been fine.
00:16:47.356 - 00:17:11.292, Speaker A: But if the core devs and ridges want to play it as safe as possible, then. Yeah. Okay. It makes sense to put it into Den kun. It is a really simple change, right? It's not going to delay the timeline on of Deng kun, which I hope that we get in, in, you know, November now, I think we, I mean, I haven't seen anything that we wouldn't get in November. Maybe it gets pushed out to December for some reason, but I don't think that's going to delay anything. But yeah, that's, that's my rant on, on that one there.
00:17:11.292 - 00:17:32.762, Speaker A: But as I said, please go read Dankrad's post. It's actually full of a bunch of great information. Besides that sentence that I pointed out that I didn't like, the rest of the information's great. It's not too long of a read and it gives kind of the justification around why this change was made and why it was done kind of last minute here. I mean, the big reason is that none of the other solutions are ready. Guys. Like the max effective balance increase is not ready.
00:17:32.762 - 00:18:03.108, Speaker A: It's still in research phase. The validator cap thing, it might not even happen. Because if we just, if we increase the max effective balance of, of all the validators, you don't need the cap. Because it's logically follows that a lot of the, a lot of the stake will just consolidate. Uh, sorry. A lot of the validators will consolidate and all that, that stake will consolidate into a, into a much less, uh, uh, set of validators, rather than the reality that we kind of live in today, where there's lots of validators. Um, which is, you know, if it was to double from here, it would potentially cause the beacon chain to become unstable.
00:18:03.108 - 00:18:22.652, Speaker A: And this goes back to actually, to the whole sky testnet. The whole reason why they're launching the whole sky testnet is to actually test these assumptions as well. So a lot of the research is being done around this already. But as I said, I don't think that the EIP had enough time to bake. I feel like it got, you know, ripped out of the oven. It's like some half baked kind of potatoes. Tastes gross.
00:18:22.652 - 00:18:48.820, Speaker A: Um, that may be a loose analogy, but that's how I feel about that there. But anyway, we'll link all the relevant stuff in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right? And the other EIP, actually, that I mentioned was 7516, which is the blob base fee opcode EIP. You can go read about this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this is basically, as I said, a sister EIp to EIP 4844. It helps it on a technical level, if I'm understanding it correctly.
00:18:48.820 - 00:19:54.586, Speaker A: These are the kind of two main points here that this EIP allows roll up contracts to trustlessly account for blob data usage costs costs, and blob gas futures can be implemented based on it, which allows for blob users to smooth out data blob costs. So it's basically in the spirit of ERP 1559, I guess, of making it more predict, making gas costs more predictable for blob users, and making it so that they can smooth out their data blob costs as well. All right, so in some more positive core dev news here, Raul from the pry labs team put out a tweet where he said, I just verified a message signed by ethereum validator BLS key on arbitrum stylus and deployed it to testnet. And he says here, why is this a big deal? Underneath the hood, the signature verification is written in rust, and the math is too expensive for it to be done in the AVM. So this opens up a ton of use cases around Ethereum l one and rollups, and we're just getting started. So very cool. Little update here to arbitrary on the arbitram side of things, using arbitram stylus, which, as you guys know, is a new development framework that's based on WASM, that uses languages other than solidity and is like a sister kind of framework next to the EVM in the arbitrary world here.
00:19:54.586 - 00:20:19.534, Speaker A: So you can actually check out how to do this yourself. There's a GitHub repository here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below, but you can go check that out and play around with it yourself. All right, moving on to an update from Nethermind now. So they've said here the Nethermind client now has a draft implementation of the op stack execution specs. We're stabilizing it as we speak. The implementation is done as a plugin. Our clients architecture and plugin system allow easy customizations without compromising stability and performance.
00:20:19.534 - 00:20:58.562, Speaker A: So you guys know that optimism and basically a lot of the l two s trying to do client diversity of their clients that you run and the nodes that you run on their respective networks. And Nethermind has their hat in the ring for optimism here on the execution side of things, obviously, because nevermind builds an execution client for Ethereum l one. But I love this. I really love that we're getting client diversity on l two s because it's all well and good to extend Ethereum's block space, so to speak, with these l two s. And for these l two s to be decentralized and secure in their own ways. But really, at the heart of, I think a lot of the Ethereum ecosystem is diversity. And client diversity is critically important to Ethereum l one.
00:20:58.562 - 00:21:42.942, Speaker A: And I believe that it is critically important to anything that is essentially, when you really boil it down, um, anything that is a blockchain, because, for example, the same thing can happen at l two that can happen l one around liveness, where essentially one of the clients could have a bug in it and it goes offline. Well, you want there to be able to be other clients that can stay online or be online in order to, to prevent against the network potentially going, uh, going down or anything like that. And it's not just the full node, it's also things like sequences and stuff like that. And it's also the fact that you want to distribute out the developer kind of load, so to speak. So it's not just op labs developing all the kind of optimism software here. It's also various teams around the world doing it. And they're doing this with the op stack overall as well.
00:21:42.942 - 00:22:23.604, Speaker A: And the other l two teams are doing this too, where they're basically pushing stuff out and encouraging different teams around the world to develop these things and also giving grants for them too. You know, the grants are usually done in the native token as well, so it kind of aligns incentives. So there's a lot of stuff going on here, a lot of positive stuff going on here on the l two front that I think we're going to keep seeing. And I really do think that the winning l two s, the, at least the generalized ones, are going to look a lot like Ethereum l one in its, you know, architecture wise, development philosophy wise, you know, distribution wise, all those sorts of things. I think it's just going to look like a theorem l one. That's what we want. Because a theorem l one is the gold standard in my eyes of how to build a truly decentralized, secure blockchain.
00:22:23.604 - 00:23:02.936, Speaker A: Now, obviously, Ethereum l one is not scalable, but it's not trying to be. Whereas the l two s coming with their superpower, which is being scalable. They're never going to be as decentralized or secure as Ethereum l one itself. Right? Because I mean, there's, and there's debates around this, obviously, because if you have a full blown roll up, you basically inherit all of Ethereum l one's security. But the kicker here is that you inherit all of Ethereum l one, security at ethereum l one. So let me explain, let me break it down, because this is something that I don't think is talked about enough. So essentially, your users, if the l two goes offline, the users of that l two can always get their funds back on l one.
00:23:02.936 - 00:23:47.572, Speaker A: Now, going back to l one doesn't give you scalability anymore, right? If the l two is completely offline and you have to do transactions on l one to get your funds back, you've now sacrificed the whole kind of purpose of the l two, right, which was to give you more scale. So that's why I'm saying that the l two will never be as decentralized and secure as ethereum l one because, because it won't be able to offer you the scale once the l two goes offline. It can still offer you the decentralization and security of ETH l one. But of itself, it is not as decentralized and secure as ethereum l one. Hopefully that kind of explains it there. And my way of thinking, which is, I guess, just how they're designed and how it all works, which is fine, but at the end of the day, ethereum l one is the gold standard. And in my mind, it always will be.
00:23:47.572 - 00:24:15.114, Speaker A: It will be the global, kind of like most secure global settlement layer that we have, as decentralized as we can get it, as stable and reliable as we can get it. And I think that that's going to continue for the foreseeable future. I really don't see any kind of like close second, to be honest. I mean, for lack of a better term or a better meme, there is no second best, as Saylor says about bitcoin, but boy is he wrong about that. There is a, there is a second best, and it's bitcoin to Ethereum. Anyway. No, no, I'm not going to, I'm not going to rant about that.
00:24:15.114 - 00:24:49.594, Speaker A: But yeah, that's, that's kind of like my take on that one there. Right. Moving on to just some quick news here that the block published. So SSV Network, which is a network that's being built with DVT, have launched their decentralized staking main net with a bunch of partner apps here. So you can see here in the block, on the block kind of article, SSV has launched with stata anchor Stakestar and a bunch of other staking pools here. I'm not gonna, not gonna, not gonna go through them all there. And SSB's mainnet deployment occurred in multiple phases, starting with a limited launch last month, which I believe I covered.
00:24:49.594 - 00:25:27.202, Speaker A: And this current stage permits the public to stake in the SSV via the launch partner apps. And you can see here what I guess like the SSV network is. It's a staking mechanism by connecting users to a network of operators responsible for jointly managing Ethereum validator nodes in a trust minimized fashion, and using DVT technology as well to achieve that there. So yeah, you can go check out the article for more details on that one there. But yeah, I've got another few minutes here actually, on today's episode, but I wanted to quickly talk about something else. And this is not market talk. I usually do market talk when I have stuff left to talk about.
00:25:27.202 - 00:26:13.116, Speaker A: But no, this is not market talk. This is talk about, I guess, like the general future of Ethereum from like a really high level perspective. I think that my rant before about this EIP being rushed in and about how I didn't like that, and about how, um, I think that, you know, there wasn't enough research or community input done here. This is what, this goes back to what I was saying where like the Ethereum roadmap is very technical, like pretty much everything on there isn't going to be controversial. And really even things that are controversial, like, like what I was ranting about before, technically a fine, it's more the implementation details of it, it's more the kind of like how it makes it way, how it makes its way into the network way of it. Because not every technical upgrade is actually a positive thing. Even though I believe that AIP is not, everything will be.
00:26:13.116 - 00:27:29.874, Speaker A: And I sometimes worry, and I feel like this is not, it's not a huge worry of mine, but this is like the worst case scenario of, you know, potentially one day, far into the future, Ethereum governance somehow gets captured in some way without us knowing it has been captured. And this is always the worry of any blockchain network that's trying to be decentralized, right, where it gets captured in a way that it doesn't know that it's captured, where essentially, whether it be special interests or people trying to do things with good intentions leading to bad outcomes, it just captures it in a way, and it becomes something different to what it once was. And it basically means that the network kind of stalls out. I actually think this is what happened to bitcoin, to be honest, in a lot of ways, where essentially the governance was, I don't know if captured is the right word, but it was like dictated by a relatively, you know, very, I guess, like aggressive group of people. For bitcoin to become one thing, when a lot of people wanted it to be another thing, and obviously bitcoin is now what it is, and the people who wanted it to become another thing forked off in the form of bitcoin, cash and other offshoots. Ethereum is not a fork of bitcoin, but the social aspect is, because Vitalik wanted to build Ethereum, essentially on bitcoin, but he couldn't because that's not what the bitcoin, I guess, like community wanted at the time. So he went and built Ethereum.
00:27:29.874 - 00:28:07.852, Speaker A: And Ethereum has obviously been on its own path ever since then. But I worry far into the future that if we don't kind of like ossify the base layer and we don't kind of like, and Ethereum keeps growing, it just becomes a question of when, not if, there are special interests. There are kind of like people putting things into the network that they're doing. So with good intentions maybe, but it just leads to bad, bad outcomes. Now, I'm not seeing any of that right now, and I don't think the churn limit AIP is that at all, to be honest, I think that that was done with good intentions. I just wish there was more time for it. But it's okay, we're okay for now.
00:28:07.852 - 00:28:41.946, Speaker A: I think that hopefully my rant from before reaches some core devs and researchers, see what they say. I'm happy for them to completely disagree with me. I mean, they know the network better than I do, they know the protocol better than I do. I mean, they build the software, so who am I to basically tell them, you know, what's from what's what from what? But yeah, as I said, my tail doctor of the ramp before was basically that I just, just robbed me the wrong, rubbed me the wrong way. How fast the EIP got in. Considering that, I don't think it's critical. If it was actually critical, if, if it was a matter of, if the EIP didn't go in and then a month's time the Ethereum network would fall over, I'd be all for it.
00:28:41.946 - 00:29:14.186, Speaker A: But I feel like they're playing extremely conservative with it, which has led to some of the negative externalities I'm talking about. And this is exactly what I'm talking about when I say that there are good intentions here, which could potentially lead to perverse outcomes. And I, and I labeled them before in my, in my kind of rant there but anyway, I'm going to end today's episode there, uh, for today, and it is kind of the weekend, so. Yeah, I guess, like, thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and yeah, as I said, it is the weekend tomorrow, so I guess I'll catch you all on Monday.
00:29:14.186 - 00:29:15.794, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone. Bye.
