00:00:00.330 - 00:00:53.890, Speaker A: So what is Ave all about? How is it able to go from zero to $3 billion in total value locked in less than a year? And what's the use case for the Ave Token? You'll find answers to these questions in this video. Before we begin, if you want to learn more about decentralized finance and the technology behind it, make sure you subscribe to my channel, hit the Bell icon, and enable all notification missions. You can also consider joining us on Patreon and learning even more about DFI. Let's start from the beginning. The initial version of Ave, which is currently one of the most popular lending protocols in decentralized finance, came into existence in 2017, before the rebranding that happened later in September 2018. The project was known as ETH Land. ETH land was started in Finland by Stani Kulichev.
00:00:53.890 - 00:02:10.322, Speaker A: Stani, a law degree graduate, discovered Ethereum, realized the power of smart contracts, and decided to build a peer to peer lending protocol. Finland was clearly not a usual location for a new tech company, with the majority of other crypto firms launching in venture capital rich places such as Silicon Valley, New York, London, Hong Kong, or Singapore. This also shows one of the most interesting properties of decentralized finance. In contrast to traditional finance, where a new fintech startup requires a lot of capital and staff just to comply with all the banking regulations, a new DeFi project can be launched by even a single person with not a lot of upfront capital needed. The first version of Ethland was deployed to the Ethereum mainnet in early 2017 and started attracting interest in the Ethereum community. Stani saw the potential of decentralized lending and decided to raise money via an initial coin offering at the end of 2017 to fund further development of Ethland. As we mentioned earlier, funding a project outside of a typical venture capital location can be quite challenging.
00:02:10.322 - 00:02:55.438, Speaker A: However, the ICO model allows everyone in the world to participate. Eastland was able to raise $16.2 million, which was quite moderate considering the craziness of the 2017 ICO mania. The ICO allowed for hiring more developers who were able to focus on making improvements to the protocol throughout 2018. This was all despite the native Ethland Token Land losing most of its value in the postico era. The Ethland team soon realized that the PeerToPeer lending model of the protocol was becoming more and more problematic. In the peert to peer model, users interact with other users via smart contracts.
00:02:55.438 - 00:03:50.690, Speaker A: This can be quite inefficient, especially if there is no one on the other side who wants to interact with us. A lot of other projects, such as Uniswap or Compound that came into existence at the end of 2018, started leveraging another model peertocontract. The peertocract model is based on a contract with pooled funds that can be instantly used by the users of the protocol. This eliminates the wait time necessary to find a counterparty and makes the whole process of interacting with a decentralized protocol smoother. This was also the time when the team behind Ethland decided to change their model from PeerToPeer to peer to contract and rebrand from Ethland to Ave. The name Ave comes from Finnish, where it means a ghost. This is also why we can now see a friendly ghost in the Ave's logo.
00:03:50.690 - 00:04:28.286, Speaker A: When it comes to the protocol itself. Ave users can become depositors or borrowers. Depositors provide funds to borrowers in return for interest on their deposit. Borrowers are willing to pay interest on the amount they borrowed in exchange for having a lump sum of money available immediately. Users can, for example, supply a stablecoin such as Dai and start generating interest according to the Dai supply interest rate. This is determined by the ratio between supplied and borrowed Dai. The supplied Dai can then be used by borrowers.
00:04:28.286 - 00:05:21.118, Speaker A: Borrowers have to supply collateral, for example ETH, to be able to borrow other tokens. All the standard loans in Ave are over collateralized, which means that the value of supplied collateral is higher than the amount that can be borrowed. This protects the protocol from being undercollateralized and not being able to repay depositors. In this model, depositors basically provide liquidity to the protocol. This is also why Ave is very often described as a decentralized liquidity market protocol. On top of variable interest rates, ave also offers stable borrow rates, which is a distinctive feature not present in other popular lending DeFi protocols such as compound. In Ave, depositors who provide funds to a smart contract receive a tokens.
00:05:21.118 - 00:06:20.230, Speaker A: The value of a tokens is pegged to the value of the underlying token at a one to one ratio. What is interesting is that the balance of a tokens represents their deposited amount plus the accrued interest, and it keeps increasing according to the current borrow interest rate of the protocol. Also, a tokens are just ERC 20 tokens. This means you can basically send them to someone else and the balance of their a tokens will keep increasing in their wallet automatically, which is pretty cool. If you want to learn more about how exactly lending works in DeFi and why is it even needed in the first place, check out our other video that covers this topic in depth. Another important concept popularized by Ave is flash loans. A flash loan is a feature that allows you to borrow any available amount of assets from a designated smart contract pool with no upfront collateral needed.
00:06:20.230 - 00:07:26.966, Speaker A: The caveat is that a flash loan has to be borrowed and repaid within the same blockchain transaction. These contracts are useful building blocks in DeFi, as they can be used for things like arbitrage swapping, collateral and self liquidation. Fortunately enough, we also made a separate video that explains the mechanics of flash loans and you can check it out here. After a couple of years of work, Ava launched on the Ethereum Main net at the beginning of 2020 and started building users interest and its total value locked in the protocol. This quickly escalated in May 2020, when a period of DFI super growth, also called DFI Summer, started. Before DFI Summer, the total value locked in Ave, which is one of the key metrics when it comes to a lending protocol, was at around $40 million. With launches of unify protocols and new yield farming opportunities, ave's TVL started rising dramatically $60 million in June, $400 million in July.
00:07:26.966 - 00:07:53.154, Speaker A: August was close with a whopping $1.5 billion in TVL. This number remained at $1.5 billion in September, despite the cooldown across the whole DFI space. Although October saw a drop back to around $1 billion at the end of November, we were once again at an alltime high. With $1.6 billion locked at the end of 2020.
00:07:53.154 - 00:08:34.602, Speaker A: Avstvl was touching $2 billion in 2021. A major surge in DeFi tokens pushed Ave's TVL to over $3 billion by mid January. This is basically a 50 x increase in TVL in around six months. Quite astonishing. Besides that, Ave hit another major milestone $1 billion in flash loans volume. Additionally, there were a few other important events that took place during DFI Summer. Ave raised $3 million from venture capital firms, Three Arrow Capital and Framework Ventures, who purchased Ave's native token land.
00:08:34.602 - 00:09:40.118, Speaker A: In July 2020, Ave was granted an electronic money license by the UK financial Contact Authority. This strategic move will make it possible for Ave to become a fiat gateway and easily onboard people to its own protocol. On top of this, also in July, Ave announced an upgrade to the tokenomics of the protocol, conveniently named Avenomics. But before we discuss that, if you made it this far and you enjoyed the video, hit the like button so this kind of content can reach a wider audience. Avenomics aimed at making Aven more decentralized by allowing token holders to participate in the governance of the protocol. Some of the most important elements of the upgrade were the migration from the lend token to a new token, Ave in a 100 to one ratio, new ecosystem incentives, and the safety module. The safety module allows for staking Ave tokens and acts as insurance against a potential shortfall event.
00:09:40.118 - 00:10:26.806, Speaker A: If an event like this occurs, up to 30% of the tokens staked in the safety module could be slashed and would provide a way to repay everyone affected. Although major shortfall events are unlikely, they can still happen. An example of such an event would be if a popular stablecoin loses its peg to the US. Dollar in exchange for staking their tokens. Users receive staking rewards in the form of additional Ave tokens. Currently, the rewards are at around 6% annually and are generated from the protocol fees. The token migration was initiated in October 2020 and went smoothly, with most of the lent holders exchanging their tokens in the first couple of weeks.
00:10:26.806 - 00:11:16.258, Speaker A: So far, we've seen seven Ave improvement proposals. Most of the proposals involve either adding a new asset as collateral or tweaking some of the risk parameters of the already existing tokens that can be used in the protocol. In the meantime, the Ava team was relentlessly working on delivering an upgraded version of the protocol. Ave V Two went live in December 2020 and brought a lot of new features and improvements, such as collateral swap. Users can swap their collateral from one token to the other. For example, they can swap their collateral from ETH to Dai if they believe that ETH may lose value in the future. Collateral swap is possible thanks to Flash loans, and it was explained in our video about Flash loans.
00:11:16.258 - 00:12:02.274, Speaker A: Batch Flash loans users can now flash borrow multiple assets at the same time, all of it within the same ethereum transaction. Debt tokenization. In V Two, borrowers receive tokens that represent their debt. This in turn enables another feature native credit delegation. This allows for opening up access to liquidity without providing collateral, a very useful feature that can be used, for example, to provide a credit line to an institution, a cryptocurrency exchange, or even other decentralized protocol under certain conditions. This feature in and of itself is probably worth creating another video. Let me know in the comments down below if you'd like to see it.
00:12:02.274 - 00:13:01.846, Speaker A: Besides all of that, V Two contracts are highly optimized, which results in lower gas fees. In some cases, a user can save up to 50% of the gas cost when comparing to V One. Ave is clearly one of the most important protocols in the decentralized finance space, and there is a big chance it will remain one of the main building blocks in DeFi for the foreseeable future. One of the strong aspects of Ave is its community, also known as Avengers, with a lot of members supporting the protocol pretty much from the time of their ICO. Due to Ethereum's popularity, interacting with Ave and other DeFi protocols can be quite expensive, especially when working with small amounts of money to solve this issue. Ave, similarly to other major DeFi protocols, is also exploring the possibility of launching on L2. This should make decentralized lending and borrowing even more accessible to everyone.
00:13:01.846 - 00:13:18.360, Speaker A: So what do you think about Ave? How big will it become in the future? Comment down below. And as always, if you enjoyed this video, smash the like button, subscribe to my channel and check out Phinematics on Patreon to join our DeFi community. Thanks for watching.
