00:00:00.250 - 00:01:10.420, Speaker A: So what is the long awaited Ethereum 20 all about? What is proof of stake, the beacon, chain sharding and docking? And what are the different phases of the rollouts? You'll find answers to these questions in this video. Before we begin, if you want to learn more about decentralized finance and the technology behind it, make sure you subscribe to my channel, hit the Bell icon and enable all new notifications. You can also consider supporting us on Patreon and joining our community of DFI enthusiasts. Let's start with an overview of what Ethereum 20 is and why it's even needed in the first place. Ethereum 20, aka E Two, is a set of interconnected upgrades to the Ethereum network that aims at making Ethereum more scalable, more secure, and more sustainable. These changes are worked on by multiple different teams in the Ethereum ecosystem, each team focusing on building a specific part of the whole upgrade. Now, let's quickly go through all of the main goals of E Two.
00:01:10.420 - 00:02:07.830, Speaker A: Scalability. The current Ethereum network supports around 15 transactions per second. This becomes a limiting factor when it comes to onboarding millions of new users and launching many more decentralized applications to make Ethereum more scalable. ETH Two aims at supporting thousands of transactions per second. One important caveat the increase in transactions per second should not come at a cost of increasing the size of the nodes in the network. Security of a decentralized network is always one of the top priorities. ETH Two aims at increasing the security of the network against all forms of attack, including a 51% attack where someone can force through fraudulent changes by controlling the majority of the network sustainability.
00:02:07.830 - 00:03:16.838, Speaker A: The wellknown proof of work based consensus model used by the current Ethereum network requires a lot of computing power and energy. ETH Two aims at making Ethereum better for the environment by replacing energy intensive proof of work with proof of stake. Initially, the set of changes needed to achieve these goals was called serenity, but now most people refer to it as Ethereum 20 or just ETH Two. What is interesting is that all of these goals were pretty much always in the Ethereum roadmap, and they had been discussed even before the network officially launched. Let's start with one of the biggest changes the consensus model shift from proof of work to proof of stake. The current Ethereum consensus model, proof of work is a wellknown and battle tested approach to building cryptocurrencies. In proof of work, miners invest their resources, mainly electricity, to validate transactions and secure the network.
00:03:16.838 - 00:04:22.826, Speaker A: This model requires massive amounts of energy to work properly and protect the network from 51% attacks. Proof of stake tries to address the power consumption concerns by getting rid of the miners completely instead of machines securing the network by investing their resources. The proof of stake consensus model relies on economic incentives. In proof of stake, users who want to secure the network stake their ETH and become validators. Each validator is incentivized to validate transactions by receiving similarly to miners in Proof of Work both the block reward and the transaction fees. To discourage validators from trying to game the system and validate fraudulent transactions, the Proof of Stake system implements a mechanism called Slashing where validators lose part of their staked ETH if they decide to act dishonestly. In order to pull off a successful 51% attack.
00:04:22.826 - 00:05:16.766, Speaker A: In a Proof of Stake system, the attacker would have to control 51% of the validators, which would require owning 51% of all staked ETH a massive amount of capital. In order to become one of the ETH Two validators, 32 ETH is required. It is also possible to stake with less than 32 ETH by using staking pools, for example, rocket pool. The returns for validators depend on the amount of staked ETH in the system. They can be as high as over 18% annually if there is less than 1 million ETH staked and as low as 1.81% or even lower if there is more than 100 million ETH in the system. Proof of stake addresses all three of the ETH two goals.
00:05:16.766 - 00:06:08.814, Speaker A: It makes ethereum more sustainable by removing energy intensive miners, it makes it more secure by making a 51% attack harder. And it makes it more scalable by unlocking sharding that would be much harder to achieve in a proof of work model, as it would most likely result in diluting the amount of computing power across multiple shards. This is actually a good segue into sharding. The concept of sharding is not specific to the E Two upgrade. It's actually a common process in computer science that allows for splitting a database into multiple instances, each containing a portion of the whole data set. Each instance would be known as a shard. When it comes to ETH Two, each shard is basically a separate new chain.
00:06:08.814 - 00:07:06.366, Speaker A: Initially, there will be 64 of them. This directly addresses Ethereum's scalability concerns, as shards will allow for spreading the network's load. On top of that, each ethereum node will only have to run one of their shards. This means storing only a small subset of data and making it easier to run a node without having powerful hardware. Making nodes easier to run should result in more network participants, which equals more decentralization and more security. Initially, sharding will just provide extra data. Sharded chains won't be able to handle transactions or smart contracts at this point, you're probably asking the question so how can sharding improve scalability without handling transactions or smart contracts? Improving scalability will be possible because of L2 scaling.
00:07:06.366 - 00:08:05.190, Speaker A: In particular, rollapps roll apps allow for bundling transactions off chain, generating a cryptographic proof and submitting it to the chain. This process only requires a data shard to be available to store the proof, which means it can be used with the initial version of sharding. You can learn more about L2 scaling and rollaps here. This is not the end. Although the mix of data sharding and rollapps should result in Ethereum being able to process over 100,000 transactions per second, there is also another improvement that can be made. There is a possibility to upgrade shards to make them fully executable in the same way as the current ethereum chain. It remains to be seen if this improvement will be needed or not, depending on how popular the data sharding and rollup solution becomes.
00:08:05.190 - 00:09:05.366, Speaker A: It's also important to mention that in the data sharding model, the current ethereum chain becomes one of the shards and this is the only shard that is able to handle transactions and smart contracts. The beacon chain is the next important concept to grasp to fully understand the ETH Two upgrade. But before that, if you made it this far and you enjoyed the video, hit the like button so this kind of content can reach a wider audience. The beacon chain is responsible for coordinating a proof of stake based system by randomly assigning stakers to validate different shards. Randomness is important as it prevents stakers from colluding and taking over a shard. The beacon chain basically creates a new proof of stake network that runs in parallel to the current ethereum chain. Launching it is one of the first things in the E Two roadmap.
00:09:05.366 - 00:10:01.150, Speaker A: Initially, validators will be adding new blocks to the beacon chain, but they won't be validating the current Ethereum Mainet transactions. This will be possible once the current chain becomes one of the E Two shards. This brings us to the last piece of the whole ETH Two puzzle docking. Docking is a process in which the current ethereum chain becomes one of the shards in the E Two proof of stake system. This process will also mark the end of proof of work ethereum that we know today and the full transition to the new proof of stake model. Docking will bring the ability to run smart contracts into the proof of stake system. On top of that, it will provide the full history and the current state of ethereum, allowing a smooth transition for all of the ETH holders and users.
00:10:01.150 - 00:10:49.126, Speaker A: Let's see how all the concepts that we just discussed fit into the E Two timeline. The whole development process is split into multiple phases. Phase Zero is the first phase of shipping ETH Two that focuses on launching the beacon chain. To achieve this, a threshold of 16,384 validators has to be reached. The required amount of validators was reached on the 24 November which allows Phase Zero to be launched on the earliest possible date, the 1 December 2020. The next phase. Phase One focuses on sharding or to be specific, data sharding that we described earlier.
00:10:49.126 - 00:11:49.658, Speaker A: Once phase one is established. Next up is Phase One Five that focuses on docking, making the current ethereum chain one of the shards in E Two. It looks like both Phase One and Phase One Five will be delivered as early as 2021 after Phase One Five is reached. There are two possible scenarios. Either the combination of data sharding and rollups will be enough and there is no need for further phases, or maybe there will still be a need for the full sharding solution, which would bring us to the final phase, Phase Two. This will remain to be seen after Phase One Five is successfully completed. It's also worth mentioning that even though the initial Phase Zero doesn't change much when it comes to the current Ethereum chain, it may still have some potentially significant economic implications.
00:11:49.658 - 00:12:55.300, Speaker A: This is because the ETH that is being sent to ETH Two Validators becomes locked and cannot be withdrawn until Phase One Five is complete, which means less circulating ETH in the current system. When it comes to DeFi, it looks like most activities will be concentrated on either the executable shard or one of the Layer Two rollup solutions, at least initially. This is because DFI takes huge advantage of smart contract composability and more complex transactions, so having different DFI protocols that cannot communicate with each other easily doesn't make much sense. So what do you think about ETH Two? Do you think it will eventually make other smart contract blockchains, aka the Ethereum Killers irrelevant? Comment down below. And as always, if you enjoyed this video, smash the like button, subscribe to my channel and check out Phinematics on Patreon to join our DeFi community. Thanks for watching.
