00:00:00.330 - 00:01:05.700, Speaker A: So what is a vampire attack, and how was SushiSwap able to use a vampire attack to attract over $1 billion of liquidity in less than a week? You'll find answers to these questions in this video. Before we start, if you're interested in decentralized finance, make sure you subscribe to this channel. Also, if you're new to DeFi, you may want to watch my other videos on liquidity pools and yield farming first, as they cover a lot of basic concepts mentioned in this video. I'll link them in the description box below. First of all, let's see how it all started. On the 28 August, in the midst of new D five projects popping up pretty much every day, a new project called SushiSwap launched. The project quickly gained more and more traction in the DFI community as it aimed at directly competing with uniswap by forking the project and siphoning out liquidity with a process later called a vampire attack.
00:01:05.700 - 00:02:34.190, Speaker A: The main goal of the project was to create a community governed automated market maker and fairly distribute its token, Sushi. The concept of a vampire attack, although quite simple, is quite ingenious in its nature, as it creates very strong incentives for liquidity providers to migrate their liquidity to a new platform. Let's see what a vampire attack is all about. The first step of a vampire attack is to incentivize liquidity providers of another platform to stake their LP tokens, which represent supplied liquidity, to a new platform. In Sushi's case, uniswap's liquidity providers were incentivized to stake their LP tokens on SushiSwap so they could receive extra rewards paid in the Sushi token. SushiSwap started with a quite aggressive emission schedule for the Sushi token 1000 sushi per ethereum block distributed to uniswap's liquidity providers across multiple different pools, such as SNX ETH Land ETH, YT ETH Link ETH. The idea of involving multiple strong DeFi communities had already been successfully used by Yam and was reused by SushiSwap.
00:02:34.190 - 00:03:43.118, Speaker A: Once enough liquidity has been attracted to a protocol, the next step of a vampire attack is to migrate staked LP tokens to a new platform. By doing this, a new platform can use the migrated liquidity for their own automated market maker, stealing not only the liquidity, but also trading volume and the users of the first platform. The liquidity is basically sacked out of the first platform and moved into the second platform, hence the name vampire attack. When it came to Sushi, this is where Sushi's MasterChef contract came into play. The MasterChef contract, once triggered, was able to migrate LP tokens from Uniswap to SushiSwap, basically stealing uniswap's liquidity. Once liquidity had been migrated, it could be instantly used for trading on SushiSwap. To encourage liquidity providers to participate in the migration, some extra incentives were planned.
00:03:43.118 - 00:04:38.242, Speaker A: First of all, the Sushi liquidity mining program would continue after the migration, but with a decreased emission 100 Sushi per block. On top of that, people who decided to stake their Sushi tokens instead of selling them, would be getting a chunk of trading fees from SushiSwap at the end of a successful vampire attack. A new protocol should, in theory, capture a significant amount of the original project's liquidity users and trading volume. This is basically how the vampire attack was planned. In practice, there were quite a few unforeseen events happening along the way. Let's see how the Sushi swap launch actually played out. SushiSwap, led by an anonymous creator, Chef Nomi, started attracting a lot of capital.
00:04:38.242 - 00:06:10.580, Speaker A: Straight after the launch, liquidity providers, attracted by high APYs of between 201,000%, started moving more and more of their uniswap's LP tokens into SushiSwap. A few hours after LP token staking was enabled, SushiSwap reached $150,000,000 in locked value. The initial problem of Chef Nomi having an admin key to the migration contract was quickly resolved by transferring his admin power to a timelock contract, adding a 48 hours delay to trigger any admin functions. Although Sushi swap contracts were launched unaudited, the project attracted several audits from a few notable security companies. Chef Nomi also decided to start governance of Sushi, where Sushi ETH LP tokens could be used for voting the yield. Farming craze continued on the 1 September, finance announced the listing of Sushi swap, and this resulted in the price of Sushi going as high as $15 a couple of days later, and we are talking about $1 billion in locked value. On top of that, a couple of security audits were completed with no critical or high severity issues found.
00:06:10.580 - 00:08:01.880, Speaker A: On the 4 September, 1 of the biggest holders of Sushi, sam bankman fright SPF, the CEO of FTX and Almeda Research, came out with a future proposal for migrating part of SushiSwap to a new trading platform serum built on the Solana blockchain. In the meantime, the community voted for an early migration from uniswap to SushiSwap to incentivize liquidity providers with high token distribution for a few extra days after the migration. The next big unexpected event came from Chef Nomi himself, who sold his entire Sushi steak, worth around $14 million for ETH on the 5 September. This was possible because although Sushi swap didn't have a pre mine or an initial team allocation, it had a dev fund where 10% of all the distributed tokens were allocated and which Chef Nomi had access to. After the initial attempt to justify his decision as something good for the project, the community lost trust in Chef Nomi, who later decided to leave the project. This led to yet another unexpected event where Chef Nomi basically transferred the control of the project to SBF, who decided to be a savior of Sushi and provide even more incentives to the liquidity providers to stay for the migration with an extra 1 million of Sushi tokens. On top of that, SBF initialized a transfer of the admin key to a multisig address.
00:08:01.880 - 00:08:59.610, Speaker A: The migration of liquidity to the Sushi swap platform was carried out by SBF on the 9 September from the peak of $1.2 billion of locked value, around $840,000,000 was left for the migration. Everything went smoothly with all the remaining liquidity moved to Sushi swap, allowing trading of the tokens supported by the migration. Because of the early migration, there were still a few more days left with a high emission schedule of 1000 sushi per block. This will later drop to 100 per block or even 50 per block if voted in by the community. It remains to be seen if the liquidity stays on Sushi swap after the high reward period is over. Was that the end of unexpected events? Not really.
00:08:59.610 - 00:09:59.060, Speaker A: Time for yet another plot twist. On the 11 August 2 days after the migration, Chef Nomi came back, returning $14 million worth of eat to the death fund and apologizing to the community. SushiSwap is clearly one of the most polarizing projects in the DeFi space. I believe that experiments like this are much needed in our nascent industry and they will strengthen the whole ecosystem and make it more resilient in the future. So what is your opinion on SushiSwap? Do you think it will keep some of the liquidity after the high reward period is over, becoming one of the standard AMMS in the space? Comment down below. Also, if you enjoyed this video, hit the like button, subscribe to my channel and check out Phinematics on Patreon to join our private community of DeFi scholars. Thanks for watching.
