00:00:02.170 - 00:01:05.690, Speaker A: And today I'm here to talk about building on and off ramps into DeFi by using some of Circo's products, particularly Circo APIs. So let me share my screen and we can get started. I assume you guys can see my screen. If not, shout on the so for those of you who haven't heard about Circle, I'll do a very brief intro. Circo has been around in crypto and blockchain for about seven years now, and today our focus is providing payments and treasury services for businesses. And obviously the way that we approach payments and treasury services for businesses is obviously by harnessing the power of crypto and blockchain. In particular by harnessing the power of crypto assets such as stablecoins running on public blockchains.
00:01:05.690 - 00:02:45.014, Speaker A: I'll talk about USSC in a second. But one of the key things that we do for our business customers is kind of bridging these two worlds that are so important still today in finance, which is the world that's powered by blockchain technology with all the benefits that it has, including the innovations that are coming from the decentralized finance segment, but connecting that to the traditional banking and payment systems to make sure that businesses can operate in this hybrid world that will probably be required for a number of years until, hopefully, we see technologies based on blockchain kind of being introduced in more and more use cases that are mainstream when it comes to processing payments. When it comes to Treasury's cases that every business in the world has, you probably still has this strong need to balance out the connectivity between the legacy or traditional financial system with the new world of blockchain. And that's one area that we are proud to execute on, and we bring a lot of value to businesses in that environment. As I said, we'll touch a little bit on USCC. USCC is kind of a very important part of our technology stack that we use internally at Circle, and we build our products and services on top of that. USCC is today the leading fully reserved and regulated digital dollar stablecoin.
00:02:45.014 - 00:03:51.506, Speaker A: It's something that we launched back in 2018. USCC is actually a standard that is governed by a consortium called center, where both Circo and Coinbase are part of, and Circo is the main issuer of USCC. I think most of you understand the benefits of a digital dollar asset like USCC today. Ideally, the concept is to bring the benefit of the dollar as a currency, but to join that with the speed that we have when we transact in digital assets over the Internet, over public blockchains, with the cost of transacting as well, and particularly with the openness and composability that comes with assets that operate in that environment. I think we are super proud of having seen the adoption of USCC, particularly in decentralized finance, in a completely open and permissionless way. Nobody has ever asked us for permission to use USC in all of these protocols. And that's exactly the way that it should be.
00:03:51.506 - 00:04:50.446, Speaker A: Today, there's about 23 billion USSC in circulation on the ethereum blockchain. The way that it works, a lot of people actually it's a super simple mechanism as far as technology is concerned, but a lot of people sometimes ask the question about how USCC actually works. As I said, it's super simple. Hopefully this diagram gives people an insight into it. But essentially, Circle operates a service where our customers and today we focus on business customers, as I said earlier, they essentially bring dollars to Circle. And they do that by transferring dollars in the traditional financial system to us in various different forms. Once we observe the settlement of those dollars that have been sent by our customers, we then mint the corresponding amount of USSC and we move that that's sort of a combined operation, and we move those dollars to center appointed reserve accounts.
00:04:50.446 - 00:05:40.174, Speaker A: And center, as I said, is the consortium that governs USCC as far as the standard is concerned. And it essentially establish policies for how those reserves should be maintained and utilized effectively. After that process, after USCC is then created, we credit USCC into an account that our customers have with us in this product that we call the Circle account. And I'll talk about this in a second. And that's essentially how it works. And then, even though I haven't depicted here, there's the reverse process, which is what we call redemption, right? So every customer of ours, when they bring USSC back to their Circle account with us, they have the option to fully redeem that for dollars on a bank account. And we honor that redemption.
00:05:40.174 - 00:06:39.270, Speaker A: And we give customers, we transfer dollars to customers after burning the USSC in a one to one ratio. All of this service is provided for all of our customers for free. So there's actually no cost for any business to issue or redeem USCC with Circle. And that's kind of the main mechanism behind USCC maintaining its peg, right? It's that ability to redeem and the ability that customers have that they can trust that all USSC, they can bring it back to circo and redeem for the exact amount of dollars. So with that, the added value that we bring to that solution is that USCC is fully reserved. It's also audited on a monthly basis. We issue at the stations on how USCC continues to be fully collateralized.
00:06:39.270 - 00:07:22.190, Speaker A: As I said, it's also based on the idea of open standards and governance, this idea that it's not necessarily an asset that's created and maintained by a single private entity. It's utilized in a consortium. And the idea is that consortium is open and over time will grow. And it's also issued in the US. Under the US regulatory framework, which is super important for this space. So, with that said, let me talk a little bit about some of the Circle products. And we'll get, little by little, deeper in terms of details of how we have products to help facilitate the on and off ramp of fiat money into decentralized finance.
00:07:22.190 - 00:08:26.782, Speaker A: So, first of all, we have this idea, it's a core component of our product suite, and it's the idea of a Circle account. A Circle account, as I mentioned, it's a full stack solution for payments and treasury use cases for businesses. A couple of things that businesses can do with the Circle account, as I mentioned, as I was explaining the flows for USCC, you can, first of all, transfer or convert in and out of digital dollars, right? So if you have dollars, if you want in the old form factor in a bank account, you can transfer those to Circle and obtain the equivalent amount in digital form in the form of USCC. And you can do the reverse process. You get the ability then with our product to utilize those digital dollars, just as you would actually have the ability to do that if you use just about any wallet on the ethereum blockchain. Right? At the end of the day, USDC is just a near C 20 token. But with our product, we ambition to facilitate making and receiving payments in digital currency form, in a stable form, with the use of USCC.
00:08:26.782 - 00:09:46.660, Speaker A: So customers who have the need to make payments or receive payments from a global supply chain, for example, they can do that with us if they need to pay their employees in USSC, and we have customers who do that, they can do that with our account and so on and so forth. Those are on the payments side of use cases, right? Another thing that we facilitate for our customers, and it's a recent business line that we are opening, and there will be more products coming soon in the space, but it's giving customers access to high yield, again, based on digital assets such as USCC. Every business in the world has a need for maintaining their treasury, for protecting their cash, investing their cash when that's applicable. And we want to offer businesses the ability to do that based on all the new solutions and the new money markets and infrastructure that is being created in crypto. All of this, as I said, it's done in a single product that we ambition to have a super simple user interface for that Circle account. Product is then connected to the Circle APIs that businesses might opt to use as well. But I'll touch on the Circle APIs a little bit later.
00:09:46.660 - 00:11:17.050, Speaker A: So, as I said, a couple of things that this Circle account facilitate for businesses you can transact globally with suppliers and customers and individuals all around the world not knowing borders. As you all know, because of the use of public blockchain, these customers can obviously base all of their digital banking, if you will, on this premier source of digital dollar liquidity, which is USCC, as I said, always for free, always one to one in parity with the dollar, as I said, this business for seven years. So we have a long history of custody and security. We're proud of the infrastructure that we have built in that space. And that gives businesses the trust that they need to know that if they want to custody their assets with us, that they are in good hands. And as I said, we have a few announcements coming real soon in terms of how we will allow customers to earn interest essentially on top of their idle working capital by allocating some of their USSC funds in high yield products that we will launch very soon. So let's talk about then the product suite that we have that is more applicable for this workshop, which is the set of Circle APIs.
00:11:17.050 - 00:12:19.454, Speaker A: So today we have three main API products that we talk about the payments API, the Payouts API, and the accounts API. And they are all connected to the Circle account. So a business to be able to utilize those API products, it needs a Circle account, whether it is for settlement or for the origination of Payouts, for managing those sub accounts that they can have. And those are the products that are paid from our point of view, as I said, the Circle account is free. But to gain access to the APIs, then you need to pay subscription fees. But we'll talk about them in more detail, each one of them. So the Circle payments API, the point of that product is essentially to facilitate those hybrid flows when it comes to especially consumer to business or business to business payments, bridging the traditional financial system and crypto.
00:12:19.454 - 00:12:48.842, Speaker A: So the way that that product works is that we expose an API. It's a very easy to use API. You can essentially capture payments from your end users in the form of traditional methods, traditional payment methods. For example, you can capture payments in debit and credit card form. You can capture payments in bank account transfer forms, whether that's ACH in the US. Or bank wire transfers internationally. But you can also capture payments just in crypto form.
00:12:48.842 - 00:13:54.766, Speaker A: You can also just receive a USCC payment, for example. And through that API, what we allow you to do is to have a unique view in terms of settlement on your Circle account for all those payment methods. So if you are charging your customer for some wallet deposit, use case that you have, or for some commerce, use case that you have, you can be charging the debit card of your end user, but you will receive settlement in the form of USCC on your Circle account, which allows, you know, after you have collected that payment, to turn around and maybe utilize that cash. With crypto based treasury services, you can transfer that USCC anywhere. You can pay out suppliers all over the world. So it kind of connects the end user to crypto settlement without the end user knowing that their funds flows are ever going to end up in crypto, because sometimes that end user honestly doesn't care. But it gives the business the benefit to utilize the byproduct of those payments.
00:13:54.766 - 00:15:24.090, Speaker A: With all the benefits of crypto, the Circle Payouts product is exactly the opposite kind of flow, right? So imagine that. Now, maybe what you need to do is you need to disburse payments across a very large number of individuals or businesses. Maybe you could run your payroll using USCC as source. Maybe you have a wallet product where your customers want to eventually withdraw the value that they have on those wallets back to traditional bank accounts. So across all those use cases, we facilitate those flows in the sense that if you have a Circle account with us again, and you have a balance in USCC, you can use our Payouts API to either pay out destinations that are crypto, right? So you can essentially just pay out in USCC to other crypto wallets, or you can also pay out, and we do the conversion for you into bank accounts all over the world, and we facilitate those two forms of flows within a single API infrastructure. Then the third product that we have, which is the accounts API, that API essentially facilitates a very flexible model where you can create any number of subwallets. By the way, whenever I talk about wallets in our infrastructure, these are all custodial wallets, right? So we custody the wallets, and we allow our customers to access this infrastructure via APIs.
00:15:24.090 - 00:16:05.354, Speaker A: But it's a custodial model where we control the private keys. You essentially have the flexibility to create however many digital wallets you want to deposit and withdraw from those wallets. All of those wallets are connected to chain, if you want. So you can generate deposit addresses for all those wallets. You can send money from those wallets on chain. You can also process payments in traditional forms and receive settlement and distribute then settlement across that infrastructure wallets. So imagine if you were to rebuild, if you will, a Venmo of sorts or an Uber of sorts, and you want to use crypto native technology to do that.
00:16:05.354 - 00:17:10.638, Speaker A: You could use these APIs that we have for that. For example, in an Uber theoretical use case, you could have all of the driver wallets be digital wallets custodyd in this infrastructure, right? And whenever you receive a payment from an end user, you transfer the part that's due to the driver in terms of wallet transfers, and that driver has access to take that fund away on chain or to receive that fund in some other form. So that's the right hand side of the slide in terms of these end user financial use cases. But combining that with digital currency. But also this is used sometimes by some of our customers for treasury operations, right? If they want to have a flexible structure in terms of wallets, maybe they want a wallet to facilitate payments to suppliers. Maybe they want a separate wallet to facilitate other types of treasury operations. Just as businesses typically have multiple bank accounts for handling different types of flows, this API allows businesses to customize the set of wallets that they utilize on our infrastructure.
00:17:10.638 - 00:18:03.714, Speaker A: And all of these wallets, very soon when we roll out more broadly access to high yield interest accounts. All of these wallets can potentially benefit from earning high yield if you locked that value in that product. So let's talk about a practical use case to make things a little bit more practical. So many of you, I would imagine, know of Dharma. Dharma is a company that has been around in crypto for a while building different sets of products on top of ethereum. Today Dharma is utilizing the as you as you might or might not know, but if you don't, I would certainly advise you to check on Dharma. They have a very slick consumer app that you can download on your phone.
00:18:03.714 - 00:19:03.794, Speaker A: And essentially what you get is you get access to a whole lot of DeFi use cases in there, whether they are trading or yield use cases. Dharma connects people to protocols like Uniswap Compound, urine and the list is super long. Check their website. But they ambition to obviously give access to all the benefit of all that DeFi infrastructure to the largest possible amount of consumers. And the way that we help them do that is by having them utilize the Circle Payments API to on ramp customers as well as off ramping into those protocols. And the way that they do that is by using the payments API, particularly they use that for ACH rails for their US customers so that I can make an ACH deposit from my US based bank account. And that lands on the Dharma app in the form of USC, even though that's kind of abstracted away for the user.
00:19:03.794 - 00:20:15.180, Speaker A: And then I can utilize those funds with all of those protocols. So that's a use case that we actually see being repeated many, many times. I'll just mention a couple of other customers that we help and there's a lot of other customers that we can't quite talk about, but these are some of the customers that we know. Invariably this is the use case is giving people access to DeFi, but giving more and more people access to DeFi primarily when it comes to mainstream users. They still have funds on a bank account and want to kind of dip their toe into these new protocols and apps that are being built. We facilitate that transition from the traditional financial system to the New World in a way that people can build these apps and can hopefully target millions of consumers and tens of millions of consumers and over time more and more until hopefully then we don't need to intermediate between the New World and the traditional world anymore. And hopefully that becomes legacy, but that's certainly going to take a few years for.
00:20:15.180 - 00:21:40.982, Speaker A: So, as I said, that's the core value proposition that our APIs deliver on, particularly for DeFi use cases. As I mentioned, we try to control all of the complexity of traditional payments, all of the complexity of possibly having different sources for settlement or different origins for payouts for all these different providers that maybe you will find. For one payment, rail or the other, concentrate all that into wallet infrastructure that is connected to ethereum, that is using a digital dollar form as opposed to a traditional one, to allow, essentially these businesses to focus on the innovation to focus on the user experience, but not to be bogged down by the details that are super complicated to handle when it comes to traditional payments. I'll stop here for questions, but for all the devs in the audience, I would certainly urge you to have a look at our developer documentation by going to developers Circle. We have a lot of documentation on all the APIs, a lot of example cases. Anyone is free to open a sandbox account. If you go to my sandbox Circle, we just ask you for your name and email address.
00:21:40.982 - 00:22:00.000, Speaker A: We don't ask for anything else. And you can get some API keys on that sandbox environment, and you can trial the APIs for yourself, no questions asked, no payment required. And yeah, let us know what you're building and we would love to help. So I'll stop here for any questions that you guys might have.
00:22:08.530 - 00:22:10.240, Speaker B: Hey, can I ask a question?
00:22:13.830 - 00:22:15.794, Speaker A: I most certainly think you can.
00:22:15.992 - 00:22:25.160, Speaker B: Hey. Yeah. Do Circles APIs allow for something like approve or transfer form functionality? Like in ERC, 20?
00:22:26.490 - 00:22:55.374, Speaker A: Not right now. Great question. So not right now. We actually have built in conjunction with Coinbase, we have built that functionality into USCC, into the USCC smart contract as part of the V two of USCC. So I think that went live at some point late last year. It's possible to do that with USCC, but we have not exposed that as a primitive on the APIs. As of now, we have.
00:22:55.374 - 00:23:05.380, Speaker A: It's a good question that you're asking. Actually, just this week, that was somebody, one of our potential customers, asking exactly that question. It's probably going to come soon.
00:23:06.630 - 00:23:27.500, Speaker B: Do you know any ways we could hack around it to make it work? So say a company has, like, a Circle account and they want to sort of approve me to use their USDC on their behalf. Is there a way we can go about it? Other than actually creating a database and holding everything?
00:23:30.110 - 00:23:56.420, Speaker A: Yeah. Aside from creating a database and controlling that yourself, which might be implicating you into money transmission. Right, so it's a bit complicated. I wouldn't have an idea that I could give it to you right now, but happy to engage on discord. We could keep chatting about that, and I can loop a few folks on my product engineering team to explore alternatives for you.
00:23:56.950 - 00:23:59.060, Speaker B: Cool. I'll message you that. Thank you.
00:24:01.510 - 00:24:15.254, Speaker C: Okay, so it looks like we're getting a lot of questions in the chat. If you'd like to go look at those. The first one says, these Circles APIs allow for, approve or transfer from functionality like ERC 20.
00:24:15.372 - 00:24:16.470, Speaker B: That was me.
00:24:16.620 - 00:24:18.150, Speaker A: I think that was Rolls.
00:24:18.990 - 00:24:25.180, Speaker C: Okay, but you can see the rest of the questions in the chat. I see we're getting a few more.
00:24:25.790 - 00:24:56.270, Speaker A: Okay, let me have a look. Do you integrate with third party payment gateways or yourselves or a gateway? Yeah, great question. Circo is a payments facilitator. You can think of payments facilitators as PayPal. Stripe square. Those are all companies that are Payments Facilitators. That's a designation on the card networks.
00:24:56.270 - 00:25:39.726, Speaker A: So as far as card, which I understand is your question, since you mentioned gateways, I assume you're talking about card payments. But what we do utilize partners at the low level of the stack for actual card acquiring. So we have a role to play in the end to end lifecycle of a card payment, but we still utilize a gateway behind the scenes. Next question is, did the platform allow for international bank deposits? Yes. The answer is yes. We support bank wire transfers internationally as a form of traditional payment rails. And I think, again, if you go to Developers Circle, you will see exactly the list of countries that are supported.
00:25:39.726 - 00:25:54.840, Speaker A: But I think we support around about 80 countries, 80 countries in the world in terms of international bank, both for deposits and outbound transfers as well. I think those are all that I see over there.
00:26:05.860 - 00:26:19.830, Speaker C: All right, there aren't any questions coming in from the YouTube stream, so if anyone here has any final questions before we wrap up, feel free to ask.
00:26:24.650 - 00:26:58.286, Speaker A: Okay, there's a couple more coming there. I noticed that the smart contract for USCC is not a standard ERC 20. Is that a reason for doing that? I'll move to the next one, coven, if you don't mind. Can you clarify what exactly you mean? Which part of non standard you're referring to? That might make it easier for me. I'll jump to the next question, but I'm happy to go back to you if you add more details. Are there any native support for non USD currencies? Oh, good question. Yeah, we started with USD denomination because that's in crypto markets.
00:26:58.286 - 00:27:39.678, Speaker A: USD denomination is still by far the most demanded one. However, the standard that we have created for USSC is a multi currency standard, and we certainly ambition to build other flavors of stablecoins, hopefully starting in the near future. So you will see settlement in non USD form as well, but still in digital currency form. Last question from Sean. You said it was subscription pricing. Is that based on the number of users or yeah, sorry, I wasn't exactly precise there. So our business model for the APIs is actually a combination of subscription price and a volume based price.
00:27:39.678 - 00:28:05.000, Speaker A: So for payments and payouts, it obviously has to do typically with the volume of payments that you're processing. So you pay a subscription fee, and that's just kind of a minimum fee that you pay, right, whether you use the service or not. But then depending on the volume of payments that you process, you're going to pay in line with that for the accounts API, then, yes, it has to do with the number of users wallets that you utilize on our platform.
00:28:10.660 - 00:28:11.410, Speaker C: Okay.
00:28:15.320 - 00:28:21.110, Speaker A: I haven't seen a follow up from Calvin, so I don't know exactly what he was talking about in terms of non standard.
00:28:21.960 - 00:28:47.512, Speaker C: Okay, well, we're up at our kind of deadline now, so if you guys have any other questions, feel free to reach out to Zhuao on the discord. And also thank you to Zhuao and for circles for sponsoring hack money this year. And, yeah, great workshop. Thanks, guys, for coming. Bye.
00:28:47.656 - 00:28:48.520, Speaker A: Thank you, guys. Bye.
