00:00:00.400 - 00:01:06.960, Speaker A: Everyone and their grandma is launching a bitcoin scaling solution. Over the past twelve months, it's been a super hot topic, especially because ordinals and runes, these new assets on the l one, have drawn fees to be bonkers. So I had to get someone on to help me break down what is going on in the space, how to look at it and kind of break through the noise of what is and isn't an l two a sidechain, bitcoin layer, whatever you want to call it. So today I have Yanis on the podcast from bitcoin layers, which is a new website and research group is doing exactly that, trying to break down what and how these things are constructed so you can go in knowing exactly what you're getting your kind of like hands in when you use some of these new l two s and scale solutions. So we discuss a ton of topics around what is and isn't an l two. Our Alt l two is currently just glorified multi sigs and a bunch of other topics that I think you're really going to enjoy. So without further ado, let's jump into this great conversation with Giannis from bitcoin layers.
00:01:12.380 - 00:01:15.080, Speaker B: Welcome to built on bitcoin.
00:01:29.490 - 00:01:31.750, Speaker A: Yannis, how you doing today, my man?
00:01:32.650 - 00:01:38.550, Speaker B: Doing? Doing good. Excited to. Excited to be on the podcast. Yeah, yeah. Doing good. How about yourself?
00:01:38.930 - 00:01:50.150, Speaker A: I am, first of all, excited to have you, which does have been cooking and doing much needed research and kind of breaking down the mystique of l two s. Super important. So thank you for what you're doing.
00:01:50.520 - 00:01:51.056, Speaker B: Yeah, of course.
00:01:51.088 - 00:02:10.560, Speaker A: Yeah. Excited to chat. We briefly connected in Denver when bitcoin painted Eth Denver orange, and there was the bitcoin renaissance event. That was fantastic. So that was cool to connect with you. I want to open with just a banger. So let's go straight into the conversation and then we'll kind of dance around.
00:02:10.560 - 00:02:34.600, Speaker A: So, first question is this huge topic of bitcoin or two is their big thesis right now. And if you listen to some of the more wise people, they'll say all l two s are just glorified multisigs, if you get down to brass tacks. So help us unpack that. Is that a true statement? What's true? What's false? Break that down for us.
00:02:35.220 - 00:03:10.320, Speaker B: Yeah. So that's a true statement. When you look at when you're entering and depositing funds into any of these types of sidechains or l two s, you are essentially depositing funds into a multisig. Now, the design of the multisig varies from the various types of l two or side chain protocol. So, for example, for a payment channel, you're depositing the funds into a 202 multisig with your counterparty. That's what you're doing within the lightning network. If you're running your own lightning node and participating in that network self custodially.
00:03:10.320 - 00:03:56.290, Speaker B: If you're depositing funds into rootstock, you're depositing into a federation known as the Palpeg, which I think has eleven signers. Liquid has a similar federation model of 15 signers. Stacks has a couple of different multisigs that are operated by companies. So there's like two to three or five signers for each of those multisigs. So this is what you're essentially doing. You're depositing funds into multisig. The difference is, when you're looking at these protocols, is who is signing and permitting the withdrawal requests? And do you have any sovereignty over your funds? So, enlightening, for example, you would have sovereignty over your funds, and you can initiate a wall, you can close a channel and withdraw funds back to the main chain collectively with your counterparty.
00:03:56.290 - 00:04:38.890, Speaker B: And then in these other multisig designs, from a sidechain perspective, you are effectively giving up complete sovereignty and control of your asset assets to this group of people who are responsible with keeping custody of the bitcoin and minting the relevant synthetic on the side chain. And if you wanted to leave the side chain, you would have to put a request to this federation, and then that's how you would withdraw your funds. Yeah, and spend a lot of my time looking at these newer constructions that have been popping up over the last year, and those are similar. They're all multisigs. And you're trusting some federation with the custody of your funds in these new types of constructions.
00:04:39.590 - 00:04:56.070, Speaker A: Yep. Okay, so that's probably the first thing to double click on when we're talking about l two s. Actually, maybe we should define. So, like, how do you define l two? Because there's l two, there's bitcoin layers, there's side chains. Let's do a brief overview of terms real quick before we go any deeper.
00:04:56.150 - 00:05:17.976, Speaker B: Okay? Yeah, so there's a couple of definitions for l two s, and I think they're all useful to explore. I think there's three to four different camps. So let's. I mean, I think there's four camps, but I might only like. Yeah, let's just go over all of them. The first camp is the unilateral exit camp. And that has now even been split into two different parties.
00:05:17.976 - 00:06:09.304, Speaker B: So for example, you have, you know, if you, if you deposit funds into the l two, all you need to do is initiate an l one transaction to leave the l two and reclaim your funds on the main chain. That is like traditionally the definition for unilateral exit. Someone added a caveat to that and was like, well yeah, you also need to ensure that the operators of the l two cannot commit fraud or collude with some party to steal the funds. So like for example, like in state chains, you can unilaterally exit whenever you want. But there is some mechanism to where the operator of the state chain, that federation or single from single party, could collude with various parties in the network and steal your funds. So that is where there's a distinction there. So it's like one distinction is just unilateral exit.
00:06:09.304 - 00:06:51.998, Speaker B: So things like state chains would be included, lightning, et cetera. And then there's another classification which would likely just be lightning, where it's like only it's unilateral exit and there's no central operator that can steal your funds. And there's no challenge mechanism to where you as a user, your funds are stolen. Like there's no way for you to like challenge that and try to get them back. So that's like the first kind of distinction between unilateral exit camps. And then there's another camp that's like, well, unilateral exit might not be really sustainable long term. So maybe we should just consider things like, you know, really decentralized side chains or improved side chain designs as l two s.
00:06:51.998 - 00:07:24.810, Speaker B: So things like the spider chain which botanics is developing. I guess. I guess things like drive chains would be considered l two s within. In this context, the type of side chain designs that people are trying to design with BitVM style bridges would be l two s within this context. So that's another camp. And that would additionally include everything within the unilateral exit camp. And then the third camp is like taking that a step further and saying any type of side chain that has a dependency on bitcoin would be considered an l two.
00:07:24.810 - 00:08:06.974, Speaker B: So that's things like rootstock, I guess liquid would be included there and then even something like stacks would be included, but there's a further division there. Like some people would say Rootstock is an l two and then stacks is not because stacks relies on an alternative token for network security. So there's another distinction there. And then I'd say the final camp is kind of everything's in l two. So things like ecash, fediments, even things like Coinbase, would be considered l two s because they're separate I protocol or a separate system that you can deposit your funds to and unlock some new types of functionalities. So those are, like, the broader definitions, I would say, of l two s. We kind of take the stance.
00:08:06.974 - 00:08:55.582, Speaker B: We took the stance early on in our docs that only, like, lightning, maybe state chains, were l two s. And the reason we did that is because we wanted to kind of put a line in the sand and be pretty conservative because we didn't know what was going on with all these new protocols. Like, we didn't know what their designs were, we didn't know what their constructions were, if their claims that they were making were true. So we put a line in the sand and said, if it doesn't enable unilateral exit, it's not an l two. We've since stated that we're not really trying to classify these things as l two s or not and just analyze them against a specific framework. But we are working on some materials right now to outline these different types of definitions to at least show people like, hey, these are kind of the four camps. Like, pick your camp.
00:08:55.582 - 00:09:23.800, Speaker B: Like, these are the four camps. These are why people think these things are l two s. And kind of. Yeah, put yourself in one, pick the definition that you feel is best. And then for us, we still, within any of these definitions, we still have a generalized framework that we can analyze any protocol against, independent of if it's an l two or not. So we're trying to analyze things like lightning against things like validity roll ups, for example. And that's kind of difficult.
00:09:23.800 - 00:09:45.180, Speaker B: And it's difficult to find, like, a framework that fits all of those things. But I think we're doing a relatively good job of that. And, yeah, so that's why we're not trying to specifically define an l two. But those are, like, the four definitions that I think people would give you. And even within those four definitions, as you just saw, there's even, like, splits in between them and how you could define that. So I think that. Yeah, that's kind of my lay my understanding of the situation right now.
00:09:45.590 - 00:10:11.862, Speaker A: Cool. Okay. No, that's helpful. And it's kind of been my pulse on it, too, is like, I guess the reason why I don't like the term l two. To define just lightning is it makes everything else murky mess that everyone could just self define and identify as. So I like what you guys are doing because you're kind of defining other terms and then you can append them to. So you have a definition of what federation might mean or what custodial might mean, for example.
00:10:11.862 - 00:10:45.904, Speaker A: And then you could just bolt those on to a specific sidechain or layer and you can go, okay, cool. Coinbase is a blah blah blah blah blah blah. And people can look, you can open a little book and look at the definition of those words and define it. It does seem like part of the pushback here. So I'm looking at the four you've defined. And especially when you go into the Coinbase exchange route, it's like one camp leans into l two means, minimal trust assumptions. And so my bitcoin is always safe.
00:10:45.904 - 00:10:55.580, Speaker A: And the other side is a place where BTC, the asset, becomes more expansive in its use cases and they're optimizing for different things.
00:10:56.080 - 00:11:44.004, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think though, like the issue that. So this is an interesting point, right? Like I feel I sympathize. Like I saw this on Twitter once. Like I was arguing with someone and they were like basically like, hey, like we've called liquid ML two for years and now all the ethereum people are coming to bitcoin and they want to change the definition and they want to add new opcodes and enable new types of l two s because that fits their definition, right? And I sympathize with that view of like, hey, we've traditionally called side chains l two s, and there's not much of a problem with that. And I'm okay with trusting the 15 federation numbers of liquid with the custody of my assets because there's this huge reputational risk associated with them acting maliciously. And I think that's fine. I think that's totally fine.
00:11:44.004 - 00:12:18.582, Speaker B: And that's why I think defining the term l two is just never going to end. And even in Ethereum now, they're trying to say roll ups are l two s and validiums aren't l two s. And then people who say validiums are l two s are like optimums, aren't l two s. And because there's this collusion tack that the sequencer and the da layer can do, and it's like you're never going to be able to stop the semantics war. So the reason we're not trying to specifically define it anymore is just because of that. Because we say one thing and then something will change. And then maybe we get new opcodes and better bridging models, and then we get new types of l two s.
00:12:18.582 - 00:13:18.522, Speaker B: And then you have this gray area of is an optimistic roll up style blockchain that uses a data availability committee with five members. Is that an l two? And then you get into these. It needs more debates. And like, I just feel like, yeah, like, we'll always be a part of the discussion, I think, and always try to do our best to help point people towards like, hey, an l two should be something that inherits like, security from the base layer and has some very robust mechanism that's securing the assets that are like, that are like being deposited into the l two. But I think trying to like specifically define it as one thing is always going to be a battle. And I think everyone, because people have interests and they have products and they have things they want to pitch and they want those things to be adopted and they want them to be kind of known as they want. In terms of marketing language, you want to be able to describe your solution in a way that's familiar with people.
00:13:18.522 - 00:13:42.448, Speaker B: And l two is a term that people are familiar with and that's why people are using it, because it makes sense. It's like, oh, I deposit my money into this thing and I unlock all these new types of functionalities. And I also maybe get some scaling benefits, for example. So I think that's why people use the term. I disagree with it, but that's totally fine. And I don't think I'm going to change anybody's mind. I don't think that's the game we're in.
00:13:42.448 - 00:13:50.220, Speaker B: I think we're just trying to tell users and other participants in the ecosystem, hey, these are the risks that are associated with these types of things.
00:13:51.080 - 00:14:37.610, Speaker A: Yep, makes sense to. Okay, then maybe that's more color here. It's like there's two pieces to an l two or a layer. There's like the peg mechanism, which is very hard to solve, kind of where most of the friction is currently, as far as trust assumptions, for example. But then you have, once your coins are bridged over and they're locked on the l one, you can do all kinds of things on the actual blockchain or peer to peer network, depending what network you're using. And that has a whole different design space, but it seems like most people kind of combine the two. So it's like there's some kind of bridge and then you just happen to go over to Bob, for example, or some kind of bridge, and then you go into Merlin and they're just like conjoined.
00:14:37.610 - 00:14:49.724, Speaker A: So I'd love for you to give us some color on how these two pieces are kind of like are they two separate entities and they should be thought of separate, or are they kind of two interwoven pieces, like the different.
00:14:49.772 - 00:14:52.452, Speaker B: Like the bridge and. Yeah.
00:14:52.556 - 00:14:53.628, Speaker A: And the actual blockchain.
00:14:53.684 - 00:15:29.884, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah. So this is a great question. So like, let's use Bob for an example. Bob, there's a couple of ways you can deposit BTC into Bob currently. So if you're not familiar, Bob, is this construction that they have a roll up on Ethereum and they're trying to essentially abstract all the way the complexity of using bitcoin within this like Ethereum roll up and it kind of acts as like an application chain. So think of just like a roll up that's specifically dedicated for bitcoin use cases. So ordinal BRC 20 trading payments, even, whatever.
00:15:29.884 - 00:16:19.610, Speaker B: So when you deposit bitcoin into Bob, there's basically two different synthetics they use. They have TBTC, which is secured by the threshold to APeG mechanism, which has its own set of trust assumptions. And then you have WBTC, which is secured by a centralized company. So in either of these models, the people that are operating the two way pegs are different from the people that are operating the Bob blockchain. So the Bob blockchain is essentially run by the company that created it. So whatever the company that created Bob was called, they're running this thing called a sequencer, which is essentially a centralized node that is including and ordering all the transactions that are submitted to the roll up by users. And then it's taking a block, executing it and then posting a state change to the l one.
00:16:19.610 - 00:17:28.768, Speaker B: And then that state change will allow users, if they wanted to withdraw their funds, they could then withdraw their funds. Based on the most recent state transition that was posted by the sequencer, they have a security mechanism that they're going to be implementing on all these oPP stack chains, not just fraud proofs that allow some actors to dispute because the sequencer can basically post whatever it wants because it's centralized. It can even post a fraudulent state route that's like, oh, I'm going to steal everybody's funds. So you need some security mechanism to say, oh, we're going to reject that because we don't want the centralized party to steal everybody's money. So in that construction, the operators of the chain are different from the people and the parties that are managing the multisig. But if you look at something like liquid, it's my understanding that the functionaries within liquid who are managing this two way peg are also the parties responsible with proposing and signing liquid blocks. So when you submit transactions that get included in the block, the people that are collectively signing this block and saying and adding it to the chain are the 15 parties that are also responsible for the two way peg.
00:17:28.768 - 00:18:37.710, Speaker B: So it varies by implementation. And I think looking at all these different chains, you have to look at, and most are relatively honest, they'll say, oh, these are the people that are operating the two way peg. And if you go to Bob, for example, it has an entire list of all the trust assumptions that you're taking on when you're interacting with the chain. And what are the addresses for all these relevant roles, like the sequencer and the proposer and the challenger and the multisig that's responsible with upgrading the bridge contract, for example, it has all these roles listed in this documentation, and you can go verify it by looking at the chain. It depends on which implementation you're looking at for these various, for these various roles, because there's a lot of different properties. And so what I'm looking for, yeah, a lot of different actions that are being done on these chains, like securing the funds, proposing state changes, challenging state changes, if need be, what's hosting the data relevant to the chain. So yeah, the roles vary by the implementation.
00:18:38.050 - 00:19:04.738, Speaker A: Got it. Okay. And yeah, I actually haven't thought about that, but there's an interesting question about, um, design separating block production and what we typically call mining with multi SiG control and control of funds. Um, I'm going to put a pin in that for a second. I want to loop into kind of what you guys are doing at bitcoin layers. You know, part, we'll probably loop back into that. But recently you announced that you're starting this research group called Bitcoin layers.
00:19:04.738 - 00:19:21.660, Speaker A: You've raised some funding, it sounds like. Um. So yeah, talk to us about what, what this is. And maybe we could dovetail that into. You guys do have some criteria for how you judge different side chains, different l two s. So talk to us about that.
00:19:22.960 - 00:21:21.380, Speaker B: Yeah, so yeah, I'm working on a company called, the company is called Elex Research Labs. And this company has raised a small amount of funding from Utxo management, which is a VC firm in the bitcoin space. And the project that we're dedicating all of our current funding and resources to is this project called bitcoin layers, which is an open source platform under the MIT license. And essentially we are analyzing all of these different types of side chains and l two implementations against a generic framework that we've created, and the framework is that we look at essentially a few different things when we're analyzing this change. So we have like this maintained risk analysis section, and this section is based on, okay, the first thing we're looking at is who's custodying the funds related to the multisig? So are you like with lightning entering like a two of two multisig with a counterparty? Are you depositing funds into a multi sig where it's like 15 signers that are all like, you're trusting them on their reputation? Is there some alternative token involved? And is there some slashing mechanism in place if, like, the signers of the multistig try to steal the funds? Is that token the collateralization of that token greater than the funds that are stored in the multi sig, et cetera? So we're kind of like, that's the first thing we look at. The next things we look at is data availability. So if you're publishing a relevant state change to the l two, who are the parties responsible for that? Who are the parties responsible for kind of storing that data and making it available in the event that it needs to be made available? Is it bitcoin full nodes? Are you hosting it yourself on your own server? Is it a centralized party? Is it another consensus mechanism? Is it a federation, et cetera? And then you look at same thing with settlement assurances.
00:21:21.380 - 00:22:39.950, Speaker B: Are the settlement assurances guaranteed by bitcoin? Does settlement happen on bitcoin? Is that settlement optimistic in any way? And then you just go again down the ladder. Is it another consensus mechanism that provides settlement in finality? Is it a centralized party, federation, et cetera? And then the last thing that we're looking at is essentially something related to liveness. So who's operating the chain? So is it a centralized sequencer? Is it another consensus mechanism? Is it a federation, et cetera? So we're basically taking these four different things and we're looking at them and saying like, okay, like, what are the trust assumptions that the user is taking on with these, each individual aspects of interacting with the l two? So, for example, if you have something like, again, Bob's actually really good example to illustrate this, Bob is posting, its sequencer is posting sequencer batches. So this batch of transactions that include the state and the relevant state changes for the roll up, they're posting that to ethereum. So that's a decentralized consensus protocol. It has pretty good security properties compared to other things. So that is actually a pretty robust data availability solution.
00:22:39.950 - 00:23:17.794, Speaker B: But then you look at, for example, it's also operated by centralized sequencers. So like in Bob, I think you can include your transaction in a sequence. So you can bypass the sequencer if it censors you, but you can't propose your own state transition and withdrawal funds from Bob in the event that the proposer and the sequencer censor you. So there's these two centralized roles with regards to the operation of the network, the specific chain. So it's like you have to document that and there's nuances around that. And then looking at the custody of funds. Again, who are the various parties responsible for these various bridge mechanisms? We typically only look at.
00:23:17.794 - 00:24:08.890, Speaker B: So, for example, some of these chains launch their own native bridge. But we also mentioned potentially, here's the trust assumption of the native bridge. Here are the signers in the multisig, there might be this other centralized bridge that you can also use. So we're basically taking those four categories and analyzing them and just giving them a high, low or medium risk score. And we outline the various circumstances that put a change specifically in each score within each of those categories. And then we further look at another five questions. And is the chain contributing to the security budget? What's the mechanism for withdrawals? Does it introduce MeV on the bitcoin base layer or the second layer protocol? And then we're looking at forgetting the other two things we're looking at.
00:24:08.890 - 00:24:10.350, Speaker B: It's a lot.
00:24:10.510 - 00:24:12.650, Speaker A: So mev, it's very thorough.
00:24:13.190 - 00:24:45.062, Speaker B: It's Mev, it's withdrawals. See, I've even forgotten the thermo I just mentioned. Yeah, but we're asking another five questions related to the security assumptions of the protocol. And we're diving into those things specifically. And we do this for every chain. So for like lightning, for example, it receives like a low risk score across all the categories. Because ultimately, if you use lightning in a self custodial way and you are able to like keep your, your node on at all times and be in and interact with your counterparty, et cetera, like, you have relatively good trust assumptions.
00:24:45.062 - 00:25:16.220, Speaker B: And then, like, if you look at something, for example, like liquid, you're completely entrusting a lot of basically every function of the chain with this like, federation of like 15 parties. You can run your own node in liquid, but you're also trusting the federation with the ability to allow you, because they use this thing called bridge nodes, which is quite interesting. The trust assumptions for these two different models are very distinct. When we're looking at these things, we're essentially outlining, hey, these are the parties that you're trusting when you're interacting with these specific L2 protocols.
00:25:17.360 - 00:25:37.110, Speaker A: Very interesting to rehash. The big four are how the funds are custodied. Data availability and is data availability. It's a term I keep hearing. Basically, that's where data is stored to reconstruct the current state. Is that a way to think about it?
00:25:37.610 - 00:26:08.884, Speaker B: Yeah, there's some nuance with it. I know people. There's this idea that data storage and data availability are two different things. But my understanding, yeah. How we've referred to it in bitcoin, at least, is in the validity roll ups paper. It's described as being able to post a state route and enough transaction data to the bitcoin network. So in the event that you needed to reconstruct the state, you could go to the bitcoin full nodes and they can make that data available.
00:26:08.884 - 00:26:22.570, Speaker B: So you could reconstruct the state of the blockchain from genesis based on the data that is stored or published or made available by the specific mechanism that the chain uses. So, in the case of a roll up, that would be bitcoin.
00:26:22.730 - 00:26:45.770, Speaker A: Got it. And the thinking here is something like, the reason we do decentralization is because if, say, governments come and try to attack the network and they start taking down nodes, if that data is available to recreate easily, then you can just keep spinning up other copies, and it's like it becomes this hydra. You can't stop. That's kind of the idea, yeah, essentially.
00:26:45.810 - 00:27:28.076, Speaker B: Right. The reason. Yeah. You don't want the data related to your chain to be, like, lost forever, because you wouldn't be able to reconstruct state and the chain wouldn't be able to make progress. So if you're a roll up and the bitcoin network, which is extremely unlikely, but completely goes offline, then there's no way for you to make progress as a chain, because the data essentially is gone and you can't build upon the previous state. A good way to look at this in another kind of example is when you look at something like an optimum. An optimum is essentially a roll up style blockchain that would use a fraud proof mechanism for security.
00:27:28.076 - 00:28:19.030, Speaker B: So if the sequencer posted a malicious state transition, then you would have parties who are able to submit fraud proofs to contest that state transition in the event that. And it uses an off chain data availability system. So this is interesting, because in this mechanism, let's say the data availability system is just a three or five multisig which is very common in Ethereum. These models of three or five multisigs for data availability committees is actually quite common, or five f eight multisig, et cetera. If this thing withholds the data and colludes with the sequencer, and the sequencer posts a malicious state transition to steal everybody's funds. The fraud provers can't submit fraud proofs because they're not able to submit a fraud proof because they don't have access to the data. So they can't contest it because they don't have access to a previous state.
00:28:19.030 - 00:28:35.010, Speaker B: Like if state transition to say like, oh yeah, this is an infrared stateroot. And the users didn't actually submit these transactions to give it all to the sequencer. So there's other reasons why you wouldn't want a robust data availability system in a lot of these designs.
00:28:35.530 - 00:29:04.002, Speaker A: Got it. Okay. And there's two more want to touch on just to make sure I got it right. But you actually brought up, you make me think of a second question, which is, I can kind of tell you came from the east side of things, and you've come back to bitcoin recently. I could be off there, but that's my assumption. And I say that because a lot of people on the east side, they know what these terms optimum validium even mean. And a lot of bitcoiners have note, we're so new to roll ups that we definitely don't know different kinds of roll ups.
00:29:04.002 - 00:29:26.400, Speaker A: And so one question here is, given the current state of bitcoin layers, is it in a bitcoiner's best interest right now to understand these things of lithiums and optimums and know the difference? Or can we just go to bitcoin layers and get 90% of it and not have to go in the weeds and understand these things?
00:29:27.220 - 00:30:00.770, Speaker B: Yeah, this is a great question. Yeah. So I used to work on an Ethereum project. Um, so that's why I'm a little bit more exposed to these things, um, um, and kind of understand them. And I think the way we're trying to do it is we're basically trying to say like, hey, these are like, and we explain, like, yeah, so if like, there's a centralized sequencer and, and you can force an exit, and basically your trust assumption is like, yeah, in the worst case, you can submit an l one transaction, leave. Like, we explain that. It's like, hey, there's a centralized party.
00:30:00.770 - 00:30:43.216, Speaker B: It does all the block production. If it censors you, you can leave with one with an l one one transaction. And ultimately your trust assumption is like, can you afford no one transaction? So we try to basically outline that as simply as possible. So I think in terms of the specific definitions, I don't think they matter that much. The reason, for example, we use them is there's specific chains that will call themselves roll ups, but they're not roll ups. They're not inheriting consensus and using datavail, like using bitcoin for data availability. So it's like, okay, essentially this is another construction that might have this like trust minimized two way peg or like a two way peg design with bitcoin.
00:30:43.216 - 00:31:16.400, Speaker B: But it's not like it's not inheriting any security at all right now, especially in the current state of bitcoin multisigs and bitcoin two way pegs. Like, it's not inheriting any security from bitcoin. These things that are calling themselves roll ups. So we call them like, we do some reviews on these things and we're like, hey, eventually this might be like a validium type blockchain. And we're going to add hyperlinks and hovers to say, oh yeah, if you hover over, it'll say what a validity is. But ultimately it doesn't really matter what these specific definitions mean. We just kind of put them there to put a check on a lot of the projects.
00:31:16.400 - 00:31:37.300, Speaker B: If you're calling yourself a Zk roll up and you're not a ZK roll up, we're going to point that out. And we're not going to call you a roll up just because a lot of the projects we're doing right now claim to be roll ups and they're just side chains. And we just say, yeah, it's a side chain, it's not a roll up. And we try to like, yeah, just tell people what it actually is. And if they're interested, they can, they can learn more about it.
00:31:37.680 - 00:31:44.300, Speaker A: Okay. And then, um, so, yeah, custody of fund. Going back to the big four. Custody of fund is availability.
00:31:44.720 - 00:31:46.560, Speaker B: Um, pulling it up here too.
00:31:46.720 - 00:32:05.360, Speaker A: Yeah, we're dancing. Uh, so the other two, I got that right. One was settlement assurances and the other was lifeness. Do I have that right? And so what is, um, yeah, so settlement assurances is what is that? Like confirmation I sent a transaction that will get included in a block or what does that mean?
00:32:05.780 - 00:32:47.008, Speaker B: So essentially settlement assurance is like, who's dictating finality? Right? So in a roll up, theoretically, you would submit your transactions to the sequencer and then the sequencer would post the state transition to bitcoin, and then that would be done in the form of like an inscription. And then a bitcoin block would like, accept that transaction and your transaction in the role. It's considered ultimately final when it's included in when the state transition. When a transaction, including the state transition, is finalized in the bitcoin block. So your finality is ultimately dependent on bitcoin. But you're getting this soft finality mechanism. So you don't have to wait all day.
00:32:47.008 - 00:33:10.312, Speaker B: You don't have to wait the 1020, 30 minutes for your transaction to confirm. You just take the two second confirmation because you trust the sequencer. And then it eventually finalizes on bitcoin. In lightning, for example, your transactions aren't final, basically, until you close your channel. And you're doing that on the l one. So that's like bitcoin finality. Like you're closing a channel with a counterparty bitcoins.
00:33:10.312 - 00:33:44.866, Speaker B: Yeah, you do that. You close channel, and then your transactions are considered final. In a side chain like rootstock, for example, your settlement assurances are guaranteed by the miners who are mining rootstock. And then when you're blocked, when that, when your transaction is included in the block and that block is finalized, then your transaction is considered final. So that's basically what we're trying to define with settlement assurance. And that's going to get a lot more interesting when we start seeing more roll ups and roll up like blockchains. I think right now it's pretty much like your settlement is guaranteed other than lightning.
00:33:44.866 - 00:33:51.230, Speaker B: Your settlements like being guaranteed for the things we reviewed. Your settlements being guaranteed by an alternative consensus mechanism.
00:33:52.290 - 00:33:56.760, Speaker A: Got it. And then liveness. I didn't grasp that one.
00:33:57.580 - 00:34:45.600, Speaker B: So this is essentially like. So for example, we do network operator in the sense of like, this is really related to censorship. So again, this is kind of more specific to like roll up constructions. So, like, for example, in a roll up. And it's relevant to side chains too, right? Because if you have a federated side chain and its federation is 15 members, and that's the members that are signing and proposing blocks, if twelve of them go down, then the chain's down. So you're relying on some majority or some percentage of this federation to stay online and having the chain make progress or include your transactions in the blocks because they could censor you if they get. If there's some court order.
00:34:45.600 - 00:35:16.420, Speaker B: And the company who manages the chain tells all the federation members, hey, don't include these transactions anymore because the government said so. That's a censorship issue. And if you can't withdraw your funds or you can't make progress, then you're effectively stuck in a roll up. This is interesting because some roll ups will have a centralized sequencer. They'll allow you to unilaterally exit. Some roll ups won't. So if you get censored by the sequencer, you can't withdraw and you're stuck if the transaction fees are really, really high on the l one.
00:35:16.420 - 00:35:45.600, Speaker B: And let's say there are $100 to do an exit and you only have $50 in the roll up. If you get censored by the centralized party, then you effectively lost your money. What we mean by liveness and network operators is we're essentially saying, is the chain always making progress? And what is the percentage? What is the chance? Who are the parties that could potentially censor you if they don't want your transaction to get included? Um, so that's kind of what we mean by that.
00:35:45.940 - 00:35:50.748, Speaker A: Got it. Okay, so yeah, go ahead, go ahead.
00:35:50.764 - 00:36:11.218, Speaker B: Sorry. Yeah, and then there's nuance to that, right? Like, yeah, because roll ups have like a centralized sequencer, but then they'll argue like, it's the l one ultimately that like determines ordering and consensus. And then like the side chains will be like, oh no. Like you need to have like decentralized parties proposing and signing blocks because the centralized sequencer can censor you and it can go offline. And like, there's a lot of nuances to this stuff.
00:36:11.404 - 00:36:42.660, Speaker A: I see, I see. Yep. So on liquids, the federation that's doing block production on stacks, that's how many miners are currently mining on the network that's giving forward progress on lightning. It's channel based, so it could be just me and you talking. But the way that people typically expect lightning to work, could we add LSP's as kind of a liveness aspect? Like if some big LSP's went down, a lot of routing routes go down as well. So like, is that where there's more nuance here as well?
00:36:43.240 - 00:37:13.060, Speaker B: Yeah, so like for that example, like specifically to like lsps, we put that in like the use cases example. So like we kind of COVID lightning in the event of, like, you're like, you have like these various like, channels with all these different people people. And you have like your own node and like you're managing all the channels and managing all the liquidity requirements. Like specifically to lsps, we just, we like put that in the use cases and then kind of mention like this, there might be an additional trust assumption related to this. And this is the reason why people will take it, because it provides better user experience.
00:37:13.920 - 00:37:58.540, Speaker A: Very cool. Okay, so, yeah, we have the criteria down pretty well, and the criteria is pretty objective. So you can kind of like, judge each side chain according to this criteria. The next kind of difficult question that someone has to go through is like, okay, I see the criteria. I have to make a judgment call based on these five to ten things on where I'm willing to put my money. So, given that you're in the weeds here, like, what, who's doing the best trade offs of all these different criteria? This kind of dovetails and maybe into like, this block production versus multisig. Like, is it better to have them separate? Is better to have them together? Like, what's the best l two out there right now is the underlying question.
00:37:58.540 - 00:38:00.460, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:38:03.130 - 00:38:52.578, Speaker B: I. This is an interesting question. So I think what we're trying to say is like, so for example, the way I interact with bitcoin the most is via fediments. So I have like my mutiny wallet and I pick a fed, excuse me, I pick a federation that is responsible for like, holding my funds, whatever. And like, I'm cool with that. And I know it's a federation and I have seen like some, some thumbs up votes on it, and I'm like, fine, that's cool, because I'm only putting a minimal amount of money into that wallet and recycling it relatively quick, relatively frequently, so I can pay for stuff with lightning. In my opinion, it's not essentially that users, they should avoid everything.
00:38:52.578 - 00:39:30.380, Speaker B: That's a federated multisig or centralized protocol or centralized server or whatever. It's just understand that that's what you're interacting with. I think the problem that we have right now is that some protocols, like feniman and ecash specifically, are being very honest. And this is the trust assumption. You go into their docs and it's like this is who you're trusting and these are your counterparties within this respective system. And then you look at these new projects and they're trustless, trust minimized. And we have this decentralized thing and it's like, okay, when you, you get down into it again, it's a multisig.
00:39:30.380 - 00:40:37.468, Speaker B: So when you look at these new L2 designs, I would say ultimately it depends on your use case. If you want to go and play the casino and yeet shitcoins and do whatever, then using something like a centralized kind of roll up on another blockchain or a centralized side chain that provides that functionality and provides that execution layer, then that's totally fine, do your thing. But just understand that you can get rugged at any moment and there could be a hack and the bridge operator could have some bad OpSEC and you could lose your funds at any moment. That's the big thing there. Outlining that. With regards to your question on should you decouple the operators on the multisig and the chain? In most of the current implementations of these new side chains, that's nothing typically the case like, I think things like stats, rootstock, et cetera are different. But when you look at these newer constructions, they're all multisigs that have the network that's also operated by a centralized company and centralized party.
00:40:37.468 - 00:41:21.926, Speaker B: So they're kind of together. But an interesting point is specific to fediments. A lot of people don't know this, but you can create EVM style execution environments in a fediment module. Just no one's done it yet. And when I was talking to their team about this, just theoretically just thinking about this, oh, could you do this? And they were like, yeah, if it's written in rust, go for it. And I asked the question because fenimans operate in this weird way where they have some async consensus protocol also involved. And that's like I said, theoretically, could you make the consensus protocol have more participants than the multisig itself? And they were like, yeah, but why would you do that? Because ultimately the trust assumption is with the bridge.
00:41:21.926 - 00:42:43.082, Speaker B: So in any event, even if you have the most decentralized consensus network and decentralized block production scheme, and you have all these various roles and they're all permissionless, whatever, and you have the best security model possible, the trust assumption still relies with the parties that you're entrusting with your assets. So I think in the meantime, teams are going to try and front run the ability to construct better two way pegs by decentralizing their architectures, and then they're going to essentially take an improved two way peg design and then add that when it's ready, if that makes sense. I still think though that, and this is a problem that I do have with our risk assessments that I would like to figure out how we could change is ultimately the biggest security assumption that youre taking with any of these changes, who custodies the funds that youre depositing into it. And at the end of the day, most of them are just federations and you have to trust that specific federation. And for me, I would trust a fetimate run by certain groups of people, fedements by friends, whatever. Some e cachements perhaps, and then liquid. The rootstock palpeg, I think, has been around for a while and has a good reputation personally.
00:42:43.082 - 00:43:12.072, Speaker B: For me, that's where I'm at. And then I play around with all these other chains just to see the user experience and see what it's like. I think it ultimately depends on the person. I'm not super into using DeFi products, but if you are, then you might want to trust one of these multi sigs because there's some cool apps that you can use related to the chain that they're on. And that's the trust assumption. As long as you know that, then you're totally good. I think the issue is, it's like when we.
00:43:12.072 - 00:43:47.584, Speaker B: Yeah, that's the problem right now is I don't think many people, well, I think many people either don't know that. And I also think a lot of people don't care. Right? Like people like blast, for example, and Ethereum is just like this completely centralized multi sig scheme that they then launched a chain and the chain like got hacked. And then like the operators that you could upgrade the contract, basically the roll up contract, and basically reverse the state to like erase the hack from history. And everyone was like, oh, well, if you do that, then you have no chance of credibly being decentralized ever. And it's like, no, this is ridiculous. It's completely centralized chain.
00:43:47.584 - 00:44:11.100, Speaker B: We know it's centralized. Reverse it. There's no reason to play decentralization theater when you have $80 million hacked in your protocol. If you can reverse it, reverse it. So I think that's the other thing too, is I think a lot of this does come down to decentralization theater at times. And it's like, look, if you're not a decentralized thing and you're not trying to be cool, just let people know that.
00:44:11.560 - 00:44:54.208, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I think that's great points. You do see that there's two big camps. There's like the Degens who want to chase yield and chase number go up and they'll take on super high risk for going to a centralized chain, for example. And then you have the trust less maxis that want to keep their coin safe as shit and never give anybody anything, especially the government, but not even their neighbor. And that's like when I talked to Cody Lowe from Fediment, that was what kind of opened my eyes to fediments is that I think you call it like the wallet test or like the $20 test. Like, who would you give $20 to? Like, a home, $20 that they would pay it back. It's like the homeless guy on the corner not going to pay you back.
00:44:54.208 - 00:45:32.592, Speaker A: That's a donation. So you don't trust your funds on that fundament, but your neighbor, there's things about your neighbor that you can kind of trust or get your money back, you know, geographically defined. You see them every day, these kind of things. So this idea of, it's almost like the idea of trustlessness that we have, some people have on, like, a pinnacle. It's like, it's a good north star, but it shouldn't be the standard because trust is so imbued into everything we do every day. It's why our bullshit detectives are so good, because we can kind of suss out who's faking us. And so there's something about fed events that's very practical once you know the trust assumptions involved.
00:45:32.592 - 00:45:36.310, Speaker A: As long as they're clear, it's a pretty good path forward.
00:45:37.410 - 00:46:33.190, Speaker B: Yeah. And I think, too, again, this is where I probably have come to with my time in the space, is that when you look at bitcoin and you look at all these different proposals, ultimately, the thing I wanted was a zcash style execution environment on bitcoin. And what got me interested, and doing that on bitcoin was potentially a validity roll up. That was kind of how I really started paying attention to a lot of this new stuff on bitcoin that's coming up. And that was my ultimate interest. So I thought about decentralized sequencers and decentralized provers and decentralized upgrading mechanisms for the roll up. And how can we ensure that users can always get their transaction included? Because the cash transactions might one day get banned because they're privacy oriented.
00:46:33.190 - 00:47:53.390, Speaker B: So you need decentralized infrastructure for that type of system. But then when I. So I always approached it from, like, how can we maximally, like, decentralize these systems? And it's funny because I actually, like, started learning about, like, fediments in, like, 2022, I think is when I got interested in them, because I heard it at a conference, and then I went away from them, and I was like, oh, no, we need, like, maximally scalable, maximally decentralized, like, maximally trustless systems. And then when you look at, like, how these things are getting constructed today, like, when you talk to the developers and talk to people, like, around roll ups and side chains, like, they do acknowledge, like, yeah, there are a lot of, like, there's a lot of roadblocks. And like, you know, is, is bitcoin, is a data availability layer going to be practical? Is it going to be, is our users going to be able to take on the burden of that cost because it's going to become prohibitively expensive in the future? Is so when we use alternative data availability systems, like what is the trust assumption with that system? What are users taking on there? Are they trusting another consensus protocol? Are they trusting a federation? And then it gets really, really murky because you started with this one trustless system and then you've worked your way back to, oh, this has some additional trust. So it's kind of trust minimized and then you work back even more. And then it's like, oh, well, for specific applications we'll build their own blockchain and then they'll have this completely centralized blockchain.
00:47:53.390 - 00:48:56.074, Speaker B: And I'm like, well, why do you need blockchain for that? Just run some centralized server and just run an execution environment. Centralized servers have maximum throughput and super fast transactions and super low fees. If people just want to gamble on it, just have people put their funds into that. When I started thinking about that type of problem, I started realizing that even the side chains and the roll ups and all these new protocols coming to market are going to really struggle long term scalability. When you look at side chains in particular, I think a huge market that's going to come into play is roll ups on top of side chains. For example, stacks for example, stacks has limited throughput relative to its block size and the amount of data that's made available every x amount of minutes or x amount of seconds. If those blocks fill up and become very expensive to include transactions, users will then have to go to an alternative system, which might be a roll up or roll up style blockchain on top of the stacks blockchain.
00:48:56.074 - 00:49:54.956, Speaker B: And to provide a better user experience, that chain is going to be more centralized than stacks is, and stacks is more centralized than bitcoin. So you're going down the stack constantly and you're essentially building new scaling systems. And as the technologies get better, you kind of decentralize them as much as possible while maintaining a good user experience and providing different trade offs, but eventually down, continually down the stack, you're always going to have some centralized party that you're interacting with. So that's why I started thinking in my personal time a lot more just about fediments and e cash. So it's like, hey, if I'm going to interact with centralized systems. Anyways, if that's the end game here, then yeah, then what's wrong with using a fetiment where I know the signers and know the people like securing the multisig and whatever, right? For me, theoretically I'm just like there's no difference. So yeah, that's just something I've been thinking about a lot.
00:49:54.956 - 00:50:42.800, Speaker B: Like there's always going to be some trust assumption down the stack eventually when we get to this, like millions and millions of people using these things and they're processing millions of transactions and billions of transactions with all this value and all this money. It's like users eventually are going to be put down to like some centralized system, potentially specifically to like the roll up in side chain constructions. I know there's other scaling systems that are completely different and I'm not talking about them, but specifically to the roll ups and side chain stuff is where I spend most of my time. You do see the path towards more centralized systems more often than not. That's something I'm thinking about. I could be very wrong. I used to work at a company that does decentralized sequencers and high throughput data availability.
00:50:42.800 - 00:51:53.530, Speaker B: There's some really interesting use cases. You can build new systems and new blockchains to make different trade offs and optimize for certain things, and you can do some interesting construction within those to provide a lot more scalability. But ultimately I still do think long term that people might just prefer using a chain that has some centralized box and theyre totally cool with that. So I think where were at right now, specifically in bitcoin because for example, the interoperability conversation related to new constructions and all these different design decisions were so early. I think there's nothing wrong with comparing the trust assumption of a centrally operated roll up with a federated two way peg to similarly. In my opinion they have exactly the same trust assumption because the trust ultimately lies with the bridge. But when these new two way pegs get constructed and you have more trust minimized designs, then I think then it starts getting really interesting of how much can we use bitcoin for security? How much do these things actually scale? And that's going to be a really interesting design space and seeing new solutions and techniques that people come up with is going to be really exciting.
00:51:53.530 - 00:52:25.570, Speaker B: But yeah, in the current state I am kind of at this point of, okay, do these things scale? Are we going to be using centralized systems anyways? What's the end game? So I'm 50 50 on it right now, but it's really fun to look at every day. Sorry, that was a rant. But TL doctor is, I think a lot of this stuff ends up being centralized long term for specific application use cases. And in that event, like, do we need to construct blockchains? Anyways, is kind of my question. So, yeah, that's something I think.
00:52:26.510 - 00:52:51.302, Speaker A: I follow the logic. It makes sense to me. I mean, the basic premise is blocked. If you want to maintain decentralization, blockchains don't scale kind of full stop. And you can't build a board decentralized network that's more decentralized than the underlying network. So it's like, if bitcoin is this big, it's kind of like a pyramid that has to. You can't build a pyramid that goes like this and then goes back up bigger than the base.
00:52:51.302 - 00:53:36.744, Speaker A: There's something about the assumption that it's not actually decentralized. There's a bottleneck there. And so you're thinking of something like there's tech unlocks and they could be trust minimized tech that allows less people to put their hands in the pot. And then there's the other side, which is that we lean into more human things, trust things, reputation things, brand things, and there's like a design. It's almost like a tug of war. You optimize for both, but at some level you end up, as you go up the stack and do more things above the base layer, you always run into the reputation and the trust piece, so you might as well optimize for that as well, which most people don't. They think it's all a tech unlock thing.
00:53:36.744 - 00:53:55.040, Speaker A: And it sounds like you're kind of saying there's also this regular ass human thing of like, do I trust, you know Tony g at mutiny? Well, so far, yeah, he's built a great wallet and he's been, like, solid online. So, like, it's kind of like the fettyman thing is leaning into that human aspect of it, too. Of like, know who the circle is involved.
00:53:55.780 - 00:55:00.876, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. And it's like. And when you. I mean, it's going to get crazy. Like we're talking about l two s right now, but, like, people are going to build, there's going to be side chains, and then people are going to build roll ups and different types of blockchains on top of side chains, and there's going to be different DA systems, and there's going to be different sequencers, and there's going to be different network constructions. And it's just, it's going to become a mess. And I think ultimately it's like, can we for the things that the end users are interacting with the most, like who are they trusting? Like, and who are the parties involved with operating the network and custody in their funds and like, and that's why I think this is a very interesting time because I feel like within bitcoin scale and specifically right now is like a lot of the teams specifically that are building roll ups and validiums and side chains or whatever are kind of putting the cart before the horse and they're saying like, trust minimized to like, trust minimize L2s and bitcoin finance is like here.
00:55:00.876 - 00:55:30.960, Speaker B: And like, we're ready to like do all these things on bitcoin. And I'm kind of like, that's great that we can do all these things, but like, we are, like, this is no different than trusting. Like, I don't see how this is any different than like using liquid or rootstock and, like their current forms. And I think right now it's just like people kind of theoretically people not theoretically. Like people are building this stuff and like that there's a lot of like credit due there. Like people are building more trust minimized two way peg constructions. And that, I think is what is spark the interest in all of this new investment.
00:55:30.960 - 00:56:21.464, Speaker B: It's like we can build trust minimize side chains on bitcoin. So therefore, if we can do it, this is going to be a new design space and unlock that I think a lot of people are really excited about. But right now, all the projects that are out and in production accepting user deposits don't have those types of trust minimized assumptions in place. So it's like, okay, we are still, we can already do all the stuff on rootstock. I don't understand why everyone is freaking out. It's basically, I would say, even more centralized and not as reputationally, not reputationally sound, but they don't have as long term of reputation as something like Creekstock does, for example. So I understand a lot of the pessimism from the space as well where people are like, what the hell are all these new things? We could have done this for the last site, two, three, four years or whatever.
00:56:21.464 - 00:56:21.936, Speaker B: So.
00:56:22.048 - 00:56:38.420, Speaker A: Yeah, makes sense. Okay, man, we covered a lot. It's been fantastic. Last, last couple questions for you, just kind of broadly, what are you most excited about right now? It could be something you're researching anything in bitcoin, like what's got you hyped up.
00:56:42.400 - 00:57:49.860, Speaker B: I actually think, like, and I'm not like, I don't research this stuff a lot and like I'm kind of hand waving right now, but like Alex B. From Bitcoin magazine wrote an article about the modular stack of fettiments and ecachements and all connecting with each other through lightning. I think that's really interesting because for example, there's an e cash wallet where you can distribute your sats across various mints and then you can pay invoices from two or three mints at the same time. I think that type of application is really cool because it gives you the centralized user experience of wallet of Satoshi, but additionally allows you to distribute your trust across a number of parties. I think that's particularly useful for really small payments. I know a lot of people really don't like the trust assumptions related to that stuff. But as someone who spends a lot of time researching a lot of these new l two constructions, I think that trust assumption is very similar to these new l two s or whatever specifically to bitcoin.
00:57:49.860 - 00:58:25.520, Speaker B: I'm not trying to compare this to other systems outside of bitcoin. So I think that's exciting. And I think there's a really cool developer community in that ecosystem which I'm excited about. I think that a lot of the validity roll up or BitVM style roll up constructions are going to be pretty cool. I know there's a lot of skepticism in that space. I fortunately know a lot of the teams building in that space just through interactions. And I think they're really smart people and I think they're building really cool stuff.
00:58:25.520 - 00:59:37.444, Speaker B: I'm not 100% convinced that an EVM style or EVM compatible roll up will steal users away from steal users away from Ethereum, for example. But I am excited about potential use cases that we can deploy specifically on these bitcoin roll ups. Can we create better borrowing and lending applications? Can we build better stablecoin infrastructure? And can we do it directly on bitcoin? Can we do things like zcash style, Monero style execution environments? Whether it's in a smart contract on an EVM chain, or is it its own separate roll up or l three or l two or whatever you want to call it, I think that's pretty cool. And I think unlocking those use cases and exploring with the different types of virtual machines that are out there. So whether it be like the Cairo VM, I know that the Cartesi team, they're like an optimistic role of construction in Ethereum with a Linux based virtual machine. They're interested in bitcoin stuff and a lot of their teams contributed to BitVM. So I think all these different design spaces that we're seeing in Ethereum and other ecosystems could potentially come over to bitcoin.
00:59:37.444 - 01:00:11.476, Speaker B: And I think short term, a lot of it's going to get washed out. Long term, I think you get some really cool, interesting chains. And I think as long as designing that type of system with using bitcoin for DA and inheriting some security properties from that, I think it's really cool. And paying DA fees to miners, I think it's interesting. Um, like, I think things like botanics are pretty interesting too. So like they're like, oh, like we're going to kind of reject this like roll up thesis, um, and kind of directly just try to build more decentralized side chains. Like, I think that's pretty interesting.
01:00:11.476 - 01:00:51.510, Speaker B: And I think like the application chain thesis on top of something like botanics, I know they've mentioned that, like podcasts, like, I know it kind of sounds crazy, but like l three s or whatever. Again, I think that's pretty cool, um, because it gives a lot of developer flexibility and a lot of flexibility of the execution environment. Like you don't necessarily like, botanics is going to launch with a rust implementation of the EVM. And I know there are a lot of developers specifically for their own application. Let's think of gaming or something of that nature. They don't want to be constrained specifically by the EVM. They want something more flexible, which is why they might want to develop with a different execution layer, which is why they want to build their own chain, for example.
01:00:51.510 - 01:01:42.922, Speaker B: I think that theoretically sounds pretty cool. It's crazy and it's nuts, but you can pull that off, that's really cool. If everyone can build their own app chain and interoperates and they have sovereignty over their own chain in some form or fashion, but they can communicate with other chains, that's pretty cool. I think that's long term kind of crazy, but I think theoretically that sounds neat. And then lastly, more short term, I think the application chain thesis on bitcoin is interesting. So for example, mezzo and Bob specifically are like, yeah, we're going to build something that's ready right now and we're going to add the more bitcoin oriented security tech on later. So it's like, yeah, let's build an ethereum roll up that abstracts all the way to complexity of using these applications and makes it feel like it's a bitcoin chain.
01:01:42.922 - 01:01:55.510, Speaker B: I think even though people will be like, that's not bitcoin. It's not. Whatever. I think from a go to market perspective, that is really interesting. And I think mezzo is another one. No, we're just going to build tendermint. We're going to have pretty fast blocks.
01:01:55.510 - 01:02:20.240, Speaker B: We're going to use CPTC, which is this battle tested two way peg mechanism that they developed. We're going to bring it all together and we're going to build this application chain. And it's like, you know what? As much as I like to theorize about roll ups and decentralization and all this stuff, that's pretty cool. And that's building for something that exists today. Yeah, I think that is an interesting. Those are the things. So basically everything.
01:02:20.240 - 01:02:55.066, Speaker B: Sorry, there's a long way to say everything. I'm excited for a lot of the peer to peer, like, not. Yeah, a lot of the use cases that enable, quote unquote, like, cypherpunk banking and localized banking with feniments and ecash. I think that's cool. And I think everything from the sidechain space is really interesting and that there are teams, like, I know a lot of people get, like, negative about it, but there are teams building really cool stuff. So, yeah, every. I'm excited about everything and, yeah, I just wanted to give, like, a few specific examples and explain why.
01:02:55.258 - 01:03:18.778, Speaker A: No, it's super helpful because, especially, I mean, I knew what you just said, all those things, because I'm pretty deep in the weeds. Most people probably aren't. So it's very cursory. So, yeah, it's good to know. We're definitely in the experimentation phase, and there's no clear winners. That's the main thing. So we don't know which one's going to win out.
01:03:18.778 - 01:04:02.718, Speaker A: It probably could be a combination of all the above, especially as they kind of start to talk to each other. And there's interoperability amongst different standards. For example, where it's like, now there's this thesis that lightning is more of a glue between networks. For example, it's not like this end all, be all but buy your coffee thing unless you're going to go custodial. So, yeah, bolting on, like you said, the cashew mints and the multi mint payment, huge implications. Seeing that diagram of it funneling from three different places into one is like, there's so much you can do with that that it's hard to even wrap your head around. And then you can layer on, like, algorithms and AI to make it more efficient.
01:04:02.718 - 01:04:25.260, Speaker A: Or maybe that mint. You can go here and that means you can go over there because they're route like all kinds of things. So, yeah. All that to say that we're definitely in the early endings, which is interesting. Yeah. Nothing else to add actually on that. Do you have any closing thoughts question I didn't ask that you want to bring it home with.
01:04:26.880 - 01:05:05.144, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the big thing is like everyone right now, right, like this is a very weird time and very weird, like space, I think, and scaling bitcoin or adding new functionalities to bitcoin, etcetera. I would just like encourage everyone to like, like there's a lot of information out there and I would get it from as many places as possible. Right. Like, I think everyone kind of like focuses on like their own specific domain. Like, so I like, you know, look at side chains a lot and like talk about sequencers all the time and like, that's like a very niche thing.
01:05:05.192 - 01:05:05.592, Speaker A: Right.
01:05:05.696 - 01:06:09.750, Speaker B: So when I like go to lightning, I have like a few like main people that I want to like, you know, speak to or want to like read from because like that's like the domain that they're specifically focused in and similar to like Fedamine and e cache, whatever. I, I think there's just like so much stuff going on right now. It is going to seem like a whirlwind, but it's a really fun time and it's really exciting. And I do ultimately think that a lot of the stuff that's being developed is a scam. I would say 95%, especially in the new sidechain roll up type space. I think 95% of it's a scam, but I think that past that, when you can move past this kind of crazy time, like you are going to end up with these really cool applications and really cool chains and really cool new designs that will allow you to either make using your bitcoin more easy for payments or just unlocking new functionalities. I think that approach it with some skepticism, but at the same time it's a really optimistic time.
01:06:09.750 - 01:06:38.528, Speaker B: And I think that there's a lot of fun stuff that's going to come of this. And I think it's just going to be messy for a couple of years, but long term it's going to be really cool. And I think that when we look at these chains, the competitor is not each other. The competitors are systems like Ethereum in Solana. And it's like, yeah, kind of thinking past it. The roll up is trying to take users away from lightning. I don't think that's the case.
01:06:38.528 - 01:07:05.220, Speaker B: No. We're trying to. And even though I might not be completely convinced that an EVM compatible roll up on bitcoin will take users from an Ethereum roll up, I still think that building that is something worth doing and seeing you can compete in the market. And do they value using bitcoin as a native asset more than other chains and more than other assets? Yeah, I think that's pretty cool. I think it's a really interesting design space. I'm excited for it.
01:07:05.810 - 01:07:22.470, Speaker A: Love it. Well said. All right, to close this out, people have been deluded with all this information. You should listen back to this, educate yourself. But if they want to go check out bitcoin layers or check out you, where should they go to learn more?
01:07:23.570 - 01:07:44.566, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm mainly on Twitter, so. J a n U s z g. That's my twitter. I basically just talk about new side chains all day. That's kind of boring. Bitcoin layers is itcoinlayers on Twitter, and our website is bitcoinlayers.org dot.
01:07:44.566 - 01:08:02.130, Speaker B: And we're going to be doing some stuff related to newsletters and media and stuff like that, trying to outline all these new systems. So yeah, those are the main places to follow me and follow bitcoin layers. And we'll start getting on other apps like Noster and other, other communication channels as well in the near future.
01:08:02.950 - 01:08:13.182, Speaker A: Perfect. I'll have links below to make it easier on people listening. But man, thank you for coming on, for dropping knowledge and doing what you're doing. Appreciate it. Yanis.
01:08:13.286 - 01:08:14.830, Speaker B: Yeah, thank you so much.
01:08:14.990 - 01:08:52.695, Speaker A: Thank you for listening this far into the episode. If you found it enjoyable, please do, like subscribe on whatever platform that you're listening on YouTube does me a huge favor to like and subscribe. Find me on Twitter akeblocktrade. Show me some love. I reply to every DM. And if you are a bitcoin builder that is kind of at this forefront of building new use cases, whether it's l one, lightning stacks, rootstock rollups, ordinals, BRC 20. I want to talk to you.
01:08:52.695 - 01:09:20.434, Speaker A: So when I'm not doing this podcast, I am the sourcing partner at the Bitcoin Frontier Fund, where we invest in bitcoin startups at the earliest stages, give you access to whatever you need, whether it's legal, product, fundraising help, as well as capital. So let me talk to you. You can hit me up again. Find me on Twitter at and shoot me a DM. I'll read everything. Love and talk to you guys.
01:09:20.562 - 01:09:48.740, Speaker B: All right, peace is gone. We playing the long game to the black rock chains with the rocks paid off from the blockchain going up hot octane so we up in here like pomme making big noise, big money? Go play with your kid toys? You funny? I'm counting my bitcoin? We up and we been gone? It's gone? Planted out and we did this purposefully panning out like the kitchen currently it's like surgery way? It's earning me a nurse's salary for crypto currency? I'm on a vacate? Drinking coconuts while wearing polka dots? This ain't no hocus pocus? Listen up and learn, it's gone.
