00:00:00.600 - 00:00:35.014, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. Sorry for the delay. My name is guys papillzy. I'm one of the co founder of the AP one protocol. So we are doing interest rate derivatives on yield. My presentation today is more about where are we in terms of Defi? Are we actually having organic growth? What's next after the yield speculation and all the yield farming that we had since, I would say 2021? You've seen the first slide first, but just temperature check. Who remembered those? Hope you made a lot of money with that.
00:00:35.014 - 00:01:26.388, Speaker A: Fun times, right? That was summer. 2020 defined summer, the time where someone's introduced you to decentralized finance, tell you it's the future of permissionless, open source resistance finance, and then they explain you that with a website that looks like a farmer game or whatever, and it tells you that, yeah, you can make that amount of money, but sure, it's organic. But yeah, Defi did not necessarily started with that, but DeFi really had a boom wherein some protocols, like compound, invented the concept of liquidity mining. Because DeFi protocol needs liquidity. It's somewhere you need to use the liquidity of someone else to achieve or to make a financial product. Working behind the scene. And so how do you incentivize that they invented liquidity mining? Fast forward today, liquidity mining is seen as something that can be easily non organical because basically you're paying for liquidity.
00:01:26.388 - 00:03:01.988, Speaker A: Is that cost reasonable? Are you doing that just to bootstrap the liquidity? Or like, what are the mechanism behind that? It evolved quite a lot, and today we have a lot of protocols that works efficiently without that. But the question remains, is Defi organic today? And if you look at how is the liquidity used, actually it's not that much. Still, still today, even on the protocol that don't have that many incentives, if you look at what is the liquidity used for, basically, usually, sometimes it's just flipping the position between different protocols to make an arbitrage, to eventually farm some kind of incentive somewhere else. So sure, interest rates went down, but it's not necessarily extremely organic today. And the point here is how do we change that? How do we change the trend? And with basically three different axis. First, for the liquidity provision, because it's the first thing that we identify is, okay, we needed liquidity, how do we get that without too much incentives? The second thing is liquidity is nice, but if you need liquidity, what for do we actually have organic usage with that liquidity as well? And the third point is, okay, so we have liquidity and usage, but is DeFi competitive with. Is DeFi really interesting to use instead of what we can eventually have access otherwise, which is not necessarily the case for everyone, but even for us is that really competitive? The first thing is, the presentation is a bit, but the first thing is while building DeFi protocols we had different layers as well.
00:03:01.988 - 00:03:24.340, Speaker A: We had for example lending markets like AAve. And then on top of that you would have some other protocol optimizing the lending market like Morpho. And then on top of that then you would have another protocol that would leverage those lending protocol to for example trade interest rates, what we do. But a lot of other applications. So people like to add numbers saying it's DeFi 2.03.0, I guess soon 5.0, something like that.
00:03:24.340 - 00:03:55.070, Speaker A: But eventually it's layers. And if you build layers then you need to leverage that architecture to make it sufficient in terms of liquidity provision. So when you deposit some money on AAve you earn interest rate for that, right? And so the question is if you're building something on top of it then it should be pretty obvious. But it's not the case with a lot of protocols being built on top. The liquidity provider should at least earn. Sorry, I'm hearing some kind of noise. Is someone saying anything? Yeah.
00:03:55.070 - 00:04:44.772, Speaker A: So if you build a layers additionally on top of that then you need to leverage the previous infrastructure to be able, able to, to be at least as efficient as the previous layer. And if you do that then eventually it's way easier to have liquidity because user can provide liquidity at the top and that provide liquidity to all layers. So like there was a quiz game, okay, you do LDFI lending like that then you want to build broader liquidity like another protocol, leveraging that on top of it like APyn is doing. So interest rate derivatives. So basically we have liquidity providers or lenders that generates interest and we want to add instrument for them to be able to trade their yield, speculative variation, that kind of thing. And so by building that in a layered approach then all liquidity provider at least earn what have they does. But then on top of that they will earn API and interest rates.
00:04:44.772 - 00:05:32.648, Speaker A: So if someone uses your protocol then they would gain additional interest because of that usage, because of those fees on top of the previous infrastructure and as whole building layers you actually have a very interesting protocol to provide liquidity to because it earns fees of all the underlying layers and you don't need just to compensate with insane incentives and that kind of thing. And capital efficiency for liquidity providers is the key marketing ingredient for them. The presentation is completely fucked up, but that's for liquidity provision. What about the usage? When we talk about usage, we talk about users. Then it's very interesting to see, see what kind of user of defi. We've been building a protocol for more than two years. And the first thing that you do when you build the protocols is thinking about the UX and many things.
00:05:32.648 - 00:06:00.756, Speaker A: But if you think about it and you look at who are the biggest users of the protocol, it's usually other protocols from Aave, from Moffo, all those things. It's also layers. So it's not just the UI and the UX, it's also the smart contract UX. How does it work at that level? Because that's where you have the most volume. So you need to be compatible for them. You need to embrace the money legal paradigm and be an efficient piece of it. Then we talk about institutions and we like, okay, but we want to be institutions ready, like we want to have bigger.
00:06:00.756 - 00:06:38.144, Speaker A: Maybe we need liquidity, maybe that's the only thing. But it's not just the liquidity, it's just the overall efficiency. The previous talk was very interesting. For one thing, it's like make me put in clear, like what's an Imm as we know it defy? And how inefficient can it be? And that inefficiency is just a matter of liquidity. It's not relative, it's core to the design. And you have different need. If you're a user ready to lose part of your money because you don't have the same incentives in a profitability model than an institution, and then you won't attract bigger actors if you don't accommodate to those different kind of profitability models.
00:06:38.144 - 00:07:16.734, Speaker A: So that's the first thing is to identify this. The second thing is if borrowers on Aave, let's say, are pretty organic, we will take a loan at averaging at one or 2% that can eventually go in one day up to 80% interest rate. DeFi is not practicable as it is now. It's way too random. It's a casino. And if we want to revolutionize permissionless and open finance, then we need to have the tools and the certainty to be able to make Defi not just a casino, where you're exposed to whatever the volatility of today and tomorrow will be. So we need to make those instruments to be way safer.
00:07:16.734 - 00:07:43.466, Speaker A: And this is true for traditional finance as well. Bigger institutions, companies, they're all using interest rate derivatives to edge their cash flow. That's the key metric. And you're in a competition with others that are doing the same. And in terms of profitability is extremely important. When you take a loan at your bank to buy your house or whatever, you need to know the ranges of interest rate you need to. All those parameters are extremely important.
00:07:43.466 - 00:08:26.720, Speaker A: And if we want to have DeFi with more real use cases, we need to have the same certainty. It's not just about the composability and the openness, it's also about the efficiency. So we've been building a few products to try to make defi more practicable. For example, fixed income product where you know what you earn, you're a lender. It's not just your farming, because you don't really care if it's one or 2 million APIs, because eventually you're just earning a shit ton of incentives for something. And you know that the second it will not be the case, you will just switch terms of protocol, hoping that your phones will still be there the next day. But I guess we would agree to say that it's not very organic and it's not necessarily the way DeFi should be built.
00:08:26.720 - 00:08:57.730, Speaker A: And so having product where you have way more certainty, not just stability, because volatility is interesting for traders, but addressing the retailers that want to earn interest revenues with more certainty. Fixed income product actually a great fit. There's also the other side. I showed the graph of interest rates that you were paying for borrowing USDT on Aave. So of course the spike was due to the USDC event. But that's also events that happen every day. And that's also events that have way more impact because we have less liquidity.
00:08:57.730 - 00:09:34.838, Speaker A: And that might still be the case in a longer timeframe as well. So know what you pay. Parallel is also something that can improve that a lot. If you're taking a loan for a fixed duration, then you can actually pay the interest rate upfront or not, but you actually know the price that you will pay. That makes defi more practicable because you can build with premises. One other thing is a common command that we have often in defi that is quite frustrating is. Yeah, but Defi is a closed circle and you basically paying yourself or someone else and it's just completely organic.
00:09:34.838 - 00:10:24.334, Speaker A: Well, I think it's forced even with what we call real door assets, because eventually, like the lending market that we have actually have organic use even given previously what I said. But also we are more and more bridging real world economy to defi, leveraging, composability and tokenization to bring those assets to bonds. But also like real estate, all those things. This is including way more financial primitive, connecting them between themselves and making that quite adaptive and quite competitive for the users. So now we have efficient liquidity provision architecture. We can have organical usage, we can have organical assets. So now it's really about being even more competitive than tradfi.
00:10:24.334 - 00:10:54.626, Speaker A: Like the spread between the lending and borrowing for Aave, for example, is huge. Currently, that's where more for companies into play. So then you have less spread or no spread, because lending and borrowers are matched. But then eventually, if you go on top of that and you add APY, then you have, you don't even have the volatile APY. You can have fixed, fixed interests as a lender or borrower over a definite period of time. That's where you bring efficiency to the interest rates. And if you bring, bring efficiency to interest rates, meaning that they're organic, they're interesting for you.
00:10:54.626 - 00:11:29.988, Speaker A: And the price that you know is that the price that you pay is known and it's less of a casino. Then there you actually have a practical financial ecosystem. Because interest rates are the price of liquidity, some value of money, and it's the base of finance. And everything that I just said about DeFi was just about liquidity. So that's the final stage and that's the next step. After is regulation and farming. Another thing that we can do, as Ann remarked, is leveraging even more the money legos to integrate those real world assets as collateral, bringing more efficiency.
00:11:29.988 - 00:12:01.538, Speaker A: There are a lot of things to be careful about. We are very known to be efficient at breaking things in DeFi. So it's a progressive process, but it's also where we can be even more competitive and attractive. Finance in a paradigm that would be too complicated to implement otherwise. It's a bit of a bullshit slide. But when next for DeFi also you have efficiency at spot and in the terms of product, I think we can build even more things. Over the last past days, a different event.
00:12:01.538 - 00:12:36.780, Speaker A: I've talked a lot with Defi builders and users as well. And I think there is a key lack of a risk management framework. There is a key, like everything has to be manual or you delegate to someone else. And this is practicability UX insight. And those are key points that are very much needed, I think for DeFi to grow as of today, and especially if we want to onboard more users in terms of numbers, but also profile. Not everyone is interested to earn a million API, but having a 50% chance of losing their money tomorrow. Thank you, everyone.
00:12:36.780 - 00:12:58.384, Speaker A: If you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer them. And thank you. We've got some time for questions. I mean, Gaspar is also going to be available on the conference, so thank you so much. Thank you.
