00:00:00.840 - 00:00:28.674, Speaker A: What's up, guys? Tyke here. And welcome to part three on how DeFi gets to a trillion TVL, where at the beginning of every month, I monitor DeFi trends and narratives so you can get a better gauge on what's happening and general trends within the on chain crypto economy. So at the date of recording, according to DeFi Llama, the TVL of DeFi is at 41.79. And when I started part one, it was at 37.8. And that's a great improvement. That's a, you know, a little bit over a 10% increase. And we love to see that.
00:00:28.674 - 00:01:18.712, Speaker A: However, all time highs in TVL is at 177 or basically 180. And for this to happen, for TVL to get from these lows to these highs, a lot of things has to change. And I've laid out that the one way. Right? I mean, there are many ways how DeFi gets searched on TVL. I think it has to be led mostly by stablecoins. And the existential crisis that I see in DeFi is the high off chain interest rates that people can get, if you're an american, to just go to fidelity or any other brokerage accounts, buy short term treasuries and clip, let's say, five to five and a quarter percent. And if people can receive the risk free rate off chain, then there's very little incentives for people to convert their fiat into stable coins, bridge it on chain, pay hefty fees, expose themselves of a smart contract rug risk.
00:01:18.712 - 00:02:04.922, Speaker A: It's really not worth it. Even if the rates on stable coins are, let's say, 8% on random farms with financial innovation, it really isn't like these, you know, defi native, crypto native projects just aren't good enough. And I think the way that DeFi can slowly recover is by translating these off chain yields on chain. And that way, you know, we're not reliant on token inflation. We're not reliant on, you know, people paying fees and being liquidated to, you know, get, like, on chain yield. I think, you know, one way to create a player versus environment economy, at least on chain, is by just have these tokenized treasuries, or in other words, yield bearing dollars, where you can take a stable coin, stake it and earn, let's say, roughly 5%. And this way we have off chain yield sources pumping into on chain.
00:02:04.922 - 00:02:36.132, Speaker A: And that can actually create a more vibrant on chain economy. And when I lay this thesis out, the TVL for real world assets, because, you know, I mean, stable coins are real world assets. And I'm just saying that, you know what, we have non yield bearing stable coins earning 0% sitting in your wallet. Why not, you know, have, like, why not create the ability to stake those stable coins and let's say, earn 5%? And at the time, you know, RWA, according to Pharma, TVL was 1.3 billion, as you can see here. And now it's at six point or 6.05 billion.
00:02:36.132 - 00:03:01.746, Speaker A: Of course, you know, partly part of this is because if you click to the order of a section, you go to maker in. Two months ago, the TVO here wasn't counted, so the 3 billion wasn't counted. So maybe you can say that. Let's see, at the time, maybe the TVL in R was 4.3 billion, 4.24.3 billion. And now it's at, what is it, 6.0.
00:03:01.746 - 00:03:31.240, Speaker A: I mean, that's pretty good, right? We went from 4.3 to six in the span of two months. And it's pretty simple, right? Like, would you rather earn 0% yield on stable coins or 5% yield on stable coins? It's really not a crazy thesis. And I just think that these stablecoin issuers are just going to continue to suck in TVL away from USDC into yield bearing stables. And you can kind of see this in the trend here. If you go to USDC on Coingecko and monitor the market cap. Let's go here, go to Max.
00:03:31.240 - 00:03:56.470, Speaker A: You know, it's going down. Okay. And interestingly, if you go to USDT, it's holding up much better. And there are a few reasons. First of all, to redeem tether into fiat, you have to have, you know, like a good relationship with the team. You have to have like an actual account to redeem tether into fiat. So, you know, a lot of people have been selling tether into USDC if they wanted to redeem.
00:03:56.470 - 00:04:40.434, Speaker A: And, you know, USDT is more stickier on chain. Whereas for USDC, anyone with a coinbase account can redeem circle for USDC into fiat. And all these on chain tokenized treasuries, for example, Maker. What's basically happening is people are giving USDC to maker in exchange for Dai, and you can stake Dai for 5%, and in return, Maker is redeeming USDC into fiat and then buying treasuries. So it's effectively a vampire attack on USDC. And I would expect this to continue as long as USDC, the redemption fees are zero. I think at some point the bleed is going to be so large that coinbase and circle, they're going to be forced to create like a 0.05%
00:04:40.434 - 00:05:10.546, Speaker A: redemption fee or something. But until that happens, I think the trend is going to continue to be down. Of course, we are seeing a broader pump in crypto prices. I mean, it's down today, but generally we've seen a couple big candles. And this is going to be also good for TVL because, I mean, if TVL is denominated in bitcoin and ether, and the price goes up, then, yeah, the values will also be inflated. So you can also argue that TVL is kind of like a vanity metric. But if you think about DeFi, it's a financial system built on top of crypto monies, bitcoin and ether.
00:05:10.546 - 00:05:52.080, Speaker A: And if bitcoin and ether as crypto monies have more value, then there's more value for the general decentralized finance ecosystem. Similar to how if the dollar has a lot of value and it's outperforming against other currencies, then the financial system in the United States will have more value than, let's say, financial companies in Europe or Japan, for example. So it's a pretty simple. I mean, yeah, it's kind of a similar analogy. If bitcoin pumps, if ether continues to pump, then the financial, then Defi as a whole should benefit. And, you know, I mean, this is good to see, but I have been pretty disappointed in terms of, like, defi innovation. And you can make an argument that we have the uniswap of the world.
00:05:52.080 - 00:06:41.358, Speaker A: We have Lido, we have Aave, and, you know, we have an exchange, we have a staking protocol, we have a bank, and we have a decentralized stablecoin. And that's all great and dandy, and, like, what more is there to, like, innovate on? And, no, I mean, look, I'm not trying to, like, hate on this project, but there's like, this new project called Prisma Finance, which is, you know, heavily hyped, at least if you go to crypto Twitter. And basically what it is is it's an over collateralized stable coin using liquid staking derivatives as collateral. So you can, for example, take staked Eth, that's earning like 3%, and then borrow against it. You pay a 1% interest rate, but then, you know, you can borrow against it and you get a stable coin. And if you go to the application, I might need to connect my wallet. But, yeah, you can borrow and then just be paid to do so with inflationary tokens.
00:06:41.358 - 00:07:22.886, Speaker A: And then, you know, you can borrow MK USD which is stablecoin, stake it in here and then earn 82% APR. So it's pure inflation. I mean, you know, if you look at the actual cap table, if you go here, you know, it's got all these angel investors. So of course, you know, all these people are going to be showing it right to their audience because they're financially incentivized to do so. And if you look at the token distribution, you know, 10% is going to the team, 20%, sorry, 20% to the team, 10% to investors. And yeah, like these team tokens, there's no unlock, there's just unlock, there's like no lock up period. It's unlocked linearly for twelve months.
00:07:22.886 - 00:07:58.300, Speaker A: And then for the angel investors it's also unlocked linearly for twelve months. So you know, I mean, come on, right? Like we need better things. We can't just fork existing things and then add tokens and expect to call innovation. Yes, Prisma finance has, you know, I mean they share like the same developer community as like, you know, curve, convex fracs, conic, like whatever. And you know, you can go to prisma.com and you can lock up your Prisma for, you know, CVX, Prisma and then you're earning, oh my God, so like such high rates. But really this isn't good enough.
00:07:58.300 - 00:08:53.734, Speaker A: And I do think that DeFi has pretty much matured in terms of new types of innovation that can happen. Of course there can be innovation in terms of new stablecoin designs, maybe new borrow lending designs that doesn't use oracles, maybe better or even decentralized exchange designs. But the types of innovation happening on Mainnet hasn't been that impressive. And I still think that for more liquidity to migrate on chain we do need DC gold bearing stable coins. And you can kind of see this. Let's actually go here. And I do think that because the question is, most of my viewers are american and then Americans are saying, hey, why would I do this? Why would I die or stake my USDT with Justin sun when I can go to fidelity? Well maybe this isn't really the product for you.
00:08:53.734 - 00:09:46.756, Speaker A: Or maybe it is, you know. Yes, like from a privileged Americans point of view, yeah, like I can do that. I own some tbils myself. But like what if you're not a privileged American, right? And you don't want to go through KYC AML and go through fidelity and whatnot, then you know, it's going to be more convenient for these people to, you know, convert their local currencies into, into the dollar right, via stable coins and then stake it on chain, either on Tron, either on mainnet or other cheap chains, and earn the risk free rate that way. And in terms of, in exchange for that convenience, then the stable coin issuers like tether or Justin sun or maker can charge a small fee and that can go towards protocol revenue. And it's a viable business. And even from my perspective, let's say I sell my coins into stablecoins because I feel risk off for whatever reason, and I want to earn the risk rate.
00:09:46.756 - 00:10:39.682, Speaker A: Am I really going to go through the friction of redeeming USDC and the coinbase, you know, like, you know, going through like a three day withdrawal process, waiting for the money to hit the bank and then wire the money to fidelity takes like one day to settle and then buy t bills. And then I have to wait like one, two, three months in order for me to liquidate that position to like, you know, bridge off, like bridge back on chain. If I want to buy a coin after there's some correction. No, I mean, I mean, I could do that, but that's a lot of friction and maybe I'm willing to forego. So instead of like earning 5.3%, maybe I'm willing to say, you know what? Like, let me earn 5% on Dai, because, you know, if I want to unstake and buy something on chain, no, like I have the initial or I get rid of those frictions and I have instant liquidity. And that's why I still think that all these tokenized treasury projects, whether it be, you know, maker, Kanto Frax, Ondo.
00:10:39.682 - 00:11:11.262, Speaker A: I mean, you can go through. Let's go here. You can go through here, maker, you can go to Tron Ondo finance Realty, matrix stock, hash note. I mean, you know, you can earn like roughly 5% on stable coins. And I would just expect, you know, this figure here, the one month change just to be green across the board, generally intangible, doesn't count because it's like real estate. But, you know, I would expect this sector to be up only in TVL. And at the time, I mean, two months ago, right, the TVL was roughly.
00:11:11.262 - 00:11:37.260, Speaker A: Whoops, TVL was roughly four point. Sorry. Yeah, like 4.3, because it didn't count into take into account maker. And now it's at six. Okay, so I would expect maybe by January that this number will be at seven or something, right? Like, you know, like this is purely a market inefficiency, in my opinion. All this, this is like USDC, that's sitting there doing nothing.
00:11:37.260 - 00:12:15.362, Speaker A: This should just be converted into either fiat to go into t bills or yield bearing stable coins on chain. And this is one of the bigger macro trends that I foresee happening in the future. But only time will tell. I guess we'll talk about price a little bit. Just because maker has been underperforming and it is my largest holding right now. I guess in my defense, I purchased it in July and maker, even in this correction, is up 35% or like 30%, let's say. And bitcoin since July, like middle July is up 15%.
00:12:15.362 - 00:12:34.926, Speaker A: So maker has outperformed. And ether since July is down. It's down. So maker has outperformed. But this recent underperformance, when the markets are pumping and it's going down, is kind of concerning, right, the maker eat ratio. I was screaming for maker to get the parity and then now it's down. What is it? Like? It's down.
00:12:34.926 - 00:13:10.100, Speaker A: Like it's down like 25%. So it's definitely not ideal. But this is what I've been saying, right? Like maker is a very defensive asset. So if the markets are rather risk off or it's choppy or no one really knows what the future direction of the markets are, then I think more and more money is going to flow into maker because it's one of the few assets that is actually making a bunch of money. And a lot of money is flowing into buybacks. So the buybacks have stopped because the system surplus is below 50 million. But I would expect more money to flow on chain, right? I mean, every couple of weeks, every couple of months, all this money flows on chain.
00:13:10.100 - 00:13:35.696, Speaker A: And then they're used to buy back the token. It stopped for quite some time. Now, the last buyback was, I don't even know, like a couple days ago. Okay, like a few days ago, it doesn't even show here. And then I've also talked about, okay, the maker PE ratio is like 14. It's so cheap. But do crypto people who really care about pe ratios? I think at some point, as markets become more efficient, they will.
00:13:35.696 - 00:14:09.098, Speaker A: But maybe literally people have made money on maker and because they've outperformed, they're rotating maker, selling maker to buy more volatile crypto assets. And maybe that's literally what's happening here. A capital rotation away from maker into more higher risk assets, which, I mean, I'm not really against. Right. I mean, that's how people should do it. My entire approach for maker has been, yeah, like, let's outperform bitcoin let's outperform ether by holding maker. And once more risk on signals start to show in the markets, like, you know, rotate.
00:14:09.098 - 00:14:34.526, Speaker A: Right. Maybe I'm being too stubborn by just still holding on the maker. Maybe that rotation has already happened. But I still think that, you know, if you look at my YouTube metrics, I've still yet to gain subscribers. Right. I mean, this is pretty, pretty sad. Maybe this is a me problem and not like a broader crypto problem, but this is like a common trend, I noticed, for other crypto channels that are on the larger side.
00:14:34.526 - 00:15:08.180, Speaker A: So there's some stagnation there. And if you look at, for example, total market cap, this contains. Yeah, I mean, everything, right? Bitcoin ether, stable coins, altcoins, and it's putting in new local highs, whereas total two, which doesn't contain bitcoin, is, you know, still relatively flat, and then total three is still relatively flat. So this kind of tells me that there isn't new money entering the space. Of course. Obviously, right? Some institutions are buying bitcoin. Some retail has started to buy bitcoin, other altcoins, but it might be just offset by people still leaving.
00:15:08.180 - 00:15:51.948, Speaker A: And until we see just like, total three, just like, pump out of the wazoo and total two pump out of the wazoo, I don't really see crazy alt season happening. I could be wrong. And, you know, I mean, it's all according to your risk tolerance, right? Maybe I'm more conservative and I'm not gonna just, like, go crazy aping yolo, you know, leverage altcoins until, you know, this gets to local highs. But, you know, that also means that if I'm waiting for confirmation, then I'll be buying crypto at higher prices on average. But, you know, maybe you can argue that it's less risk. And if you're more on the higher risk spectrum, then maybe you're like, okay, like, this is the bottom. I expect it to go higher.
00:15:51.948 - 00:16:27.810, Speaker A: So instead of waiting for boomer taiki to buy or rotate his maker, I'm gonna just, you know, buy Solana or something. So let's talk about Solana. Solana is very interesting. So I do another podcast called steadylats, and we've talked extensively about, you know, Solana value accrual. The problems with Solana, mostly because, you know, FTX owns a. Over a billion dollars of Tesla that has to be liquidated over, like, next four years or four to five years. And look, I have no idea when all that supplies can hit the markets, but it's kind of hard for me to psychologically buy this thing knowing that there's a forced seller.
00:16:27.810 - 00:17:14.794, Speaker A: And as Solana goes to higher and higher prices, it's also going to increase the dollar value of Solana. So if there's a billion dollars with the Solana that has to be liquid at $40, then, you know, even if the, the units of tokens don't change, you know, at $80, it's gonna be $2 billion. So the market has to absorb more supply via, like, USD purchases, which, I mean, it could, right? And, you know, like, I'm not saying that I'm right, but Solana as an asset is less interesting to me. Maybe I'm like, purely coping. But I do want to talk about the Defi ecosystem because, you know, defi isn't just ethereum. L two is mainnet, it's also other l one ecosystems. And I talked about Kanto and I, you know, I'll do the weekly updates tomorrow or, you know, this weekend.
00:17:14.794 - 00:17:55.562, Speaker A: But I do want to talk about the slant ecosystem because I do think some interesting things are happening here. So one thing, for example, is there's this new airdrop for the pit network. And if you've used any applications that used the price oracle in the past, you're eligible for an airdrop. So I got a few thousand tokens because I've used, you know, like, defi applications. And if you actually look here about the airdrop, you know, pith token is the SPL. Like, uses the SPL standard, meaning it's native to the Solana blockchain, meaning that, you know, for me, if I wanted to claim my pith airdrop, by the way, I don't know when it's like, when exactly it's happening. They just took the snapshot.
00:17:55.562 - 00:18:23.510, Speaker A: And, you know, you can check on the website. So I'll put it in the description. So, you know, there's gonna be probably thousands of people, I don't know the exact number, thousands and ten thousands of, like, wallets that needs to claim these tokens. And, you know, in order to claim, I need to create a Solana wallet. So I haven't touched my phantom wallet in probably like over a year, to be honest. But now I'm like, okay, like, I guess I have to redownload it. I have to find my private keys and do all that stuff.
00:18:23.510 - 00:19:04.822, Speaker A: And I think this is like one of the catalysts, right? So this acts as a stimulus check for the on chain economy. And also it's not just a stimulus check. People have to download or, you know, people have to, you know, get some solenoid wallet to claim. And I think that alone is a catalyst. And we've also started to see other types of projects like Jupiter, which is an aggregator, you know, promise an airdrop. I don't really think this airdrop is going to be worth that much, but, you know, it's something. And we've also seen this trend where not tether, but Celestia, they recently did an airdrop, you know, unfortunately, right.
00:19:04.822 - 00:20:05.998, Speaker A: Very fortunately, Gary Gensler was able to protect me from this airdrop. So, you know, I'm very, I'm very protected from potential financial losses of getting free tokens. But, you know, I mean, you know, we start to see, like more teams do these airdrops. And, you know, as I talked about, I think more and more teams are going to be incentivized to drop tokens if they believe that, you know, 2024 is going to be a good year. Why? Well, most, I mean, if you look at most economics for team and investors, they have a one year lockup, right? So if they drop a token, let's say today, the tokens will start to vest for team and investors on November 2, 2024. And they usually have like a three year unlock period, right? Um, so if people think that 2024 and 2025 is going to be a good year for crypto, um, then the team and investors, they have to plan for that, right? Like they want their tokens to start unlocking when, you know, euphoria is in the air, so there's liquidity for them to dump into. Um, so I mean, obviously, like the things I'm saying, right.
00:20:05.998 - 00:20:54.688, Speaker A: It's like, you know, like vc tokens, like team tokens, um, but if, like, from like an airdrop perspective, it could catalyze a substantial wall effect. If people are just getting stimulus checks on chain and who are going to be receiving these stimulus checks, it's going to be people like you and I that's persevered throughout this bear market and continued to use the chain. So that could also help catalyze a potential e BTC. Bottom. And I don't really have a good view on this, and I don't really care about the e two BTC ratio, if I were to be completely honest. But if people get airdrops, you know, those people tend to be crypto natives and crypto natives tend to denominate their wealth and eth. So all these airdrops, people are more likely going to be selling it into ether than, let's say, bitcoin.
00:20:54.688 - 00:21:20.672, Speaker A: So that could also potentially lead to, you know, an EBC bottom, slowly but surely. But you know, it's, it's just speculation. Right. But yeah, I think that's going to be mostly it for me. I think I want to talk about something else. Okay, we're 21 minutes in. If you're watching this video, you're going to watch it till the end.
00:21:20.672 - 00:22:01.440, Speaker A: So let me, give me like 20 seconds for me to think about what I missed. Oh, yeah, okay, I remember that. Okay, so back, okay, back to my thread. Right, so basically, you know, I basically declared the beginning of the bull market a couple months ago, just because I see this trend happening where the problem within DeFi is lack of on chain yields. And we can fix that by tokenizing treasuries and creating yield bearing dollars. And you know, and if you also think about, you know, where our institutions are going to allocate their money into, sure. They're going to allocate the bitcoin, right, via the ETF and maybe the EtH ETF next.
00:22:01.440 - 00:22:52.630, Speaker A: But if you think about altcoins, yeah, like they're probably allocated to like maybe Solana or like layer ones. But from like a sector perspective, I think there's also going to be a significant, significant amount of capital that's going to go into tokenization of securities, right? I mean, that's what Larry fix been talking about for years, or maybe not years, maybe once. And I do think that the real world asset sector is going to be the main benefactor. And maybe it's not like an exciting sector, right? It's like, yes, yield on stable coins from like a DJ perspective. Who gives a fuck, right? However, you know, I do think that this has to happen in order for the on chain economy to slowly recover. Because, for example, if you look at the costs, so there's $1.6 billion of stake to die earning 5%, and the cost to the protocol is $80 million.
00:22:52.630 - 00:23:49.258, Speaker A: But that also means that in the next year, assuming that this value stays constant, which I don't think it will, there's $80 million worth of value coming from government instruments into the hands of crypto agents like you and I. And this is another form of Dewalt effect, okay? Like if you think about on chain yields, right, people are farming and dumping prisma tokens to, you know, like, you know, make yield and it's coming at the expense of people that buy Prisma tokens for whatever reason. Or if you go to platforms like GMX or something, if you lp, you make money when, you know, people pay fees when they, when they get liquidated. That's negative. Some games, and I'm arguing that these things are creating positive some games, because just one way flows off chain to on chain. And though that might not be reflected in, I mean, you can't really see this. Oh my God, so much money is coming on chain.
00:23:49.258 - 00:24:30.198, Speaker A: That is why bitcoin is pumping. I mean, probably not. It's more likely due to etfemen. Is it? Because, you know, like, there's like no way to say that, you know, tokenized strategies are leading to this bitcoin ether crypto overall pump? Because there's no way for me to prove it. However, I'm just saying that because if we adopt this and if more USDC gets redeemed for, you know, these on chain, like, tokenized treasuries, it makes it more likely, or it helps support higher valuations because we do have a. An actual form of yield that people benefit from. And if the crypto economy is denominated in USD, it's a very dollarized economy.
00:24:30.198 - 00:25:22.558, Speaker A: If you think about it, then any form of dollar yields that are sustainable and scalable is going to be pretty good for the general defi ecosystem. And that's the argument that I've been making. You don't have to agree with me with like my maker thesis or like my candle thesis, you know, because I could be wrong, right? I mean, I literally could be wrong, but I think it's more of like this macro narrative that I want you to be aware of. And, you know, that's kind of the point of this entire channel, right? I'm like just trying to come up with ideas that might, that may or may not make sense. I have my mix of good calls and horrible calls, but, you know, I try to share my research in public in real time so you can get a better idea of where I am at in terms of like my headspace. And hopefully this video was useful. And I'll see you next month for part four on how Defi gets to a trillion tvl thank you for watching, and see you guys another time.
00:25:22.558 - 00:25:22.630, Speaker A: Bye.
