00:00:00.890 - 00:00:45.254, Speaker A: On the last slide I introduced you to Napsack voting which is sort of a tweak on K approval voting. So remember K approval voting, that's where voters vote for up to K public projects, thumbs up or thumbs down. And this constraint of K thumbs up is independent of what the project's costs. And the issue with K approval voting is that costly projects tend to be overrepresented in the results because voters aren't forced to take into account project costs when they're making their votes. Whereas knapsack voting, the constraint is different. You're allowed to vote for any number of public projects, but the constraint is that the sum of those project costs should be in most of the budget. So really as a voter in Napsack voting you're put in the same shoes of the actual decision makers who have to respect that budget constraint.
00:00:45.254 - 00:02:04.370, Speaker A: So there's some nice intuition about why Napsack voting might be a good idea and in particular better than K approval voting. But so to what extent can we actually tell a mathematical story that supports that point? Can we have sort of theory that suggests yes, in fact, as intuition would suggest, knapsack voting is a good idea, it's going to have some nice properties. Now participatory budgeting, it's not that simple a problem, it's definitely more complicated than say just a single item auction. And so accordingly, the guarantees we're going to be able to prove for Napsack voting are not going to be as sweeping as sort know, uncontroversially excellent as our guarantees for the vicary option and this truthfulness guarantee. Instead what we'll be able to prove is we'll impose some fairly strong assumptions on voter preferences, not crazy, but fairly strong assumptions on voter preferences. And under those assumptions we'll be able to show that Napsack voting is indeed guaranteed to have some nice properties like truthfulness and Pareto optimality. Now maybe when I say this you wonder does such work have any value? Right? If you make strong assumptions strong enough that they're probably not 100% true in the real world, you might say who cares what conclusions you derive from these not 100% correct assumptions.
00:02:04.370 - 00:03:06.166, Speaker A: But the reality is when you're solving real world problems like participatory budgeting, if you're going to propose some system it's better to have some narrative about why it works well than the alternative of having no narrative of why it works well. And so basically in looking at a special case, which maybe doesn't cover the general case you have to meet in reality, but the special case can at least give you a plausibility argument that the solution you're proposing like knapsack voting plausibility argument that it is in fact a good idea. So the hope then would be that the guarantees we're going to show would continue to hold at least approximately if you relaxed our assumptions about what bidders want. Now that's just a hypothesis, that's something you have to go out and test in the field but at least it lets you generate the hypothesis that napsack voting is going to do pretty well pretty frequently. Then of course you deploy it. Hopefully it does well. If it doesn't do well, you go back and you revise theory to get a more accurate explanation about how good or bad napsack voting is.
00:03:06.166 - 00:03:58.230, Speaker A: So that's kind of the broader context of this type of work. We're going to look at a special case where we really can say something quite strong about knapsack voting that at least suggests that knapsack voting might have more or less those properties much more generally. So the first property we're going to prove is a truthfulness property, saying that bidders are motivated to bid truthfully or vote truthfully. So we have to say, first of all, what does it even mean to vote truthfully? We have to define that. And secondly to say that a bidder is incentivized to do that, like say they have a dominant strategy to vote truthfully, whatever that means, that implies some kind of utility model. So we actually have to write down our assumption about what it is bidders want. So what function is it that they're going to vote strategically to optimize? So let's do that now, assumptions about voter utility.
00:03:58.230 - 00:04:42.326, Speaker A: So assumption number one, we're going to think about each voter I as being focused on trying to get a certain subset of the projects funded. So we're going to call that subset capital S sub I. So for example, maybe it's bidder number 17. Bidder number 17 really wants the projects three, five and six. Moreover, we're going to constrain the bidder so that the projects that it wants to fund it should be feasible to fund them all. So the overall costs of projects three, five and six should be at most the cost of the budget. So you can sort of think of this as if we asked voter I, if you were a dictator and you got to unilaterally decide which projects we would spend the budget on, what would you pick? And then S.
00:04:42.326 - 00:05:17.246, Speaker A: Star I is going to be the answer that the voter gives us. The second assumption, which is where it's going to get a little bit unrealistic, is we're going to assume that voter I is single mindedly concerned about getting funds granted to the public projects that it cares about to the projects in S. Star I. And so that's really sort of two assumptions. So the first assumption, which is still not great but a little less bothersome, is that voter I doesn't care amongst the projects in S. Star I, the voter is indifferent to where the funds go. So just any funds to any projects in S.
00:05:17.246 - 00:06:03.770, Speaker A: Star I we're going to assume the voter is happy with it. And then the most bothersome assumption is going to be for projects outside of Sri. We're going to assume that the voter has value zero for funding being devoted to that. And that's strictly speaking, it's probably not true even if you really care about the schools. It's not that you get zero value if funding instead goes to sort of renovating the streets. But again, that's going to be the assumptions under which the good news is, in exchange for these assumptions, we'll be able to prove some pretty strong guarantees for Napsack voting. And again, to interpret this, it's not that we literally believe these assumptions are true in the real world, it's that we're crossing our fingers and hoping that the conclusions we can draw under these assumptions remain valid, more robustly, remain valid even in real world settings.
00:06:03.770 - 00:06:51.894, Speaker A: Of course, that's something that has to be tested empirically by actually deploying it and seeing what happens and seeing if you're happy with the results. So what are these nice properties that I've been promising? Well, the first property is going to be truthfulness. So a truthfulness guarantee in the same sense that we had it for the Vic re auction. So what does truthful voting mean in this context? Well, given our assumptions, there's a natural notion of truthful voting, which is just that voter I votes for the projects in its favorite set, S Star I. It doesn't withhold any votes for any of the projects that it likes and it doesn't give any votes to the projects that it doesn't like. So that's quite nice. Truthful voting is a dominant strategy.
00:06:51.894 - 00:07:45.386, Speaker A: It's not so hard to formally argue this property, but I'll just give you the intuition. So basically, if you think about what are the consequences if a voter moves its votes from projects it cares about, an SDRI to other projects, pretty much the only thing that that can result in. If you look at how the Napsack voting works, if you look at the way that it allocates funds from most popular to least popular by moving votes to the projects you don't care about, that just makes those projects more popular. It has more votes which move them upward in the ordering in which Napsack voting will consider it. So in other words, diverting your own votes from your projects in Sri to the other projects has the consequence of diverting funding from the projects you care about to the projects you don't care about. That is, it has the consequence of only decreasing your utility, decreasing the total funding on the projects that you care about. So that's why you have this strong truthfulness property.
00:07:45.386 - 00:08:52.634, Speaker A: So for every voter, as long as it meets these first two assumptions, it's a dominant strategy to vote for a project if and only if it's one of the ones you want, one of the projects in S Star I. So that's the first property, a truthfulness guarantee, sort of analogous to what we had for the vicary auction. Now remember when we were talking about K approval voting, we observed that plausibly the voters would vote in a way that leads to outcome, which is not Pareto optimal, an outcome where there's some other outcome where everybody would be better off. Remember that was the example where everybody voted for the expensive project which generated a value of four per voter, but it would have been better to fund the two less expensive projects which would have generated a value of five per voter. And so the second property says that that's not going to happen with knapsack voting. This again is under the assumptions one and two about this sort of bidder utility model. And then also it's under the assumptions that bidders bid truthfully, so that they really do vote for their set s star I.
00:08:52.634 - 00:09:41.370, Speaker A: But property one says they are encouraged. There is a reason why you might hope that they would be voting truthfully, voting for their best set, because that's a dominant strategy. If everybody does that dominant strategy, then in fact you do wind up with a Pareto optimal outcome. So in that sense, Knapsack voting is strictly better than the simpler, more naive K approval mechanism. Just to remind you what it means to be Pareto optimal. That means that the only way you can make someone better off is to make somebody worse off. So in this context, in the context of this participatory budgeting, with our bitter utility model, pareto optimal means the only way you can make someone happier, meaning have more funds devoted to their projects is to make someone else less happy, that is, divert funds away from their projects.
00:09:41.370 - 00:11:03.772, Speaker A: Here again, it's not so hard to argue formally, but I'll give you the intuition this really is because knapsack voting, the way it processes the projects, from most popular to least popular. So to give more funding to any project, to somebody's project that they care about to make them better off, that has to be diverting funding from a more popular project to a less popular project. And that means there's going to be somebody that's worse off when you divert funds in that way. So that's why you get the Pareto optimality condition as well. That concludes what I wanted to tell you about, about connections between voting and computer science, and specifically this application of participatory budgeting. Unlike several of the previous modules, which was sort of well understood already in the 20th century, I hope a sense you get from this fifth module is that these connections between computer science and economics and sort of real world applications is very much a living breathing field. There's really sort of exciting stuff happening as we speak.
00:11:03.772 - 00:11:36.530, Speaker A: So there's been some really nice progress just in the last few years on better mechanisms, better voting schemes for participatory budgeting. But also there's still clearly a lot that we do not understand. A lot of exciting work remains to be done. So for next module, that'll be our last one. And speaking of sort of cutting edge stuff, which we only partially understand and where there's a lot of exciting opportunities for future scientific work. The last module will be about Bitcoin, the world's most famous cryptocurrency and most famous blockchain. I'll see you there.
