00:00:03.240 - 00:00:45.648, Speaker A: Hello and welcome back. We are here once again for day two of breakpoint. Yesterday was an amazing start to the conference. It was, you know, the folks who have been planning this for the last few months, like, were in it day in and day out every day, and it's all schedules and spreadsheets and all the sort of minutiae of slide decks and all that. And it's really amazing to get here in person and you just, you feel what it's like to be here with, honestly, a pretty small part of the Solana community. I think the most impressive thing here is how few people, as a percentage of the Solana community, are actually here in Lisbon with us. The 3700 of you who actually came out and joined is at just a small fraction of the folks around the world.
00:00:45.648 - 00:01:22.406, Speaker A: I do want to say, first off, apologies to the folks who couldn't get transit visas. We had about ten amazing speakers, many of them from India, who hold indian citizenship, who are unable to get visas to come here. It's something that's really unfortunate, and we're going to figure out ways that they can get the ability to present, even if it's a virtual presentation after breakpoint. So I would say first, sorry to them, but this is the problem with in person events. Right? Moving on from that, going to do a quick little reminder. Four venues all over. Hope the transit was good yesterday.
00:01:22.406 - 00:01:46.120, Speaker A: There's shuttle buses that run. We're going to go through a little bit about what's happening today, so we're going to start over with the laboratory. This is our workshop stage, where there's a lot more ideas about what are technical presentations. You can learn from. You can bring a laptop, you can code. A lot of these are coding tutorials, or they're things like a deep dive into performance optimization. With Kevin Bowers.
00:01:46.120 - 00:02:11.342, Speaker A: This is the fire dancer testing environment demo. This is, I think, going to be a pretty exciting one. That's at 1230 if I believe there's a workshop on how to build an XNFT. This isn't a workshop. That's just where someone gets on stage and gives you a little presentation about how to build an XNFT. This is like Armani walking you through code on how to do these things, and then JavaScript, which is the gateway drug to mobile. That's one of those that I am particularly excited about.
00:02:11.342 - 00:03:05.624, Speaker A: There's a few engineers who have been really over at Solana Labs who have been doing a ton of work on this, and it's really exciting to see how that feeds into development on something like Saga forum, one of my favorite stages. We're going to talk a little bit about the Hacker House program, the strategic logic of where that came from. Refi, which is sort of regenerative finance. It's a companion to Defi. This is systems that are either looking at on chain carbon credits, alternative funding models for alternative kinds of projects, these sorts of things, and of course, crypto for word cells, which I think is an important topic when we think about how we communicate in this industry and what are the types of products and services that are not just built for developers, but are built for potentially a wider audience as well. Where we are today, tectonic shifts in institutions coming to Defi. That's up soon, the state of the helium network, and a monkey goes to Washington.
00:03:05.624 - 00:03:37.424, Speaker A: So we got a whole good range today and of course, a good shout out to the square. This is the community showcase. I hope some of you made it over there yesterday as well. There's an open mic type setup where you can, if you go to Solana.com voice, you can actually sign up for some of those slots to demo on stage. We're going to talk a little bit about this new Solana ecosystem page that's being powered by realms and on chain daos and governance. So that's really exciting to see and some conversations around how to mint nfts and get started again.
00:03:37.424 - 00:04:01.096, Speaker A: Shuttle bus loop every 15 minutes 11:00 a.m. To 11:00 p.m. Helps you get around. Leave about 25 to 30 minutes to get over to convento, the forum stage. It's a little bit far, but it's worth the trip. It's a really nice venue and there's some really good conversations happening there. Today I'll be giving a talk with Niraj on hype in crypto and announcements that don't mean anything.
00:04:01.096 - 00:04:29.468, Speaker A: So fun thing to have. I really. I'm looking forward to that. One reminder of the various timings and schedules for our different venues. Most folks maybe start out at the Acropolis here or the workshop, spend some time around the main stage here, and then head over to the forum in the evening. I also want to call out the amazing side events that are taking place all around breakpoint. This is just one of them, the bear market rally.
00:04:29.468 - 00:05:07.478, Speaker A: This is this crazy idea to run an electric go kart race in a parking garage under the park right behind us. So there's a whole bunch of different teams in the Solana community that have all got cars. They're going to race each other I wish I had a nice video to show you guys about it, but it's truly exceptional what they've built down there. And this is just one of the amazing side events that are going on. Some of them are parties, some of them are dinners, some of them are crazy electric go kart races. It's really cool to see all the creativity that folks have put into creating fun and unique experiences that complement all the learning we're doing at breakpoint. So doors open at 130 for this.
00:05:07.478 - 00:05:39.614, Speaker A: It's in the parking garage pretty much just behind the venue here. And with that, let's go ahead and get started with day two and invite Colin up. So GM everybody yesterday, day one was an amazing Day. It was action packed with different speakers, panelists and different announcements. And actually day two is actually just going to start from there and continue. So day one, it's not just a climax where all of the interesting news happens. Day two, there's also some very interesting Talks aHead.
00:05:39.614 - 00:06:06.764, Speaker A: So first up we have Marcus Boorstein, who is the director of engineering at Circle. He's going to tell us about the news from Circle. So let's welcome MArcus Boorstein. All right. Hey everyone. How's it going? So, hi, I'm Marcus. I'm the director of engineering for crypto infrastructure at Circle.
00:06:06.764 - 00:07:15.774, Speaker A: I'm really excited to be here today with all of you guys at Breakpoint. Solana is one of our closest partners with Circle and we've got some really, really great news to share with you guys that helps to grow our commitment for the Solana ecosystem. So for those of you who are new to circle, here's a quick primer on our vision. We are focused on unlocking real world utility on chain for businesses and developers by issuing the world's most stable digital currencies. Many of you may be familiar with USDC, our us dollar backed stablecoin that's also here on my shirt. We also issue Eurocoin, a fully reserved euro backed stablecoin. Our infrastructure enables businesses to increase reach and capital efficiency and empowers developers to create the future of commerce by building with programmable money.
00:07:15.774 - 00:08:25.694, Speaker A: But Circle is also more than just a stablecoin issuer. While financial institutions are mainly familiar with our platform for twenty four seven real time access to stablecoin liquidity, we do a lot more for developers. As you're building apps and businesses on Solana, you can consider integrating Circle's custody solutions for treasury operations, designing NFT marketplaces and more. You can add Fiat on and off ramps for USDC into your app, and we've got APIs and SDKs to make that integration easier. And as part of our most recent acquisition of Sybavo, we're working on introducing direct custody solutions, managed nodes for smart contract deployment, and an SDK for easily creating iOS and Android wallets. Stay tuned for more on that this year. All right, so now that you know what's possible with USDC on Solana, it's time to expand the design space a little bit.
00:08:25.694 - 00:09:17.424, Speaker A: Eurocoin is coming to Solana. We're targeting the first half of 2023 for mainnet availability and are really excited about the use cases that Eurocoin will unlock on Solana's ultra fast, ultra low cost network. Let's start with 24/7 instant FX on chain. This is truly a game changer, given that over $6.6 trillion worth of FX trades are made daily in traditional finance. Pairing USDC with Eurocoin enables the future of FX with transactions that can settle in 400 milliseconds and costs a fraction of a cent. Solana is really fast.
00:09:17.424 - 00:10:15.104, Speaker A: Businesses, institutions and users alike should be switching to fx on chain. And of course, there's trading, lending, and borrowing. Giving users the optionality to use Eurocoin as a base currency for trading unlocks a lot of this functionality. You can enable lending and borrowing with a fully reserved euro back stablecoin that users can trust just as they trust USDC. Last but not least, how about seamless payments in euros with Solana pay? Users love how easy it is to pay with USDC on Solanapay, and now they can do so in euros as well. And there's already a lot of enthusiasm from the ecosystem. FTX will support deposits and withdrawals of Eurocoin on Solana at launch.
00:10:15.104 - 00:11:17.354, Speaker A: Radium and Selendo, two of the leading DeFi protocols on Solana, have expressed their intent to do so as well. Thank you to the teams and communities behind these platforms, and it's really the ecosystem that's going to drive the usage and adoption of Eurocoin. We can't wait to make this possible with all of you. Stay tuned in early 2023 for updates on mainnet availability, but we have just one more thing to tell you guys. We're also happy to announce our intent to deploy the cross chain transfer protocol on Solana in the first half of 2023, initially enabled for native USDC transfers across blockchains. We'll also be planning to enable it for Eurocoin at a later date as well. For a quick refresher on the cross chain transfer protocol.
00:11:17.354 - 00:12:47.024, Speaker A: It is our permissionless infrastructure, designed for developers, that allows the USDC you know and trust to move natively across supported blockchains. This is achieved by sending some USDC on one chain to deposit and burn it, and then triggering a mint of USDC at the destination chain. By effectively teleporting USDC from one chain onto any other chain, developers can create novel cross chain dapps that stack together the various functionalities of trading, lending, payments, nfts, gaming and much, much more, all while abstracting away the complexity of cross chain work away from the users. To put it in further context, cross chain transfer protocol is a low level primitive for developers to leverage and extend. This means that bridges and other cross chain messaging platforms can integrate with the low level infrastructure that we've built for you and create your own user experiences. We expect a wide range of bridges, wallets and dapps of all types to serve end users and facilitate seamless movement of USDC throughout the crypto ecosystem. Basically, we're building this for you guys to build on top of.
00:12:47.024 - 00:13:52.144, Speaker A: The cross chain transfer protocol is expected to launch on Ethereum and Avalanche in early January and expand to Solana in the first half of 2023. Amid a growing roster of integration partners, wormhole intends to support the protocol's implementation on Solana at launch. That's a wrap. Thank you to everyone for coming in and tuning in to this announcement. We can't wait to bring these foundational pieces of stablecoin infrastructure to the whole Solana ecosystem. So to learn more about these announcements and the rest of the Circle platform, check out our website, circle.com. Follow us on twitterrcle and if you're a developer, join us on our all new Discord channel build on Circle, which I think you can scan the QR code right up there.
00:13:52.144 - 00:14:30.496, Speaker A: Let's unleash the utility phase of crypto and create the next Solana summer together. Thank you. Thank you, Marcus. It was very interesting to kind of hear further, like integrations between Circle and Solana. And it's very exciting to have not only the Eurocoin, but also the cross platform platform integration on Solana. Next up, we have our first panel of this morning, and it's about bringing real world assets into deFi. The panel is moderated by Samantha Bobot, who is the director at the digital currency group.
00:14:30.496 - 00:14:33.604, Speaker A: So let's welcome our moderator and our panelists.
00:14:35.664 - 00:15:07.954, Speaker B: Hi everyone. We've got a ton to cover in this session and a short time to do it, so I'm going to keep this brief pretty quick. I'm Samantha Bobot. I'm with digital currency group. We're an investor in more than 200 projects in over 35 countries. Increasingly, several of them touch real world assets or are developing the tooling that we believe is critical to allow for a greater variety of assets and users to be involved in on chain transactions. So I feel super privileged to be joined by this panel that brings a lot of diverse perspective and are all building on solutions.
00:15:07.954 - 00:15:22.590, Speaker B: We have Ben, who's with Solana Labs. Mary is with Bridgesplit, Thomas is with projects finance, and Trevor is with Parcel. I'm going to turn it over to them to introduce themselves and their work. Ben, should we kick off with you?
00:15:22.782 - 00:15:36.654, Speaker A: Hi, guys, I'm Ben Sparango. I am the head of BD at Solana Labs. Focused kind of broadly across all of the BD verticals that we care about, primarily on defi and growing financial use cases. Cases on Solana.
00:15:37.114 - 00:15:58.494, Speaker B: Hi, everyone, my name is Mary. I'm one of the co founders of Bridgesplit and we are tokenization infrastructure on Solana. So focused on the pooling, tranching elements of assets. So after they're on chain, they're investable. We started with digital assets and now have been expanding to support a variety of assets, including off chain real world assets.
00:15:59.954 - 00:16:35.876, Speaker A: All right, great. Hi, everybody, I'm Thomas, co founder and CEO at Credx Finance. We have built an institutional DeFi platform that allows investors to invest in real world assets. The real world assets that we tokenize on our platform are car loans, SME loans, focused on the emerging markets. We work locally with a set of fintech lenders and underwriters that originate, tokenize and securitize these assets, and then we can distribute it through the Credx platform. Hi, everyone. Thanks for being here.
00:16:35.876 - 00:17:01.634, Speaker A: I'm Trevor Bacon, the co founder and CEO of Parcel. Parcel is a synthetic realist derivatives, synthetic real estate derivatives platform based on Solana. We have price feeds that mimic the price per square foot of any given city or neighborhood that pipes in through an oracle onto the Solana blockchain. Or smart contracts allow you to get levered long or short, any geographical market.
00:17:02.134 - 00:17:18.034, Speaker B: Thank you. I know we want to turn to kind of developments in this area, the opportunities, the things that are exciting us. But it feels like we need to set the stage a little about the definition. So what do we talk about when we're saying real world assets? What are each of you thinking about and how do you define it?
00:17:18.654 - 00:17:47.164, Speaker A: Yeah, so when I think about real world assets, I'm thinking about primarily off chain assets. I feel like that's the more apt term. Things that either you're tokenizing on chain could be a house, car loan, a debt instrument, something like that. I think it encompasses a lot of different assets and it's really, really ill defined currently, but we're taking the right steps to define that, especially with these conversations here today.
00:17:47.544 - 00:18:29.234, Speaker B: Yeah, similar idea. It's kind of a very broad term and encompasses is all value that sits off chain, which is most of the value. But I think there's been this interesting introduction of the idea of birth assets and rebirth assets. So assets you're actually bridging on chain that have off chain value and new assets you're creating on chain. And I actually think regardless of whether they're on chain or off chain, a lot of the infrastructure actually kind of remains consistent throughout. And so something that we're thinking about at Bridgelet is the idea of nfts and representing unique value, whether that's digital value or unique off chain value, as this same kind of tokenized standard on the blockchain.
00:18:30.334 - 00:19:19.264, Speaker A: Yeah, and maybe doubling down on that. We believe something very similar at Credx and what we believe is one of the issues and challenges of having an off chain asset and an on chain asset. How do you link the legal infrastructure, the compliance infrastructure? So if I own a token, and the token represents a car or a productive cash flow generating assets, how when I transfer the token, you also transfer the legal recourse of that actual asset. And that are the kind of issues and challenges that platforms like ourselves are trying to solve. Yeah, so that's a great segue. So we do believe that a lot of the infrastructure in time will be on chain, such as especially for real estate. So real estate is effectively the biggest market in the world.
00:19:19.264 - 00:19:52.680, Speaker A: It is also amongst the most complex and least transparent. And so in order to bring that on chain, you need a large stack. So you need mortgages, deeds, titles, loans, obviously, so, and appraisals. So that's a pretty comprehensive stack that will take time to develop. We're coming from a different lens, which is taking a top down index approach for price pricing. So we'll have pricing and then eventually we can have pricing for individual assets. And we think that's a segue to allow the stack to evolve and mature.
00:19:52.680 - 00:20:12.462, Speaker A: So we can be the appraisal layer. You can get a loan on appraisal, then hopefully someone comes along and creates the deed and title, and then we can have a full housing stack on chain, and then you have the pricing layer to trade. That's really what you're missing in a lot of the when you put assets on chain, how do you price them and trade them in a fluid manner?
00:20:12.638 - 00:21:30.594, Speaker B: So a couple of you alluded to some of the challenges right now around KYC and what things like on chain credentials can open up. Obviously, the legal, the structuring, the enforcement, I guess maybe, Mary, because you're dealing the most in kind of on chain native assets right now. How do you think about what assets are most ripe to be brought on chain and kind of which are not or which are further out? Yeah. So thinking about the challenges broadly in working with real world assets, I think it kind of boils down to the three major elements of it. One is the legal element, is how hard is it to actually represent that asset on chain in a way that's enforceable via smart contracts? There's also the element of capital. How do you bring in a sufficient amount of capital to actually finance that asset class? And then also with asset originators, as people are bringing assets on chain, how do you convince them to take the inherent risks with working with a new technology, with working with blockchain to kind of deliver on that value for their specific asset? And so how we think about it is, so we started with digital assets. So we brought our product to things like NFT LP positions, to gaming assets, to NFT JPegs, and built that same infrastructure on there.
00:21:30.594 - 00:22:14.324, Speaker B: Because all of that is enforceable via smart contract. You're not relying on that legal element at all. It's mostly retail focused. And now, as we kind of move down the spectrum, I think there's a couple things worth thinking about. I think real estate is an interesting challenge because it's like this spectrum of physical custody versus digital custody, and it's on this far end of physical custody. And then also how complex and asset is, whether it's debt and something kind of more investable versus something that's a little bit more complex and requires pricing feeds and stuff and working with folks on real estate. Thomas, what is the main benefit to fintech companies or other borrowers for you that are issuing debt on chain?
00:22:14.744 - 00:23:39.424, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it comes back to what we see as the challenges of the market. Right. And when we looked at real world assets, one of the big challenges is you now have to convince investors to provide liquidity on a blockchain based platform to invest in assets that they might also be able to do in a more traditional finance kind of way. At the same time, you have borrowers or asset originators that now have to learn how to work with new technology and bring the assets on chain. What we believed with Credx, where we would have the most impact and where the first assets would make sense to common chain, is where it is really hard today to get access to finance, where it's very hard to invest in these kind of assets, and where there is a lack of transparency and there is zero to non infrastructure. That's why we chose private credit emerging markets as a first opportunity, a very hard to invest asset class with a lack of data standardization and transparency, cross border settlement issues, and all of that. By tokenizing it and securitizing it and packaging it in a standardized way, we're solving for that problem, creating cost efficiencies, but also just access to liquidity.
00:23:39.874 - 00:24:00.894, Speaker B: Trevor, when you kicked off, you said derivatives, synthetics, synthetics, derivatives. For some of us it sounds like a mouthful. What it doesn't sound like is fractionalization or tokenization, which a lot of us have heard in the same breath with real estate over the years. Why have you structured it this way? How do you feel? This is the first step in addressing the problem.
00:24:01.714 - 00:24:57.670, Speaker A: So, fractionalization of tokenization, in short, just for the audience, is when you buy a property and you slow slice the equity up and you can down either sell it through a vehicle that say like a private vehicle, or more recently, you have tradable platforms that have the equity as shares or tokens. And that model is somewhat compelling, but it lacks scale because you need time and capital to actually bring the assets on chain. So it's difficult to have a robust trading market around those instruments. So we believe that DeFi offers an opportunity for people to get access to real estate price movements. So we're allowing people to get long or short various markets. For example, half the reason why we started this was I was a hedge fund portfolio manager and I wanted to go long Miami and short New York. And it was, there was no instrument to do that.
00:24:57.670 - 00:25:29.600, Speaker A: And so this is a route that we took to start. It's scalable in some such that the smart contracts can hold the dollars to provide the liquidity and we provide the price, the reference price to trade over time. We think that if we have a robust and trusted infrastructure to price, we can bring physical assets on chain in the future again, once we have the stack that is needed to actually have a full real world house on the blockchain.
00:25:29.792 - 00:25:43.176, Speaker B: Feels like a perfect setup to how ready is the tech layer today? We've talked about other challenges, but is the tech ready for primetime. What can protocol teams do to support the key tooling? Ben, do you want to kick off?
00:25:43.360 - 00:26:30.064, Speaker A: Yeah, so, I mean, I think fundamentally the tech is not ready today. There's still a lot that we need to build to make sure that we can maintain these assets on chain. One of the things, things that, from all the conversations that I have with institutions, is just like an improvement on KYC infrastructure. There's a few different ways that people are taking shots at that. You have people like Verity from the center team and other people who are focused on verifiable credentials, which is basically like a new layer of the web3 stack. You have some people trying to do credentials through NFTs, like soul bound NFTs or kyc Dao. And then you have some other folks that are trying to do different ways of KYC without doing some sort of like on chain asset or credential.
00:26:30.064 - 00:27:03.544, Speaker A: The folks at Cross river are doing some interesting stuff about simulating transactions before they're executed from their platform so they can simulate which addresses this transaction is going to touch. And in the event that there's a non Kyz person, and at one point the transaction fails. So KYC infrastructure is something that's absolutely necessary for a lot of these assets, real estate, more securitized assets, to come on chain. People are making headway in that, but there's still a lot of work to be done there.
00:27:03.844 - 00:28:02.264, Speaker B: Yeah. In that same vein, I think there's just a lot of elements of the stack that still need to be specialized in. Makerdao pioneered a lot of the work in this space, and they were forced to kind of own this full stack between asset origination, asset underwriting, bringing in the capital. And the reality is, like we said earlier, off chain assets is a huge space. And I think players now are starting to realize that it's more important to double down on very specific elements of the stack, especially as we think about how do we deliver the actual value of the blockchain to these end asset originators and institutions. Institutions who we are in the position to convince, to kind of come on chain and take this additional risk and to be able to specialize in those different parts of the stack. So it is actually a step function better than the alternative in traditional finance is something that we are constantly thinking about and kind of part of the reason we focus on a very specific asset agnostic element of the infrastructure.
00:28:02.264 - 00:28:25.232, Speaker B: Thomas, I guess you guys are underwriting a lot of the loans you're doing. Kyc. There's an element, it's sort of a controlled environment, if you will. Where do you fall on sort of how decentralized this will be in time? And kind of what does it take to get institutions in without handholding now?
00:28:25.288 - 00:29:26.480, Speaker A: Very good point. And so we, with critics from the beginning, we took the decision that we have to do things that don't scale, and we have to do the dirty work of bringing credit on chain to really understand which kind of product we had to build. And so when we went into this market, indeed, we said like, look, Credx connect as an underwriter, we'll work with institutions to provide financing on this. We do everything permissions and KYC'd in an environment that is legally compliant. And we work with certain centralized parties to provide a clear link between the off chain asset and the on chain asset. Now, of course, this is the beginning, because this allowed us to bring over $30 million worth of assets on chain, underwrite them, provide car loans and SME loans in Brazil through the Solana blockchain. So that's live, that's happening now.
00:29:26.480 - 00:30:21.054, Speaker A: Now, indeed, it's the next challenges. How do we further build the stack, the data standards and how do we think about decentralization from there? Decentralization not for the sake of it, but for the sake to make it more scalable. How can we let other people underwrite on the platform, create incentivization mechanisms to do so? And what we believe is that most of the assets, the collateral, the management, the legal infrastructure, can come on chain, but there will always be a need for certain centralized institutions to take part in that. Should it be one big one to manage the whole infrastructure? Definitely not. Can it be a set of local underwriters, small investors, retail and institutions working in a decentralized way together? Yes, that's what we believe where this is going.
00:30:21.554 - 00:30:38.034, Speaker B: Trevor, I'd love you to weigh in on kind of how you see the user landscape evolving. Is it bringing investment opportunities to crypto native? Obviously, that's a very different prospect than bringing in newcomers who are familiar with a different asset and are doing it on chain for the first time. So how have you navigated that?
00:30:38.194 - 00:31:34.678, Speaker A: Yeah, so we, the initial user will be most likely a defi user user, but we're really focused on simplifying the UI UX to broaden the use case to more to a broader set of folks. And we have a great team that really focuses on that. User flows, user experience. We do believe that real estate is amongst the most familiar asset classes in the world. Every single person has a relationship with real estate, and what we're doing actually is not that complicated. Do you want to go long or short a geographical market and have exposure there? A lot of people don't have the opportunity to have access to real estate. There's a huge institutional flood of capital going into various markets, pricing out a lot of people access to credit on the low end as well as well as a lot.
00:31:34.678 - 00:31:51.304, Speaker A: A high barrier to entry if you wanted to get exposure in a different country, almost impossible. So we way do believe this is a mass market product for the entire world, and we do believe that the blockchain rails are the most efficient way to deliver that.
00:31:52.364 - 00:32:11.124, Speaker B: I'd love for each of you to just talk through some milestones that are on the horizon. So this can be for your projects or kind of infrastructure that you're keeping an eye on. Obviously, it's a developer conference. We have builders here who might want to build the thing that helps you accelerate or scale faster. So kind of open canvas run with that.
00:32:11.544 - 00:32:42.934, Speaker A: Anybody want to go ahead? Oh, you go. No, you go. No, please. A few things with respect to building, I think the ecosystem has come a long, long way. We have oracles that run on a pith client. One way to make those more trusted or zero knowledge technologies. We're in Mena's partner program to start, and eventually we want to have zero knowledge oracles so that they know.
00:32:42.934 - 00:33:28.374, Speaker A: Similar to Credx, we do have some elements of centralization, even though they're separate bodies or separate entities, the data has to come from somewhere. And the reason why we did that is because that's how it would take a very long time to actually innovate if everything was very decentralized. So ZK Oracles is something we're super excited about with respect to milestones. We launched a very successful gated V one alpha to our NFT holders. We had about 1000 people that were available to use the product, and 500 of which converted into users, and that was unincentivized. So we're very happy with that. About $250,000 traded hands in the couple weeks that we had it live.
00:33:28.374 - 00:33:56.514, Speaker A: We have a fast follow, V two, which is substantially more capital efficient. You can get up to ten times mathematical leverage and provide earned yield as an APR, as an LP, and we have complete pace stability. So that will help the system with the integrity and trust. Look for that in the next couple of weeks and we have a booth in the other venue to demonstrate.
00:33:58.294 - 00:33:59.126, Speaker B: Thomas?
00:33:59.270 - 00:34:45.172, Speaker A: Yeah, no. So I think for us, milestones, I think let's start with how we look at it from a pure credit perspective. So we just announced a $150 million deal that we are doing with a set of asset originators in Colombia and Mexico. So this is, for us, going to be really big, launching in two new countries, providing a large scale ticket size of on chain financing towards SME's in these emerging countries. And it's all going to be backed by institutional investors. And so that for us, 2023 is going to be really big for that. Today we have seen like KKR tokenizing a fund.
00:34:45.172 - 00:35:36.384, Speaker A: We have seen Apollo doing some digital asset custody. We are now trying to talk to all these kind of institutions and bring them onto the Solana blockchain to invest in these kind of real world assets. So that's the company milestone that we have and that we're working on then. Secondly, as an industry, what we would like to see, and some of the very interesting conversations we have been having here with the companies on stage and companies that are here in the room is how do we not make the same mistakes as in Treadfi? So how do we not all start defining an asset differently? How do we create a more common data model across assets, across credit, across real world assets? So almost creating an industry body for real world assets to grow together and really push it into the market.
00:35:37.864 - 00:36:24.804, Speaker B: Yeah. So for bridge split, like I mentioned earlier, some of the big milestones for us is the progress we've made on digital native assets. So we're currently doing $10 million in monthly volume across different digital assets and seeing about 1000 daily unique signers on that core protocol level. And later this month, we're going live with a few different customers in tradfi, tokenizing different assets from these Texas consumer loans to things like climate assets. And on that same vein, something that we are looking for actively is people who are really specialized in these assets and able to bring really high quality assets on chain and work with on an infrastructure level with people who know that asset class and be a technology partner for those folks.
00:36:25.344 - 00:37:06.568, Speaker A: So I kind of approach this from a different perspective. These guys are all building products in the ecosystem. I kind of serve as the connective tissue for these guys. So my milestones are, if these guys succeed, but just to double down on something that Thomas said is you don't want to recreate the problems that we experienced in tradfi over the last 10, 15, 20 years. Something that I think is really important in that is this native cross margin that you can get on blockchains that you can't get in tradfi. It like impossible to track all of somebody's accounts and make sure that they have the proper collateral for something. And that's frankly what led to something like the mortgage backed security crisis.
00:37:06.568 - 00:37:29.164, Speaker A: So you have, like, you have things that are built on blockchains, like Credora, which is doing, like, active cross margin collateralization to show that, like, okay, this guy actually has the money, or this guy just is ten x levered on Aave and he doesn't actually have that collateral. So that's really what I'm excited about. About just like, those kinds of infrastructural things that are going to be contributive to what you guys are building.
00:37:30.824 - 00:37:49.404, Speaker B: I'm going to end with a fun lightning round. So, quick response. Which of these three comes to pass first, an SEC approved Solana ETF, a major bank issuing a mortgage on chain, or let's say a Fortune 500 company doing a bond issuance on chain.
00:37:50.644 - 00:37:57.984, Speaker A: I will have to say Fortune 500 debt issuance on chain. I may or may not have information about that already being in the works.
00:37:58.924 - 00:38:01.504, Speaker B: I'd go with the bank issuing a mortgage on chain.
00:38:02.524 - 00:38:11.864, Speaker A: I'm going for the bondish ones on the Credx platform. Oh, yes. I'm going to have to hold it down for real estate and go with the mortgage on chain.
00:38:13.284 - 00:38:34.994, Speaker B: I guess I'll have to go with ATF to be contrarian. Thank you all so much for bringing, for joining us and to all of you for joining today. I know these speakers are going to be floating around, some of them in the developer studio. You can find their teams. You can play around with these platforms. Yeah, exciting things ahead. Thank you all.
00:38:41.534 - 00:39:20.542, Speaker A: It was very interesting to kind of, like, see, see in here, that as the ecosystem and as the technology evolves, it kind of, like, opens up the use cases to a wide variety of assets. Like, hearing about bringing real estate on chain was, like, super exciting and super interesting. The next panel that we have is about tectonic shifts, which is how institutions are coming into Defi. This particular panel is moderated by Ben Svarango, who is head of BD at Solana Labs. So let's welcome our moderator and our panelists. Long time no see. I am Ben Sparango.
00:39:20.542 - 00:40:08.792, Speaker A: I am the head of BD at Solana Labs, joined here today by some of the folks both in infrastructure, in the Solana ecosystem, as well as the Defi ecosystem, to talk about how institutions are coming to Defi. So to start, I'll open it up, let everybody introduce themselves and their project. Hi, I'm Marius. I'm the co founder of Hubble Protocol. It's a protocol where you can take loans against bitcoin ETH Sol in a stable coin called USDH, which you can then take and buy more bitcoin to leverage up, or you can take it to Camino Finance, which is the place where you can earn yield on market making vaults based on stablecoin exposure only. Sure. So I'm Mike Milneso, head of sales for Europe, Middle east and Africa over at Copper.
00:40:08.792 - 00:40:47.058, Speaker A: For those that don't know, we started off first and foremost as a custodian, and that's evolved to be a broader safeguarding and trading infrastructure provider. Hi, my name is Omer. I lead product strategy for web3 in fireblocks. So Fireblocks is the biggest custody solution provider for financial institutions institution. We deal with a whole range of customers from traditional banks that we just launched with BNY, all through providing infrastructure for web3 companies and some of the more ambitious projects out there. So happy to be here. My name is Oliv.
00:40:47.058 - 00:41:22.332, Speaker A: I'm the co founder and CEO of friction. Friction is a Solana DeFi protocol that builds portfolio management, Legos, or strategies that sit across the risk reward curve of Defi. Hi everyone, my name is Will Barnes, co founder and CEO, Jet Protocol. Jet is a fixed rate, fixed term borrowing protocol built on an order book. Thanks, guys. So, to kick it off, I want to talk about institutions and what that means to everybody here. People have different definitions of what institutions coming to defi means.
00:41:22.332 - 00:42:22.534, Speaker A: So would love for each of you to just touch on what does an institution mean to you, who are those players and how you're interfacing with them. I mean, for us, institutions is just by definition, not retail people that have money to invest on behalf of someone else most of the times. So we talk to, we try to figure out who can use Hubble and Camino, and we try to reach out to funds and other investors and see who can they recommend. Who is this product for? And the best client, we thought would be hedge funds that are crypto native, that have interest from outside traditional investors. They want to have some crypto exposure. And most of them, when we talk to them, they say, we have some stable coins. We have a mandate that we can invest some stable coins, earn some yield on them we can deploy, but we need to do all the due diligence and make sure we stay on stablecoin exposure only.
00:42:22.534 - 00:43:18.744, Speaker A: So it's defi funds or VC's which have a defi strategy also like a liquid fund, and they do some farming. This is our kind of. These are our connections. Sure. So, I mean, I think we've all been sat on panels now for years saying, you know, institutional capitals coming, institutional capitals coming, and, you know, it's pretty much on every single one of these things. And I think the truth is it's really only, and it comes down to your definition, of course, which I'll come on to, but it's only really happening now, at least in our opinion, over the course of the last six, nine, maybe twelve months or so, that you are seeing the traditional buy side players really weighing in and go past that testing stage of, we've got 100, 200 grand in this thing, and they're really now starting to deploy serious capital, more so on the centralized side, not so much in DeFi right now, but, yeah, for us, that's the real definition. Then, of course, you've got the crypto native version, which is your standard crypto native hedge fund with five to 100 million AUm prop firms, VC's, as were mentioned, and so on and so forth.
00:43:18.744 - 00:43:41.108, Speaker A: Yes. I mean, so I have to agree, I think. But when we talk about institutions, it's not like a one size fits all. There are many types of institutions with different risk appetites, with different portfolio like, and actually different expertise when it comes to, like, actual trading. Right. It depends on their background, but what we see is like a wide range. Right.
00:43:41.108 - 00:44:35.584, Speaker A: For us, eventually, we want to give them the ability to pursue any strategy, any investment strategy that they like, maybe centralized finance, like c five through exchanges or defi through protocols. Right. So, I mean, you want to give them the entire range of actually pursuing their strategy and make sure that it can easily and securely just, like, implement that strategy and execute on it. So for us, I think it's like the main, I guess I wouldn't say focus, but one of the main challenges is to go out to these ecosystems. Right. And understand and how we kind of look at all the different very, like, very ambitious protocols and give our customers a way to execute on that and tie that all to one ecosystem. So I think that's what we're seeing.
00:44:35.584 - 00:45:12.016, Speaker A: Yeah, I think some good points made so far. The way I think we bucket it in three categories generally, is you have crypto curious institutions, crypto native institutions, and then definative institutions. So as we try to dive in on the institutional side, one thing that's really important to us is the guiding principle of risk. So what is the risk profile of the institution? How much capital are they looking to deploy? What level of risk are they willing to take? And then how do they isolate smart contract risk in their traditional portfolio management or strategy management policies? And a big focus for us is trying to bridge that gap. Right. You need custodial solutions like copper and fire blocks. You need reporting solutions that don't really exist in Defi today.
00:45:12.016 - 00:46:20.008, Speaker A: So a lot of it is on kind of one off basis, as a mentioned, but a ton of work we have to do to make the onboarding smooth for them. I think of institutions mostly as people who trade professionally for their job, not retail, or people who just day trade, generally someone who's formed a company and they sign up with exchanges and arbitrage and all kinds of stuff like that. But typically they are doing this as for a full time job. And we've been thinking mostly about pretty small institutions, I would say firms that do like, or individual traders who do $5 million of volume weekly, which is pretty, actually pretty substantial amount of volume for a trader on DeFi. But then as you go up the stack, if you have a big bank, that's going to be an integration that takes years. And there's just fundamentally different institutions from a big bank to a startup. You know, a big bank is funded perpetuity almost, and startup like, very scrappy and small.
00:46:20.008 - 00:47:32.042, Speaker A: So like there's big mismatches and potential integrations and yeah, we think about that when we approach integrations as well. So when institutions are coming to each of you, you guys are in, the three of you are DeFi applications, the two of you are custodial providers. You are being approached with different questions from these institutions. So starting with the custodial providers, Mike or Omer, just when an institution approaches you guys, what's important to them? Why are they coming to you and why are they using your services? Sure. So on our side, we usually want the first point of contacts for that question of what don't we know? Like, these institutions haven't really dabbled in Defi yet, they are moving in and they just want to understand the broader scope of where is the risk? What have you seen go wrong in the past? How can we mitigate against that? What is best practice? And then how do we wrap not only the risk analysis component around that, but the governance piece as well? I mean, fundamentally, we are still operating in an asset class that is anonymous, with very little power, have for recourse. So every part of the conversation has got to be grounded in that context. So for us, it really is a broad statement.
00:47:32.042 - 00:48:30.150, Speaker A: If they don't have specific questions, they're not asking. EVM versus non EVM they're going big picture, how do we protect the assets? And then from there we can generate alpha afterwards. But it's getting comfortable and putting governance around all of this. No, so I definitely agree. I think that there's a first question of like why Defi, how Defi, like how do we do that? How do we make it secure? How do we put the controls in, let's say on evms, how do I not give an approved for infinite amount of this token to that protocol? That I don't know what's going to happen in the future. So these are the basic security questions that come up. But I think for the more defi native funds, it's always about how do you get more protocols? They're always leading the pack, always saying, okay, so when is this change? Like what chain, can you repeat that? It's like, okay, we'll go out and check it out and see.
00:48:30.150 - 00:49:04.208, Speaker A: They're always kind of pushing the envelope on all these because they want to utilize the security. They want to utilize like they want to have one system in which they manage all their funds, right, and deploy from there. But then on the other hand, like they always keep pushing the envelope on more and more chains and more and more protocols. So I guess it's both of these, sure. To quickly double down on that. I think both of you have products by which you make it easier for your clients to utilize DeFi. So copper has copper connect, fireblocks has a similar product.
00:49:04.208 - 00:49:40.564, Speaker A: Yeah. So the extension and also our wallet connect integration and our DeFi SDK, which you can actually automate stuff programmatically with DeFi. So can you explain the design considerations around that and why a large Aum institution would be more inclined to utilize your product to interface with DeFi than custodying their own assets and interfacing directly from a ledger or a phantom wallet. Yeah, I mean, so that's kind of an easy question, that regard. Right. So you want to utilize like, I think both copper and fireblocks. Right.
00:49:40.564 - 00:50:31.182, Speaker A: We provide like a highly secure and very flexible system to actually operate on. So you want to utilize first our security protocol and then our governance, right. In terms of who needs to sign what at what amount and which day and all of that. So you need to want to put that governance, you want to take all these, let's say treasury management type of setup that, you know, that went through the CFO and like, you know, the cIso of the company to make sure that no one's going to run off with anything that they're not supposed to, and eliminating like a single point of failure. So they take that as like the default. This is where we need to originate all our transactions from. And then from there they just go, okay, so how do you make that easy for us to actually go out and do that? Right? So we, in an iterative manner, we just build more and more.
00:50:31.182 - 00:51:18.106, Speaker A: And as I've said, even like the Defi native institutions, they're actually more grant. They don't need, like, at some points they don't even need like a metamask like experience for their traders. They actually automate all those stuff with like using programmatic access. Right? So they're super savvy, super smart, trying to like do like yield, yield generation on top of multiple defi protocols. So you need to provide that access as well. So it's like this whole range of experience, and I think actually very similar to what you've mentioned there. There's that whole governance piece, right? It's fundamentally, who can add a whitelist to a new smart contract? Who's doing the audit for that? What are the permissions, et cetera, that you can layer on top of the team and then actually going a step further than this? It's okay, let's say we do all the governance, but it turns out fundamentally we were wrong.
00:51:18.106 - 00:51:56.194, Speaker A: We're interacting with a contract that, you know, has malicious code, whatever it may be, and something goes wrong. How can you then segregate that environment to at least put a backstop on your maximum loss, so to speak, should something go wrong? So one thing that we've been working on and release quite recently is actually segregated environments per protocol. So, for example, let's say you've been in DeFi for a while, you're comfortable with EVM chains, etcetera. You can have one segregated environment, no single point of failure, etcetera, there, and you can have that team with one set of permissions. But then let's say you then move to, to non EVM Solana, whatever it may be. And fundamentally, you can put a more cautious structure and governance around this with less capital and keep those two things entirely segregated. Got it.
00:51:56.194 - 00:52:52.124, Speaker A: And then moving over to the DeFi teams, I'll start with you, Will. When you guys are interfacing with institutions, what are the things, what are the questions that they're surfacing to you guys? And how are you guys building products to better serve those needs? Yeah, most are pretty sophisticated and they know, they know more than they could talk to blockchain about you with you, but they don't actually understand what the protocol does, what a DeFi protocol does. But I think that's even common among people who are in Defi. When you look at a protocol at face value, you're not really sure what it does. You have to really dig in the docs because they do really esoteric stuff. It helps. I found, especially for a credit fund, just in particular, like, if you can explain it and say, with this protocol, with our protocol, you can remove all your loan servicing costs, because they understand that immediately think, okay, saving costs here.
00:52:52.124 - 00:53:26.562, Speaker A: And then you can just add things like quick settlement, you can access it a continuous market at any time, and then it handles everything thereafter for you if it needs to liquidate. And for them, you know, when they do a lot of manual paperwork, if they, I mean, credit funds are pretty manual in general. Like, they like that, and then they're attracted to it, want to learn more about it. But of course, a big fun like that is slow moving. You have to sort of, you know, work it into the discussion. But they, like, they definitely always see the value. They.
00:53:26.562 - 00:53:47.180, Speaker A: And, yeah, it helps when you just explain, like, cost savings or like, how convenient it is for you. Yeah, that's also. Convenience is one thing. Has to be convenient. And, yeah, there's always security. I think that is because they see the headlines, and they'll talk about the headlines when you talk to them. And you always have an answer for that.
00:53:47.180 - 00:54:34.434, Speaker A: Always. The headlines are usually pretty sensationalist, but I think all in all, they're really impressed with the level of dialogue between institutions nowadays compared to 2018. It's like night and day difference. Yeah, it sounds like they're much more willing to work with us to find a common solution, and some of you guys are building products to service them. Udav, you guys just announced a product today. Would you like to touch on that? Yeah, we're really excited to launch friction institutional today, which is what we think Defi's real first attempt at onboarding institutional grade DeFi clients may not be defi native today, may not be crypto native today, may be very crypto curious, but very savvy in the traditional markets. We think this is a big unlock for DeFi because it enables a couple of things.
00:54:34.434 - 00:55:19.362, Speaker A: All these people come to us, institutions come to us and ask for three things, really ask for security. They ask for risk management, and they ask for real yield. And to get them these three things requires a lot more than what most of DeFi offers today. We were talking about this. Behind is like, there's no standardization of risk metrics in DeFi today, you need verified identity, you need on and off chain risk score tracking. So the first product under friction institutional is going to be an institutional credit product which brings under collateralized lending at a fixed rate, fixed term into DeFi with meaningful amount of lender protection, borrower diversification and duration risk management. We think without these things, the crypto credit markets will have a tough time scaling, particularly as we see treasury yields rise across the traditional world and DeFi starts to become uncompetitive, frankly.
00:55:19.362 - 00:55:59.162, Speaker A: So we have a lot of work to do as DeFi platforms, as the people who onboard users into DeFi to build that experience and really build a relationship business out of this too. I think relationships are a big part of what DeFi needs to scale. And a lot of us on stage here are working really actively to onboard some of the institutions who are kind of sitting at the fence and haven't really understood DeFi for what it is. So transparent risk management and real yield is something we think will drive the next big cycle of Defi adoption from institutions. Maris, you want to touch? Yeah. When we talk to institutions, they want to know what's the yield and what's the risk. Basically, a lot of the times the yield advertised is not realized.
00:55:59.162 - 00:57:05.678, Speaker A: You can have 20% today, but 3% tomorrow. So they want to see historical realized APR and they want to know what the risk is. And some of them, quite a lot of them, they go really deep into what testing framework do you use? How many tests do you have on your codebase? How many audits? Can I see the audits? Is there a multisig, is there governance? How long have you been alive? Sorry, how long has the protocol been alive? Did you have incidents? They go really very diligent into assessing this. Some of them different levels of tolerance. They want to see how many users, you know, proof of, you know, like kind of like social proofing or like proof that you haven't been. There have been no incidents. And they want to see the code they send, like their quant or their engineer to check out the code, you know, they don't, you know, they see the news like you mentioned, you know, and they're like, don't want to be part of any, of any exploits.
00:57:05.678 - 00:57:39.370, Speaker A: So this is number one. And after that they ask, okay, what's the product? How do you make, how do you earn any yield? And they want to deconstruct the yield between, you know, wherever there are fees. What are the emissions part, how long are the emissions going to last? And after that, once they're happy. You know, there's a long, long process. We have multiple calls. They ask, who are the founders? What have you done before? It's really diligent. And then ultimately they start with a small amount.
00:57:39.370 - 00:58:09.964, Speaker A: They put a small amount, they check it out. They claim the yield. They give us feedback. If they're happy, which some of them are, they continue and they provide feedback to us. You brought up a great point. There is that one thing that has continually plagued crypto is just hacks. Like software inherently has infinite unknown unknowns, and you're never going to be fully certain that something is rock solid and can't be manipulated in some way, either from a code level or from an economic perspective.
00:58:09.964 - 00:59:08.564, Speaker A: So what are some ways that you guys are seeing people iterate on security measures, getting better audits, building in insurance funds to kind of build, build more consumer confidence? Because fundamentally none of us want to put our assets into DeFi protocols if there's a risk of you losing your principal. So whoever wants to go ahead. Yeah, we've been thinking a lot about risk because we have been talking to these institutions and we realized that we added measures that literally mimic the things that are in traditional finance finance. Some of them are literally, you know, some of our people in our team used to work in traditional finance to say, look, this is what we did in the bank. And then we implemented it and we realized it makes so much sense. So we had things like, you know, withdrawal net withdrawal caps. So, you know, we limit the amount that can be taken out of the protocol or over a four hour period, and then it gets reset.
00:59:08.564 - 00:59:34.566, Speaker A: So even if there's an exploited list, it's capped. We're adding like price back on oracles. I think SPF was mentioning that they do that on the risk engine. So, you know, if it's a stable coin, cap it at 1.5, you know, so and below, you know, 0.5 at least, you know, halt the protocol or like halt deposits or things that could harm the protocol in case these things happen. So they're really like traditional finance.
00:59:34.566 - 00:59:59.728, Speaker A: We're a little bit reinventing the wheel, but a very, very fast pace because it's just smart contract code. So we can test. We have, the feedback loop is quite fast. Yeah, that's it. And basically risk management. So we realized when we launched Hubble that we have to do risk management. We thought we're writing a smart contract, but we have to think about volatility and liquidity and price drops and stuff like that.
00:59:59.728 - 01:00:53.472, Speaker A: And more and more people like for example, gauntlet are building these Monte Carlo simulations where you can predict or like, with like, 95% confidence, say, what will happen in case, if this token drops by 30%, given the existing liquidity, is your protocol at risk? Can you liquidate? Do you have enough liquidity on the x? Yeah, Mike, and I think the point you raised there, Ben, I mean, that's fundamentally the obstacle to broader adoption, right, from the tradfi market that's moving in. I mean, it's kind of hedge fund 101. Take all b capital, hedge the principle and generate alpha with whatever strategy you're running from there. And crypto is a very unique asset class insofar as you're almost risking 100% of the principal on every single transaction. Fundamentally, if you send this to the wrong wallet address, if you've got assets sitting on exchanges, smart contracts, whatever it may be, you've almost got this prevalent risk consistently running on that. So there are ways to solve it. On the centralized exchanges, that's something that we've done.
01:00:53.472 - 01:01:32.874, Speaker A: But on the deFi side, I think that's why we have seen much lower adoption as compared to the centralized side, because you can almost assess your credit risk. You can see what's going on. You can assess the balance sheet, etcetera. Smart contracts are incredibly opaque, and there are very few people in the world that are truly capable of assessing that risk. So I think it's really hitting the nail on the head. But I'm sure you guys see similar. There are actually two questions, right? I mean, how do DeFi protocols actually make sure that they're as secure as they can be from, I guess, a financial logical layer that they have in their back? And, like, how can investors or, like, institutions or retail protect themselves against, like, if something goes wrong, right? I mean, these are two.
01:01:32.874 - 01:02:37.576, Speaker A: Those two carry the burden, like, different, right? So for institutions, obviously, they need to have, like, a reliable wallet infrastructure that is secure and also allows them to kind of, you know, either pull their funds out when something happens happens, or to have monitoring capabilities of, like, the DeFi protocols that they're in and make sure that they cut their losses in the chance, on the chance that something like there's an exploit. So, again, putting your policies in place, making sure that you're not overexposed, that everything that you do fit exactly the manifest of the portfolio and the risk management that you actually taken into consideration, that's unlike the, you know, on the institution side, on the customer side, on the defi side. Listen, I mean, maybe I have, like, a little bit of a different of a, like, it's a different opinion. I think it's a rapidly evolving ecosystem. Like, where we were, like, two years ago is not even close to where we are right now in terms of, like, the range of the products that are being served. You just spoke in, like, a real world asset panel. Right.
01:02:37.576 - 01:03:10.832, Speaker A: I mean, we're constantly iterating, and those iterations, they're costly, right? I mean, but, like, they're failing fast and improving. And failing fast and improving. We'll keep seeing. Unfortunately, we'll keep seeing some of these. But I think it's a price that you pay for innovation, and this whole space is, like, just fueled on, like, innovation and, like, pushing the envelope and doing these types of things. So, yeah, yes, there is a price, but the gain in, like, five to ten years will be amazing, the way that I see it, UDav, and will quickly, before we're wrapped up here. Yeah.
01:03:10.832 - 01:03:36.114, Speaker A: I think the concepts about the policies need to be put in place by protocols. Like you all mentioned, protocols across DeFi. That requires some element of standardization. I think what we find particularly interesting is the concept of insurance in DeFi. We think traditionally, friction's kind of core product has been around the concept of call and put options. Obviously, put options are a very good reflection of the price of insurance, if you can properly price them, that is. And something that we're particularly attracted by is the concept of insurance funds, which you alluded to.
01:03:36.114 - 01:04:03.634, Speaker A: If you look at what the United States does as the Federal Depository Insurance Commission, the FDIC, they insure $9 trillion of assets with a deposit insurance fund of about 120 billion. So it's like a 1.2% reserve ratio. And this is responsible for essentially bailing out banks that are defaulting. Well, the thing about Defi is we don't have a central governance structure like this. That's kind of one of the value premises. So we're exploring a lot about building these things and always interested in chatting with folks who are in the same space.
01:04:03.634 - 01:04:44.378, Speaker A: We're unfortunately out of time. But thank you guys for joining us today, and thank you to the panelists for coming up here. Thanks. That's awesome. So we've just heard that institutions are coming to Defi. And I think what I find interesting is almost like, what the difference needs is, are between institutions and maybe us who to kind of just play around on Defi, kind of understand what the differences are. The next talk that we have is from Dan Gunsberg, who is the CEO and co founder of hero, who is going to talk about the case for on chain derivatives.
01:04:44.378 - 01:05:14.374, Speaker A: Let's welcome up Dan Gonzberg. What's up, guys? God, I feel like our Solana family here came to Lisbon with their game face on this week. This feels really good. So let's go. So, the case for on chain derivatives. In early 1998, I was just starting my career as a trader in the bond room, the Chicago Board of Trade. I was 23 years old.
01:05:14.374 - 01:06:22.904, Speaker A: So you guys can do the math. Newly minted trading badge, a trading account that was funded from four years of waiting tables in college and from working as a clerk on the floor of the board of trade during my summers home from school. This was my first day in the 30 year bond pit. Little did I know that it was also the beginning of what would come to be known as the downfall of one of the largest trading hedge funds that had ever existed at the time, long term capital management, who, through the use of opaque and esoteric OTC derivatives, lost $5 billion in 1998 of pension and sovereign money, caused a major disruption in the bond market. This was my intro to trading over the last few decades. LTCM was not the only culprit. So let's take a look for a second.
01:06:22.904 - 01:08:00.684, Speaker A: 1995, the guy in the upper left, the jovial guy up in the black and yellow stripes, Nick Leeson, was a trader for Barings bank. He used a hidden error account to hide a billion Ada losses from his clearing firm, causing the downfall of one of the oldest banks in the UK at the time, which sadly ended up being sold for one pound. Scary looking guy in the lower left. 2006, trader named Jerome Kurvil from Socgen created fictitious derivative trades to conceal massive trading losses in european stock index futures, which ended up costing SocGen more than $7 billion. We all know Bernie Madoff over there spent more than 20 years creating fictitious derivative trades in a fabricated strategy that he called a split strike option, which helped him perpetuate one of the greatest frauds in history to the tune of more than $65 billion. Now, those two old guys in the upper left, we can't talk about catastrophic derivative losses without talking about the Duke brothers, who in 1983 tried to corner the frozen concentrated orange juice market based on a crop report that they received. Unfortunately, that crop report had bad information and they ended up in a $325 million shortfall, a margin shortfall that they owed to Comex.
01:08:00.684 - 01:08:50.674, Speaker A: And I hope that most of you have seen trading places. Part of the story is obviously fictitious. 2008 financial crisis. $3 trillion of losses from OTC securities and derivatives, nearly bringing our global financial system to the brink of disaster. In all these examples, there's a common thread. There's now a $600 trillion global derivatives market that basically still lives in a black box and severely lacks transparency. Today, all market participants are at risk of other traders willingness to abuse their own risk parameters.
01:08:50.674 - 01:09:33.964, Speaker A: Transparency is now a requirement. It's no longer a choice. This is why we're here, building on chain derivatives, among other benefits, which we'll discuss. It's not only to create a better ux for traders, for retail users, which can often be largely subjective. This is really for solving the foundational issues within the fabric of the global derivatives landscape. And although my friend Samuel L. Jackson here will put a gun to your head if you say blockchain one more time, the reality is that blockchain does help solve this.
01:09:33.964 - 01:10:35.916, Speaker A: Now, I believe there's four pillars that best describe the benefits, the underlying benefits of building on chain, and also why we built hero defi. First, to create a more inclusive derivative market landscape. Historically, derivative markets have been closed to a very small number of controlling parties who act as what are known as intermediaries between traders in the market. Second, the unification of fragmented liquidity. So liquidity is very reflexive, which means that liquidity begets more liquidity, because the more liquidity you have, the more competitive pricing gets and you get better execution for larger traders. Third, risk in market data transparency. Again, your funds are always at risk of a bad act or a systemic market event.
01:10:35.916 - 01:11:55.684, Speaker A: And as a participant, you should always have an understanding in real time, of not only the health of your own wallet, your own portfolio, but the health of the entire network that you're operating in. This last point is a very critical element. This is about the disintermediation and disbursement of systemic market risks. We can no longer rely on a single central clearing party, or in the traditional world, what's known as a CCP. My good friend and coin fund president Chris Perkins recently went in front of the House Ag committee and explained this, and I quote, to the extent a member fails to meet its obligations during an insolvency, the clearinghouse may use that members default fund to offset collateral shortfalls. However, if a deficit still remains after applying these funds, the CCP, the centralized clearing party, will utilize the other members contributions, even when those members may have had nothing to do with the default. The socialization of risk in this existing paradigm is very real.
01:11:55.684 - 01:13:00.114, Speaker A: Our solution to all this is hero. Hero is an open on chain primitive that provides the foundational exchange, risk and settlement infrastructure for any type of derivatives contract hero is built around two native protocols, dexterity and spandex. Dexterity is a very flexible collection of smart contracts that provide the framework, basically the payoff and accounting functions needed to launch and maintain any derivatives market, any type of derivatives market. Spandex is the risk engine. Together, these protocols provide the key building block for exchange risk and settlement of any derivatives market. Now, let's talk a little bit about our dexterity design decisions. We felt that dexterity had to be open sourced, which we did so in March of this year.
01:13:00.114 - 01:13:49.764, Speaker A: And the code can currently be found in the Solana labs, GitHub, repo. Next, it had to be generalized need to be able to service any type of derivative market, not just traditional futures perks or options. As the market evolves, the definition of what might constitute a derivative may change. So with that, we needed to be extremely flexible. What does that mean? Well, if you think about what a future is, that it's really a standardized vanilla option with the strike set at zero. This is the type of logic that we built into the system. Next, it had to be modular.
01:13:49.764 - 01:15:02.934, Speaker A: This means that you can connect any risk engine, any data oracle, any order book to it to create the market, the context of heroin and its implementation. It uses spandex as its risk engine. It uses pith and a new data oracle called Juritsu as its data oracles. And it uses the asset agnostic order book built on Solana as its order book. Now, other builders may want to facilitate their own vision of a marketplace if it doesn't align with hero. And because of it being modular, anybody can certainly do that. The last design consideration, which is actually very near and dear to my heart, because I came from the linear futures markets as a trader and spent most of my career as a spreader, dexterity needed to be able to facilitate atomically traded complex spreads.
01:15:02.934 - 01:15:50.344, Speaker A: So this means that you can now have futures calendar spread markets that trade atomically alongside of its individual spread legs. It also means that you can easily spin up any type of user defined spread. So say trader wants to see a basis spread with additional deltas attached to it, or it wants to see an eight legged option structure. This can now be quickly spun up, traded atomically in a true double auction style market. Okay, so that's dexterity. Now I feel, and probably I'm slightly biased, but dexterity is a huge milestone for the space. One of the bigger breakthroughs in on chain derivatives.
01:15:50.344 - 01:16:48.394, Speaker A: However, I believe what is most important and what truly separates hero from any other on chain solution is in its risk protocol. Spandex. Let's run it back to our wall of shame from the beginning of the talk and remind ourselves again of why we're here. We're solving for real time risk transparency to make sure guys like this never have a chance again to paralyze our financial system. As we've all seen in derivatives, the risk engine is everything. So we created what we call spandex, which is a dynamic, on chain, real time, portfolio based risk and margin engine. Although spandex is incredibly complex and was a serious challenge to build, our design considerations for it were pretty simple, logical and straightforward.
01:16:48.394 - 01:17:22.974, Speaker A: First, it needed to have a portfolio risk and margin model, which we'll talk about in a second. 2nd, it needed to run risk in real time. Third, it needed to at least meet the standards of CFI competitors. It's the only way we're going to create a lane for Defi in the space. And then last, it needed to have robust liquidity and customer protections. Now let's talk about the first point. You cannot run a capital efficient marketplace on chain without portfolio margining.
01:17:22.974 - 01:17:53.878, Speaker A: And to do that on chain is not an easy task. For those of you that don't understand the difference. Suppose you had two positions in your account. You had a long sole perp and a short sole future. In an isolated risk model, the risk engine would look at each one of those positions independently. Now, in a portfolio margin. In context, the position gets looked at across the entirety of the portfolio.
01:17:53.878 - 01:19:14.374, Speaker A: And because those two positions offset and are highly correlated, the margin relief that you get because of that, sometimes on the order of 90% to 95% of what would happen in an isolated instance. So obviously this results in a much more efficient use of capital for traders. Next, to capture the greatest benefits of transparency and risk and settlement, it was necessary that we build spandex to run inline, which means that it updates on every change in the market in real time. Now, one important point to make here is that every wallet in the network gets the same treatment. When I was a chief operating officer in the traditional prop world, I spent a lot of my time negotiating things like fees and risk parameters with clearing firms and exchanges. I can assure you that not all participants are given the same treatment to procure these types of deals. Therefore, we saw a significant opportunity to make this better in this world as we know it doesn't matter who you are or what your reputation is, everyone comes with a network on equal footing.
01:19:14.374 - 01:20:08.848, Speaker A: All risk, all programs are fully transparent and available to everyone. Last, and this is a common topic that's discussed amongst a lot of us who were from the traditional space is that this side of the market has historically kind of missed the mark on liquidity and user protections. So what does that mean? See what we have listed here. So this means building in protections for market makers and liquidity providers for multi and mass quoting. So that means that market makers and liquidity providers are putting out many bids and offers simultaneously on the market to facilitate the liquidity. That gives you a better marketplace. You need to build in guardrails and protections to protect them in a adverse or rogue risk event.
01:20:08.848 - 01:20:50.084, Speaker A: Otherwise they're never going to come back. Pre and post trade risk checks, open interest caps on a global and on a byproduct basis. And then last, we only use USDC collateral. So we built this to be a true primitive block, as if it was, as it was just recently launched. Currently has a limited number of end user applications, but the number is quickly growing. We do not have Hero does not have its own front end. This was built as a true primitive building block for application builders.
01:20:50.084 - 01:21:44.134, Speaker A: Now to close it up, just want to share another quick story. Beginning of this year, we hosted a dinner with some of the founding teams who have been instrumental in the building of hero. Over this past year, it's included leaders from some of the largest trading firms on the planet who all now have active teams at crypto. The collective agreement between everyone at this dinner was that now is the time to rethink the derivatives market landscape. We're at a point in its evolution where interest has grown and we're new pathways and alternative solutions that need to be explored, worked on and taken very seriously. The time to build a solution for the greater good of all of us is here. We're making hero one of those solutions.
01:21:44.134 - 01:22:14.612, Speaker A: Thank you. Awesome. It was great to hear about hero and bringing derivatives on chain. So next up is actually me that you have. I'm going to be talking about a project that I've been working on in Sierra Leone. So my name is Colin. I work on the developer relations team at Solana foundation.
01:22:14.612 - 01:22:54.398, Speaker A: And yeah, there's a side project that I've been working on, which is a web3 school in Sierra Leone. So when I say web3 school, I actually mean like an in person, physical, in real life school in Sierra Leone. And Sierra Leone is a relatively small country in West Africa. It's on the coast, it's got beautiful beaches, very mountainous. It's a great place. So in Sierra Leone, I founded a nonprofit organization called Christex foundation. And the aim of this foundation is to actually lead Sierra Leone through a blockchain, but more specifically a Solana transformation.
01:22:54.398 - 01:23:57.244, Speaker A: It just so happens that the first step of this transformation is education. And it's education from a technical perspective in terms of where we will train people on how to develop on Solana, but also from a non technical perspective, where we actually just introduce what blockchain is, what the use cases are, and kind of like the issues that it's able to solve locally in Sierra Leone. So the question you might have is, why are you building a physical school? Why isn't this like an online community somewhere? Well, for you to kind of understand why, you'd have to understand what the level or the state of infrastructure is like in Sierra Leone. So believe it or not, in 2022, there isn't, like, an area or region in Sierra Leone that would have 24 hours of electricity. Not only that, Internet is something that is prohibitively expensive. If you ever want to feel sorry for me after the talk, ask me how much I pay for a ten megabit connection at my house in Sierra Leone. I'm sure you'll be surprised.
01:23:57.244 - 01:25:09.560, Speaker A: So with things like that, having an online school, we just don't really have the infrastructure to actually power that in Sierra Leone. So we really needed to have, like, the physical component. And almost, like, outside of that, I think people are not smart or intelligent just based on, like, where they're born or what region they find themselves in. I think some of the differences is just having the access to resources, the correct resources, and actually, like, an enabling environment, and actually have the equipment to participate in this particular network. So kind of like, how did this all start? It actually started off with a simple tweet. So this was me back when I was on holiday in Sierra Leone last year, December, and I was speaking to different people in the country, speaking to software engineers to actually find out the issues that they were having locally. And more often than not, what I heard was about having lack of opportunities in terms of these individuals would go through, let's say, university or some kind of educational program, train themselves up, get some skills, but at the end of it, there is zero opportunity.
01:25:09.560 - 01:25:43.208, Speaker A: There's, like, no opportunity for them to work in the field that they studied in. Outside of that, if they were one of the ones to be fortunate enough to actually find a position, the opportunity or, like, the. How much they will actually earn is very, very low. So what you find in Sierra Leone in terms of the minimum wage is actually very close to the average wage in Sierra Leone, which is ranging from about $40 to $60. A month. That's how much somebody has to live on in terms of food, rent. You can just imagine the general living expenses.
01:25:43.208 - 01:26:58.582, Speaker A: And for somebody who is, let's say, a senior software engineer or an engineering sole that has three to five years of experience, they'll be very fortunate to even earn a salary of like $300 a month. So this kind of opportunity is kind of what actually struck a chord with me, because it actually made me realize that this is why I was actually interested in blockchain technology in the first place. In terms of, for sure, it's going to improve the efficiencies that we have in traditional systems. People are going to have new experiences with web3, but there's a whole region and a whole set of people who can actually benefit from this technology if we're just to embrace it. And it kind of made me think that it actually gives not just Sierra Leone, but Africa as a whole and emerging markets an opportunity to actually leapfrog the existing traditional systems and traditional technology and actually embrace the technology of the future, which, of course, is blockchain. And I'm sure most of us in the audience are believers of that. So where are we now? So we thankfully received a grant from the Solana foundation that allows us to complete our phase one.
01:26:58.582 - 01:27:50.346, Speaker A: So what you've seen is a construction that we started in the middle of April, and since then, we were able to build the purpose built like Solana facility in Sierra Leone, where the education is going to happen. We also did this in partnership with the University of Sierra Leone, because the facility that we built is actually on campus in the university. So, yeah, construction started in April, and in about six to seven months, this is what we're able to accomplish. And by the time I get back in Sierra Leone, by the end of the week, phase one will actually be complete. So we can actually start doing the training on site. And one of the cool things about this facility is actually, it allows us to have, like, a physical, like, in real life experience of Solana. So kind of think of Solana spaces.
01:27:50.346 - 01:28:38.704, Speaker A: Before Solana spaces was actually a thing. So we can kind of, like, educate people from a non technical perspective in terms of just by them coming onto the campus, they'll be able to experience Solana in real life. So some of the pictures you're kind of like, seeing is what kind of, like, the facility will look like in future phases. Whereas mentioned at phase one, we just have the core construction, and we can actually start teaching on site. So this picture that you've seen is actually one of the first lessons that we've had. So for the past two months, I've actually taking the students taken through them, like teaching Solana and Solana development at my home in Sierra Leone. Because the construction wasn't complete, the students were very energetic and passionate to start.
01:28:38.704 - 01:29:38.562, Speaker A: So I opened up my home to actually start teaching them two to three times a week for the past two months. So now that the facility is complete, we can begin to do that and move it on site. So what's actually interesting is, like, we actually started off with about 100 students, and this is from the university, kind of like nominating people that they think will be great or well advanced, and also just purely by word of mouth. And the idea is to actually bring this number down to probably around twelve to 24, where we can actually focus for this first two cohorts in terms of forming strong ecosystem projects in Sierra Leone. So in terms of where do we go from here, the first thing is actually to take students through the program. So as mentioned, the first step will be taking them from zero to actually being able to complete bounties in the Solana ecosystem. So think of the bounties you'll find on products like Superteam earn.
01:29:38.562 - 01:30:55.114, Speaker A: And actually, just actually getting to that level will actually be a huge national success in terms of, again, as I was mentioning, the average wage in Sierra Leone is about $60. Them completing one of the simplest bounties on super team is probably like three, four, even five x their current earnings. The second step from that is actually taking them from being able to complete bounties in the ecosystem to actually being hireable by different ecosystem projects around the world and going further from that. It's not just stopping at being hired, but as I mentioned, can we get to the point where actually we're forming strong ecosystem projects that are both birthed and founded in Sierra Leone. The second step will be partnership with teams in the ecosystem in terms of. So Solana kind of like optimizes for it being composable. So with that, it will be very interesting to work with different ecosystem partners to kind of understand the protocols that you're working on and actually how we can benefit from it in Sierra Leone in terms of building on top of it, and even to a large extent, contributing back to the protocol in a way that will enable us to solve the challenges that we have locally.
01:30:55.114 - 01:31:49.318, Speaker A: And of course, funding. This is funding for future phases in terms of not only improving the facilities that we have on site, but also begin to focus on different initiatives that we have. It's like, one of the obvious cases is just like, payments and remittances, especially in Sierra Leone and the region as a whole. And what you'll find is the QR code that you can scan and our Twitter handle, which is christexfoundation. The QR code will kind of take you to a link for the Twitter, for the foundation, my personal Twitter and my personal telegram, if you ever want to kind of get in contact and see how we can work together. Finally, what we have is different artworks that were created by local artists in Sierra Leone. So these are artists that were actually onboarded and educated in terms of what an NFT is.
01:31:49.318 - 01:32:33.470, Speaker A: And we were able to assist them in not only learning about what an NFT is, but actually converting the artwork that they have into nfts. And we worked with our friends from exchange art to actually do a sale of these pieces of artworks. So for each artwork, there are 20 editions. And actually, the sale of just one of these artworks would allow. Sorry, would sponsor a student in the program for a period of, like, three to six months, and also allows us to kind of do, to supply the basics in terms of having tables, desks and chairs and the likes. So that cell is going on literally at the moment. So please scan the QR code and participate.
01:32:33.470 - 01:33:18.524, Speaker A: And I guess one thing that I actually forgot to mention right at the start is that this school is actually completely free. So from now until literally the end of time, the foundation will be open completely for free. In terms of, as long as you're interested in blockchain in and learning to develop on Solana, you can come into the foundation, go through the program, and learn Solana development for free. So thank you all for your time. And, yeah, hopefully we get to work in some capacity in the future. Thank you. So it's me again, but this time, I'm here to introduce our next panel.
01:33:18.524 - 01:34:10.846, Speaker A: And this panel is moderated by Anand Gomes. And the title of this panel is can 450 billion a day in tradfi options finally move on chain. So please join me in welcoming the moderator, Anand Gomes, and the rest of the panelists. Hello, everyone. Good afternoon. My name is Anand Gomes. I'm the co founder and CEO of Paradigm.
01:34:10.846 - 01:34:39.344, Speaker A: We are a large institutional liquidity network focused on derivatives. And today, I'm with a fabulous set of panelists here looking to talk about whether the huge options market in traditional finance, what was the likelihood of and when, rather will it move to move on chain? So before we get started, we'd love to introduce, get the panelists to introduce themselves. Maybe Arisa, if you want to go first.
01:34:39.684 - 01:35:08.280, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. Hi, everyone. My name is Arisa, and I'm the co founder and CEO of Sega. Sega is a Defi options protocol that built the first exotic options smart contracts in DeFi, and we are currently issuing vaults that are investment strategies that users can stake in that generates really high apY. We're currently number one on Solana in terms of volume, and we're number two across all chains. Hi, everyone, I'm Cindy. I'm the co founder of Drift Protocol.
01:35:08.280 - 01:35:36.484, Speaker B: We're a derivatives exchange built on Solana, and we focus primarily on perpetual swaps, though, you know, I think options is definitely in the horizon. We launched our v one last year, this time at Breakpoint, did about $10 billion in volume, making us one of the fastest growing Solana Defi protocols. And we just dropped b two live at break point as well. So please check out our Twitter and. Yeah, happy to talk more about it.
01:35:36.904 - 01:36:10.134, Speaker A: Hi, all. I'm Tommy Johnson with psyoptions. Forgive me for the notes, but I've been in the ecosystem for two years, so it's been a long journey and a lot has happened. Psyoptions was the winner of the first Solana serum Defi Hackathon. The first to ever launch physically settled, american style options on chain in a decentralized manner. The first to have an acquisition in the Solana ecosystem, with the acquisition of tap finance, which put us into the structured product space. Sai also had the most successful IeO in FTX history.
01:36:10.134 - 01:36:44.208, Speaker A: As we all know, derivatives are a highly regulated space in the US. So we've been investing heavily in decentralization and governance. We are a leader in Solana governance infrastructure and the first foundation to move all safs into locked, invested token contracts on chain with governance voting. So, with that, psyoptions is the underlying options and structured product infrastructure on Solana. But as you can see, we've evolved past that to be a leader in the decentralized organization and governance. Nice. Hey, everyone.
01:36:44.208 - 01:37:03.016, Speaker A: Nice to meet you all. I'm Tristan. And I'm the founder of Zeta Markets. We're one of the premier venues for derivatives trading on Solana. So we do exchange traded futures options and now perps as of a few days ago. And we also specialize as well, in kind of OTC options trading and structured products. Okay.
01:37:03.016 - 01:37:23.564, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. I'm Renan. I'm the head of Latin America for Darabit, Darabit different from the others. I'm a centralized exchange, but we do believe in DeFi as well. So, yeah, we are one of the largest derivatives exchanges out there. The largest one. When it comes to options, we have over 90% of the market share.
01:37:23.564 - 01:37:59.544, Speaker A: So, yeah, that's pretty much it. Awesome. Well, the title of this talk was partially taken from a quartz article last year where they talked about single stock options getting to 450 billion a day and sort of like, beating just like, stocks. But before we sort of get into whether that market will move on chain, maybe it makes sense to quickly tell people here, like, what is the size of the option market today in crypto across c five and Defi? Maybe you could start with on the DeFi part and then can take us on with c five.
01:37:59.664 - 01:38:32.476, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. I mean, since Defi has started in 2020, I think what people have failed to recognize is that we're still so, so early. I think people often think about Defi at the same size as the entire crypto market, but it's completely different. And, you know, Defi derivatives, especially today, is probably around $3 billion. And then c five derivatives is around $90 billion. And tradfi derivatives is at $16 trillion. And so what that means is there's so much potential for the market to grow.
01:38:32.476 - 01:38:53.484, Speaker B: But not only that, when you look at the size of tradfi markets, the size of derivatives is actually majority of the market. But in crypto, crypto derivatives actually like less than 10% of the market. Which means even with the existing market size, there's so much opportunity for categorical expansion. And this is what all of us here are trying to do.
01:38:54.304 - 01:39:30.924, Speaker A: And maybe Renan give us a little bit of where does Darabit stand in terms of. Because you are the largest player in the industry, some idea about volume and things like that. Yeah. Today, our turnover daily is between two and $5 billion. We're quite large, but when compared to the traditional finance, and not even if we compare to the perps and futures volume, we are still a tiny bit. So there is a lot of room to grow. Completely agree, not only on c five, but of course, defi as well.
01:39:30.924 - 01:40:03.212, Speaker A: Yeah, I definitely agree with that. I think it's, you know, just 2 billion in volume a day, you know, for options. Let's call it 250 tvl on in the defi space. So definitely a long ways to go. But, you know, do you think that, you know, a similar. Like what, what is the catalyst? Right? Because in tradfi, the catalysts were sort of this gamified trading, zero commission, you know, things like that. And of course, all these meme focused discussions on social media.
01:40:03.212 - 01:41:00.186, Speaker A: Crypto has a lot of that. But, you know, do you think, what is the catalyst, do you think, for crypto options to sort of take off not just across defi, but also just in c five? Because like you said, we're still very small. Right. Do you think it has to be sort of a crypto native set of catalysts, or do you think it's, you know, or just like, you know, like you said, gamified trading, etcetera? Yeah, well, the fact that our product is, you probably know, we have inverse products rather than linear products, which is a little bit more complicated to understand. The linear one is, you know, you have the collateral in stablecoin or, you know, just regular options trading. If we look at Darabit and all the options platforms we're actually having, it's like you're trading Tesla shares with Tesla options with Tesla shares. So that's a little bit more difficult for retail to understand.
01:41:00.186 - 01:41:42.712, Speaker A: And that's one of the pain points, I guess. And also, of course, regulation. It's a difficult time for you not to be regulated. It's rather, in my opinion, it's a matter of time then much more than a question of if it's going to happen. So, yeah, that's some of the pain points for us. I would love, Tristan, your opinion on this, too, because you're basically building an exchange, but fully on chain. How much you talked about the complexity, encrypted purpose are such an easy thing to get into and get leverage out of.
01:41:42.712 - 01:42:26.378, Speaker A: And the exchanges have done a fantastic job of just making sure that experience is super easy and simple. But for options, like you said, it's much harder for people to sort of understand it's priced and settled in bitcoin, that's obviously one hurdle. But also managing the Greeks, the Delta Vega gamma, things like that. How do you think about these things as you thought about building Zeta and your go to market? Yeah, great question. So we definitely think UX is really paramount to the options experience. We talk to a lot of customers, and I think given that crypto and Defi especially is so retail driven, those people come to the platform and they kind of see all these greeks and they're very much scared away from that. It's a very different trading experience.
01:42:26.378 - 01:43:02.236, Speaker A: Most people are used to this, like long, only short only behavior. This is really taking kind of bets on kind of probability of where the price will end up in certain kind of time ranges. So it's a lot more, I guess, different in terms of the trading experience. We focus a lot on the UX, so not only making it easier to understand in terms of education, but also in terms of trading interface, trying to break that down. And so something that I know you guys have also been doing really well is stuff like combos, I think are pretty killer for options. I don't expect everyone to come in there and just be like, I'm going to trade all these individual options and make up this iron condor payoff. Like we want to do these one click strategies and really break it down for people.
01:43:02.236 - 01:43:48.114, Speaker A: I think vaults have been doing that really well. I think there's still a bit of a transparency problem where people think they're getting kind of risk free yields. But I think these kind of UX innovations where people actually trade a lot of complex strategies in the backend but don't have this mental overload, I think will go a long way. I think the UX is exactly why we shut down our order book based trading. That's what we originally launched as and then went more into the structured product was because not enough flow or volume to make it profitable for market makers. So getting liquidity there is hard, and then the UX is just hard for retail and individuals to come in. So, you know, I should definitely share that, you know, because some are most of our customers, institutional, but we do get, you know, from time to time and they kind of struggle, especially their first timers.
01:43:48.114 - 01:44:09.684, Speaker A: But I do think UX is still part of the issue. You know, Cindy, I would love your opinion on has perps sucked out all the air out of the room because it's such an easy instrument to sort of ape into. Do you think that contributes towards and would love everyone else's opinion on this too? What do you think?
01:44:10.144 - 01:45:11.844, Speaker B: Yeah, I think perps has definitely been the catalyst for a lot of retail coming into not just defi, but going beyond spot trading. It's a very simple one click product. You think Solana is going to go up at break point, you click a ten x long button and you immediately go long versus figuring out all these complexities with options in terms of whether it's, I think, sucking liquidity out, I don't think that's necessarily the case. I think perps serves multiple different functions even within the options world, to help users hedge their options positions, build different types of, of combinations together. For instance, like no loss derivatives, where you can long a perp using proceeds from selling options and hedge it as well. And so I think perps definitely is the gold standard in terms of Ux and a lot of options. Innovations like perpetual options is sort of catching up to how simple perpetual swaps have been.
01:45:11.844 - 01:46:02.050, Speaker B: Yeah. Just to add on to that point, like, I think perpetual futures and options have very different user insights when trading them. And so I think perpetual futures is great, but it's a very directional product, whereas in options you can actually create delta neutral positions that take your position on volatility instead of a directional bet. And so there's so many ways you can actually combine the two products, like Cindy said, to express your view on the market. But the value of options is not only just like the volatility and the duration, but by adding exotic options. For instance, you can add conditions on top of the contract that allows for more flexibility of how you want to structure your view in the market. So you can structure in a way where it's like, you know, higher risk and super high rewards, or you can also structure in a way where you can be more risk adjusted and you can create something that is safer with a good yield.
01:46:02.050 - 01:46:07.334, Speaker B: And so those are the ways you can really leverage both the perpetual products and the options products together.
01:46:07.734 - 01:46:37.346, Speaker A: Yeah, I definitely agree with that. I think I'd go on to say that, to me, it's really a function of market evolution. In the beginning of any market, your views are quite simple in that sense, because the market's getting off the ground. Speculation tends to be the only first catalyst and that tends to be directional. But then as the market develops, people tend to have more complex views. Maybe I want to be long ball or know, I don't care about which way price goes and you know. Yeah, exactly.
01:46:37.346 - 01:47:14.250, Speaker A: Or I need to be. I want to have a tailored risk or investment profile. And so I'm definitely in the camp that as the market continues, and we've definitely seen this in our own business as well, because complex views institutions tend to be the ones that have complex views. And the options markets, you know, and the flows we see continue to increase even in the bear market now. And I think that's validating what we're all talking about, that people want custom views. Options are the best way to express those. So, Tommy, any thoughts on that? Yeah, I think that's why I like to answer the question for what this talk is about.
01:47:14.250 - 01:48:16.154, Speaker A: I think the answer for me is not yet the order book based trading we're doing under collateralized european style. We were developing that for months. But you have to cross the spread as a trader if you're trying to put on more than one option just to buy the two legs, because based how order books are right now on chain, it's you're buying one leg at a time if you're trying to be able to create complex structures with individual puzzle pieces. And that's why I think it's going to take structured products getting more flow in driving those. We just launched a partnership with Zeta markets that's pushing flow onto their order books. So we're a strong believer that structured products are now and then the volume and flow through order books and more complex structures will come. And I think RFQs and we get, you know, things like that on chain will ease the burden into eventually having enough volume going through that order books are justified where you don't have to pay an arm and a leg to a market maker just to have liquidity on the books.
01:48:16.154 - 01:48:52.040, Speaker A: It's a great segue to my sort of next question. You know, talked about structured products, you know, do you think, you know, so we talked about two things in this. First, I guess, you know, few minutes. One was the theme to me was like, hey, ux needs to be easier. You know, people need to be able to go in and out of things and that experience needs to be easy and not like too burdensome cognitively. And then you talked about custom views. Now, vaults represent both of those things, right? Do you think dovs, you obviously ribbon sort of pioneered those friction came after sega obviously is number one.
01:48:52.040 - 01:49:27.304, Speaker A: Solana. And do you think dovs and structured product vaults are the killer app? Are you guys feeling that now is the time where we're really moving to that next stage? I would say yes for now. That's definitely the short and medium term. It abstracts the complexity as a way of selecting strikes. I think that's why perps are very easy and they're now as well is you don't have to select a strike in expiration. You just take a directional position and then manage funding rate and manage that position. So it's the killer app for now, in my opinion.
01:49:27.304 - 01:50:03.764, Speaker A: I have a bit of a contrarian opinion, I guess, to that. I think they're pretty good and they've solved this kind of problem of actively having to manage and kind of understand how options work. It's almost like a yield farm, right? Put your money in there, set and forget and this thing, maybe you get exercise and then people get pretty unhappy. But I think options are like a pretty active product and I think the exchange traded ones, the really big thing hampering it has been liquidity with the perp. You've essentially got one product to trade with options, you've maybe got eleven strikes, both calls, puts and then multiple expiries. You're suddenly having to market make 50 to 100 products for the same market. That's really hard.
01:50:03.764 - 01:50:31.712, Speaker A: And if we can come kind of solve that and concentrate that, I think that will happen. We've been working really hard on that and we've actually seen our Dex volumes like auto book traded stuff picking up. It's literally like doubled in the last two days. Now doing kind of more 20 to 25 mil daily, which we think is pretty cool. And there's definitely a market there and we're seeing more people coming in there and actively, I think, taking on these strategies and kind of trading on order books. But I think in the meantime, yeah, these vaults are pretty great for the people that just want to earn passive by selling options.
01:50:31.888 - 01:51:10.952, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. And I think dovs are definitely a great business model in terms of driving a lot of adoption. I think the financial engineering in the Defi options space is still pretty nascent. And you know, my personal view is that retail users should not be trading vanilla options. They are extremely risky products where when the market moves 5%, you're actually losing money. I think for retail users it's actually exotic options that are risk adjustable, that creates safer yields in volatile market environments. And I think in terms of what we see in traditional markets, like over 80% of wealth management products are actually risk adjusted, exotic structured products.
01:51:10.952 - 01:51:21.932, Speaker B: Whereas vanilla options are more used for active trading by hedge funds and institutions. Which I think would be kind of how the crypto derivative market market will.
01:51:21.948 - 01:52:05.132, Speaker A: Also grow into, I think the, you know, from our perspective. So we've started to host a lot of the dov auctions. Now, you talked about liquidity. One thing paradigm does well is like we bring liquidity to, you know, the people like ribbon friction, et cetera, you know, but a market's two sided, right? You need takers and you need makers. I've always believed like the liquidity providers will go where the flow is. Like, you don't really need to convince them once they see the flow. But where is the taker flow coming from in your mind? Because we need to create some sort of native crypto takers or use cases that is not just scammy in terms of driven by the token rewards or whatever.
01:52:05.132 - 01:52:11.516, Speaker A: There needs to be some use case. Where do you guys see this TVL coming from?
01:52:11.700 - 01:53:04.634, Speaker B: Yeah, I think for Sega specifically, we struck it's all about structuring. So it's about figuring out a strategy that is like something that both parties want. And so in our inaugural product, which is an exotic derivative vault called a fixed coupon note, as a user, it is a yield generating product, and there's a fairly low probability that the trade knocks in which, like, touches a barrier that exposes you to the downside. And on the other side, on the other side, market makers are having happy to put on this position because it is actually a much cheaper hedge for their downside. So they're basically paying for insurance on their book. That generally tends to go long. And so I think figuring out a structure that works on both sides can really help with avoiding, like needing to put like a, like an inflationary, like, token reward or like, you know, trying to structure deals that kind of reduces the velocity of market innovation.
01:53:05.534 - 01:53:27.296, Speaker A: Yeah, I had an opinion on that as well. Like, I think right now, you don't see as many people just going out there and just taking, I guess, vanilla options. But I think when you actually start to leverage defi composability, that's when you'll get these kind of natural takers. And I think there are so many options for that. Right? No pun intended. But, for example, imagine a lot of amms. They're exposed to impermanent loss.
01:53:27.296 - 01:54:04.938, Speaker A: Options are great for hedging. What if you could hedge that out? You can create this imperfect hedge using options. Maybe you integrate that with some of the big vaults on Solana. Essentially, they use you in the backend. Is this kind of service for hedging that out? We think that'd be pretty massive, but let's take that a little bit deeper. But the use case, I think we're all on board, but who do you think, like this tv out, for instance. Do you have any insight on who's depositing money in these vaults? Are they whales? High net worth? Some idea, because obviously I don't have an insight into, but was curious, at least I know Tommy, you guys run a vault.
01:54:04.938 - 01:54:08.970, Speaker A: Sega, you guys run a vault. Any insight into who's actually depositing money?
01:54:09.122 - 01:54:44.874, Speaker B: Sure, I can help answer that. So Sega is currently number one in terms of volume on Solana and number two across all chains. So we have a lot of depositors, and we can say that they're both institutional and retail depositors. And we feel like in vanilla vault, it's actually a lot of retail depositors only. The reason is we put exotic derivatives on chain, and exotic derivatives basically have a very complex operation in terms of observations and settlements in traditional institutions. There's an entire middle office, back office that is handling this operation. That is a lot more costly and tedious than vanilla options.
01:54:44.874 - 01:55:30.572, Speaker B: By putting it all on smart contract, it is actually automated and it is actually a lot cheaper to run these strategies. And so we see a lot of institutional interest in running this exotic option strategy through our systems and our smart contracts. We also see that these types of products, especially the fixed coupon notes that we roll out, they are very popular wealth management products in the real world or in traditional finance. And in traditional finance. The issue is, because it is such a costly operation to run these products, they're often only available to private banking clients. And they come with kind of a minimum ticket size of around one hundred k us dollars. But by putting it on smart contracts, we make it available for any users to invest from just like 0.01
01:55:30.572 - 01:55:43.396, Speaker B: USDC. And you know, not only do we see kind of an institutional interest for making the operations easier, we see a lot of retail interest because we make the products more accessible to everyone through digitalizing the relationship.
01:55:43.580 - 01:56:49.208, Speaker A: I still think like, yeah, we can say there's a lot of depositors, but I think like 95% of the TVL, if not more, is coming from institution and investor backers of these projects. You know, we can see a lot of the volume or a lot of the TVL moving out in size after like recent hacks or things and, you know, changing macro conditions. And so I think that's why I think over the next few weeks, months, you're gonna see probably months, you're gonna see a lot of drastic change of TVL moving. You know, we talked about who's in first right now, but I think that's going to change many times over the next few months because the real size comes from primary whales, institutions who are taking directional risk, hedging it elsewhere, or, you know, setting and forgetting it when there's a less risky product. Yeah, and if these big, like vaults and project treasuries and stuff start also using structured kind of financial products in the backend, these guys have like massive treasuries of tens, if not hundreds, billions of dollars that they could potentially be monetizing there as well. Exactly. So I think the majority of the volume of the TVL, sorry, I don't think.
01:56:49.208 - 01:57:28.524, Speaker A: I know it's coming from institutions in Wales and primarily crypto native right now. That makes sense to me. I mean, I guess going back to what we talked about earlier, tends to be institutions that understand these things. So the people that are willing to deploy ten, $15 million of capital should be them. I'm curious, how does derbit as a centralized player, how do you guys see the growth of these markets? Is it something you can align with? Are you guys thinking about some sort of DeFi offering? Yeah, definitely. Well, we see that DeFi poses enormous possibilities, but also some key concerns. A few ones.
01:57:28.524 - 01:58:32.404, Speaker A: To date, we haven't seen any of the DeFi options vaults being able to portfolio margin, which is a pain, especially when we're talking about institutional investor, institutional traders. Also, the fact that most of them still rely on their bid to mark Price is also a pain point. And the last one, which is, I think maybe the largest, the biggest issue is the regulation. So we've seen what happened with SBF's proposal, regulation proposal, regulatory proposal, and it's still kind of unknown where the DeFi is going to go after regulation. But apart from that, we actually have a stake in a DeFi options vault called thetanets. So we really like it. Yeah, we still believe that there's a lot of room to grow.
01:58:32.404 - 01:59:10.312, Speaker A: As I said, we are the largest options exchange and our open interest is at this month. So it's still a lot of room to go. I think that's why decentralization and focus on decentralized governance is extremely important and why maybe it's a short term detriment to focus on that. It's definitely going to set, you know, that's my thesis set up for the long term. Like, we don't have just an entity in the US contributing. We have entities all over that are not, you know, they're only unified through decentralized governance. So, you know, that's great.
01:59:10.312 - 02:00:00.624, Speaker A: I agree with that. The, you know, we've talked, obviously, we know there's a lot of potential here for these markets to grow. Ruhn, you talked about, you know, headwinds, right? So let's spend. What do you think are the headwinds? Like, what is, what are you guys seeing in each of, you know, the projects and that you're working on? What are the one or two things? I'll go because I think, you know, we deal with mainly in this jewish, and I'm sort of echoing some of the things that Rena do because we do a lot of business together. But I think the performance is one putting things on chain, especially something like an order book that requires, even with Solana obviously being a leader, you're still subject to a 400 millisecond block time. But if you go to a high frequency trader, they're usually used to 510 milliseconds. So performance is an obvious one.
02:00:00.624 - 02:00:15.644, Speaker A: What else do you guys see? Or headwinds portfolio margin. You talked about that. I think that's a great point as well. I don't think anybody's really cracked the code there yet. But what, you know, are these the only things, or are you guys seeing other headwinds as well?
02:00:16.864 - 02:01:12.864, Speaker B: Yeah, I think one of the biggest things that's going to bring retails on chain versus on centralized exchange. And what DeFi uniquely enables is having long tail assets permissionless on chain. So we've really built our exchange to be able to support these type of long tail assets. Anything from the enews of the world or random betting coins that are able to drive retail interest and volume into DeFi that centralized exchanges cannot. We think that's one huge tailwind that's going to bring a lot of retails into the DeFi trading space, especially for leveraged products. And secondly, I think having deep, super deep liquidity on chain, which we're seeing more of, I think this year, as it's starting to get captured by market makers, trading on DeFi is really going to push more retail traders towards DeFi versus signing up using your email on an exchange.
02:01:13.024 - 02:01:48.226, Speaker A: Yeah, I think there are a few kind of major headwinds you mentioned a really good one. In terms of performance. We can't match the kind of millisecond kind of acknowledgement times that a lot of these centralized exchanges have and have gone through all the problems with market making on chain and how difficult that is, especially where you have to pay all these gas fees for quoting. We're really excited for financer to come out and hopefully scale Solana to a million transactions per second. I think that's super exciting. Otherwise, on the retail side, I think just in general, most of retail is fairly unsophisticated, and I think we know that. So more education and kind of more pushing towards options education and getting people across that is really important.
02:01:48.226 - 02:02:07.324, Speaker A: And then probably on the institutional side, I think, yeah, hacks have definitely held the space back a little bit. I think it's also some of the infrastructure is not quite there in terms of on chain custody, KYC, other things that kind of scare off the compliance teams of these big firms. Yeah, I think institutional custody is a big one that's been focused on recently.
02:02:07.984 - 02:02:29.744, Speaker B: Yeah. And another one I think is financial engineering. I think there was a lot of builders in the space, but not a lot of people who have the experience and have the mathematical understanding of certain types of products. I think with like a lot more people with these experiences coming into the industry now, I think a lot of the products will actually have a higher level of financial engineering and better benefits as a result.
02:02:30.084 - 02:03:14.874, Speaker A: Awesome. I think we're out of time, but I think to summarize, you guys could add to this. I think one tremendous potential market is still a fraction of what it can be. Tons of challenges in terms of uX, some on chain hurdles, things like that, but also a sense of hope. And not just hope, but also real traction in terms of you're actually seeing things like dovs and structured products evolve on chain with meaningful TVL. So again, I'm obviously very long this space, so very excited. And I think 23, 24 to 2023 and 2024, you will really see an explosion of TVL and just the growth of options market in general, even on c five.
02:03:14.874 - 02:03:18.514, Speaker A: Agreed. Cool. Thank you.
02:03:19.214 - 02:03:41.682, Speaker B: Thanks. Really good. For those of you who haven't met yet, my name is Amira. I lead public policy at the Solana Foundation. I will be your guide for the afternoon. Colin left you in my hands, so hopefully I can take it home. So got an awesome lineup.
02:03:41.682 - 02:04:15.746, Speaker B: It might be afternoon post lunch, but this stuff is going to be pretty interesting. And we have two really special speakers starting off the afternoon talking about learn and earn. And we have Kevin Yang and Sheila Marcello. Now, both of these folks are incredible, but I was reading about Sheila this morning, and one of the things that I've been thinking a lot about is how do we get more women in web3 and the fact that we need more examples of incredible women in this space. And Marcella is, I think the term is banff. Incredible. Incredible woman.
02:04:15.746 - 02:04:39.342, Speaker B: Started a company in 2006. She started care.com comma, which gives care to, I think, hundreds of thousands of parents. You can correct me on that stat. She ipo'd it in 2014, and now she's here in web3 working with all of us and being an incredible leader in this space. So I want to invite Sheila and Kevin on stage, give him a big hand. And so, yeah, let's give it up.
02:04:39.342 - 02:05:06.534, Speaker B: Woo. I can't hear you. I messed up the microphone. I want to take this opportunity to give Sheila this new piece of Solana swag that I just uncovered. Breaking news at Breakpoint. It's a soul lady sweatshirt. Look at that.
02:05:06.534 - 02:05:18.132, Speaker B: So thank you to our newest band from the Sol Lana community. Thanks, Mira. So awesome. And, Kevin, thank you for being amazing. Thank you, Sol ladies.
02:05:18.298 - 02:05:18.960, Speaker A: Yes.
02:05:19.112 - 02:05:20.008, Speaker B: Look at that.
02:05:20.096 - 02:05:24.064, Speaker A: How's everyone doing? All right.
02:05:24.224 - 02:05:27.216, Speaker B: All right. Ready, kev?
02:05:27.400 - 02:05:28.164, Speaker A: Ready.
02:05:28.664 - 02:05:30.284, Speaker B: Okay. Let's see if this is working.
02:05:30.664 - 02:05:31.504, Speaker A: Oops.
02:05:31.664 - 02:05:37.976, Speaker B: Go back. Hi. We are Sheila Lirio Marcello and Kevin.
02:05:38.000 - 02:05:41.480, Speaker A: Yang, co founders of Metacrafters, the platform.
02:05:41.592 - 02:06:26.828, Speaker B: Where builders learn from blockchain experts, earn rewards and stablecoin, and get hired. We've been heads down, focused on execution over the past ten months and whether our now chief twit elon himself to Anatoly, are fearless visionary. For Solana, this rings true. Running a startup or coating rust is like chewing glass and staring into the abyss. After a while you stop staring, but the glass chewing never ends. Kevin and I can relate. After each founding numerous startups, I founded Care.com,
02:06:26.828 - 02:06:46.934, Speaker B: as Amira mentioned, which we took global to 20 countries. And then we took public in 2014 and sold to IAC in 2020. And my buddy Kevin here most recently scaled the Philippines fastest growing online food delivery app to 100 million in revenue.
02:06:48.514 - 02:07:17.314, Speaker A: Thank you, Sheila. Now why are we building again? Why do entrepreneurs and coders gravitate towards pain? Because we enjoy the art of building. Or at Metacrafters, we say crafting. We are creators. We are here to innovate. We are building in web3 and feel lucky to get paid to do what we love. Wow.
02:07:17.934 - 02:07:58.046, Speaker B: And now imagine if we started you off on your journey of eating glass even earlier. What if we paid you to go to school, to go to the metaverse, to learn to code, build, and chew glass? We're on a mission to advance 1 million web two devs to web3. If we want Solana to be truly successful, we need tools to scale how we build on it. And there is power in numbers. Metacrafters is a platform where devs learn and earn and land web3 jobs.
02:07:58.200 - 02:07:58.934, Speaker A: Wow.
02:08:00.474 - 02:09:01.138, Speaker B: Let's start with learn. At Medicrafters, we are unlocking accessible, high quality education across the world through blockchain and the learn and earn protocol, we aim to be the leading educational platform in web3. Our high quality courses are taught by professional Solana developers working closely with the Solana foundation work, we enlisted in exceptional experts and builders to create a Solana competency framework, almost like a Solana major, that covers employable and valuable skills. And then there is the power of earn. The cost of entry for developers is super low free to start. Upon completion of intro courses, developers can earn rewards for more advanced courses. A developer pays $100 but gets $200 back upon completing the course.
02:09:01.138 - 02:09:52.562, Speaker B: They double their money. Where do you get that to go to school? They get this in the form of crypto utility tokens we call cred, its wrapped USD, stablecoin and governance tokens we call Kraft that can eventually be traded and converted as well as developers complete courses, a proof of learn NFT gets inscribed on the blockchain. This mark serves as a developer's resume and is accessible to future employers. As a proof of skill, then we focus on ensuring they land a job. Kev that is our Marketplace unlocks competitive opportunities with top employers and projects. You can be the developer who builds the next killer app. But wait, there's more.
02:09:52.562 - 02:10:35.234, Speaker B: For all of you out there who are already building on Solana, you can join us on this journey to train the next glass chores to join our community and be what we call a master crafter. You help us create courses and make money while you're doing it. We split the earnings with you. A majority of the powerful urn model goes back to the crafters, and we also share it with our Solana course creators, an ongoing revenue stream for our mentors. There are so many opportunities for the Solana community to build this with us, but let me turn it over to Kevin to unveil what we're building and announcing today.
02:10:35.574 - 02:11:40.724, Speaker A: Thank you, Sheila. Metacrafters is the best place for any programmer in the world to learn, earn and land your next Solana job. Metacrafters just released soul proof courses where builders can learn JavaScript and rust and earn rewards as they advance through the Solana track. From beginner courses where crafters can get started building on Solana using JavaScript, for example, airdropping soul or minting nfts with Metaflex, all the way to intermediate or advanced level courses where you can build a portfolio and ship real world projects including NFT collections, Twitter clones, and even liquidity pools. Wow. So let me show you a sneak peek to the Metacrafters soul proof experience. Let's say a crafter is looking to level up their skill and wants to get started with our brand new soul proof intermediate course.
02:11:40.724 - 02:12:27.084, Speaker A: Crafters will be guided by one of our Solana expert educators like Keish Boshek, Isabel Sieh, and Ivan Morrow. But let's start with Isabel. Isabel, by the way, is only 19, but already the Philippines top developer educator. She started a school called girls will Code. She's also a TA at the Stanford CS department, and she'll be teaching us today how to deploy our very first hello world program in plain Solana. Now, who remembers doing that? Raise your hand if you remember your first Solana program. All right, so if you know, you know, and if you haven't, check this out.
02:12:27.824 - 02:12:53.664, Speaker B: Hi everyone. Welcome to the long awaited finale of this lesson with running the program. The first thing that we're going to do is we're going to just build everything. So we do that with NPM run build. The next thing that we do is we actually deploy. And then finally the last thing that we do is we actually run the program. And this is with NPM run starts.
02:12:53.664 - 02:13:04.824, Speaker B: So this is everything that happened. Firstly, we make a connection to the Devnet cluster and then we have the public key of the payer.
02:13:06.724 - 02:13:57.894, Speaker A: Here, Isabel walked us step by step to deploying our very first Solana program. But aside from coding videos, crafters will continuously practice with quizzes and coding projects. The randomized multiple choice quiz will reinforce new Solana concepts crafters have learned at the top right of this screen. It's also equipped with an anti cheating camera to make sure no bots are earning this proof of learn. Four out of five, not bad. But even better, crafters get to showcase the full range of their skills in the Metacrafters coding project, where crafters demo their project and teach us line by line how they've designed the program. Here's an example of Peng who just completed the soul proof beginner course.
02:13:57.894 - 02:14:35.594, Speaker A: Hello guys. So this is my final project for the Metacrafters module two. And here I will showcase how I did the three requirements. So number one is create a front end with the small button titled create a new salon account that generates a new key pair and airdrops to solve to the newly created key pair. So this is where we generate the key pair upon clicking the button so we can see it here. So I stab this connection here. If you take a look at it, it just connects to the devnet as a default, but you can also connect to different clusters as well.
02:14:35.594 - 02:15:19.600, Speaker A: Teaching, we believe, is always the best form of learning, and crafters will also get to show potential employers their skill. Once successfully graded, crafters will get rewarded. Our loot box drop of rewards. Yes, we are making it more fun to eat glass. Crafters will also get a proof of learn credential that unlocks exclusive job opportunities in the Solana ecosystem and cred stablecoin rewards, as Sheila mentioned earlier. What do you guys think? How cool is that? I wish I got paid to get to study when I was younger and feel like I was playing a game while I was at it. Back to you, Sheila.
02:15:19.752 - 02:16:18.334, Speaker B: Thanks, Kevin. Wow, don't you love his excitement and passion? See, you're laughing. And it's because metacrapters is the community of builders and creators who are rallying together to share their knowledge and passion for blockchain and problem solving. There's a reason we call it metacrafters or crafting meta beyond developer mentors or master crafters who help create courses and lessons for students, the Solenite Solenite house visual style and aesthetic was crafted by designers in the Metacrafters community. We launched a global competition this summer called the Metacrafters Creator cup. And now let's hear from our winners. Encodemas and Team Zevl.
02:16:19.994 - 02:16:51.995, Speaker A: Hello everyone. My name is Kelly and I'm also known as Encodimus online for my multimedia treasure hunts. But I'm here to say thank you to the Metacrafters team for choosing my entry as one of the winners in the Creators cup challenge. This opportunity is not lost on me. It is hugely appreciated. The chance to showcase my work at Solana Breakpoint is amazing to me. Such a huge shock and the chance that I get to come here and be here to share it with everyone is even greater.
02:16:51.995 - 02:17:04.075, Speaker A: Thank you all so much to everyone at metacrafters and all of proof of learn. Thank you. Greetings from the Philippines. My name is Mark Jerombuabe. I'm Kobe Maligaya, also known as Medar.
02:17:04.139 - 02:17:05.667, Speaker B: I'm Natalie Bel Osma.
02:17:05.755 - 02:17:20.104, Speaker A: I just would like to say thank you to metacrafters for hosting the creator Scalp challenge, choosing us as the winner, and then showcasing our work here at ringtone. We will treasure this opportunity you have given us. Thank you.
02:17:20.224 - 02:17:34.164, Speaker B: Thank you for giving us artists the opportunity to show what we are capable of. Now let's look at what Encodimus submitted in the competition. It's pretty dope.
02:17:36.064 - 02:18:23.964, Speaker A: Welcome to Solania, the home of the Solenites. On our own archipelago, we have found the perfect balance of magic and science, speed and safety, as well as reverence for history and innovation. For the future. From Cloudbreak peak to the depths of the Gulf Stream, the power of our sun, helios, shines over the wonders of this mecca of beauty and efficiency. We move at light speed. All citizens have their own archivers, hard at work and a proof of history archives housed in each dwelling in Solanga. Here the knowledge is shared.
02:18:23.964 - 02:18:32.364, Speaker A: Please come join us. See what you may learn in Solania.
02:18:35.764 - 02:19:14.444, Speaker B: And by the way, Kelly is right here today, all the way from Japan. We flew him out here to be at breakpoint in this audience to see the power of this amazing community. Kelly, please stand. Thank you. Let's effing go, guys. Visit Solana Metacrafters IO to enter our solenite academy, it's free to start. Crafters can learn and earn and land their next web3 job.
02:19:14.444 - 02:19:49.174, Speaker B: A few of our live instructors are actually here this weekend. They'd love to meet you. And if you're interested in being a soul proof master crafter, many of you devs out there, if you want to mentor or be a course creator and earn money through us, please come find us. Or here's a QR code for efficiency and you can visit mentors metacrafters IO to get in touch. Learning something new Kev is effing hard. We've been there. Building companies are hard.
02:19:49.174 - 02:20:36.530, Speaker B: Too many of you know that. So why not have fun with fellow crafters while doing it and earn creds or USDC? We're building a platform that brings top quality educators a sleek and pretty dope ux, as you saw Kevin showcase. More importantly, we are building a community. Web three is about equal access for you mentors and mastercrafters out there. We have to break down boundaries around educational access in order to train and advance more developers. The next generation of talent is out there, more likely than not, the most influential, game changing web3 builders. Some of you are looking at me.
02:20:36.530 - 02:21:16.712, Speaker B: You're out there. They're in this room right now. Kevin and I, along with our entire team at Medicrafters, are inspired by what Raj Gokul shared in an interview with me recently in my podcast, Web that's w three b apostrophe D. He said, we are not waiting around. It's a theme of the Solana ecosystem. If something is technically possible and people are here that can build it, even if it's risky, we're just going to go take a swing and see what happens. That's exactly what we're doing with Metacrafters.
02:21:16.712 - 02:21:32.592, Speaker B: We are building for the builders of web3. That's you. We aren't waiting around, and we are proudly chewing glass while we're at it. As a blockchain developer, I believe web3 is the future.
02:21:32.728 - 02:21:39.754, Speaker A: How we build the Metaverse now will unlock unstoppable potential experiences and advancements we can't even imagine.
02:21:39.874 - 02:21:52.946, Speaker B: It feels like we're on the brink of something huge, and there's so much to learn still. But learning something new is hard. It's a hundred times easier to learn something together. Accountability and support are necessary if we.
02:21:52.970 - 02:22:00.742, Speaker A: Really want blockchain to be successful and grow. We need tools to scale it. We need a way to train more creators to bring web3 to more people.
02:22:00.938 - 02:22:16.554, Speaker B: Metacrafters. We're on a mission to advance 1 million web two devs to web3, where devs learn and earn and land web3 jobs. We are the platform for builders to learn from. Blockchain experts, earn creds and get hired.
02:22:16.854 - 02:22:31.204, Speaker A: Join your chain's house and invest in skills you'll need to succeed. The Solenight house has just released soul proof courses where builders can learn JavaScript, rust, and earn rewards as they advance through the Solana track.
02:22:33.864 - 02:22:43.764, Speaker B: The Sola Knighthouse is the first to be designed by creators in our own community. We're on a mission to advance 1 million web two devs to web3.
02:22:45.704 - 02:22:52.012, Speaker A: Our doors are officially open to devs ready to learn, earn and land their next web3 job. We'll see you there.
02:22:52.048 - 02:23:46.122, Speaker B: There, metacrafters. Thank you. Come build this with us. So our next speaker is part, he's at the forefront of a very hot industry, decentralized wireless. You can see all the chaos happening right now behind the scenes. He's part of this amazing movement called decentralized wireless, and he is one of the chief guys who created the helium network. And I was talking to him backstage and he was saying that back when helium was first getting off the ground, they were working so hard to get people to get hotspots that they would incentivize them with, like, pies.
02:23:46.122 - 02:24:05.374, Speaker B: So it'd be Thanksgiving, they send you a pie with your hotspot. And now we've come to the point where there's almost a million helium hotspots around the world. So it's pretty amazing how much this stuff has scaled in just three years. He also happens to have a really fantastic name, so please give it up for Amir Halim.
02:24:22.934 - 02:24:52.214, Speaker A: Good afternoon. My name is Amir. I am the founder of Helium and also the CEO of Nova Labs. I wanted to talk a little bit today about the state of the helium network, where we started and where we're going. So I want to rewind a little bit back to 2013, when helium was founded. A lot of people don't know helium is almost a ten year old company at this point. We started in 2013 with the vision of building a network for Internet of things devices.
02:24:52.214 - 02:25:28.388, Speaker A: So Internet of Things, at least in the context that we talk about it, are low power devices like sensors and tracking devices that run on batteries and need to be really, really cheap. They need to be really cheap because they need to be everywhere. We looked at the state of wireless technology as it existed at the time, and we didn't see anything that could do that job. So if you tried to do this on cellular, it was going to be too expensive, the battery life wasn't going to work. If you tried to do this on Wi Fi, the battery life wasn't going to work and you had the authentication problem. How do you move between wireless networks? They all have different passwords. Bluetooth wouldn't work.
02:25:28.388 - 02:26:15.008, Speaker A: It's also super low range, designed for very high bandwidth applications like streaming music. So what we needed was a wireless network that was designed for very, very, very small amounts of data, devices that could last for years and years and years on batteries. So we took a lot of different shots at how to build a network like that. It's not an easy task to build a global wireless network. Five or six years ago, we decided that instead of trying to do this ourselves, instead of building the network ourselves and charging people to use it, we would take a completely different approach and put this in the hands of the people. So we devised a device called a hotspot, which is a wireless access point for IoT devices and also a crypto miner. And that was our idea for how this would work.
02:26:15.008 - 02:26:39.090, Speaker A: We launched in Austin in August of 2019, and things went pretty well after that. I would say we are now at close to a million hotspots globally. So this has taken off and become the largest wireless network in the world of any kind. And it is completely people powered. There is IoT coverage. The Internet of Things is IoT. That's the acronym.
02:26:39.090 - 02:27:03.038, Speaker A: It's everywhere. So apparently, like 10% of the world's population is within range of an IoT hotspot now. And so this has been a phenomenal success so far on the coverage part in terms of what uses the network. So last year, these kinds of IoT devices sent data on the network about 2.2 billion times. This year already at 7.5 billion times.
02:27:03.038 - 02:27:26.446, Speaker A: So the amount of usage on the network is growing substantially. And it's important to remember that this isn't like a cellular network. This isn't a situation where there are billions and billions of cell phones and you're just trying to convince them to come join your network. Most of these devices don't exist today. Most of the companies building are literally building. They started with nothing and they have to build an application from scratch. Some examples of this.
02:27:26.446 - 02:27:41.914, Speaker A: So this is a company called Mimic. It's a turkish based company. They have a tracking device that looks like a credit card. They have a safety device, which is like a personal alarm. They have a connected camera. These guys have been building for a few years. Their products are now in market.
02:27:41.914 - 02:28:08.672, Speaker A: This one is. I'm biased to this one. This is by far my favorite application that I've seen to date. It's from a company called Nano Things. As you can see, it's literally like a flexible temperature and location sensor that you can bend and literally peel the thing off the back and attach it to something. For me, I'm so excited about this one because it's the kind of application that you could never have built without helium. There is no other wireless technology that would have allowed this to exist airily.
02:28:08.672 - 02:28:45.514, Speaker A: Is an interesting one as well. This is an environmental air quality monitoring sensor. On the face of it doesn't sound super exciting until you realize that the status quo today, how this is done today by other companies in the space, is they are literally driving cars around and measuring the air quality. I have one that drives past my house every week. I won't name the company, but it's super annoying to see an air quality monitoring company polluting the air with a car to monitor the air quality. I find it ridiculous. So now with something like Airli, because it has ten years of battery life, I can now take the sensor and attach it to a lamppost and just leave it there for ten years and it does the same job.
02:28:45.514 - 02:29:40.244, Speaker A: M three is an agriculture company, so this space is called precision agriculture. This is the idea that if you were to instrument an entire farm that is put sensors everywhere across the farm, thousands of acres of farmland, you would be able to grow crops more efficiently, you would be able to do it more cleanly. And this again is an application that isn't a new idea. People have been talking about precision agriculture for at least the last decade, but to do this with a cellular network would be impossible because you need hundreds of sensors per acre, and these farms are thousands of acres. So there's no way of doing this again with existing technology. And last one, just to sort of give an example, last of these examples for now is a company called drone deck. So you may remember a few years ago, I think, Jeff Bezos at Amazon at the time floated the idea of, like, we should deliver packages using drones instead of people.
02:29:40.244 - 02:30:09.940, Speaker A: It would be much more efficient. You could do stuff like ten minutes after the order. Drone deck is a company that's actually doing that today. They are using the helium network to do it. And again, these are companies that took several years to bring their product to market, and they're now appearing, and we're super excited about some of the applications and use cases that are showing up. The other side of interesting things that we've seen is other networks that do similar things to helium. So there are companies like Xtelia, Sennet, Actility, Netmoor.
02:30:09.940 - 02:31:04.094, Speaker A: These are all IoT companies using the same technology as helium, but doing it with a private network instead of a big public network. So if they have a customer that's in a warehouse or in a factory or some application like that, they build a network in that place. Right? So the factory is covered or the college is covered or whatever it is. What we're now starting to see is we're partnering with all of these companies, or helium is partnering with all these companies, I should say, say, because what they've realized is it's much, much more efficient for them to take advantage of the helium network than keep trying to build their own version. So we're excited to see some of these because they have serious, serious corporate customers. So, for example, actility works with Volvo and Olympus and Cisco and major names that they have been working on for several years, and that's what they do for a living. And now they get to be able to take advantage of the helium network and the enormous coverage that exists.
02:31:04.094 - 02:31:40.774, Speaker A: So a few years ago, there was an improvement proposal called hip 19 in the helium network. Proposals and changes to the protocol are governed through a process called the helium improvement proposal. We borrowed it from bitcoin, but it's the same kind of idea. The community proposes an idea, it gets voted on and discussed and eventually implemented. If passed, hip 19 was the idea that more than one hotspot manufacturer should be able to exist in the helium network. Up until that time, we were the only manufacturer of hotspots. Like, we had built 20 or 30,000 hotspots.
02:31:40.774 - 02:32:20.416, Speaker A: And the community said anyone should be able to build a hotspot. You should be able to have multiple manufacturers able to do this. Hip 19 eventually passed. There are now something like 65 or 70 different hotspot manufacturers. But the thing that's important about that is not that there are 65 or 70 different manufacturers necessary, necessarily, but it's that they were able to multiply the effect of going to market on helium, rather than just us, like one relatively small company. There are now 65 companies going to market selling helium, convincing people to buy hotspots, and explaining what it's all about, what we're now trying to do on the demand side of the network. So it's the sensors and the usage of the network is recreate roughly the same thing.
02:32:20.416 - 02:33:08.160, Speaker A: We realize that we are just a single entity, and we are going after a space that is enormous. Analysts expect this space to have tens of billions of devices using IoT networks over the next coming years, and we are unable to do that alone. We are not going to successfully acquire tens of billions of sensors on our own. So what we are introducing today is something called OpenLNs, which is LNS in the IoT universe is something called a LoRaWAN network server. It is the least exciting sounding thing, but it is the backend part of the network. It is where authentication and security and device provisioning and all of the controls of an IoT network live. All the companies I mentioned previously, like actility and Senate and Netmore and all these guys, they have their own version of an LNS.
02:33:08.160 - 02:33:43.268, Speaker A: Up until now, the only way to use the helium network has been to use an LNS that we built. It was called console. It's quite nice. It's very pretty. I think it has the best user interface of all of these lnses, but it doesn't have all the features that everyone needs. And so that's been a challenge as we've tried to work with more and more of these LoRaWAN IoT companies. So with open lNs, the idea is that instead of having to connect all your hotspots and all your sensor data into our console, you can now connect to any LoRaWAN network server that exists.
02:33:43.268 - 02:34:11.288, Speaker A: There are lots of providers that do this, by the way. Some that you will have heard of, or like. AWS has an LNs, and all of these companies at the top have their own LNs stacks, and there are lots and lots of other Lnses on the marketplace. So the way this works is there's now an entity or a piece of software called an LNS Oracle. It sits there receiving data from hotspots, and then on the other side, can connect into any LoRaWAN network server. So it doesn't have to be us, it doesn't have to be anything we built. It can literally be anyone's LNS.
02:34:11.288 - 02:34:56.534, Speaker A: If you wanted to stand up your own on AWS, you're now able to do that. And the reason that's interesting is the same thing that I was just describing about Hip 19. What happens now is that rather than just us Nova Labs, you now have multiple different companies going to market, trying to acquire sensors and customers to use the network. We expect this to have an enormously multiplicative effect, just like it did with hotspots. Hotspots grew from the 20,000 or so that we built to a million, because there were 65 companies doing it. So we think the same thing is going to happen on the demand side of the network, on the sensor side of the network, as a result of implementing openlns. So I'm super excited about this because it opens up the world of, like, the set of sensors to helium, which is the largest network of public infrastructure.
02:34:56.534 - 02:35:41.274, Speaker A: So in terms of what Nova is up to next, some of you have perhaps followed what we're doing, but we've got a few things that we've been working on that we think are super interesting as well. So sorry, I gotta wait patiently for the animations to play. Another improvement proposal that occurred a few months ago was something called Hip 51. Hip 51 was the idea that there should be more than just an IoT network on helium. So today we've got a million node IoT network, but the community was thinking, like, maybe we should do more than just IoT. What about cellular? What about Wi Fi? And so Hip 51 proposed that helium should become a network of networks. So you should have IoT, you should have cellular, you should have Wi Fi VPN's.
02:35:41.274 - 02:36:20.326, Speaker A: What about, like a distributed CDN? Anything where a distributed network of nodes would be useful, you could apply in Hip 51, and it proposed a structure for how that should occur and how those tokens should work. The first network that has come alive as a result of Hip 51 is 5g. So this launched a few months ago. This slide is already outdated. I think there's close to 6805 g hotspots on the network now works very similarly to the IoT network. Consumers or individuals or businesses buy a 5g hotspot. They stick it either in their home, on a balcony, in a window, or they put it in a commercial space, like a coffee shop or a mall or something.
02:36:20.326 - 02:37:04.422, Speaker A: The difference is, of course, the end devices that use that network are cell phones and not low powered sensors. We are now in a very good place, having understood how this all works and how these networks grow to take advantage of the demand side of the network. So last month in New York, you may have seen that we announced the world's first crypto carrier, as we're calling it, helium mobile. And we created helium mobile because we wanted to. Like, we envision a world where consumers or users of the network actually benefit from using it. If you, regardless of what you do, whether you're a coverage provider, whether you're a subscriber, like you are adding value to the network, and we think you should be rewarded for that. So helium Mobile is the world's first attempt at doing something like that.
02:37:04.422 - 02:37:33.852, Speaker A: The features that we try to focus on, the first one is privacy and security. This is something that I think is super important. So that's everything from data encryption. It's making sure that sim swapping is practically impossible. I don't know if anyone, like anyone, has fallen victim to that, but it's kind of a disaster. We want to make the network super affordable as a result of the way that the network is built. Traditionally, a network would cost tens of billions of dollars to build, but because this is a people powered effort, it won't cost tens of billions of dollars to build.
02:37:33.852 - 02:38:07.744, Speaker A: And we can pass the cost savings onto the subscribers and probably make this an unbeatable offering in terms of price. And of course, the coverage is built by people and not companies. In order for helium mobile to work, the first problem we have to overcome is that there's only 7000 hotspots on the network. If you're going to be a subscriber to a cell phone plan, it can only work where there are 7000 cell towers that wouldn't work. So what we did is we partnered with T Mobile, which we announced last month. And the idea here. Thank you.
02:38:07.744 - 02:39:02.864, Speaker A: The idea there is that this is a hybrid model. It's the first time T Mobile has ever done anything like this, where a subscriber to helium mobile will use a helium hotspot when they are within range of it, but use the T mobile network when they're not in range of it. So as the helium network grows, subscribers to helium mobile will use helium more often than they will T Mobile. And the cost for using the helium network is much lower than using T Mobile's network. So over time, we think this hybrid network idea is going to be the way that all networks ultimately get built. And we're excited for helium mobile to be the first example and the first demonstrator of how this model could work. So one thing that I've heard a lot from the helium community and the one thing that I've followed closely is how does helium mobile benefit the helium ecosystem? Isn't this just a way for Nova labs to make money? And of course, we are trying to make money.
02:39:02.864 - 02:39:28.312, Speaker A: We are a company that is trying to stay in business, so making money is important to us. But helium mobile benefits everyone in the helium ecosystem. And I'll take a second to try and explain how. So there are now multiple tokens as a result of hip 51. So here you see the icons for mobile and IoT. Those are two tokens that exist in the helium ecosystem at any time. Those two tokens can be redeemed for HNT.
02:39:28.312 - 02:40:07.108, Speaker A: So you can save through the mobile app or through a wallet or through a command line or whatever I want to exchange my holdings of mobile for the equivalent amount of HNT. And you can do that. The reason that that makes sense, or that works, is that every single network on helium as part of hip 51 requires data credits to use. So this is a concept that we've had since the start. Data credits are kind of like a stable coin inside the helium network. The reason they exist is to try and create a fixed price for using the network so the price isn't fluctuating wildly as the market changes. I don't know of many other networks that do it this way, but to me, it's the only way that makes sense.
02:40:07.108 - 02:40:51.000, Speaker A: Otherwise, the cost of using the network is too variable and too much of a challenge. The only way to acquire data credits is to destroy H and T. So as more and more data is used on the network, more and more HNT is destroyed. So as the circulating supply of HNT decreases, we expect that the value of the network increases. Hotspot hosts who are providing this service are then rewarded back in either mobile or IoT tokens. So, just to sort of illustrate this example, because I know it's reasonably complicated, here's an example of a cell phone using the network burning data credits, which reduces the h and t supply. And you can imagine if you were a 5g hotspot host with a hotspot in a coffee shop and someone streaming netflix, this would happen to you.
02:40:51.000 - 02:41:25.030, Speaker A: You would earn HNT as a result. You would earn mobile tokens, sorry, as a result of providing service to those people. And the same thing goes for IoT. So anyone hosting an IoT hotspot would achieve the same goal from an IoT sensor. And so the point here that is really, really powerful is it doesn't really matter what devices use the network. What matters the most is that there is demand and applications on the network that consume data credits and ultimately cause HNT to be destroyed. So it doesn't matter if you're an IoT holder, it doesn't matter if you're an HNT holder, it doesn't matter if you're an IoT hotspot host.
02:41:25.030 - 02:41:58.904, Speaker A: Ultimately, what you want to see on the network is utility and growth and usage, because it results in more HNT being destroyed. So that's the purpose of this sort of network, of network of concept. It's not intended to move value away from IoT into 5g, or to move network value away from 5g into a vpN. It's not about that at all. It is literally the cliche, which I don't love of rising tides lift all boats. But that's really what it's all about. It's like, how do we increase utility and usage of the network all across the board? Because it will benefit everyone that's involved in the helium ecosystem.
02:41:58.904 - 02:42:36.666, Speaker A: So in the end, the end state is of course, that you end up with this network of networks where everyone is using helium, participating in the same token ecosystem, and everyone is adding value. Another hip, you can see the helium community is super active in proposing changes to the network. Hip 70 was. This one actually came from us. This was a proposal to completely re architect the way helium works. And part of that proposal was that we should no longer be building our own l one. So when we started helium, we started building helium in 2017, the only l one that could be used was Ethereum.
02:42:36.666 - 02:43:18.574, Speaker A: And I'm sure to everyone in this audience, everyone realizes that trying to build applications on Ethereum, not really a viable thing. It wasn't in 2017, still isn't today. So when we looked at what could be done, what l one would make the most sense, we chose Solana. So as I think everyone knows in this room, I hope helium will be moving to Solana. And the timeline for that is that we hope over the next few months we'll be complete with this transition. And all of h and t iot mobile, all of the tokens will live on the Solana chain and be part of the Solana ecosystem. But the part that I'm most excited about, and surely the part that resonates with everyone in this room, Solana, I think, has done a phenomenal job of growing a developer ecosystem.
02:43:18.574 - 02:43:51.652, Speaker A: Of all the chains that exist, and there are many, the thing that I think Solana has done very, very well is grow a developer ecosystem. So we are super excited to be able to collaborate with that ecosystem for all manner of things. If you wanted to split your hotspot earnings with multiple wallets, you could probably do that pretty easily on salon if you wanted to. Like, I don't know, maybe step in. Users can be verifiers on the helium network because they're out walking around anyway. You know, there's all sorts of things where I think composability and cross application development will be valuable. And so I'm super excited to see what that community comes up with.
02:43:51.652 - 02:44:25.134, Speaker A: We've known the Solana team for a very long time, pre crypto, and I think they've done a phenomenal job of growing both the network, but also the developer ecosystem in particular. So the last thing, because I've got 14 seconds. And Anna, the stage manager, will kill me if I'm, if I go over as I think everyone saw yesterday, I hope. We also announced that saga customers will get unlimited data and voice on helium mobile for the first 30 days. So hopefully that's good. And now the clock is yelling at me and it's flashing red with zero, zero. So I'm finished.
02:44:25.134 - 02:44:27.834, Speaker A: Thank you very much and I hope to see you all on the helium network.
02:44:31.504 - 02:45:00.714, Speaker B: Did anyone here do speech and debate in high school? Raise your hands. Yeah. Okay. Loud person in the front. Our next speaker and I bonded in the back over our shared backgrounds in speech and debate in high school. But he has a long list of extracurricular activities from his days before doing what he does today, including having been in the Stanford laptop orchestra. So he's an early generative artist.
02:45:00.714 - 02:45:09.994, Speaker B: Today he's the founder and CEO of Metaplex. And so he's going to talk to us all about what's next for Metaplex. So give it up for Stephen Hess.
02:45:15.974 - 02:46:11.574, Speaker A: Hey, everyone. It's great to see so many familiar faces from breakpoint last year, and of course, so many new faces that are here for the first time. Really excited to join today to talk about Metaplex and the digital asset economy. It's been an incredible journey this year in NFTs on Solana. And formerly as the head of product at Solana Labs, I had a chance to work across the ecosystem, working on stake pools and with the validators, and now have the privilege to lead the incredible team at Metaplex Studios as its CEO. For those that aren't familiar, Metaplex is a decentralized protocol for digital assets built on Solana. More commonly, you may know Metaplex as the NFT protocol and developer platform that underpins the Solana ecosystem.
02:46:11.574 - 02:47:00.964, Speaker A: Since our launch in just June of last year, over 150,000 creators have used Metaplex to mint over 22 million NFTs for over 7 million collectors. And that's actually now eclipsing all of Ethereum by unique wallets. Put simply, yeah, let's go, let's go, let's go. And importantly, this community was built by the glass eaters, independent artists and creators. No minimum guarantees, no large brands, brand deals, no sports leagues. This was all done from the ground up, and we're incredibly proud of that. So, put simply, Metaplex is not only the largest protocol in Solana, it's also the largest source of new user acquisition into the ecosystem.
02:47:00.964 - 02:47:42.464, Speaker A: And the economic impact of this has been staggering. Metaplex has helped creators generate over $1 billion of revenue and facilitated over $3.5 billion in total commerce through its contracts. And we've traveled some distance since we were together at breakpoint of last year. And despite these tremendous market headwinds, there's no slowing down the creators and builders in the metaplex ecosystem. We are up and to the right standing behind these numbers. We've seen the explosion of crypto native community building.
02:47:42.464 - 02:48:50.652, Speaker A: Many reporters and analysts look at PFP collections, and they understand them as art and collectibles. And while this is true to an extent, the deeper shift that's occurring in plain sight is the birth of crypto native social networking and community building. In web two, your identity and your community membership lives in the row of a web two, advertiser's database. And in web3, your identity is a digital asset that you own tokenized on a censorship resistant blockchain. This is a fundamental shift in the way that social organizing and community building will evolve over the next hundred years. We are in the earliest stages of this transition, and Metaplex will be the open platform and toolset that accelerates the creation and growth of these communities. Given the strong sense of community amongst gamers, it's unsurprising that we've also seen the rapid growth of NFT based games on Solana as well, where your characters, your in game items, and even the game tokens are secured on chain.
02:48:50.652 - 02:49:56.444, Speaker A: If you're at the Solana game day or played a game like Aurori or Zulana, you've used Metaplex. The interoperability and the portability of the assets in these games is laying the groundwork for an open metaverse where new worlds and economies are growing up in real time. And last but definitely not least, one of one, artists and photographers have found a home on Solana using metaplex to sell their art and engage with their communities. Artists like Todd McFarlane, John Lay, Degen, poet Scuba Steve, and photography collectives like immutable image or street dreams are showing the power of nfts and are elevating the independent art movement. But we didn't get here on our own. It took an entire ecosystem of builders to make this possible. And I just want to take a moment to extend a deep thank you to all of the incredible teams that have worked with us over the last year to make Solana and metaplex the fastest growing NFT economy and community in the world.
02:49:56.444 - 02:51:28.844, Speaker A: And this is just the beginning. Today, deep in the throes of crypto winter, I know we all feel it. We'll be turning the page and preparing for the next leg of this journey, going beyond the phase zero of nfts and to building a free and open digital asset economy. This economy will be one that elevates and empowers the individual, one that is globally accessible, infinitely programmable, and censorship resistant from the whims of overzealous governments, politicians, and corporate executives. While Metaplex provides a broad set of tools for developers and creators, many of which you may be familiar with, like our JavaScript, Android, and iOS SDKs, along with programs like Candy Machine, Auction House, Hydra, Gumdrop, Pax today, we'll be focusing on a number of recent advancements in the Metaplex protocol that will become key growth levers for this next wave of innovation. Solana first, we'll discuss the future of asset creation powered by on chain compression. Second, we'll outline how token Metadata will be expanded to provide on chain royalty enforcement for both new and existing collections.
02:51:28.844 - 02:53:08.264, Speaker A: Third, we're excited to announce Fusion, a new system for creating digital assets with complexity that will open up a massive trait and in game item economy for NFT communities and games. And last, we'll discuss the creator Studio, a fully no code solution for creators that allows them to directly harness and unleash the power of the metaplex protocol across defi payments communications governance, we've seen the creative unlock as blockchain solutions become more cost efficient. Over the last year, we've been working closely with the Solana Labs team to introduce the next generation of minting and asset creation on Solana. Instead of storing the metadata for an asset directly in account space on Solana compression stores a cryptographic proof of metadata on chain, allowing for cost improvements in the multiple orders of magnitude while still maintaining decentralization as a core tenant. Since any independent actor can reconstruct the off chain data by reading the blockchain transaction history, this is a fundamental shift, and I can't wait to see what's next. Now in beta, with support from Soulflare, Genesis, Go, and Triton, Metaplex is ushering in the next generation of nfts on Solana by leveraging on chain compression to dramatically lower the cost to mint and store digital assets. This will solidify Solana's advantage as the most economically viable blockchain for nfts.
02:53:08.264 - 02:54:08.024, Speaker A: With this new method of minting and storage, an enterprise can mint 1 million nfts for five solutions, compared with the current cost of 12,000 sol. That's a 99 point. I'm reading my notes, 996% discount. We're incredibly excited, and the conversations, even over the last few days have made us even more bullish that not only does the Solana community recognize the opportunity, but has boundless creative energy to take this technology and to break bring it into every major sector of the economy. If you are interested in being an early adopter, we'd love to hear from you. You'll see many of our team around the conference over the next couple days. You, of course, can dm us on Twitter or just yell at us on Twitter and we'll respond to that as well.
02:54:08.024 - 02:55:43.864, Speaker A: And we'd love to work with you. Okay, now for royalty enforcement if you are on crypto Twitter, which I assume most of you are, it's been near impossible to have missed the rapidly evolving conversation and shifting community sentiment around royalties, with major marketplaces fighting to capture trading volumes by allowing sales on their platform that bypass creator royalties. We believe that this creates a structural risk to the NFT economy at large because it breaks the incentive alignment between creators and their communities, and these communities need solutions, and quickly. As a result, we're excited to announce that we will be extending Token metadata, the base layer program for Solana NFTs, to provide on chain royalty enforcement for both new and existing collections, by introducing two new asset classes. The royalties non fungible asset class is an NFT that can only be transferred through new instructions on token metadata and identity is a new asset class introduced alongside of it that will enable free transfers between wallets owned by the same person. On Friday, we released the full tech spec on how this new system will work, balancing the need to prevent attack vectors on one side while also preserving the composability and portability that makes NFTs so unique and in the spirit of building in the open building open source. We love the sauce.
02:55:43.864 - 02:57:17.406, Speaker A: We are looking to find a solution that balances interests across the community and will be taking feedback and iterating on the design over the next couple weeks before it's finalized. Already had some amazing conversations. There's obviously strong opinions on this topic, but ultimately our view here is that the community deserves choice, and that while this won't be the perfect solution for everyone, it will be an option that many creators will find appealing and will be eager to experiment with. However, I do think it's important. I won't go into the details of the technical design, but I do think it's important to call out that one aspect that's unique about this solution is that because it extends token metadata, we are able to support existing collections, or the majority of existing collections, and migrating to the new royalties non fungible asset class, should they choose to do so. And even more excitingly, as of this morning, I'm pleased to announce that ute's will be the first collection to migrate to the new asset class. I really want to emphasize the significance and the impact that the dlabs and the dust labs team have had in the growth of the Solana NFT ecosystem.
02:57:17.406 - 02:58:10.034, Speaker A: I want to shout out Frank and Kevin, who are once again pushing the edge of what's possible on the back of an incredible drop using the third generation of candy machine. I know this is just the beginning and let's try some new shit out, as they say. Let's go. If you have an existing collection and are interested in moving over, we'd love to hear from you. While we don't believe this solution will be right for everyone, again, we do strongly believe it's fundamentally important for creators to have choice, and that's exactly what we're providing. All right, up next, fusion. Today we're excited to announce Fusion a new capability in the Metaplex protocol that enables the creation of composable nfts by letting you combine multiple assets into a new one in Mainnet.
02:58:10.034 - 02:58:49.954, Speaker A: Now, as of a couple days ago, Metaplex now has a token owned escrow primitive within token metadata that allows nfts to behave like wallets themselves. Because fusion nfts are Metaplex nfts, they are fully compatible with all existing marketplaces and wallets. And developers like Coinboy have already started building on Fusion. This is an example of what a trait marketplace and customization experiences on Fusion will look like. The crypto gauntlet is very rare. I'm going to actually now for a deeper look. Kick over to Danny from Cave World to give you a demo of how this can unlock the in game item economy.
02:58:49.954 - 02:59:30.656, Speaker A: Big point developers. My name is Danny. I'm the CTO of Cave World. We're a 3d player versus player battle arena on Solana and I am excited to show you Fusion by Metaplex and what we're going to do with it. So a few words about fusion. Fusion is a program that is on chain and it allows you to fuse multiple nfts together and treat them as one whole. Why is that exciting? It's exciting because it allows all sorts of use cases like tokenizing traits, creating dynamic stats that are tokenized and fused under the main player character or any NFT whatsoever.
02:59:30.656 - 03:00:03.054, Speaker A: It allows you to compose with that process and watch it online and react to it on chain. And you don't need any databases or any web. Two helpers to make that happen. So we are going to use it for so many things. And the first one that I wanted to show you is a prototype that I made in just one day of a simple inventory system. So keep in mind that I did it here at Solana breakpoint in one day. So you can do much better, much shorter once you get your hands on this.
03:00:03.054 - 03:00:55.776, Speaker A: This is running on a local instance on my computer, and I have a Solana local validator running. And the concept is basically taking inventory items from the right and equipping it to the character on the left fully on chain. And then we're going to run a game and see if the game can load that up and show it in 3d. So I'm going to equip a shield. And as you can see, immediately we see that on chain, the shield has been transferred to the character. Now, behind the scenes, what happened is that this was sent to an escrow account, and that escrow account has a special slot for the left arm. So once I have that left arm slot filled in, I've set a specific permission with a constraint that allows me to only put one item in that specific slot.
03:00:55.776 - 03:01:15.224, Speaker A: So it's really powerful. I'm gonna do iron shoes. Let's complete this look and just pick the rusty door armor. These are all items from our upcoming game. We'll get the iron sword. Let's see. Did we forget anything? No, we have the full look.
03:01:15.224 - 03:01:49.868, Speaker A: And what we're gonna do now is this freshly equipped character on chain. We're gonna pull that information, and we're going to play it in 3d in our game. So this is our game. Let's see. As you can see, we have archive the warrior with all of this stuff equipped. And let me show you how it looks. We've encrypt on the character is loaded in real time from, from chain, and it's shown in 3d graphics.
03:01:49.868 - 03:02:15.640, Speaker A: And this is just one simple use case. There's so much more exciting things that you can build with it. So I bet you can't wait to get your hands on it. And I'm so excited that I could show you this one little use case. Keep building and bye bye. Thank you, Danny. I think Danny's in the back there somewhere.
03:02:15.640 - 03:02:39.284, Speaker A: Appreciate you, man. Fully composable, fully on chain complexity for NFTs is here. The in game item economy is here in Mainnet. Excited to build. Let's build some games. Lastly, the creator studio. Since launch, we've heard from creators this is actually like the forever feedback in discord.
03:02:39.284 - 03:03:36.746, Speaker A: I love Metaplex, but I don't have a developer to deploy my candy machine or to set up my drop. Creator studio puts that to rest and allows creators to directly harness the power of the Metaplex protocol and drop when and how they want. With over 50,000 creators currently on the waitlist, the response from the community and from creators across all blockchains has been overwhelming. And this week we are opening up early access in the v one. The tool will provide no code setup for candy machine, open edition, limited edition and mint pages. And excited to announce that one of the first drops will be Klanosaurs, which provides studio level animation, professional execution and a universal design that will take nfts into the mainstream. There's no doubt that the next Disney will be born in web3, and the Klanosaurs team has the deep experience and the knowledge of web3 to capture that moment.
03:03:36.746 - 03:04:15.984, Speaker A: We couldn't be more excited to work with them. All right, so that's coming to the end. Honestly, this is the best part of the job, is shipping. So I know we've been running through quite a bit here, but before I go, I want to share one last bit of Alpha. In partnership with the render network, we're excited to welcome Beeple to Metaplex and Solana. Honestly, surreal even saying that out loud. Debuting the future of streaming and immersive 3d nfts.
03:04:15.984 - 03:04:33.154, Speaker A: Now, I don't want to steal Jules Thunder, so I'm going to leave it at that, but I highly encourage you to come back tomorrow for his talk here at 1255 to learn more. Thank you all. It's a pleasure. I hope to meet some of you outside later today and let's keep building. Appreciate it.
03:04:35.334 - 03:04:54.454, Speaker B: So I'm going to keep this next introduction nice and pithy, huh? We have giant Krishnamoorthy here to tell us about the pith network, the biggest oracle on Solana and its future. So please give it up to Jayant Krishnamoorthy, everybody. Thank you.
03:05:11.074 - 03:06:10.026, Speaker A: Hey, everyone, my name is Jayant, and today I'm going to talk about PIP Network. It's an oracle that we've been developing on the Solana blockchain. So PIP Network has been live in Mainnet for about a year and we've seen great progress on the project so far. So what I want to do with this talk is spend a little bit of time talking about what we've built, our progress, and also some of the future directions that we're working on. So what is PIP network? PIP network is a high frequency price oracle that publishes high frequency price updates to the Solana blockchain sourced from a network of top tier market makers, exchanges and other data providers. So there's kind of two parts to that definition, and I'm going to go through them sequentially. So what do I mean by high frequency price feeds? Well, well, this is a graph of the PIP network, bitcoin us dollar price feed for a period of about an hour from a couple of days ago.
03:06:10.026 - 03:06:48.894, Speaker A: And as you can see here, this is a really high resolution time series. There's lots of price updates within that hour. So this is an example of the kind of data quality that you can expect from the PIP network. It's a low latency, high frequency price series. And what's exciting about these prices is that they're sourced from a collection of data providers, which includes some of the biggest market makers, exchanges, trading firms in the world. So these are big names that you've probably heard of, like Jane Street, Binance, FTX. All of these data providers have worked with the PIP network to publish data directly onto the blockchain that DeFi applications can then read and consume.
03:06:48.894 - 03:07:30.032, Speaker A: And so this is what Pip is. But you might ask, why have we chosen to build PIP network in this way? And there's really two reasons why we're building PIP as an oracle in this fashion. First, DeFi applications need data in order to function properly. If you're building a lending protocol or most other kinds of protocols, you need a source of real time pricing in order for the protocol to work. But as traders, we understand that the quality of the data matters. You can't just plug any data into your application and expect it to work. You need accurate data, you need low latency data.
03:07:30.032 - 03:08:11.610, Speaker A: So in order to get that information, the best way to do it is to work directly with the people who produce that information. These are the exchanges, the market makers and the traders, and that's what we're doing at PIP network. The second reason is access. So our data providers have access to information that isn't generally available to the public. One example of this is that the PIP network publishes real time prices for us equities. Now, this is not data that you can get for free on the Internet, right? These prices are delayed and you have to pay licensing fees in order to get it. But our data providers have access to this information and can publish it to PIP because of who they are.
03:08:11.610 - 03:08:50.964, Speaker A: Another example of this is that PIP network can source kind of metadata for the prices that other people can't. Right now, we publish a confidence interval which kind of represents the degree of uncertainty in a price and we get this directly from the traders and market makers who are able to kind of estimate this quantity by looking at different exchanges and kind of combining that information. So this is the two reasons why we're building python this way. And as I said, we're live on Mainnet and we've had great progress over the past year, and I just want to go over some of those stats. So the first is that we've had great progress in these publishers or data providers. So we started with about. We've grown to about 77.
03:08:50.964 - 03:09:28.914, Speaker A: We've recently added some really big names, like Binance, just agreed to publish data to the network. CBO, which is a really big traditional finance institution. So we're really excited to see the network grow with these data providers. The second is the number of data feeds has been gradually growing. We source data for crypto assets, equities, metals, foreign exchange, and we really hope to see this number grow to, like, know thousands over the next few years. And finally, we've seen a lot of usage on Solana. So actually, some of the biggest protocols on Solana, the biggest DeFi applications, use PIP network.
03:09:28.914 - 03:10:04.084, Speaker A: These are applications like Solend, you know, things that you've probably used. If you use Solana, you're working on PIP network prices. So it's really great to see this kind of progress. And actually, one new thing that we've just launched is we've launched cross chain prices from PIP networks. So what we've done is we're sending PIP network data through wormhole, the cross chain messaging protocol, to other blockchains. So this makes the great PIP network data that you're used to on Solana available on lots of other chains. So we're on about ten other blockchains so far, and more of these will be coming soon.
03:10:04.084 - 03:10:43.924, Speaker A: So that's kind of a survey of what we've built with PIP network thus far. And I want to spend a few minutes talking about kind of future directions for the project. So we're thinking about a couple different ways that this project can evolve. And the first one that we've been thinking a lot about is incentives. So right now we have a system where data providers kind of publish prices to the blockchain and it gets aggregated on chain and then it's shared where people can use it. And this system doesn't really have an incentive for the data providers to continue to publish this data. And if we want to attract these really high quality data providers, they need to be able to earn revenue or something from this process.
03:10:43.924 - 03:11:43.864, Speaker A: So what we were thinking about is kind of building on additional mechanisms that allow the data providers to earn some fee revenue for publishing. And I'll share one of the ideas that we have for this right now. I'm not going to be able to talk about it in detail, but if you're interested, you can read the PIP network white paper, which talks about this in much more detail than I can today. But our idea is that we're going to have a set of delegators who are going to stake tokens behind the sort of accuracy of the individual data providers, and the tokens will get slashed in case the data providers are incorrect and they'll be given to consumers who pay fees to the network. And the fees that the consumers pay to the network will be split amongst both the delegators and the publishers. So this is a way to kind of reward the publishers for their data and also give the consumers some protection in case, you know, there's ever a problem with their oracle. So this is one of the directions that we're exploring.
03:11:43.864 - 03:12:41.440, Speaker A: You know, this is something that we're trying to build over the next few months or years. Another direction that we've been thinking a lot about is other information that we can publish with our price feeds that will be useful to protocols and builders. And I'm going to talk about one of those directions today. I think there's lots of ways we can go with this, but this one is actually kind of inspired by an observation or a couple incidents that we noticed where lending protocols would have these problems, where someone would come in with a really big position, they'd come in with 100,000 bitcoin and they'd start borrowing money against it. When that position was about to get liquidated, there'd be a problem because the liquidator wouldn't be able to sell 100,000 bitcoin for whatever the protocol thought it was worth. You can value one bitcoin as one times the price of 20,000, that's fine. But you can't value 100,000 bitcoin using that same formula because there's price impact.
03:12:41.440 - 03:13:32.900, Speaker A: Once you start selling the bitcoin, the price will go down. We looked at these incidents, actually multiple of them happened in the past year, and we realized that these protocols, they can't do anything better because the oracle doesn't provide enough information for them to actually protect against this problem. The oracle needs to additionally provide some estimate of market liquidity or market depth that the protocol can use to discount the value of these big positions. So we've written a blog post about this and we're thinking about ways that we can start sourcing this kind of liquidity information and publishing it on chain. And this is, again, going to tap into that network of data providers that we have to be able to source this information. I said this is like one example of this kind of thing. I think there are other ways that we can go with this.
03:13:32.900 - 03:14:04.980, Speaker A: I had a conversation with someone yesterday where we were talking about how to provide additional data for people to set the spreads on their amms around the oracle price. So that's like another example of this kind of metadata that PIP network is working on sourcing and publishing along with its data feeds. So these are just kind of two of the directions that we're looking at exploring in the next few months. Okay, so this is a very short talk. So I'm done here. So basically, I've told you about PIP network. It's an oracle that publishes high frequency prices to the blockchain.
03:14:04.980 - 03:14:16.924, Speaker A: We've seen a lot of great progress this year. You can see some of the statistics of our network here, some of our consumers, a lot of media stuff, and I've told you some of the stuff we're working on. So that's it. Thanks a lot.
03:14:19.184 - 03:14:55.212, Speaker B: Looks like he kept it pithy, too. He ended a little bit early. All right, everybody, so our next guests that are coming on stage, one of them has been involved in sports betting for over 20 years. He's an OG sports betting marketplace creator and is about to tell you about his next marketplace. But I think that's the most fun. Is anyone here a Premier League soccer fan? Anyone? Arsenal, Real Madrid, they're going to be hosting a happy hour right after this to watch the Premier League soccer game. So get in here, learn about what they're building, and then go hang out with them and meet them and nerd out over some soccer.
03:14:55.212 - 03:15:00.784, Speaker B: So, everyone, please give it up for my guests, Nigel Eccles and Varun Suthikar. All right.
03:15:15.654 - 03:15:39.734, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. It's great to be here. So, my name is Nigel Eccles and I'm joined by my colleague here, Varun Sudecker. If we go to the first slide and show some of our background. So, other one to note is our third co founder and hardest working co founder, Stuart Tonner, who's our CTO. He's giving a talk tomorrow about the Monaco protocol. You want to see it? That is basically what we've built Betdex on.
03:15:39.734 - 03:16:04.982, Speaker A: I'll give a quick background by myself. I've been involved in the sports betting industry. For over 20 years, I've launched countless products in that market. This is actually the third betting exchange I've ever launched. A betting exchange, just so you know, different from a sportsbook with a sports book, you're playing against the house with a betting exchange. It's much more like, say, the New York Stock Exchange. You're playing against other customers.
03:16:04.982 - 03:16:23.474, Speaker A: That's really important. We'll come into that later on in the talk. Colleague here, Varun, is going to talk about what we're launching and our launch date. So you want to hang around for that. It's really, really exciting. So firstly, I want to talk about the size of the market. Sports betting is big.
03:16:23.474 - 03:16:58.084, Speaker A: We estimate about $2 trillion is bet on sports globally every year. That puts us somewhere on a par of the GDP of either Italy or India. This is a really large market. And so sometimes people say, well, hey, it's a really large market. What's the problem? Why does it need web3? You could say web3 is this big slow database that's really hard to develop on. Why are we bringing this technology? What's the innovation? Let me cover that. And then what Varuna is going to talk to you about is what we're building.
03:16:58.084 - 03:17:23.022, Speaker A: So one of the first problems with the sports betting market might not seem like a problem. There's tons of choice. There's probably like 10,000 different sites that you can bet on in sports today. So really fragmented. So lots of choice. But the problem is that from that there's two things. One is that because there's so many different sites, there's an underinvestment in the product.
03:17:23.022 - 03:17:49.910, Speaker A: So a lot of these products are not web two products. These are actually web one products. These are basic HTML products that show odds. And when we talk about payment reels for some of these products, the payment reels is a guy, I literally mean a guy. A guy. You give money to that, you go back to the website and you see that your balance has been updated. So that's what you're competing with.
03:17:49.910 - 03:18:24.134, Speaker A: And the products themselves kind of suck. They're not mobile friendly, they don't work well. Secondly, because of the huge amount of fragmentation, these are small liquidity pools. So sure, if you want to put a ten dollar bet on maybe even $100 bet, you're fine. But if you want to put in a large bet, like a $10,000 bet, you're going to be out of luck with nearly every one of these sites. So these are fragmented liquidity pulls. But say, hey, okay, you're going to work with one of the larger operators, one that's had more investment, say like a bat 365 or my former company, Fondo.
03:18:24.134 - 03:18:56.374, Speaker A: Well, what problem then? High fees, right? In the crypto world, we see like 2%. We're like, oh, my God, 2%? That's ridiculous. In the sports betting world, 2% would be an incredible deal. Here's just a typical market where it's basically a coin flip. It's betting the over under. If you're not familiar with us betting, typically one of the popular bets is to bet the total number of odds scored in the game, and it set a line, which is about average. And so this should be like a coin flip.
03:18:56.374 - 03:19:27.370, Speaker A: You should bet dollar ten, you should win $10. Here you bet dollar ten, and you can win between seven and $8. That works out at about a 12% margin. But some other bets, you can see up to a 40% margin on bets like a parlay. This is not an industry that really competes on price, and that's a massive problem. If you're a serious bettor but you're a djen, you want to bet, you pick a brand that can take your scale. You're willing to eat these high margins.
03:19:27.370 - 03:20:06.224, Speaker A: What's your next problem? Your next problem is, according to these sites, it's not really your money. They will lock up your money. They will basically put in obstacles, like, say, hey, you need to play through your money like five times before you can withdraw it. And even when you do that, they will put in other obstacles that prevent you from withdrawing. And why do they do that? Because they know if you keep your money on site, you're more likely to rebat with it again. So, okay, you're still a DJ, and you want to bet. You pick a brand that you like, you're willing to eat the high margins, and you're willing to accept the fact that once you put your money in, it's probably going to take you a long time to get it out.
03:20:06.224 - 03:20:27.094, Speaker A: What's the next problem? Get up the next morning. Site's not there. So a lot of these entities are regulated in jurisdictions where regulation doesn't really exist. It happens, and it's happened quite frequently, where some of these sites just disappear. There's no recourse at that point. You've been rug pulled. Your money is gone.
03:20:27.094 - 03:20:53.362, Speaker A: So you still want to bet. You're willing to accept the fact that the site that you put your money in might be gone. You're willing to accept that even if you bet with a regulated site, it might take you days or weeks to get your money out. You're also willing to accept that you're going to have to bet really high margins. Okay, now you're good, surely. But actually, what's this? So this is an actual screenshot. This is not from my account.
03:20:53.362 - 03:21:27.214, Speaker A: This is somebody who shared it on Twitter, goes in to put a bet, finds out it's restricted to $4.07. I love the $0.07. That is the maximum that site will let that user bet. Why would that be? Very simple. The reason is that user is a winning customer. A lot of people don't actually understand, and they're not in the betting industry, is that the betting industry restricts winning customers. So let me just say that again, the betting industry restricts winning customers.
03:21:27.214 - 03:22:09.148, Speaker A: They are very, very happy to take your money if you lose consistently. But if you win, they will restrict you or even close your account. So the point here is if you're consistently betting tens, hundreds of dollars or thousands of dollars with any of these accounts, like Bet 365, my old company, Fanduel DraftKings, you're consistently betting you are a loser. Industry doesn't want that to come out, but you are a loser. And the reason that we know you're a loser is because they're taking your money. Because if they are taking your money, it means that you are losing. Now, we at BetDex sort of feel that sucks.
03:22:09.148 - 03:22:47.172, Speaker A: Like, I don't want to have to deal with all of these issues and I certainly don't want to believe that the only reason they're taking my money is I'm losing. And one of the biggest reasons you're losing is you're paying between twelve and 30% margin. And so we think there's a better way. And that's why a year ago, myself, Varun and Stuart started working on BetDex. And Varun here is going to talk about that in a moment. Thanks, Nigel. So you all heard a little bit about how big the sports betting industry is and how it's kind of rife with the number of problems which provide a pretty poor user experience.
03:22:47.172 - 03:23:32.340, Speaker A: What I want to talk a little bit about is what we're building and how BetDex actually solves those problems. So first of all, what is BetDex? What you're looking at up here is a picture of the Betex exchange. This is an on chain, non custodial p two p sports betting exchange. The exchange is actually has been in closed beta since July and it's been in open beta since early October, since it's been on open beta. We've actually had over 12,000 unique wallets come in, access to Bettech's exchange and actually place trades through our platform. So the exchange is fully licensed and regulated. We announced the licensing last week.
03:23:32.340 - 03:24:12.990, Speaker A: We've been licensed by the Isle of Man Gambling Supervision Commission. I believe this is actually one of the first instances of a regulator such as this licensing an on chain non custodial sports betting exchange that's built on the blockchain and on Solana. This license allows us to access about 40% of the world's population. Furthermore, as I mentioned before, the BetDex exchange is a completely non custodial platform. We never touch your money. We actually never even hold it all. The BetDex exchange is serves as an interface for you to actually go and place wagers on an underlying protocol which we'll talk a little bit about later.
03:24:12.990 - 03:25:10.734, Speaker A: Once the wager is placed, all wagers are going to be transparent on chain. You'll be able to see the smart contract that they're placed on. All the smart contracts have been audited and are all publicly available. And lastly, and most importantly as it relates to payments, once settlement is triggered, once a match is finished, the wagers immediately come back directly to your wallet. No more do you have to go to a sportsbook, try to request for it to get your money back, have to wait two or three days for it to hit your bank account, or even more so, and I can't believe I'm saying this, I actually asked for the sportsbook to send you a check, which is, I kid you not, it is still common to this day. Winners are also welcome in our platform. We're not going to look at the player profile, look at the ROI, and then restrict you or kick you off our platform because you are an ROI positive player.
03:25:10.734 - 03:26:02.630, Speaker A: We're not going to hit you with a special premium charge because you're a high ROI player either. And the natural question becomes, why are we able to do this? And why do we think that we can do this when other companies in the industry aren't able to? And this is because the betx exchange, it's built on top of the Monaco protocol. So what the Monaco protocol is, it's an open source infrastructure for sports betting. It's basically an on chain order book and matching algorithm. It's permissionless and it's decentralized. The Monaco protocol allows you to pull liquidity across different Dapps, leading to tighter spreads and really allowing us to offer a much better experience and much lower fees. If you are interested in learning more about the Monaco protocol, there actually is a talk tomorrow that Stuart, our other cofounder and CTO, is providing.
03:26:02.630 - 03:26:47.190, Speaker A: You can also go to www dot monacoprotocol dot XYZ and see the dive documentation on the GitHub that's over there. So what's next? I've been, I think, since we started this company a year ago. The most common question I receive on crypto Twitter is when Mainnet. Oh, there we go. So happy to announce and extremely excited and proud to announce the Bedtex exchange will be on Mainnet on November 17, right in time for the World cup. You will be able to come and wager with real money on the Bettex exchange on the mono. And I am also happy to announce that during the World cup there will be no commissions charged by the Bettex exchange.
03:26:47.190 - 03:27:26.524, Speaker A: So all trades will be commission free. Thank you. I can't believe I'm here. I think it was last year, a few of us were just wandering around Lisbon. We had this idea in an eight page slide deck and now we've come this far to come and achieve this milestone. Been a lot of work that's gone into this and I really hope to see a lot of you guys on the product in just a few weeks. Lastly, I wanted to mention if you guys do want to come and experience the product.
03:27:26.524 - 03:27:47.714, Speaker A: We are hosting a watch party for the Liverpool and Spurs game right down the street. It's about a 20 minutes walk. Would love to see you there if you want to come and meet the team. More than welcome to. We will also be having a gambling contest using our dap. So yeah, we'd love to come and see everyone there. Thank you, everyone.
03:27:47.714 - 03:27:51.994, Speaker A: Thank you.
03:28:00.764 - 03:28:37.954, Speaker B: Okay. You know, I was reflecting backstage on how much things change so quickly and so much of what we said about what's going on in web3 is, is it really, are there actual products that you can use? And then I hear about this giant industry, sports betting, being launched on Solana in ten days. It's pretty mind blowing how far we've come. And so I appreciate their presentation. For our next talk, we're going to do something very different. We have a talk about a really important topic that is important for everyone who here is a founder or a builder. And it's about failure.
03:28:37.954 - 03:29:22.824, Speaker B: And our speaker is a truly badass woman who I admire a lot. She's a semi professional kayaker, she's an entrepreneur, she's a developer. She runs or helps run the saga mobile community and she's going to be here talking about her own journey of failure. So it's going to be really raw, really real, but so important when we get together to make sure that we're thinking about all the times where we're not just high like this, but also facing our lows. So please, let's give this woman a really warm embrace because she is doing something really vulnerable by coming out here and telling us about her failures. Give it up for my friend Alicia Likan. When I'm paddling big whitewater, everything seems to disappear.
03:29:22.824 - 03:30:05.264, Speaker B: When you're out there, you're not thinking about anything else. You're just focusing on making it downstream and having as much fun as possible. Tumwater Canyon is my favorite river in the world. It's a beautiful section of whitewater located in Washington state. In the spring, at high flows, most of the rapids are class five. It's really as big as it gets ill never forget the first time I saw people paddling the canyon. I thought how crazy would it be to do that someday? A lot of paddling in class five is about problem solving.
03:30:05.264 - 03:30:45.430, Speaker B: Its not just about adrenaline, its really about putting yourself in a difficult situation and figuring out how can I keep myself calm to get through this. Hi everyone, I'm Alisha Lycan. I lead growth on the Solana mobile team. I'm also an engineer, a founder, and an athlete. Today I'll be sharing my story with you and I hope it serves you. When I watch this, it still gives me butterflies. Finding your flow in an unpredictable environment is an incredible thing to experience, much like the river.
03:30:45.430 - 03:31:34.114, Speaker B: The most rewarding problem I've solved this far in life is the future cost of my current decisions. Your life can change from the decisions you make. It only takes one to start gaining momentum in the direction of your dream outcomes. My entry into web3 in the Solana ecosystem came from understanding the power and potential of blockchain technology, this incredibly welcoming community, and a limitless Runway to ideate. All of this provided the motivation that I needed to take a risk on myself. After a year ago next week, I quit my job and 100% committed to building my business. Coming from the corporate world of Nike and more recently a metaverse tech startup for Bella, I wanted to try something different.
03:31:34.114 - 03:32:25.146, Speaker B: I learned a lot of valuable skill sets working for these large companies, but it quickly became apparent that I had a curiosity, a hunger for learning, and a desire to make real impact, which is ultimately what landed me at the Seattle Solana hacker house last February. 1 thing led to another and shortly after this initial experience with Solana, I was learning zero knowledge proofs from bartage getting on a plane to Dubai just a few hours later to attend the Dubai hacker house. And then I extended my trip to catch the Prague one too. Why not? By the end of those four weeks, I'd built out my entire 3D VR NFT project and deployed to production and mainnet. I had so much momentum. But at the same time, self doubt had me questioning this abrupt life pivot. I doubt myself all the time.
03:32:25.146 - 03:33:37.450, Speaker B: To me, if you're not doubting yourself, your goals and ambitions aren't big enough. If you're not achieving the levels of success that you would like, you have to change your self doubt. Self doubt tends to manifest itself from others, and when we think we can't do something, when we're questioned, or we compare ourselves by our own words, telling ourselves, I can't do this or I'm not good enough, I had to fix this at first because it's necessary building block to set a foundation for truly knowing myself and what motivates me, understanding how I react, where my thoughts are, and getting back on target when I drift. This acute awareness is so relevant when the risk and costs of messing up on the river could cost you your life. When doing my best isn't quite good enough, I have to be so in tune with myself, and if it doesn't line up at that moment, I walk away and I come back another day when I'm more ready. This fortitude and awareness as an athlete has been invaluable as an entrepreneur. When I reflect back on this time last year, two things in particular stand out to me.
03:33:37.450 - 03:34:16.278, Speaker B: One, trust your gut. It's trying to tell you what you need to change things up. When you're not excited about what you're doing anymore, or you're just going through the motions and you're not really thriving, or work starts to affect your health, it's really important to take note of that. What kind of relationship do you have with yourself? The strength of your relationship with self is reflected back in your confidence. When you can understand what motivates you and have a pulse on your emotions, it hits different. Number two is the power of a friend. My circle of close friends is a huge reason why I never gave up.
03:34:16.278 - 03:35:04.474, Speaker B: Eventually you get tired, you get in your head, people let you down and funds run out, but you consider quitting at one point or another. But then you're able to turn that challenge into an opportunity and look for ways around the problem. Thankfully, it's these relationships and the people that I choose to surround myself with that help me remind me of who I am and have helped me relearn how to think differently. It's very similar to that athlete mindset I shared with you earlier. I learned how to execute quickly, assess what the most important next step is, and do what needs to be done, even if I don't feel like it. Without hesitation, I was trying to think of the best advice I could come up with to leave you all with here today. And again, it touches on self doubt.
03:35:04.474 - 03:35:40.174, Speaker B: The thing is, the biggest setback many new entrepreneurs make is confusing inexperience for weakness. The truth is, learning just takes time. We want to make a big impact yesterday and we get disappointed when we don't see results quickly. But over time, we see the greatest impact. So measure accordingly when you hit that next level of success. You're now doing a job that you're completely unqualified for. The day you decide to be an entrepreneur or found a company, you commit to lifelong personal development.
03:35:40.174 - 03:36:33.392, Speaker B: Whenever you think you're done learning, your business will continue to test you. When this happens, remember, happiness is a choice and not a circumstance. Every day, consciously choose that joy because your business will always make you feel like you don't have enough. I can assure you, no object, goal person or anything will ever make you feel happy unless you choose that. I felt like I failed at initially what I set out to do in the beginning, I didn't achieve the goals that I'd set for myself and the timeline got pushed out. I parted ways with a co founder that was a friend that was really hard, and I turned on a launch with Randy Zuckerberg. I've learned I'm fully capable of bringing a project to market at the right time.
03:36:33.392 - 03:37:14.924, Speaker B: I don't need to doubt myself, but what I do need to do is give what I prioritize my very best and the rest will follow. What I can tell you, as I truly do believe. It was a blessing that things landed the way they have, because it's all led me to where I am now. And it's so much better than I could have ever anticipated. Had I not worked so hard, put on all that time, learning to build on Solana, invested in myself so much, I wouldn't be who I am today. I can honestly tell you it changed my life. I'm thankful for the skills, relationships, and ultimately am far more equipped with the experiences that I had to succeed than I ever could have been initially.
03:37:14.924 - 03:38:02.500, Speaker B: I've been able to pivot my business and reorient myself in a new direction that truly allows me to thrive. I think failure is tough when you're ambitious and you have high expectations for yourself. But as on the river, navigating tumultuous rapids, counting waves because you can't see your next move when you're in the trough, you have to react quickly. The same goes for entrepreneurship and all the curveballs. Failure's been the key ingredient in my success, whether it was in sport or in life. Had I not known failure, I would have continued to accept good enough and never taken a chance on myself. Instead, I'm confident, determined, motivated and ready to learn and approach this world with curiosity.
03:38:02.500 - 03:38:32.656, Speaker B: When you spend a lot of time with yourself, you have to be really intentional with the words that you tell yourself. They hold power and they will either tear you down or build you up. You learn not allow the fear of failing once, keep you from trying again. Because fear is a reaction, encourages a choice. You're making choices, and over time, those choices gain momentum. Standing here, I can tell you that my conviction that allows me to thrive, not just survive. I believe in myself.
03:38:32.656 - 03:39:25.024, Speaker B: I wasn't always that way. When you paddle a company or you're getting ready to lead a company with that kind of conviction and you begin to make choices in your life, anything is possible. I know what it's like to have a vision and work really hard, to have no other option to then figure things out quickly. Because as all of us here with entrepreneurial experience know, you have to close that gap between ideation and execution quickly. When you have limited resources, you have to get aggressive and your response is what dictates the outcome of that situation and ultimately your success. We're all motivated and inspired by different things here. But what makes it so special is that for whatever reason, on this weekend here in Lisbon, we, we're linked together and unified by this one thing that is Solana, and that's pretty special.
03:39:25.024 - 03:40:08.474, Speaker B: With a strong grounding in my purpose, I can suffer through anything. The mental exercises I do when I'm on the water as an entrepreneur to navigate challenging decisions helps me understand that purpose. We all have different reasons for being here, like I said, and while paddling tumwater Canyon at high Water may or may not be your journey, I think we can all benefit by stepping out of what's comfortable and taking on new challenges. By changing up our environment and revisiting our commitment like the river puts things in perspective. It shows me in a very clear way who I am. It can be really hard, but when you weather the storm, your perspective shifts. Whatever's going on in your head, your body will follow.
03:40:08.474 - 03:40:28.834, Speaker B: Being a champion comes from hard work. It's not about standing on a podium, accepting a trophy or even the recognition. It's about the way you carry yourself every second of every day. So own it and lead by example. Thank you. Wow. Talk about vulnerability.
03:40:28.834 - 03:41:02.882, Speaker B: I am very, very excited for this next one. Is anyone here in Monkey Dow? Yeah. Ok. Anyone here a fan of John Ley? All right, we got some fans in the crowd. So what I haven't said so far is I actually run public policy at the Solana foundation, and I'm always looking for ways to connect builders in web3 with folks in Washington who are making policies. And I met Nam at an event in San Francisco last March. And I started hearing him talking about monkey Dow and the norms of the community.
03:41:02.882 - 03:41:28.894, Speaker B: And I said, oh, my God, I have to bring you to DC. People in Washington need to hear what you're doing and what you're building. And he said, I want to come. I want to bring my friend John le. And then we made it happen. And so what they're going to be talking about right now is their experiences coming to Washington, spending all day meeting policymakers and how that changed their perspective. So please give a huge round of applause to a monkey and an artist in their trip to Washington.
03:41:33.154 - 03:41:45.028, Speaker A: Oh, GM, everybody. It is so good to sit. Yeah. Yeah. This has been fantastic, John. I think this is the longest that we're gonna actually get to hang out the entirety of breakpoint. I think so.
03:41:45.028 - 03:42:02.806, Speaker A: I think so. So thank you guys for bringing us together again. This entire thing couldn't have happened without Amira. She did an incredible job organizing it. But, yeah, we're here to talk about our experience talking to regulators in Washington. So for anyone who I haven't met before, my name is Nicole. I'm out of the monkey Dow.
03:42:02.806 - 03:42:35.450, Speaker A: We're a collective focused around an NFT project and trying to make sure that the people who are here developing, making the next generation of projects for the next three to five years have as much support as possible. And we do that through a variety of grants, our own initiatives inside of monkey ventures, as well as just general support for every one of our 2700 monkeys. I think there's 314 here in Lisbon. So it's been wonderful to see, see everybody. And if you're not a monkey yet, I'll work on that. And yeah, good morning or good afternoon, everybody. My name is John Lay.
03:42:35.450 - 03:43:17.980, Speaker A: I'm a proud monkey as well. And yeah, I started my NFT career exactly one year ago. I stayed home from breakpoint because I simply couldn't afford it. And, you know, I minted my first NFT on November 2 of 2021. And in that time, I've been able to become the highest grossing artist on sale, Lana, which has been one of my best accomplishments. So why we're kind of going into this panel and what we want to do is me and John are coming at the Washington experience from two different angles. I personally wanted to talk with the people who are maybe understanding democracy, but not understanding how a DAO fits into that and explaining that it's a process that they might already be familiar with.
03:43:17.980 - 03:44:28.164, Speaker A: Daos are, at their core is a consensus mechanism for people who are trying to make decisions, and whether that's around a DeFi protocol, whether that's around organizing a party, it's the same level. But where John came in was to explain exactly how useful it was for being an artist inside of web3 and what value I think you now have that you didn't previously in terms of owning your own craft. Yeah. Nfts have. Have been a life changing kind of technology that has enabled me to redefine the relationship between myself, the creator, and the fans in very robust ways. And going to DC for me was, I think, as much as what Nam had just said, how we would kind of show them how the culture that's being built here on nfts and web3. I wanted to talk about kind of a smaller skill of the culture of independent art and how it has enabled us to really take control of what it is we create and who we give ip to and how much of that ip we can own ourselves, rather than allowing certain middlemen to over leverage our desperation as artists for greed.
03:44:28.164 - 03:45:39.338, Speaker A: Yeah, I think what we can really do is showcase to the people who are currently trying to research and understand regulation around crypto and web3 in general, just how important it is for the people who are making those decisions to be involved in the community. I was at the Mountain Dow organization earlier this year and had the opportunity to talk to Representative John Curtis, and we were discussing why blockchain doesn't seem to be that big of a focus outside of organizations like the SEC, where people really only seem to want to, to push down on what crypto is and what it can actually organize. And that's from the technology level to the organizations that are building on top of it. And his perspective was, he's a politician trying to represent everyone inside of his constituency. His goal is to figure out the situation inside of the Ukraine, try to get gas under control, do everything that he can around inflation, and handle a bunch of political and. And civil issues inside of his district. As much as it matters for everybody inside of this room, crypto is not that big of a focus for the people who are making these decisions.
03:45:39.338 - 03:46:10.812, Speaker A: And that's largely because what we have been doing and how we've been approaching this is something where we build it off to the side, and we hope that users come to it, or we hope that we're marketing it enough, and we'll worry about regulation in the best way that we can reach out to it forward. Because a lot of the times, I think people in this room, and maybe outside of it, don't want regulation. That's the whole point behind Defi. That's what we're trying to do in this centralized metric. There's no allow list to be able to do an action. It's your money, it's your ip, it's your art. You're allowed to own it and distribute it however you want.
03:46:10.812 - 03:47:09.280, Speaker A: Totally. And I think one of the things that I found, or I think most of the group found most enlightening, was how much like, to understand their focus. Like, what are staffers as well as members Congress, what is their area of focus for them to start, you know, showing a bit of empathy for what's happening in web3. Because I think what we're creating here from a day to day is we're creating a lot of shades of gray. And if we. I think one thing that became really clear to me when we first got there, is if we continue to allow the SEC or the government to lump us into existing policies, existing litigations and laws, they will not account for the important shades of gray that are being built here. I think at one point, Nam had brought up that if we continue to go down that road, everything we do, whether it's monkey dao or me as an independent artist, there's this dark Sci-Fi future of, we would have to register every release with the SEC, which is that would be the bottleneck that chokes culture.
03:47:09.280 - 03:47:55.396, Speaker A: And that's when my perspective started to open up on this a lot more. Yeah, we had a really good conversation talking to the Department of Commerce, discussing with people around. They didn't understand where Defi ended and physical products would begin. So one of the traders that was showing up is like, if I'm trading in physical gold at some point, even if I'm using things on chain, I can eventually get that back, and he doesn't see that with a token like sammo, justifiable. I'm not able to buy a dog with it yet. I think at some point I still need a little bit more to interact with it. But for 99% of people who are actually dealing with these primitives and building on top of it, you are never dealing with orange juice futures by buying a thousand liters at a time.
03:47:55.396 - 03:48:25.144, Speaker A: You are never trading lean hogs and making sure that you have to ship pigs across the world. These things already exist. But the way that we're currently approaching, approaching it in the eyes of the regulators, is that we are intentionally obfuscating things and making it a lot more difficult for them to understand, justifiably, because crypto hasn't been well received by regulators. Sure. Yeah. And, you know, it's not completely unfair. You know, we've all seen some of the best parts about crypto and nfts and web3, and we've seen some of the bad parts.
03:48:25.144 - 03:49:37.740, Speaker A: And, you know, I think the thing that, like, one of the other things that really stood out to me was that in most of these panels, in all of these panels, we were met with curiosity over judgment, and they were willing to listen. And I think for me, at some point, we started to get into these one on one conversations, and there were a lot of questions of, like, well, what happens when this happens? Or another thing happens. And I think my answer started to become that, you know, we also don't exactly know the answers and the solutions to every shade of gray, but I think the difference is, from their perspective, they're outside looking in, and we're on the ground floor. We're figuring out day to day, we're creating the standard. And that's when it became clear to me that, like, you know, being early, one thing I didn't realize when I was early was being early means we have this ability to steer the conversation. We can shift the narrative, and we can actually set a new standard that the future generations will follow, and hopefully we'll create things that the future generations won't have to exactly struggle with the same adversities we have dealt with, whether it is a project like Monkey Dao or me being an independent artist. Yeah, I think it's very easy to sit back and wait and decide that we don't need to engage with it.
03:49:37.740 - 03:50:46.878, Speaker A: You can go through the cypherpunk mentality of trying to say that you're reinventing finance, you burn everything down, then you build it back up, and that's great. Until some senator's kid gets rugged by an NFT project that doesn't end up working out. And then now we're trying to make regulation in a reactionary way, and that's only ever going to go negatively when people are coming up and being told this is an issue rather than this is an opportunity. It makes it a lot more difficult for the regulators, who have a million other things on their plate and are focusing on making sure that they are compliant inside of their own standards, which, which already don't make sense, but they're trying to negotiate the way around laws that are already existing. When we do outreach, when organizations like proof put out these reports, when you're trying to steer the conversation around, these are people that we want to be involved with. These are the people who have the power to make these situations better. It is coming from a place of curiosity because so much of this is people who have like an hour a week and are trying to catch up on everything that exists on crypto, Twitter and understanding what's going on in the latest DeFi releases.
03:50:46.878 - 03:52:15.024, Speaker A: And what is this third validator client, and how do I make sure that all of these organizations are acting positively, or at least not directly, competing with each other? There's a massive amount of innate knowledge that you already have to have in order to understand, like what a NFT DaO would look like, or what a one of one piece, piece of art on exchange looks like versus an edition, versus the physical print of these, and how IP rights and all these things go into it. And I think we've all probably spent enough time learning over the past years where we forget what it's like to be experiencing these things for the first time. And so, yeah, I had one of the best conversations was talking to someone who, specifically for Solana, was wondering how the chain performed when the token price itself went down versus when it was going up. And these are people who are not wrong in their questions. They're just missing a massive frame of reference, which is where everyone in these rooms and at these conversations can start to help make sure that we have positive things going forward in the space. So if you have a representative, if you have someone who is maybe making negative remarks around on crypto in your ecosystem, it's very much not a thing of just like, well, they're wrong and they'll figure it out. The Satoshi's quote of I don't have time to explain it to you, that that was perfect for that time period.
03:52:15.024 - 03:52:49.280, Speaker A: And now when we're trying to do things like onboard the next billion users. The title that I think everybody here is using in their presentation, you have to make sure that your grandma, who is going to be downloading Solana pay, is having some level of understanding of what's actually going on. And you need to treat the people who are making these regulatory decisions in the same way. You have to start from the ground level, because the second that we start going into these AdvancEd topics, you just lose them all. Yeah, I mean, sometimes when Nam speaks, I even get hyperventilated a little bit because he's so smart. And like me, I'm just. I understand art, I understand culture, I understand people.
03:52:49.280 - 03:54:00.794, Speaker A: And, you know, for me, I think, you know, what I loved was you, you know, KNow, their main concern was consumer protection. So to Echo from what Nam was saying is the way we support consumer protection is through education, by making the information that we give them digestible so that they can make their own decisions in a way that there's like breathing room into that decision rather than pounding it into their faces with the numbers and the figures. I think, you know, for me, one of the biggest things that happened in practice to me after DC was I used to lead the conversation to all my artist friends to onboard them that, oh, you can make a comfortable living with this. We can own what we make all this stuff. And yes, all that stuff is still very, very true. However, these days, I kind of lead with more of the cultural aspect of that coin rather than the financial aspect, because I truly believe that, you know, the money will follow that culture. And if we go culture first and onboarding these artists and show how we can champion a culture in which we can make things, we can put our hearts into it and we can own it or even own it with our communities.
03:54:00.794 - 03:54:14.234, Speaker A: I think the whole game changes once that light switch is turned on. Yeah. It's like, if you're connected inside of this venue, do you know if you're on a 2.4 GHz band or a 5 GHz band for your Wi Fi? You don't know. Right. You're probably just connected to Wi Fi and it worked. Yeah.
03:54:14.234 - 03:54:44.322, Speaker A: And we're not at the point there where it's like we all think that we're technically in the know, but we're not looking into that because we have some level of understanding and obfuscation where we don't need to look into it. Yeah. The other people aren't going to care about what chain that they're working on. They're going to care that the DAP, that they're being exposed to works and it, you know, is positive experience for them. Yeah. So I think a lot of our evangelists lists focus too much on things that don't matter to the end consumer. They matter to us as developers and as creators.
03:54:44.322 - 03:55:48.274, Speaker A: But in terms of explaining, like, what does it actually mean for you to own your own ip? What does it make for you to own your own brand? How do payment links work directly for the artist or the art that I'm buying? And reselling the social narrative, I think, is a much easier way to integrate with these people who are making these decisions rather than the technical narrative because they're always going to be playing a game of catch up. The people who are making these choices are never going to have the lead time that we already do. Right. And I think, you know, this is just the basis of storytelling. If you ever find yourself in a situation where you're trying to explain a very complex thought or emotion or a feeling, and the person that you're talking to so clearly doesn't understand it and it didn't land, the first thing we're going to revert to is telling a story. And I think, you know, to Nam's point, if we continue to have these conversations with everybody and we tell them a story in which it's relatable and they can understand it, then when we have that curiosity, then we can start trickle out data and figures and numbers of why this is important on a grander scale. Well, I think we've all talked enough and taken up tons of your valuable time.
03:55:48.274 - 03:56:08.414, Speaker A: I hope that if you all have any questions around governance or organizations or art or IP or anything, please come find us and chat. And if you have the opportunity to be a missionary about crypto, make sure you're doing it, telling a good story. Absolutely. And thank you so much for your guys time and enjoy the rest of the event. Thank you all. Thank you.
03:56:13.354 - 03:56:41.104, Speaker B: I could listen to Nam and John talk all day. I feel like they have such good perspectives. You know, after that trip, I distinctly remember walking out, we saw Capitol Hill, and John looks at it and he goes like, holy shit, I'm a stoner who draws comics. What am I doing here? This is amazing. And that was perspective shifting for me. And I think for a lot of policymakers, we had a blast on that trip. So I really appreciate both of them for coming here and talking about their experiences.
03:56:41.104 - 03:57:03.724, Speaker B: No one likes hacks, but we got to figure out what to do with them. And then first step in solving hacks and figuring out the right way forward is to look back and understand what's happened in the past. And so coming up next, we have someone who is an expert in this area. He's the founder of Ottersec. Please welcome Robert Chen.
03:57:11.784 - 03:57:48.978, Speaker A: Hello. Thank you. Um, yeah, so I guess for context, this presentation, um, we do a lot of work in the Solana ecosystem. We do a lot of smart contract audits, but also we try to help out, you know, when things go wrong. And, you know, hopefully, usually actually, since now, they've not been projects that we've audited, thankfully. But, um, you know, when things do go wrong and people do get hacked, we try to be there to also help respond. Um, and I thought it'd be interesting to throw together a presentation to kind of talk about the patterns that we notice as we look to these products that have gotten hacked.
03:57:48.978 - 03:58:20.386, Speaker A: And hopefully throw together some concluding thoughts for how products can avoid getting hacked and what things to look out for. Yeah. So as a brief agenda, going to give a summary of Solana hacks since the start of this year. There's a really big one in February. Since then, there's been a couple other, you know, comparatively smaller ones, but still quite large relative to other, other incidents. Deep dive into two hacks, which I thought, you know, were particularly interesting. One is nirvana.
03:58:20.386 - 03:58:44.414, Speaker A: One would be, the other would be kind of this market, this market manipulation that we've seen lately. And then finally, some concluding thoughts. Overall, pretty short presentation. Hoping to keep it nice and sweet. Yeah. So this is kind of a timeline of, you know, all, all the major incidents on Solana. We saw warm hole with like $220 million, I think cashier was $60 million at some point.
03:58:44.414 - 03:59:16.580, Speaker A: And then there's a couple other, like, under $10 million hacks in the middle. Then. I mean, we saw, I think some people didn't really want to determine a hack, but there was, you know, mango, which was the result of market mutilation. They underpriced or they miss put collateral parameters, and they listed low liquidity collateral. And then I think at the very end, we actually stuck this on. We wrote the presentation, and then we edited it a few days ago. There was one, I think it was like two or three days ago, solon, close to the start of breakpoint.
03:59:16.580 - 04:00:04.052, Speaker A: We were hoping that there weren't going to be any hacks at breakpoint, but unfortunately, solon snuck in there $1.2 million. It was not a huge deal or relatively speaking. And I think also there was the slope incident that we helped respond to, which was, I guess, different from smart contract hacks, but still probably something worth noting about. Yeah, basically, there's been a lot of money lost through exploits. I think if you sum it all up, more than $500 million. I think, actually, I was on another panel where we're talking about this, and one funny question we had was, is the amount of money that we lost in Defi hacks more than the TVL of Solana? And I think it's not true right now.
04:00:04.052 - 04:00:46.404, Speaker A: I think we've lost slightly less than the TVL of Solana still. But it's kind of worrying, right? It's like the magnitude of these things. After mango happened with $100 million, some market makers, some market participants got really scared and they pulled out a lot of TVL. Right. So there's a lot of peripheral effects from these incidents that affect Solana as an ecosystem beyond just, you know, the massive loss of capital. If I remember correctly, after the mango incident happened, Solana TVel dropped by around 400 million. So there was an application factor of around four times over the hack amount and the hack amount, much of which was actually returned and the damage to Solana TVL.
04:00:46.404 - 04:01:17.568, Speaker A: So I think this is something that is probably actually pretty interesting. Worth taking a look at. Yeah, let's take a look at Nirvana and mango markets. Yeah. So the first one, Nirvana, I think it was, yeah. Comparatively, this was a pretty interesting hack, because as we were responding to this, we noticed that it was like a pretty non trivial hack, actually, that happened. So the root cause of the exploit actually involved calling a function with a specially constructed parameter.
04:01:17.568 - 04:01:59.816, Speaker A: So in this case, they had, I believe it was like the third parameter of the swap function took in a price hint. And then if you set that price hint to zero, you were able to manipulate the swap price. So I guess that's a little bit technical, but the TLDR of this is that it required a non trivial level of understanding of the project in order to perform this exploit. And Nirvana was also closed source, which was also pretty worrying. Right. So I think kind of Nirvana was potentially banking on the fact that, you know, they were closed source, they didn't really need to do, like, a full comprehensive audit, and then they were able to, you know, skirt away. But I think Nirvana is like one of the first instances.
04:01:59.816 - 04:02:24.566, Speaker A: I believe there was one before Nirvana, actually. But Nirvana was one of the first instances of, you know, a closed source program on Solana getting hacked. And I think this is a really pivotal moment. Right. Because before, like it or not, a lot of people on Solana kind of assume that, oh, yeah, if your program is closed source, you don't actually need to worry about it too much. You'll probably be safe. Decompiling Solana programs is pretty hard, even for people with a lot of expertise.
04:02:24.566 - 04:03:03.552, Speaker A: We published a blog post on decompiling Solana programs through binary ninja, but it was a really non trivial process. It required a lot of engineering effort to actually get working. And we're pretty confident still, even with our level of research, that it would take a lot of time to decompile a standard Solana program. But I think this Nirvana exploit really showed that it actually is possible, even if your program is closed source. We don't think the attacker actually decompiled the program. We think what probably happened is they did some sort of side channel analysis. So they used SDK, for example, and then played around with the numbers and noticed that when you pass in this zero price parameter, you're able to affect the swap price.
04:03:03.552 - 04:03:24.164, Speaker A: Um, yeah, I think this is kind of an example of how even if your program is closed source, you know, maybe there's a way to, to break it. Um, and, you know, eventually people will notice. In this case, it was actually for a relatively small amount of money. I believe it was. It was definitely under 10 million. I forgot the exact amount for what it was. Um, but, yeah, I think this is kind of hopefully a warning sign to slaughter developers.
04:03:24.164 - 04:03:57.494, Speaker A: The next one would be, um, mango. So if you guys aren't aware, mango was like a really big incident on Solana, I think around a month ago. All these timelines kind of blend together because there's a lot of hacks, unfortunately. Yeah. So the TLDR of this was they listed a low liquidity asset, the mango token itself, the mango governance token on mango. The attacker was able to perform a market revelation attack to drastically increase the price of mango. And then due to that, they borrowed out all of the reserves.
04:03:57.494 - 04:04:38.984, Speaker A: I think the total amount lost was $100 million. After some negotiations with the attacker, I forgot exactly how much. I know the mangodao was fully collateralized, so all people who deposited money were made whole, but the mango treasury, probably middle eight figures, was completely drained. So, yeah, I think this is really, really bad. There was a lot of money lost to this. And I think this kind of shows, or it kind of unveiled, revealed a flaw in the slant ecosystem. A lot of projects similar to mango didn't really think that there would be attackers with large amounts of collateral willing to manipulate the market.
04:04:38.984 - 04:05:18.408, Speaker A: They didn't really think that this was a viable attack vector when designing these programs. Even as auditors, we read the code, but sometimes we're not as involved in the hyperparameter choices. We don't really comment on what tv or what Ltv you set for your collateral ratios. We don't really comment what types of collateral, collateral you list. And I think as auditors, we're becoming increasingly aware that it's kind of our responsibility to also look at this stuff. We also need to be thinking about the economic side effects of what is actually happening in the real world. I'd also say that this is probably something that is ongoing, like mango.
04:05:18.408 - 04:05:38.584, Speaker A: When they initially listed the mango token, there was a lot more liquidity. It was a bull market. There was probably very active market makers providing liquidity, so this sort of attack would be much harder to perform. On the other hand, they kind of, like, just kept it around. They didn't really tune the parameters. And unfortunately, when the bear market hit, all of that liquidity dried up. It became a lot easier to spend.
04:05:38.584 - 04:06:17.234, Speaker A: I forgot. I forgot exactly how much they spent, but I think it was low. Six figures, actually. So, like, a really small amount compared to the hack itself, spend a comparatively quite small amount of money to drive up the price and then borrow out the mango reserves and, yeah, I guess another example of how people are, like, how this is affecting everyone is. Soland a couple of days ago, actually got hit with a very similar incident where the attacker manipulated the price of Hubble, or USDH, on the saber stable pool. So it was like a USD USDH stable pool on saber. It had around $100,000 of liquidity, I believe.
04:06:17.234 - 04:06:42.458, Speaker A: Yeah. And then attackers able to swap through it, drive up the price by eight times, and borrow out around a couple, I think, like $1.2 million of stable coins from solon. So, as a note, this didn't hit solon's main pools. Their main pools were totally fine. It was one of the side pools. But still, I think this shows that people are willing to engage in this kind of market manipulation attacks.
04:06:42.458 - 04:07:21.894, Speaker A: Attackers with relatively large amounts of capital, hundreds of thousands to millions of dollars, are willing to engage in this kind of stuff. And, yeah, I think it's like a huge blind spot in the salon ecosystem. I know for sure that we've been talking to many teams who've been kind of concerned about that, trying to advise them more on the parameter choices, and, yeah, I think that's something that probably, as developers, hopefully, you guys are thinking about as well. Yeah. Concluding thoughts? Yeah, I think three things here. One, attackers are getting a lot more sophisticated. We saw, I believe the first closed source exploits on Solana, just keeping your program closed source isn't going to be enough.
04:07:21.894 - 04:07:54.744, Speaker A: We also saw Nirvana is also a non account issue. So it was not just passing in the wrong account, it was actually interacting with the logic of the account. Um, so, yeah, attackers are getting a lot more sophisticated. They're actually reading your code, and they're going to, you know, be able to perform exploits if, if they do exist. Um, the second, I think, is, you know, this, this shared security assumption in the Solana ecosystem, um, mango and Soland were hit because they were probably the largest by TVL. We know for sure that, you know, other lending protocols that we've talked to are also, you know, concerned with the same scenarios. They probably would be, would have been affected.
04:07:54.744 - 04:08:19.864, Speaker A: Luckily for them, you know, the bigger ones got hit first. But, yeah, it's like, you know, well capitalized attackers with large amounts of collateral are willing to perform, are willing to manipulate the market to try to drain collateral. And whether or not this is a hack is, you know, I think, semantics. I think, you know, for protocol developers, it's really, you can lose a lot of money if you don't pay attention to this. So you should probably pay attention. Yeah. And then last one.
04:08:19.864 - 04:08:46.294, Speaker A: Yeah. Being closed source isn't enough. I think Solana, as an ecosystem is pretty close source. A lot of products that we work with try to, for security reasons, which I think is probably true, or I think being closed source is probably a decent mitigation for at least some period of time. I think this is an indication that it's not going to be a mitigation for a longer period of time, that eventually, at some point, you're actually going to have to reason about your code and make sure that it's actually secure. Yeah. Thank you.
04:08:46.294 - 04:09:15.698, Speaker A: I think kind of as another closing word, one thing that I'd say is we're pretty active in the ecosystem. We actually do care about these projects. If your project gets hit by one of these incidents, as a general rule of thumb, we don't bill for actually any of the time that we spend doing incident response. If you get hacked, we're not going to try to sell you any hours, and hopefully this never happens to you guys. But if it does, please reach out to us. We'd love to help. We want to make sure that both for you and the health of the ecosystem, that Solana actually does stay safe.
04:09:15.698 - 04:09:37.890, Speaker A: And, yeah, we've worked through a lot of the hacks. I think most of the hacks on the timeline, we've responded to in some fashion. So, yeah, hopefully we never have to respond to any of your projects. But if it does happen, feel free to ping me on that telegram. Oh, I guess I don't have my telegram on there. Yeah, feel free to ping me either via email or on Twitter. Yeah.
04:09:37.890 - 04:09:39.214, Speaker A: And I think that's it for me.
04:09:44.864 - 04:09:57.608, Speaker B: All right. All right. How's everyone feeling? Give me something. Yeah, there we go. I like this guy. All right, so we end the day with the scary but important stuff. And so we just heard about hacks.
04:09:57.608 - 04:10:22.004, Speaker B: Now we are going to learn about security audits. So, very important topic between you and happy hour. You don't want to mix those two, but you want to make sure you stay for this and understand how audits work, why they're important, and how you can implement them. So please welcome our last panel of the day, Courtney Jensen and her crew of incredible panelists. Give them a big round of applause. Alrighty. Hi, everybody.
04:10:22.004 - 04:10:34.664, Speaker B: My name is Courtney Jensen. I am an ecosystem engineer at Solana foundation. And I'm going to go ahead and have everybody introduce yourself with your name and the organization that you work for. Chris?
04:10:35.914 - 04:11:02.340, Speaker A: My name is Chris Wong from Sec three. We are a security research firm. We do a few things. First of all, we do security audits, which is more relevant to today's discussion. We also building a set of automated security solutions for smart contracts, including one is called Xray, basically scanner. It scans your smart contract for vulnerabilities. The other side we're building is called Watchtower.
04:11:02.340 - 04:11:12.364, Speaker A: It's an online real time security monitor. It monitors the stress and hopefully do something to stop threats before it actually happens.
04:11:13.464 - 04:11:14.404, Speaker B: Joseph?
04:11:14.744 - 04:11:37.350, Speaker A: Hi, I'm Joseph. I'm co founder and CEO of Aki Blockchain. We are also auditors. We are auditing two chains, of course, Solana and Ethereum. And besides auditing, we are strong believers in the community. So we are creating a lot of open source projects, some tooling and some education projects. And I'm very happy to be here at breakpoint.
04:11:37.350 - 04:11:39.110, Speaker A: So thank you for having me.
04:11:39.262 - 04:11:40.598, Speaker B: Awesome, Pietro.
04:11:40.766 - 04:11:51.274, Speaker A: Hello, everybody. My name is Peter. I'm a lead practice manager at Halborn, and we offer a full suite of security services and products to web3 and blockchain companies.
04:11:52.454 - 04:12:07.606, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you, guys. All right, so we're just going to go ahead and jump right in. The first question that I have is, why would I get an audit if there have been successful projects that have not been audited? So whoever wants, we'll start with you, Chris. Go ahead.
04:12:07.630 - 04:12:34.770, Speaker A: Sure. Thank you. Thank you. I definitely think it's possible some protocols can be successful even without audit, especially if you put in the work audit essentially just a code review. So if you have done a lot of code reviews along the way, maybe you can get away from a audit, that's for sure. But I think the data points otherwise. There's a website called recnews.
04:12:34.770 - 04:13:14.642, Speaker A: So if you go there, they have a lead board for all the protocol that has been hacked in the past. I think the data overwhelmingly points to that. The lead laws on that leaderboard are unaudited from my standpoint that security audits is something that everybody should do. Yeah. On the other side, security audit doesn't mean the code is secure. Of course, it's not easy to tell this news, but of course, it's like reducing some kind of the probability of getting hacked. And there's a lot of projects that are not audited.
04:13:14.642 - 04:13:49.074, Speaker A: So they are like battlefield test. They are alive without the audit. But the best practice, of course, is, please, guys, get audited. And maybe I would like to switch your question. It's not like audit, yes or no, but I think it's like, how many audits? So, like, the process that take security some kind of seriously. They always audit every release and usually, like, by multiple companies, because every auditing company has a different skill set, it can look at the audit from different angle. And the confidence, of course, grows with many more audits.
04:13:49.074 - 04:14:44.764, Speaker A: So I would be like the guy who tells, it's not a decision between one and zero, it's a decision between two to five. I mean, it's all about, to me, it's all about minimizing the chances of getting hacked. I mean, you can get away without auditing your project, but then again, it does not really send a good message to your users and to your investors. That doesn't really mean it's either you're very confident about the quality of your code and you're confident enough. You don't feel like there's a need for anyone else to have a look and perhaps have some insight on what you guys implemented. And so, just like Chris said, I mean, there's a lot of successful projects that they did not get an audit. But if you do look at the rect list, I mean, it does say unaudited in italics at the first five, I guess.
04:14:44.764 - 04:14:52.764, Speaker A: So, you know, it's kind of a common sense question whether, you know, you feel confident enough or not about the quality of your work.
04:14:53.504 - 04:14:54.168, Speaker B: Nice.
04:14:54.296 - 04:15:20.820, Speaker A: Yeah. Also, I just want to add, you know, by successful, I guess we have to define what is successful. If that means that you have not been hacked, well, that means that does not equal your secure. It could be unsecure but just not being hacked yet. So always good to put in the measures there, do the work, make sure you are secure, right?
04:15:21.012 - 04:15:33.344, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. I think that kind of leads into the next question that I have and that's what tooling has been created to help automate audits. And why is this also not a pain and a CF for organizations?
04:15:36.244 - 04:15:40.932, Speaker A: Josef, would you like to start about automating stuff? Right, that is the question.
04:15:41.028 - 04:15:50.012, Speaker B: Exactly, yeah. So what tooling, what open source tooling is available for developers so that they can at least verify some of the main things on their smart contracts.
04:15:50.108 - 04:16:22.834, Speaker A: Like as I see the whole ecosystem, it's like a pyramid. And at the very top, like the fifth level, there's the audit that's like the top of the tooling and everything that's below that. And the stages below are even, let's say, maybe more necessary than the audit. And audit is a bottleneck that's very hard to automate audits. I think it's impossible. Manual code review is always the best and it's the thing that should be at the end. But what we can improve, we as all auditing companies, is for example, by the tooling provided tooling to developers.
04:16:22.834 - 04:17:08.256, Speaker A: It helps them to do the steps that they can do themselves. And in that case, the bottleneck is smaller because a lot of the work can be done by the devs. To be concrete, like the, I would say the ground level is, of course you need to have quality code. There's the ground. The second level is tests still mainly in the solar ecosystem. A lot of projects don't write that much tests and don't have such test coverage as it should be. We are thinking about this, why is happening? And like my, or our point of view on that is that on Solana you have to write tests in typescript, which for a lot of people is kind of annoying.
04:17:08.256 - 04:17:43.140, Speaker A: So what we are trying to do is that we have created an open source project called Trudelnik, which is a testing framework. It's still in development. And with this testing framework, people can write tests in rust, which I think helps to increase the test coverage in the solar ecosystem. And it's, let's say the level two, level three, it's static analyzers. That's something like you guys are doing with your software. And level four for me is fast testing. Fast testing is something that currently I don't know about any big open source project that can be used for fast testing, we have it on our roadmap.
04:17:43.140 - 04:19:01.684, Speaker A: And as we have all these levels of the pyramid, the top level is the manual code review. And that's the thing that people pay us for. So following up on what Joseph just said, I mean web3 can learn a lot from web two. I mean there's pretty much an automated scanner of some sort for every layer of the technology stack, but still there are regulating the scanner carry world regulations in place that require on top of all those automated scans that run almost constantly in real time. You always do need to do manual audit. And you know, there are like different types of automation per se, because like you have tools that do run on their own, but there are also tools that assist you with whatever you're doing. So testing frameworks for the language, for the technology that you create your product in, that's one of the tools that, one of the class of tools that can definitely help you catch in early stages of development critical mistakes or bad business process design, or just incorrect implementation.
04:19:01.684 - 04:20:09.034, Speaker A: And so the problem with automation though is it makes developers and in general engineers kind of lazy, because if you depend on automated tools that print out a really nice report, you feel like there's no need to do anything else because it's a ready product, you can put it on your website, but then automated tools are only as good as the set of rules that govern them. And those rules were not designed to test your business logic. So therefore by definition they won't be able, or there's a very slow, chances are very slim they're going to catch errors in your business process design. And this is where arguably the most critical vulnerabilities often are. Exactly. I think the automated tools are the thing that are not meant to catch all. You know, it's like it can help you that it catches some issues, but still like it's not the thing that will cover the security, at least in our opinion.
04:20:09.034 - 04:20:50.606, Speaker A: Maybe you are far ahead with your tool, but yeah, we are a big believer. Let me first just say that we're big believer in tools. We actually came from a background building tools. So we do believe that security is holistic. Security is not just one thing, yet you wait until the end, right before you deploy and do a security audit, check the box and feel you are safe. I think security is along the whole life cycle, starting from you program your smart contracts and your front end, you putting everything together and you deploy and post deployment. So every point there is an element of security.
04:20:50.606 - 04:21:23.694, Speaker A: So it's just not one thing. So tools can really help. Humans are human, we all make mistakes. There are well known cases that huge loss due to some very simple errors. I think that tools can be very efficient and consistent and 24/7 within their capacity. So we're a big believer of building tools in terms of, I guess it's worth mentioning a few great tools in Solana ecosystem. I think on top of the list is anchor.
04:21:23.694 - 04:21:57.070, Speaker A: Anchor not only help to improve programming efficiency, but anchor actually does quite a few security checks as well. So devs like you don't have to do those manually. Right. And so there are also other tools that my panel mentioned from scanning tools. We happen to build one. It's called x ray, all the way to testing tools. There are also post deployment tools that we also happen to build a piece.
04:21:57.070 - 04:22:36.708, Speaker A: So if you know where they can do, if you're willing to invest in resources and time to bring in those tools into your process, to really make it work for you, that over time our experiences can get better and better and it can be really effective. And at the same time, I wouldn't be complete if I don't speak on some of the limitations. I'll just pick on our own tool. So it's more fair that way. So our x ray is a scanner, basically you. It's a software as a surface. So you upload your smart contract within seconds.
04:22:36.708 - 04:22:53.572, Speaker A: It gives you a report. It tells you what kind of vulnerabilities are or. Sounds cool, right? But there are limitations. And assuming you have a dial right, you can dial all the way to the left. The tool will leave nothing unreported. Anything suspicious will report to you. That's one way.
04:22:53.572 - 04:23:26.212, Speaker A: Dial to the left and you can dial to the right, which is that we only report to you when we're 100% confident this is something. Right. What would you use that dial? But I would use DAO to the left because I want to see everything. Right. But that's a limitation, because within that result, there will be false positives, which is that when you further investigate, it turn out to be okay. It's not a real issue, right. The issue is that the limitation is that when you see 25 or 35, 50 issues, you have to investigate.
04:23:26.212 - 04:23:57.350, Speaker A: That's real work. That's limitations. It's not a silver bullet. It doesn't give you the definitive final result. However, it put you in a pretty good spot if you're willing to put in effort and time and do further investigations and tell the tool, over time, the tool can get better and better, especially on a stable code base, it can get really good. So I encourage everybody if you. There are tools, there are great tools out there in the ecosystem.
04:23:57.350 - 04:24:16.484, Speaker A: There are some even open source tools. It's worth mentioning there is called vrust. It's an open source scanner. It's completely free. I encourage everybody to check it out. But invest in tools, investing in using tools. I think that's definitely something worth doing.
04:24:16.654 - 04:24:18.040, Speaker B: Yeah, that definitely makes sense.
04:24:18.072 - 04:24:44.560, Speaker A: Maybe if I can just add to it. The problem with the static analyzers or the scanners is that exactly like you mentioned, they are generating a lot of false positives. So it's about the level of things you want to have reported and the things you miss. The ratio between that. Our, let's say the approach to tooling is basically that we are always writing tools that we miss ourselves. So we are like the first users of our tooling and we are happy. We just release it as open source.
04:24:44.560 - 04:25:21.574, Speaker A: And it's the way we go from the ground upward. But every piece of the puzzle helps the ecosystem to be more secure. Just one last thought on the tooling. So what I believe is quite, really important is the tool creators, like all of us, we should be very much open to the feedback that we get from our users testing framework that we use. It's fully open source. Like anyone can go on GitHub and propose a new feature, or suggest that perhaps there is a bug. We're not.
04:25:21.574 - 04:25:51.554, Speaker A: We are just human. And every human being makes a mistake every now and again. And there's. The whole venue is full of smart, talented people that can definitely contribute with the security of the entire space. So just please don't be afraid to reach out to us. We are more than happy to listen to your feedback, because ultimately, we're all working towards the common goal, which is increase the security of the entire space.
04:25:52.454 - 04:26:22.714, Speaker B: Yeah, that's great. I didn't know that there was open source tooling that was out there as a developer building. So that's awesome. Then we're going to pivot to continue on what Robert was talking about just now, earlier about the mango hack, which we all know wasn't a mango hack. It was more like an economic manipulation. But how can we work together to figure out how this can. How can we prevent this from happening in the future? By working together? And what does that look like? So, Pietro, do you want to start?
04:26:24.014 - 04:27:21.084, Speaker A: So that was a very interesting incident, because it would never happen in a regulated market. Because there are, again, the scary word, regulated. Because there are restrictions that prevent that it was a combination of favorable or unfavorable market conditions, and there are actually three factors to it. So first of all, unfavorable market conditions. Second of all, what you might call conflict parameters of mango. And the third was, it's really interesting because an issue very much relevant to the incident was reported in community discord to mango a few days before the hack. And so there was a really detailed explanation provided in one of the messages.
04:27:21.084 - 04:28:52.244, Speaker A: And, well, unfortunately it wasn't acted on by the developers, and so it ended up the way it ended up. So I guess to what I said just moments ago, it's again, community feedback, smart, talented people that everyone should listen to and not just dismiss because they don't have a profile pic on a community discord. And that could, I mean, and if the, if the recommendation given by the anonymous person on that discord would, you know, be actually addressed by the mango markets, that would not happen. So that only sort of underscores how much, how important it is to listen to the users because, because ultimately they are the most affected in all those hacks. Maybe how to prevent these kind of hacks, or at least what we are trying to do, is always when there is some kind of complicated economy, it's good to mock a model, for example, in Python, and see what's happening in the economy and create some graphs and things like this. So it's possible to audit the economy by mocking up, mocking up a model. Yeah, it seems to me, I guess a lesson learned, for us at least, is that from a security audit standpoint, maybe we need to take even a bigger holistic view.
04:28:52.244 - 04:29:54.556, Speaker A: The hack was not a code bug. Right? So. But do end users care? I mean, they probably don't care, right? So that seems to me, you know, the space moves very quickly versus tradfi. So if you have a, if you open a stock trading account with one of the brokers, I mean, even if your stock went up ten times, your stock broker wouldn't allow you to draw, you know, withdraw cash on margin. So certainly there's, there's an element of risk control part, I guess in theory, it could be part of the security audit consulting. So that's, I guess lesson one for me. Another aspect is, I think to prevent that from happening, there almost seems to be a need for web3 to have some sort of credit system, right? I mean, if somebody borrowed that much and if you.
04:29:54.556 - 04:30:21.810, Speaker A: In web. Two words, right, in traditional world, that you would know who that person is, that you know, what kind of credit. So before a broker is able to extend that credit to you. They need to check on your credit. So I think somehow that element in web3 is missing. So it's certainly an event that I think we can draw a lot of lessons on. Yeah, I think I'm still more like code is the law guy.
04:30:21.810 - 04:30:26.852, Speaker A: But I get your point that in this case it was quite extreme. Sure.
04:30:26.988 - 04:30:54.116, Speaker B: Nice. All right, and let's go ahead and hop to speaking of bad actors, as soon as my phone wants to unlock. Let's see here. All right, so what are the things that auditing firms can do to help prevent bad actors and whoever wants to take this one, Chris, you look like you have something to say.
04:30:54.260 - 04:31:39.816, Speaker A: Sure, let me take on that one. I think first of all, if you have a lot of total value locked, I would encourage you to go through multiple audits with multiple auditors. By multiple, I mean not only you have one audit right before your launch, every change, incremental change, if you have the resource I will store, strongly encourage audit them. Right. Because there has been incident happened in the past that even one small change can open doors to big losses. And also having multiple auditors to do audits and their benefits. I believe a lot of auditors do excellent job.
04:31:39.816 - 04:32:38.214, Speaker A: So if somebody missing one piece, other people can picked up also independent, different independent auditors, certainly as the safety and security of a protocol. If that's something in your mind, if something in the back of your mind is whether you can trust this auditor or not, that's certainly one way to mitigate that. I guess from our standpoint that it's really how we build our team. You need to know your team, investing in them, not just a name on Internet. You need to know this person as a person, right. You need to really understand them, what motivates them and really invested them to training all the stuff so the compliance, the background checks on and so forth. The main message here is don't look at the audit, it's just check on the website.
04:32:38.214 - 04:33:17.445, Speaker A: It's a process. This process needs to be done properly. And the more people are involved in that, the better. And the better people that are involved in the process, even better. For example, when we are hiring people, at least I always look like for the really smart guys, because when you are the auditor, you must be smarter than the developers. So for me the question is not how long has been the guy in the ecosystem or whatsoever, it's like about outsmart the other people. So by that I think we can produce and find some issues that the other missed.
04:33:17.445 - 04:34:33.203, Speaker A: And this is what I think about. So the important thing, I suppose, is to involve security in your developmental product pipeline as soon as possible because like an audit should be a, a validation of what you already found yourself. So like there's, I think what would improve security posture would be a shift of a mindset, whereas you go to your auditor and you expect them to find two, three low issues because you've already addressed all that in the development pipeline. And so before you consider getting an audit to just try and think what other layers of the technology stack you need to secure, what's involved, what do you need to launch your product? Smart contract is arguably very important component, but it's just one of the components of the entire stack. And so it's quite important to have in mind that all these components, and we've seen it in multiple hacks recently, like even this year, a couple of months ago, that it's not the smart contract that was flawed, it was the rest of the stack.
04:34:35.663 - 04:34:59.164, Speaker B: And that kind of leads into my next question, and that is how does somebody become a smart contract auditor? Whenever I host workshops, that is the number one question that developer asks me. It's like, how do we get into this? There's not really tooling, there's not anything out. Where do you direct us? And I'm like, oh man, this is such a good question. So can somebody answer this for me? Can all of you answer this for me?
04:34:59.944 - 04:35:48.889, Speaker A: Sure, we'll try. Yeah, that's a great question. First of all, I like to say that we're hiring, so if you like to be an auditor, if you're good, I mean, feel free and definitely get in touch with, well, certainly, you know, we have written a few blogs out there, so I encourage everybody to read about it. I mean, the purpose of the blog is to give an overview of what we audit, what's the approach we take, you know, I guess on a general level. Right. But it seems quite popular, those articles that devs, at least by reading those articles and can get into a mindset of what auditors are looking for. Right.
04:35:48.889 - 04:36:26.564, Speaker A: So you can put that into, you know, you can integrate that into your development work. Right. But going from there, it probably takes some training, takes through some lessons learned that we have accumulated in the past. Right. And really getting to the nitty gritty, the weeds. So I'll say it takes a lot of training, but, you know, a lot of smart people really getting to computer science and security side, I think you will have a very good foundation there too, if you go through that rigorous training program. Like our internal folks have.
04:36:26.564 - 04:36:32.648, Speaker A: I think we're pretty confident that we can train people to be good auditors.
04:36:32.736 - 04:36:38.966, Speaker B: Oh, that's great. Okay, so you guys provide training, and then I know we only have a couple minutes left, but I already said.
04:36:38.990 - 04:37:12.477, Speaker A: Like, we believe in smart guys, so if you think you are smart, we have testing tasks. Of course, we are hiring, too. So it's like hacking challenge, you know, and then we will see. But basically, the process is quite long for us. In our, let's say, training program, it takes like six to nine months to basically create an auditor from a developer. But of course, it's the time they need to spent on the education. And maybe if I touch the topic education, I'll just pitch here that we are starting in January, our.
04:37:12.477 - 04:37:30.570, Speaker A: It's called School of Solana. It's for free. We are doing it because of the grant from Solana foundation, which we are grateful for. So if anyone would like to be not an auditor, but Sona developer, just apply on our website, and it's every week, like, university lecture for two months, and it's for free. So just like I wanted to use this space. Thank you.
04:37:30.602 - 04:37:31.882, Speaker B: Nice, Pietro.
04:37:32.018 - 04:38:07.026, Speaker A: So, to me, it's about getting to a thing. So, first of all, getting into the right mindsets and then getting and simultaneously getting resources. Now, there's, although there might quite not be, on the surface, there's a ton of resources available, because, first of all, a resource is basically blockchain, that all the decentralized applications out there, they work in some way. You interact with them. You have to click. So just get into the right mindset and just think what happens when I click it. So just every browser has developer tools.
04:38:07.026 - 04:38:52.306, Speaker A: Just open them and see what happens when you click them. And so there's a lot of publicly available reports. I mean, almost all blockchain auditing companies publish them. So you can get insight into how, you know, professional auditors work, so you can learn from their research. I mean, all auditors also post their research online, so it's freely accessible. And so you can see, like, if you open any report, you can see there are code snippets. So that means you need to understand how, you know, code works on a very, at the very least, you need to understand how to read code, not so much how to write it, although developer background definitely helps and helps you understand.
04:38:52.306 - 04:39:52.224, Speaker A: So, one side of the equation, and once you back to the mindset thing, once you like the origins of the word hacker, comes from someone who understands a concept very well, and they can just hack it into pieces and see how those pieces would work if assembled in a different way. So the starting point is getting to understand how a feature works. And once you ask yourself questions, okay, so I know how it works. So what if? It's all about what if. And there's a lot of what ifs in auditing, and it's not reasonable to expect from auditors to just cover all the what ifs, because there are so many of them. But as you learn, as you read bug bounties, public reports, you interact with the space. You can learn a lot just by doing and, you know, in practical areas, great information.
04:39:52.344 - 04:40:03.204, Speaker B: I'm sorry, running out of time. Thank you so much to each and every one of you. Chris, Joseph, Pieter, and thank you, audience. Hopefully this was informative to everybody and have a great day.
04:40:03.584 - 04:40:04.524, Speaker A: Thank you.
04:40:16.684 - 04:40:33.468, Speaker B: Okay, great panel to round us out for the whole day. So now, everybody, you have two choices. You can go to Teatro Capitola. If you want a drink, happy hour started there. Enjoy some good conversation. Or if you want some good new material, you can go to Convento de Beato. We have a few more panels happening there.
04:40:33.468 - 04:40:50.484, Speaker B: One on climate change, one on composability, one on hype with the famous Austin Federa. So you don't have to go home. You don't really have to get the hell out of here either, but you might as well. So go enjoy the rest of the conference, and we'll see you tomorrow bright and early at 11:00 a.m. Right back here. Thank you all so much.
