00:00:00.410 - 00:00:43.458, Speaker A: Welcome to Uncommon Core where we explore the big ideas in crypto from first principles. Today, sue and I discuss the rise of Wall Street bets and financial populism in general. As one of the most experienced market participants I know, sue has a unique perspective on the story behind the GameStop short Squeeze. We explore why he thinks it is going to end in tears for small investors, which invisible rules of the traditional financial system have been laid bare for everyone to see. And why all of this massively validates crypto and DeFi going forward. Enjoy. Okay, so wallshit bets.
00:00:43.458 - 00:01:12.130, Speaker A: So wallshit bets. It was catapulted to mainstream popularity. Everyone is talking about it now, even my parents. Everyone I know is talking about it. Arguably it all started with the GameStop short Squeeze. That's how it kind of permeated the media initially and then it kind of morphed into almost like a cultural financial movement. So what happened and why do you think it went viral?
00:01:12.870 - 00:02:04.130, Speaker B: Well, I think Wall Street bets has been around a while, right. It's basically a subreddit that people discuss trading ideas on mainly US equities single stock names and think the idea is that on Reddit itself, it's very user driven. So people just post ideas, they're pseudonymous and kind of community participation, not unlike crypto. Right. There's no coin for Wall Street bets, but there's this idea that you're contributing to sort of an open source well of ideas. And I do think that the big explosion of interest in that has been due to their main success, which is the GameStop squeeze. And that was a squeeze that one of the users there had been planning for quite some time.
00:02:04.130 - 00:02:34.240, Speaker B: Michael Burry was in that as well and where they basically realized that there are some hedge funds that had been running long short equities books where the short legs had gotten very big in terms of percentage of overall shares outstanding. So I think the success of that squeeze has been really fascinating for people and made people realize that they can source very good trading ideas and make a lot of money from just being on Reddit and just being part of that community.
00:02:34.690 - 00:03:10.258, Speaker A: Yeah, so I agree, it's extremely similar to crypto Twitter in that sense. I had not been on Wall Street bets before last week, but when I joined the extreme similarity to crypto twitter immediately struck me as notable for sure talking about how they identified this trading idea. So why GameStop? You mentioned that there was maybe above 100% outstanding float was short. Did they analyze a lot of companies to see which one would lend itself for a short squeeze?
00:03:10.434 - 00:04:09.018, Speaker B: Yeah, I think Michael Berry had an interesting tweet a few days ago where he said there can only ever be one GameStop because it was the perfect squeeze. And I think he's right for a few reasons. I think one is that the element of surprise is important. So the idea is that people are buying a lot of calls, right? They're buying a lot of calls from dealers and they're sort of attacking before it has ever happened to any fund. So the way the shares get moved around as well to get recalled so that people who are short have to buy back. I think there's just that overall confluence and I think the main thing with long short equities and why it's such a dangerous game at times is that people end up having the same positions because they all want to beat each other or at least track each other. So there's a memetic quality to it.
00:04:09.018 - 00:05:13.134, Speaker B: So kind of after COVID, a lot of long short funds jumped into the thesis that the brick and mortar shops would do poorly. Like AMC, which is a cinema company, runs theaters, GameStop, where you buy video games at a store. But yeah, there's basically these two kind of the big ones that people just said, you know what, these companies are going to do really poorly during COVID and so they're easy shorts, consensus shorts and so they become very crowded positions and on the long side they buy the internet stocks. So that's kind of why also we saw that internet stocks kind of took a tumble while GameStop was going up because people were having to unwind their longs in order to have more collateral for their shorts. So anyway, I think GameStop, without getting into too much detail, they basically executed it very well, the timing of it, so that the shorts, they couldn't do anything at that time. I think also that the whole narrative around it brought in a lot of fresh money to buy it and pump it up, which made it obviously even more painful for the shorts for a while.
00:05:13.332 - 00:06:19.094, Speaker A: Yeah, and I don't know if you know about this, but GameStop, it already has a huge memetic quality to it. I remember for years there being this meme where people called GameStop on the phone, their local GameStop and asked if they had a game in store called Battletoads and this game had been out of print for like a decade or something. And this was a very popular internet meme, by the way. I hadn't thought about this until now but yeah, so everyone like kind of the Fortune and Reddit community was already like GameStop was a name to them even if they lived outside the US. Like I do. Like GameStop doesn't exist here, but even I knew about GameStop and know that it's something that a lot of people have a lot of positive and nostalgic feelings about where you hang out at a physical store and play the latest games and so on. So a lot of people try to connect these events with crypto and bitcoin or in other words, bitcoin and crypto people.
00:06:19.094 - 00:06:25.080, Speaker A: They feel very drawn to what is happening here. Why do you think that is? What is the connection between the two?
00:06:25.610 - 00:07:24.460, Speaker B: Well, I think both come from a deep sense of financial populism. A sense that the little guy has a very hard time making money in traditional finance, as it were. And they see this as a chance for them to make outsized gains and also for them to make gains while the big guys suffer. Right. More importantly. So kind of a short squeeze mentality where the hedge fund guys are finally the ones who lose money. I think with crypto it's less that the outside world is losing money, but rather that it's kind of like us versus them mentality, where the individual investors, the individuals that are on these internet communities are the victors and the institutions, the guys with the nice suits and ties are the ones who have to scramble to figure out what's going on.
00:07:24.460 - 00:08:01.698, Speaker B: So I think there are those similarities there, but I also think there's very important differences. I made a few tweets when the game was coming out kind of warning people that you don't really actually want to take on Citadel in traditional markets. You don't really actually want to do these kind of things because like Michael Burry said, GameStop is a one off. It took years of research and months of preparation for them to pull that off. And even now GameStop is starting to sell off and there's these games that Citadel can play. They are the market maker for it. They have exemptions to giving them a seven day window.
00:08:01.698 - 00:09:17.034, Speaker B: They can still naked short, they can move positions around from entity to entity, claim they covered shorts, they can basically play a long trench warfare to win. Right? And I kind of see it as the whole idea of a protest buy where people protest the system and then buy something. I think that that's what really fascinates the crypto OGS and the crypto thought leaders who say, you know what, this is actually what Bitcoin is all about as well. Right? Bitcoin is also a protest buy. You're protesting the fiat system and therefore by doing so, not only do you do well, but you also draw attention to it and you also help engender the success of a community. So my fear with the GameStop stuff is that they ultimately will lose that fight because that fight is still within the traditional finance system itself, where your opponents do have all the regulators on their side, they do have all the institutions on their side who actually hold your shares, right? Who actually custody everything, who actually can lobby for rule changes. So that's, I think, what scares me about the idea of another GameStop because next time they will be prepared and they will fight back very well in my opinion.
00:09:17.034 - 00:09:25.840, Speaker B: So I see that energy being much better spent in crypto than in the stock market.
00:09:26.450 - 00:09:58.730, Speaker A: So much interesting stuff to unpack there. So let's talk about financial populism just really briefly. So would you say that my take on it would be the world has become so gentrified. Don't know if that's even the right word here. And the options of people so restricted, especially now with COVID where other forms of protest might not be viable. So has kind of what you buy, like what you consume and what you buy, has that become the last battleline, in your opinion?
00:09:59.230 - 00:10:58.926, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's always been a battle line in some sense. But you're right that because people can't go outside, consumption has gone down and Internet use gone up and speculation has also gone up. I think that the memetic nature of money and the memetic nature of finance has never been higher. So when we talk about financial populism, I think that has to be understood in the backdrop of record inequality in the states and record amounts of malcontent toward the way that COVID policies were also done. Where you had small businesses that were shut down, but Walmart was left open. You had small restaurants shut down, but bigger ones were allowed to open. There are all these things that favor the bigger guys over the smaller guys, right? And it's to the point now where people, just the people who make the rules, they don't even see what's wrong with it anymore because they just say, well, that just makes sense.
00:10:58.926 - 00:11:31.210, Speaker B: Right? Yeah. And you see this really starkly in the structure of financial markets because just take a financial market, right, like a stock. You have a designated market maker. That market maker trades on different rules than you do. They almost pay no fees because they have high volumes, they get volume discounts. They also have ability to short sell in ways that you can't because they're the designated market maker. They also have a whole host of advantages, right? Maybe they can access capital at a much cheaper price.
00:11:31.210 - 00:12:30.178, Speaker B: Maybe they can do long, short trades on higher leverage. Whatever it is, this is kind of baked into the system and the incumbents don't even see what's wrong with it. Right. They take it for granted. And for the smaller guys, it's seen as a given that these guys will pay money, they will gamble, they will speculate, but they will lose money to the market makers, they will lose money to the professionals. But with that said, the small guys are realizing that if they collectify or if they kind of can coordinate, then they can accomplish big things. Or so they think, right? So you have GameStop, but then in crypto, you had Dogecoin, where Doge went extremely viral on TikTok and other kind of non traditionally crypto related mediums, where Dogecoin briefly went into the top five, which is kind of incredible.
00:12:30.178 - 00:13:39.550, Speaker B: To think about coming from where it so I think that financial know it made its start in traditional finance with the idea of with GameStop. But I do see its natural home, its sort of natural habitat being back in crypto. Because in crypto, right, in contrast to traditional, traditional finance, if everyone gets together and buys a coin, there's no one that can come and say, you know what? You actually need to sell that coin because of some rule, or you can't buy more of that coin. Like what we saw with Robinhood, right, and with GameStop where they actually forced some customers to sell because it was a margin account. And even if the account had enough money in it, they could make up some reason why you had to sell it. And also they wouldn't let people buy anymore because they said it was risky to the system. But it's all a bit opaque, right, and there's always some reason that they give, but at the end of the day, you know, that the forces that be, they're looking for that profit and they're looking to treat the customer as a revenue source.
00:13:39.550 - 00:13:54.070, Speaker B: Right. So I think my hope is that that energy will sort of trans morph over into crypto.
00:13:54.570 - 00:14:39.266, Speaker A: A lot of the unhappiness with the current system kind of culminated with the event when Robinhood disabled kind of the buying of these securities, or in some cases even unwound positions automatically. And they claimed that this was due to them having insufficient collateral at their clearinghouse, which is a valid argument. But now everyone is arguing that this kind of proved that the market structure is inherently rigged against the small guys. So I feel like I already got a clue what you're going to say, but do you think that very clearly that is true, the traditional financial market is rigged against the small investor?
00:14:39.378 - 00:15:26.870, Speaker B: I wouldn't say it's rigged per se. I think rigged is a tough word to prove. But I think that the structure assumes certain things, right? It assumes, for one, that if you trade more volume, you should get lower fees. It assumes that if you are a bigger participant, that you can lobby for things that smaller participants can't. You can have these host of benefits and a whole host of advantages. And when you contrast that to DeFi, right, where in DeFi, no matter how big you are, you're still participating on an even playing field. You're still having to pay the same fee and having to interact with the same smart contracts.
00:15:26.870 - 00:17:20.022, Speaker B: I think that stands in very stark contrast, right? Like, probably the most egregious example of where this is an assumption would be in retail FX brokers or in retail options trading, where massive amounts of flow get internalized because people assume that the flow is dumb and they know that it often is, and then they're competing to pay for that, to acquire that flow. And the flow doesn't even hit the real market, right? It just gets put on the market maker's books, where they hope to either net it out or move the market in a way that they can then scalp out at a profit. But all these things, right? But then you ask the question, well, why can't these clients trade with each other? Why can't they match with each other? Why is that sort of internalized or even needed? And I think DeFi is asking that question now nicely, where it's saying, can you create a system, an alternate system where people are interacting with each other, directly with each other's liquidity? And you don't have this need for a systematic internalizer sitting in the middle that's trading against every client and on the opposite side of every trade. I think that these are the questions that I think DeFi will ultimately be able to solve. That I think traditional finance, because of the way that it's structured, it assumes certain profit motives and it assumes certain things must hold, right? The investment bank, for instance, is known as the rightful broker dealer. And if you're not an investment bank, it's very hard to become a broker dealer, to face clients. There's regulatory red tape that make it so that those are the right firms to be doing so.
00:17:20.022 - 00:17:50.754, Speaker B: I mean, my firm, Three Arrows, we used to trade a lot of foreign exchange, emerging market NDFs. We would have loved to make markets to other clients, but the structure of the market was such that you wouldn't even be allowed to. For the longest time they would ban non bank participants from the interbank dealer market because they thought that by allowing non banks into that market, that would be extremely damaging to the bank's profit margins. And so as a result, they sort of create this cartel, right, where they.
00:17:50.792 - 00:17:51.380, Speaker A: Say.
00:17:53.350 - 00:18:35.490, Speaker B: They use regulation, they use relationships with governments and things like this to basically say, here are the things that we make money from and here's everything else. And this is the pie. And within this pie you can control us, but this is ours. Right? And I think that this structure is inefficient and it's rent sinking. There's no real value being added, in my opinion. And you kind of seen the breakdown of that in some markets, right, where for a long time interbank FX rates are very cheap. But the rate you get when you go and convert is very expensive.
00:18:35.490 - 00:19:15.118, Speaker B: If you go to a teller or if you go to some place and that's come down a lot with revolute and things like that and then you kind of see similar type things happening. Now. Where? In the US. Fixed income markets, non bank market makers are now 80% of the volume because these are leaner firms and they don't need to make as much money because they're smaller, that they don't have as much overhead. And these are, incidentally, some of the firms that participate in crypto the most as well because they kind of like the fact that it's a level playing field. They don't need to have special benefits in order to do well in that system.
00:19:15.204 - 00:20:07.840, Speaker A: Yeah, so Robinhood, it internalizes the orders of their customers. We discussed this. And actually, when you just said that market makers might move stocks to scrap their customers, that reminded me a lot of when I read reminisces of a stock operator a couple of months ago with all these prop shops. Back in the day where people would be encouraged to trade very high leverage, so they would get immediately liquidated, like on a few ticks up or down. Of course, the prop shops, they would know all the liquidation points of their customers and they would just call basically their Oracle, which is kind of a big exchange or a big broker in some larger city, and they would tell them to please move the stock there or there, right, and then get their local customers liquidated. So do you think or sounded like that's still going on today?
00:20:08.530 - 00:21:03.526, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, you kind of saw that with Steve Cohen's tweets, right, where he was kind of goading on the longs and saying, let's see how this fight goes. Or treating is a tough game. I think he for a moment there, he kind of slipped up and sort of said the things out loud that shouldn't be said for a man in his position. And I think since then he's deleted all his tweets and so on. But look, it's a zero sum game in many respects, right, so that needs to always be remembered. I think no matter how much lipstick on the pig you want to put on it, it's still a zero sum game that kind of tells you what you need to know, I think, about what these firms may do or are willing to do. But I think that the problem isn't in and of itself the fact that it's zero sum.
00:21:03.526 - 00:22:37.040, Speaker B: The problem in traditional finance is that the rules itself of the game are not known well and are not written in a way that is good for individuals, right? They're not written in a way that you as an individual on the Internet can understand them, can reason about them, can use them to find good opportunities. I worked at an ETF market maker called Flow Traders, which is one of the top ETF market makers along with Jane Street and some of these other firms. And there's so many esoteric games that you can play with stock, borrow lending, with the way you do a creation redemption, the way you do all these types of things that are incredibly esoteric. Probably fewer than 100 people in the world know how to do them. And yet these products that are being traded, these are the most commonly traded products in the world. These are ETFs, right? These are stocks. And so that kind of massive inequality of knowledge and massive inequality of access, I think is something that crypto fundamentally solves, right? Where we've seen in DeFi, where individuals in their teens, in their parents houses, can make tens of millions of dollars, can really understand what's going on, can reason about it, can participate in the governance of it, can participate in the building up of it.
00:22:37.040 - 00:22:59.960, Speaker B: And so I think that's a massive contrast that I think, for me, having seen both sides of traditional finance and DeFi has actually kind of made me more reinvigorated on the idea that Crypto is the true home of financial populism. And where I see that all the populism in the stock markets fundamentally is going to lead to tears. More likely than not.
00:23:01.210 - 00:23:34.420, Speaker A: And that is because people who engage in financial populism in traditional markets right now, they will realize that the rules of the game are too opaque. This is not the battleground that they should choose to make a stand because they can't win. And it probably will take a few for GameStop and a few of these others to unwind completely. Let's actually talk about how this is going to look. How is the GameStop and the Wall Street bets saga and traditional finance going to end for them?
00:23:35.430 - 00:24:28.722, Speaker B: I think it's a game of attrition, right? So there's these things you can do where you have a seven day window to cover naked shorts. You can basically hope that the flow, that basically the longs can't keep up the battle, right? That they get bored as the price goes down. People get bored, they sell, they move on to something else. There's going to be a lot of counterintelligence where they try to get these communities to be weaker. But in general, yes, some people are in GME for the protest, but a lot of them are also in for the pump, right? So if they hold it for a day, it's not going anywhere. It goes down 20%, they're just going to dump it and move on, right? And at this price, some of the guys are in it from $5, $10. It's very crypto like in that sense.
00:24:28.722 - 00:25:15.614, Speaker B: So you have early adopters of the GameStop thesis. If they want to actually get out and crystallize their 40 X, they have to sell, right? And so they're going to also be dumping on the so called protest buy. So you have this situation where the shorts, yes, they are short a lot of the company, but if they play their cards right, they can keep rolling it for some time. And if the momentum dies off, then it's very difficult actually to ultimately win in that. And you kind of need the management of the company to be really on the side of the small shareholders. Like, think about this, right? Let's say you and I start a company, we list it, and then people try to squeeze our company to the moon, right?
00:25:15.732 - 00:25:17.006, Speaker A: Yeah. What will we do?
00:25:17.028 - 00:25:43.866, Speaker B: Right? You and I might say, why don't we issue more shares? Yeah, why don't we do an initial share offering? Why don't we just even give ourselves stock options? Then we exercise them. Now we have stocks, now we dump our stocks, right? That's the problem of using stocks as a store of value or using stocks as crypto is that the direction of the company is not up to the holders of its stock. It's up to the management that is in power. Right.
00:25:43.968 - 00:25:47.770, Speaker A: How long does it take to issue a new stock or write a new stock?
00:25:48.270 - 00:26:11.906, Speaker B: It can be done in a day, right? I mean, it can be done really? It can be done very fast. So there's all sorts of game theory that if you're Citadel, you can maybe talk to the management, get them to agree that give them a split of the profits. You can do all these games. Right? I would not think that it's a game that Citadel would want to lose either, put it that way.
00:26:12.008 - 00:26:12.514, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:26:12.632 - 00:26:51.914, Speaker B: So I think there's a good Tweet threads today. Someone posted where he said that Citadel is already up money net from GameStop, just from all the volume, from the back and forth. They've already made so much from the float that they're net up. Okay, that's pretty shocking if you think about it. But that they're already net up zero point 72 is definitely down a lot because they simply invested in Melbourne before the squeeze. So they kind of caught the whole loss on the way up. And they're also not the market maker on it, but it's kind of like these guys will protect their own because they'll say, look, this is my turf, my game is long, short, equities, and I can't just be squeezed like this willy nilly.
00:26:51.914 - 00:27:54.286, Speaker B: So they're going to make a stand here. They're kind of not going to take it laying down. So I think that whole reality is something that is going to start to set in for the idea of financial populism in stocks. And also if you feel at the standard of discourse now on Wall Street bets and talking about this, it's not that high. If you look at the guys buying at $5 who started the squeeze, they're obviously very smart, but a lot of them have now exited too, right? There's a Korean fund that announced that they made a billion dollars on GameStop, right? This is not an individual. These are not people, right? This is like another financial company betting against something else. And then like AMC as well, I saw like Silver Lake announce that they sold all their AMC, right? Like there's convertible notes, people who are long, like hybrid fixed income notes where they get to have stocks.
00:27:54.286 - 00:28:26.554, Speaker B: If the stock price goes high enough, they go in the money and then they exercise meaning that they start getting shares. Shares start coming out of nowhere and start being able to be dumped on people. So there's all these ways that shares can be created. There's all these ways that shares already exist from people that are incentivized to sell. So it's not at all like crypto where if you buy doge. The beauty of doge is that it's pure meme, right? It's a tokenized meme. There's nobody sitting around with doge options where if the doge price goes high enough, suddenly they have a lot more doge.
00:28:26.554 - 00:28:28.446, Speaker B: That person doesn't exist. Right?
00:28:28.548 - 00:28:40.402, Speaker A: Probably a lot of people have huge amounts of doge lying around that they just don't care about because it's not worth very much. But when it pumps, then a lot of the supply will maybe activate. I don't know.
00:28:40.456 - 00:29:11.366, Speaker B: Yeah. But fundamentally it's different because no one is expecting it to be something other than a meme or other than kind of like a Via crypto concept. So I think the whole cryptoization of stocks idea, that's kind of where it ultimately breaks down because stocks are still actually stocks. They're still percentage ownership of a company, and those have rights. And some people have more rights than you do, right? They may have management rights. They may have preference. They may have a higher class of shares than you.
00:29:11.366 - 00:29:26.706, Speaker B: So there's all these kind of it's actually more like you're buying a share of a Dow, and you don't have decidability on this Dow either. So you don't actually own as much as you think you do, and you don't control the narrative as much as you think you do.
00:29:26.808 - 00:29:52.162, Speaker A: So you said that the most likely way that GME is going to unwind is from the narrative dying down. So do you think that actually these squeezes in silver and doge, that they are kind of manufactured narratives in order to distract people from GME and some of the earlier stock squeezes kind of spread the capital over more bets?
00:29:52.306 - 00:30:21.246, Speaker B: It's tough to answer that question, but I will say that the whole financial system does not want the Wall Street bets people to win on GameStop, right? Because a lot of these funds who are short GameStop, they're also long everyone's favorite companies. They're long. Facebook, Apple, amazon. Netflix. Google. Right. So yesterday, Monday, the stock market went up a lot as GameStop fell because people got, you know, they got calmer about systemic risk.
00:30:21.246 - 00:31:04.254, Speaker B: As GameStop fell, GameStop went to $10,000. There's a lot of holes in everyone's balance sheet, right? Because now everyone has to pay. These GameStop longs out for huge amounts of, like, you're kind of trying to break it's almost like counting cards against the casinos. The way I would say it is like, yeah, you can be the best card counter in the world, but you're still playing in a casino. You still need them to pay you out, right? There's some worlds where that wouldn't even get paid out. The US. Maybe is probably not a thuggish country, but if you did the same trade in Argentina or you did the same trade in Brazil or in some parts of like, no one's going to pay you out.
00:31:04.254 - 00:31:36.810, Speaker B: Right? They're just going to say, it's a cool story that you did here. You have nothing. Now I've. Zeroed out your account, you have nothing, and you were doing market manipulation and they'll throw you in jail as well, right? So I think the US probably not that stuff can't happen in the same way. But the idea that the whole financial system will kind of allow this to get paid out in a huge way, that is a very tough battle. It's actually tougher than the battle of hyper monetizing bitcoin, even in my opinion.
00:31:37.150 - 00:32:13.814, Speaker A: That's something that I didn't really realize until now, is how you can lay over what happens on crypto. Twitter on wall street bets over traditional finance media as, like, everyone is shilling their favorite coin on crypto twitter in very blatant ways, right? The only goal is kind of to manipulate the market or kind of coordinate people on betting on the same thing, right, and then squeezing everyone else who's not in it and triggering the FOMO. But that is exactly what all those large fund managers do by going on CNBC, right?
00:32:13.852 - 00:32:14.662, Speaker B: It's the same thing.
00:32:14.796 - 00:33:57.106, Speaker A: Once you see it, you cannot unsee it. That they are just the twitter talking heads who manipulate the market in extremely obvious ways, certainly. Okay, so we established that traditional finance is not the right battleground for financial populism to win, right? They can fight a few battles there, but hopefully only in order to realize that this is not the right battlefield, right? So let's talk about crypto. And something that I thought was super interesting that you said earlier is that the smaller guys are realizing that they have to coordinate with each other, right? They have to form a collective, and that's how they can get some of the benefits that the big guys get. Right? And the way I think about crypto and always have, is that crypto is also in itself a coordination mechanism, right? So it would be impossible for people to monetize a new form of money, like from the bottom up, for example, like bitcoin, because how do we agree on what money to use for that, right? There are so many options. And the problem is also the way that I see that bitcoin solves this is it gives people an incentive, a financial incentive to bet on the right thing, right, because they can get in early, and the earlier they get in, the more they can win, right? So it's actually like a famous story that kind of why Die, it's a famous cryptographer, the inventor of b money. And he wrote to Satoshi, wrote him an email telling him about bitcoin and why Die didn't take it seriously and didn't respond.
00:33:57.106 - 00:34:39.320, Speaker A: And then years later, he came up with big regrets, and he said, okay, bitcoin is like a blown opportunity, and if I could turn back time, I would do it, and I would tell Satoshi to make bitcoin a stable coin, right? Because the fact that bitcoin is fixed supply makes it completely unworkable and pointless. But in my view, the fact that Bitcoin is fixed supply and floating against everything else, that's what makes it the big innovation, because that's what creates this coordination mechanism where people are actually incentivized to all buy the same thing and that's what allows it to monetize in bottom up way. And yeah, the same, in my opinion, applies to DeFi. So let's talk about that.
00:34:39.690 - 00:37:02.882, Speaker B: Yeah, I think you're absolutely right. Right? I mean, the coordination effects in Bitcoin are so powerful that if every Bitcoin holder in the world says they will be BTC denominated, they'll put all their fiat gains back into BTC, then even with no new people coming in, the price will almost certainly go up. Because at any given point, the dollar value of the fiat earnings of existing BTC holders is far higher than mining supply, than mining emissions, right? So as long as they buy up enough that they have enough fiat earnings relative to the fiat costs of the system, the price will keep going higher and higher. So that kind of short squeeze on the world effect makes people say, okay, well, do I also join this game and do I also, by joining it, also become wealthy with these people? Right? That's why you're absolutely right. If you didn't have that mechanism where by getting in early you benefit from evangelizing it and from being a part of it, then you would never have that adoption. Right? So I think with DeFi, with governance tokens, with farming, early farming participation, people also fundamentally respect the work that has been done by people, right? When people first learn about crypto, they don't quite understand why do you need proof of work that seems wasteful? Or why do you need to give the early adopters of a DeFi coin a lot of the supply? Well, it's because how else do you give it in a way that anyone can compete for it? Pseudonymously, Anonymously how do you give it away in a way such that the whole world will think of it after it's done as the fairest possible way? Right? So if you give it all to yourself, if you give it all to yourself, then people will say, well, that may still be okay, but how are you then going to give it away and how fast will you give it away? Right? So that would be kind of the foundation model. But if you were to start from scratch and say you try to give away as much as possible to the users or to the people that invest real work into it, then suddenly you have this element of people saying, okay, so this is something that is actually fair.
00:37:02.882 - 00:38:04.226, Speaker B: It's not like traditional finance. It's not like something where you and I would have no control over how many dollars get printed or who gets printed. Where do these dollars go? Where does fiscal stimulus go? You could ask the basic question, why is stimulus given to people as $1,000, $2,000. Why is it cash? Why is it not a credit to your medical bill or to some other bill? There are all these ways you could do it, but fundamentally you have no control over how that's done. And so I think in crypto and in DeFi, you have very much that user governance direct link, where the users are the same people as the owners. So that user owner combination, I think, is uniquely enabled by crypto. And I think this is actually even more so than a technological paradigm or a monetary paradigm.
00:38:04.226 - 00:38:09.218, Speaker B: It's a societal paradigm, right, where you really haven't been able to have user owner.
00:38:09.394 - 00:38:35.634, Speaker A: Before this, I would broadly classify kind of our current societal structure as market capitalism. Do you think that what DeFi ushers in is? Or like crypto in general, ushers in this era of decentralized networks with fair and observable and unchangeable rules? Do you think that ushers in a new general societal paradigm that is distinct from market capitalism, or how do you think about that?
00:38:35.832 - 00:39:52.730, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's distinct in a few ways. I think it's distinct in the way that I almost see it as the answer to the question of what are these big tech companies doing if they can never really earn a profit? But they have all this mind share and they have all this network effect, right? Because you could broadly say the 2010s are about big tech, right? As much as crypto grew and was born in the was really a decade of big tech, right? Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, Google, these type of firms. And I think that the 2020s will be about crypto because crypto has some of the answers to the questions of what do you do if something is very useful, but the company can't make much money out of it if it was run as a company, right? Like Linux, open source, this kind of spirit of something that is very useful, but who contributes to it, who keeps it going? How do users claim the value from it? Right? I mean, think about Wikipedia, Linux, some of the early power users, all that, they did that of their own volition, right? They did that out of passion, right?
00:39:52.800 - 00:39:53.514, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:39:53.712 - 00:41:01.274, Speaker B: And saints and martyrs that they are, we now have a way to incentivize participation in these open source endeavors and more importantly, make them powerful enough that they can not only surpass what traditional finance can offer in terms of utility, but they can far outseat it because of the way that they're governed. Their costs can be lower. You can participate as a market maker from day one. You can be on both sides of the trade. You can basically rewrite the rules of how peer to peer finance works, how peer to community finance works. So I think that whole blank slate, I wouldn't call it a contrast to market capitalism necessarily, because capitalism itself is very hard to define, really. But I think it's a big contrast to the idea of dealer to client or company to user and that kind of divide.
00:41:01.274 - 00:41:15.650, Speaker B: I think that that divide ultimately will not be the way that the Internet structure of finance or of companies in general that are Internet native, I don't think that will be their structure.
00:41:16.170 - 00:42:27.610, Speaker A: I agree. I think in the 2010s we saw the incredible power of networks unleashed, right, that networks eat everything, right? And if you only bet on that thesis, then you would have done incredibly well, right? But crypto, it combines this with, I think, two important innovations. And the first is that you have kind of the unchangeable rules, right? You can make networks that are truly neutral, right, that someone can amass a lot of power in these networks and still not be able to change the rules. And that's part due to the innovation of kind of the decentralized consensus process of these things, right, that they rely on ethereum bitcoin. And the second is digital value, right? And the way that we can use this to create incentives for people. And I think we see this with Bitcoin. Bitcoin is itself an enormous economic innovation in kind of creating this coordination mechanism.
00:42:27.610 - 00:43:17.786, Speaker A: But we see this like the innovation of Bitcoin taken to something like DeFi, where also people can completely they can make up a coin that has no value today. But the promise of that coin is that it will be valuable. When the network, like, for example, a two sided market for whatever lending and borrowing becomes useful, then that thing will be useful. So it is in itself a form of equity, right? Same as Bitcoin is a form of equity in kind of the Bitcoin network. And that's what allows these things to bootstrap themselves in a way that we have never seen before. Crypto, right? And I think we are at kind of the verge of it's almost like the early days of the Internet. In that sense.
00:43:17.786 - 00:43:36.578, Speaker A: It's a completely new paradigm. And we have these two innovations like credible neutrality and kind of permissionless, financial incentives. And I think in combination with the network paradigm of the think, it's very hard to imagine what kind of like how it will disrupt the world as we know it.
00:43:36.744 - 00:44:27.300, Speaker B: Yeah. And I think it's not a coincidence, too, that sort of coinciding with the Robinhood stuff. You've seen a wave of non crypto venture and non crypto fintech investors really will start to wake up to DeFi. I mean, part of it is guys like Naval talking for extended periods of time on clubhouse and introducing investors to this kind of idea. But I think it's also that people are the traditional finance fintech system. They're kind of running up against the limits, right? The users are sort of breaking through the simulation where they're saying, hey, we realize that this is not actually free, that we are actually the products and we are actually harvested for gains. They're imagining a better system, they're also imagining themselves as the owners, small as they are.
00:44:27.300 - 00:45:19.246, Speaker B: And I think that that energy has nowhere to go except for crypto. And I think investors now, when they look at the fintech space, starting from the seed perspective, it suddenly now looks far appealing to seed a DeFi project than it does to seed a fintech project. Because fintech, not only are you now competing with the banks and competing with the incumbents, but now you're also competing with crypto to offer the same thing and you're also competing to figure out what your revenue model may be and what your market fit may be. And so that whole pressure. I think people have always known that traditional finance is very inefficient, that there's ways to disrupt it, but everything seems always like two X better or three X better or five X better, right? Because it's still operating the same rail. So instead of citadel market making on bats, it's market making direct to client via the broker. It's doing these very like at the end of day, it's still the same three firms.
00:45:19.246 - 00:47:01.940, Speaker B: At the end of it, it's still the same market structure. And I think now market structure is getting seriously questioned by the users and therefore also by the investors in these kind of trends. And that energy will only continue as long as people continue to question what should be the role of the individual in financial markets? Is it to be the profit, the revenue of a large professional firm or is it something else? Right? Is it something different altogether? That question is, in my opinion, the real question is an internet user talking about web3 thesis of crypto. Is an internet user fundamentally someone who's using free to play products, but who is essentially harvested in a sort of rather insidious way via his attention as well as via his identity and via his overall being, his overall content. Right? Is that the structure of the internet that people ultimately want? Or is that because that's not written in stone, right? I mean, this is how it's been so far, but it may not be how it is in the future with the WhatsApp. I think there's so much social confidence now around crypto where you have now with the WhatsApp privacy stuff, where you have tons of users going to signal, going to telegram and saying, I now question how I use the Internet. I don't just use the dumbest, the easiest thing, I question how I might want to use it in the future.
00:47:01.940 - 00:48:01.240, Speaker B: People also underestimate too that we now have a very internet native, sophisticated generation, right below the millennials, the zoomers. These people already question how societies run just by their very nature and they will be very interested in creating it in their own image. So just as sort of working in banking became very popular up until 2007, then you had the great financial crash, and then after that, Silicon Valley and big tech became very popular. You now see a big migration out of big tech from talent. Right. It's now seen as like, if you work at Google for two years, three years, the longer you stay, there's almost a stigma that's coming again where they're saying, why aren't you in crypto? Or why aren't you doing something that you really care about? And I kind of see crypto as that outlet for this mass generation of talent who's interested in both finance and technology.
00:48:02.250 - 00:48:44.282, Speaker A: Yeah agree. It's almost like I've talked to a couple of people over the years and got the impression that especially working at something like Google, where you spend like, months getting people to click 0.1% more on one button, like, to harvest their attention even better. I think that has risen very, very rapidly to one of the most soul sucking jobs in the entire world. And people don't stay very long. And I think most people still underestimate the ability and willingness for young people to rewrite the world, as you say, in their image. And I agree very strongly that all roads lead to crypto.
00:48:44.282 - 00:48:44.460, Speaker A: Absolutely.
