00:00:01.050 - 00:00:32.806, Speaker A: Okay, cool. I guess maybe we can just start with a quick survey of the folks here. Who here knows what zkml is besides David? You don't know what it is? No. Okay. Well, with that in mind, do folks here feel like you kind of know? How about this? If you don't know what ZKML is, or you feel like you'd like a quick refresher from, some would say the author on ZKML, could you raise your hand real fast? Okay. All right. That's a sizable contingency, so we can go from there.
00:00:32.806 - 00:00:45.814, Speaker A: All right, one more question. Sorry. Before we start, do folks know what ZK is? And it's totally okay if you don't. If you feel like you are comfortable with what ZK is, please raise your hand. Okay, good. Yeah. All right, so folks generally know ZK.
00:00:45.814 - 00:01:05.490, Speaker A: Great. Well, ZKMl is the application of ZK to ML. So, great. Let's move on. Here's a question that we try to answer with technology, right? When you query GPD four, how do you know you're getting GPD four, right? And that's like a very contrived example. We all love Sam. $7 trillion later, we'll still love Sam.
00:01:05.490 - 00:01:39.722, Speaker A: We're not too concerned about OpenAI, but the future that I think Modulus is particularly invested in is one where, and some call this Agi, some call it just like tomorrow, but one where increasingly the high stake functions in society, we see more AI usage. Right? So I had this very earth shattering experience. I go to my general practitioner for my yearly checkup. My doctor, her name is Fiona, let's say, right? I call her Dr. Chung. I kind of have a crush on her. And I always call her Dr.
00:01:39.722 - 00:01:56.650, Speaker A: Chung, out of respect, of course. And she always says, oh, you don't have to call me that. You can just call me Fiona. And I'm like, all right, clearly she's just trying to be nice. But the most recent trip, she was like, no, Daniel, call me Fiona, because I'm not a doctor. I didn't go to medical school. I'm a nurse practitioner.
00:01:56.650 - 00:02:45.982, Speaker A: This destroyed me, right? Heartbroken, crush gone away. She's not even a doctor. She's just a nurse practitioner. What's going on? This is a real story, by the way, and it turns out what happens if you look it up in California anyways, is the demand for doctors so far outstrip our ability to supply the market with doctors, train more doctors that we're know, at least for your yearly checkup. A nurse practitioner is probably good enough, right? And my sense is that in a few years it won't be a nurse practitioner, it'll just be an AI model, right? And this will be true for our doctors, as it will be for our lawyers, as it will be for our bankers, and it will even be true for our politicians, thank God. Because quite frankly, AI models will just be both more performant and cheaper than human beings. Right? So some people call this agi.
00:02:45.982 - 00:03:46.690, Speaker A: That's a very sexy way of putting it. I think it's just what's almost certainly going to happen now in that future. It seems really important to me, anyways, that we find a way of making sure that the models that we rely on are the ones that have been certified to be medically sound, non biased, not politically motivated, all these things that we care about in the critical functions of our society, right? And ZKML, in so many words, is basically Modulus's answer to how do we make sure that a future of AGI is one that is accountable and safe without relying on the trusted, centralized authorities that we've had to use before? Or to put maybe a sexier way at Modulus. We think we've solved AI alignment already. And the way we've solved AI alignment is the way we've solved alignment for human beings. So let me unpack that for a moment. Let's say that you walk into a quarter law, or you go see Fiona, you see my doctor or nurse practitioner or whatever for a checkup.
00:03:46.690 - 00:04:09.166, Speaker A: My question to you is, how do you know that this person is aligned? Right. Check if she's got a certificate on the wall. Excellent. Right. What are her certificates? Right. Where did she go to medical school? Or if it's, I guess, a lawyer or a judge, where do they go to law school? That's huge. Anything else? Although that is really good.
00:04:09.166 - 00:04:26.786, Speaker A: Yeah, reputation also. Reputation? Yeah, absolutely. Like long term. Right. Is it a recommendation from a friend? Can I look at the past decisions made by this judge, things like that? Yeah, that's really good. Anything else? No, that's a good place to start. Yeah.
00:04:26.786 - 00:05:36.780, Speaker A: I mean, it turns out we've been solving human alignment for like, thousands of years, using credentials, basically, and reputation. The problem, of course, when we think about the same paradigm in the context of AI models or just compute in general, is that compute don't suffer from the same luxury as human beings. Compute isn't discrete, it just kind of floats out in the ether. And for me anyways, ZK is an opportunity to take compute and put it in a discrete little box. Right. And in the case of ZKML, we can put machine learning models in these boxes. And even if the models are black box, quote unquote, right, are proprietary IP, and it's secretive and all that, we can label that box with, hey, this model has been tested to be legally proficient, medically sound, right? Has been tested to not be, again, politically biased, sexually biased, whatever, right? And that model is the one that's producing your social media recommendation, your interest rates on the latest loan you've taken out, on your medical advice, on your legal counsel, so on and so forth, right? So fundamentally, that is the long term vision that drives modulus, that drives our work in ZKML, because at least in our opinion, there is no better technology than ZK for a future of accountable AI in general.
00:05:36.780 - 00:06:04.850, Speaker A: In the short term, it looks more like DeFi protocols are more intelligent and identity services that are more privacy preserving. All the usual stuff that I'm sure you all hear all about. So anyways, that's the crash course in ZKML and Modulus, and why we do what we do, why we're excited about the future that we're building. We think we're saving the world. We think it's pretty cool, but that's my opinion, I guess. Cool. All right, that's a great place to start.
00:06:04.850 - 00:06:22.360, Speaker A: Any questions about that, or just any questions in general for what else y'all might want to learn about? Again, David's an expert, so I won't look at David too much. Sorry, I guess. Did that make sense or was that like too high? Fluten. Yeah. Okay, good. Cool.
