00:00:00.250 - 00:00:29.170, Speaker A: Welcome back to the future of DFI Fireside chat series. The following is a conversation with Jeremy Alair, CEO and founder at Circle. Circle is the creator of USDC, one of the largest us dollar fully baked stablecoins with almost 42 billion USDC in circulation. As a successful entrepreneur, Jeremy has his first ipo at age 28 in the.com era.
00:00:29.330 - 00:01:14.558, Speaker B: In this conversation, Jeremy shares with us his conviction for blockchain and how it led to circle his thoughts on the necessity of DeFi regulation, his views on the relationship between central bank digital currency, CBDC and non government operated stable coins, and his valuable insights for entrepreneurs. Here is our conversation with Jeremy Alair. Hi Jeremy, thanks a lot for joining us. Great. So you are a very successful serial entrepreneur and had your first ipo at the age of 28, if I'm not mistaken. And during the.com era, and you started circle to bring bitcoin and blockchain to the mainstream.
00:01:14.558 - 00:01:45.818, Speaker B: And now Circle is best known for developing stablecoin, USDC, and congratulations. Now there's over 33 billion USDC minted. So you have an amazing track record of spotting pivotal moments in Internet history early on. Can you tell us a little bit, how do you identify the big transformations in industry and across industries early on? And what made you decide to work on bringing blockchain and crypto to the mainstream?
00:01:45.914 - 00:03:37.470, Speaker C: Well, thank you. I'm happy to chat about all that. Part of my sort of seeing things early is really just, I think, just trying to identify the synthesis of what I think are kind of societal desires with technologies where there are multiple overlapping technologies that are kind of compounding each other. And it's, I think, very common for people to maybe be focused on one particular piece of technology and sort of think about its capabilities. And each of the technologies themselves might be on an adoption curve, but you really have to look at a whole bunch of technologies happening kind of all at once and look at each of their curves, and then you sort of see the exponential impact and you can kind of see out a little bit what might become possible. So in 1990, 319 94, when I was getting very involved in the commercialization of the Internet, the sort of early development of infrastructure around the web, I think the concept that I had back then, just for example, was that the web would become an application platform, that software, like almost all forms of software, could be distributed through browsers, and that would change the ability of organizations and people to deliver interactive applications and services to everyone around the world. And that would kind of create this incredible growth in online applications.
00:03:37.470 - 00:04:24.846, Speaker C: And the first web browser was around. It was very limited in what it could do, but there were a number of things that were happening. So you had the advent of the web browser, and you could imagine, because there were people talking about it, right? Technologists were talking about it, that this would become better. You could have better graphics, you could have more ability to collect information from people. You could add security to it. You could see enough of the pieces that you could imagine a few years later that at least some of those capabilities were there. But it was the overlapping trends which was the rapid growth of Internet service providers, people who could connect people to networks.
00:04:24.846 - 00:05:05.538, Speaker C: The pc revolution was really starting to take hold. Desktop computers were actually starting to go much, much broader outside of the workplace. Windows 95, as maybe people remember, was like a breakthrough in usable personal computers. And you could sort of see connectivity, web software, things like pcs, but also server running a server, which used to be really hard for most people. They'd have to do unix system administration. It was more specialized. Microsoft was making it popular to create a Windows server.
00:05:05.538 - 00:06:11.380, Speaker C: And again, you look at all these things together, you can see actually, you know what? This is going to be something that anyone's going to be able to do. And there are eventually going to be hundreds of millions of people in the next few years connected to it. And that gave birth to the idea of building application platforms for the web. So that was like an early example. And you see that in other areas, whether it be communications, media distribution, television distribution, other things that have happened on the Internet. And I think that synthesis is really key. And with crypto and with digital currency, there are a lot of different pieces, some of it very informed by the kind of broader macro landscape of what was happening with the international financial system, what were very clearly risks that existed in the financial system, and a desire to kind of improve it.
00:06:11.380 - 00:07:24.380, Speaker C: But early on, you could sort of see blockchains like bitcoin back in 2012, 2013, and really still today had very limited transaction throughput. But you could imagine how the iterations on this could allow for much higher throughput. The idea that you could not just have the bitcoin token, but that you could use the same record keeping system, the same security assurances, and issue other tokens on top of it. And that eventually you'd have a virtual machine you could write code in and deploy it onto these networks, and you could sort of see how these things would happen. And you could sort of see, okay, maybe in three years, four years, five years, all those things will be in place. And if you have that, well, then it'll be possible to build like a protocol for something like dollars on the Internet. And so it's a lot of times just imagining the arc of each of these things where they sit in sort of the desires of society and then just getting a lot of conviction around it.
00:07:24.380 - 00:08:01.906, Speaker C: And usually early on, it looks absurd to most people. I think that's what entrepreneurs do is take risks, but it looks absurd. It's sort of like, that's insane, right? That's not going to happen. How could that happen? And that's actually, I think, oftentimes a really good sign because it means that you're going to be so far ahead of other people in getting some of these things built. But there's a timing challenge, too. You can be too early. The people building the symbion operating system, for example, they were just too early in ultimately competing for, say, smartphone operating systems.
00:08:01.906 - 00:08:21.950, Speaker C: So you can be too early. You can also obviously be too late. And I think circle as a company is an example where we were too early on some things and we've had interesting timing in different areas, and then eventually you kind of find your groove and can kind of build from that.
00:08:22.020 - 00:08:57.400, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks a lot. That's really seeing how, like you said, not just one technological transformation, but multiple, this technological innovation trends coming together. That's amazing. And you touch on the timing question. I think that's a really good question and really good point. I think many students here are also entrepreneurial, and timing is a very important aspect, of course, for a venture. So could you elaborate a little bit more on that? On one hand, yes, you want to spot these trends early.
00:08:57.400 - 00:09:19.118, Speaker B: The possibilities browse by these new transformations. But on the other hand, yes, like you said, one can also be too early. And circle was started in 2013. Right. And I think Circle also has gone through different transformation changes also. So, yeah. Could you elaborate on that? How should one really think about the timing question?
00:09:19.204 - 00:09:51.514, Speaker C: It's hard to perfectly time things, right. I think entrepreneurs, it's important to have really deep conviction and really strong passion for something. I feel like I've met a lot of people who are creating a startup because they want to create a startup. Right. It's the thing to do. And then they say, what's the problem that we could go solve? And let's get a couple of friends together, we'll go figure out something to go solve. And that can work out for sure.
00:09:51.514 - 00:11:00.334, Speaker C: But I think really enduring companies come from people who have a lot of deep conviction about solving a problem and can see, have a vision for a better future, right? And it depends what you're trying to do. If you're trying to send people to Mars, if you're trying to build self flying air taxis, whatever you're trying to do, right? If you're trying to reinvent the global financial system, but you have to have a strong conviction and a vision for what's possible. And that vision for what's possible should obviously be backed up by if it's a technology driven business, like a good understanding of the technical possibilities, right. And then I think the timing, my experience has been at least, that it takes a long time to do anything significant. The things that happen, like super fast. Instagram, that was like a great example. It was six people.
00:11:00.334 - 00:11:56.346, Speaker C: They got it going. It went viral just like, holy cow, that's by far the exception, right? Almost everything takes a long time. And I think if you have the perspective of it probably will take about ten years to actually realize even the first major pieces of a vision. That's actually a sane thought. So I think from just a timing perspective, I think people should look at thinking about committing themselves to, like, eight to ten years. And I think that's what it takes to do something significant and to actually, everything I've worked on, the big ideas, it really took about ten years. And I remember other great companies like Netflix, who, Reed Hastings had a great vision for what online video could be, but it just wasn't technically possible at the time.
00:11:56.346 - 00:12:40.960, Speaker C: So he thought, okay, why don't we get the behavior changing? How do we get the behavior changing? We get the behavior changing by making it easy to actually select videos online, have a big catalog online, and make the delivery of the video easier, even though it was basically still physical disks. But he could see the mountaintop. He could see the mountaintop he was climbing towards. He didn't know exactly the path that would get there. He had faith that broadband would come. He had faith that connected televisions would happen, because that was obvious that they would, but he didn't know exactly when. And so I think with a lot of ventures, it's entering into it with an understanding that you're very likely going to try a lot of things.
00:12:40.960 - 00:13:07.958, Speaker C: You're going to have to iterate and learn. Pivots are good. I like the metaphor of mountain climbing as well, because when you see the mountain from a distance, you can see the top. It's beautiful, but you have no idea what the path is going to be, and you will have to pivot. You're going to run against a cliff, and you're going to say, oh, shit, we just hit a cliff. We got to go back down now we can go back up. So that's very much what startups and growing companies is like.
00:13:07.958 - 00:13:22.160, Speaker C: It's never a straight line. It never goes exactly as you plan. Markets change, technology changes, you're adapting all the time, but it's patience and having that strong conviction over the long run that I think is really important.
00:13:22.610 - 00:13:39.954, Speaker B: So, speaking of conviction and vision, can you then share a little bit about when you started circle in 2013? What was your conviction, and why did you have that conviction and the vision? And how has that changed now over now? It's been eight years.
00:13:40.072 - 00:14:49.858, Speaker C: What's always drawn me to the Internet from, really, when I started getting involved with it in 1990, was my excitement about the idea that there was an open, global, permissionless network. That was always the profound thing that I saw. So when I was in college and I was able to connect my pc to the Internet, I was very lucky to be able to do that in 1990. And I realized that there were protocols. There was the FTP protocol, and there was the email protocols, and there were Gopher protocol, which was a really early protocol, but there were these protocols that were basically just software libraries. And then any computer that had those software libraries could connect and could then directly interact and directly share information. It was so revolutionary, and it was an open network, this idea of an open Internet, an open network, that really the only thing you need is a piece of software that can speak a common language, so to speak, that was really profound.
00:14:49.858 - 00:16:10.242, Speaker C: And I think that pattern has repeated itself over and over and over again in different forms of protocols that have widened the utility of the Internet, and I think my own interest. So I have this sort of. I call myself an Internet maximalist. So I'm like an Internet maximalist, and I think this sort of DNA and these patterns, again, they keep repeating themselves. What drew me to this project was an additional interest of mine, which is I've always had the belief that the Internet has the opportunity to kind of bring the world more close together, to connect the world more closely, that it's not just about connecting people with information, but actually economic activity, and that that could actually lead to a world with less conflict and more rising of prosperity for people. That's always been a belief of mine, and that even the Internet itself could challenge political structures like nation states and create new kinds of governance structures. So I've always believed this.
00:16:10.242 - 00:17:38.026, Speaker C: And I think my background was not in computer science. I don't have a technical background. Everything I know, technically is self taught. And I actually studied political science, philosophy, economics, and was constantly interested in how does the world work? What are the power structures of the world? How does the international macroeconomic system work? Those were interests of mine, and then I was distracted by building technology businesses, but they were always aligned with this idea that this was kind of building a new international or new global infrastructure that was important for how the world could come together. And I think after the financial crisis, I became much more interested again in global political economy, right? So I was very interested in the history of money, the international monetary system, central banking. I just became much more interested in it and again, and it refreshed some of my historical interests. And so while I was running an online video technology company and was taking that company public, I then kind of stumbled into bitcoin in 2012, just exposed to it through my just reading on the Internet, and it very quickly caught my attention.
00:17:38.026 - 00:19:24.946, Speaker C: And I think it was the synthesis of so many of these themes. It was the synthesis of open protocols, the shifts that were happening in the nature of money, the economic system. As I dived in and started reading more, and not just reading Satoshi's white paper, but actually reading the conversations that were happening amongst early technologists that were thinking about this problem, it became really clear to me that this was kind of the kernel of a new infrastructure layer for the Internet, and that this was an infrastructure layer that was going to solve, had the potential to solve economic coordination and representation of value, the exchange of value on the Internet. It was like a missing layer of the Internet. And the fact that it was built on that common dna, open, decentralized, permissionless, just told me that it was sort of on the right path, because I think all of these global scale things that happen on the Internet happen in that architecture. So I became obsessed, basically, I became obsessed with it. And then tying to the other question you asked me, which is, what did I see? Well, as a technologist, I was seeing people come up with ideas for how you could leverage the public chain to issue other data structures on top of it.
00:19:24.946 - 00:20:01.120, Speaker C: And I was seeing people proposing ways to extend the script language of bitcoin to create turing complete virtual machines. And I was seeing people coming up with proposals for faster block times. And these were like ideas bouncing around. But it was clear to me, and my co founder as well, Sean, that those things were going to happen, right? Those things would happen. And we actually thought they would happen on bitcoin. We thought bitcoin had first mover advantage. It had a vibrant developer community.
00:20:01.120 - 00:20:37.666, Speaker C: It ended up being an extraordinarily closed developer community, very hostile to other developers participating. It was tightly, tightly controlled. It was not a community that really allowed much developer activity. And so I think a lot of technologists got very frustrated. Vitalik Buterin was kind of know, sort of shunned from the bitcoin developer community, from the core dev community, and he had a lot of great ideas. And so he said, okay, well, I want to take these ideas forward. I'm going to do a clean room implementation.
00:20:37.666 - 00:21:48.106, Speaker C: And so we were wrong, actually, about bitcoin being the core technology, but I think we were right about the kind of time frame it would take to see the second generation of this mature, which we thought it would take three to five years. But when we founded the company, we sort of said, okay, those things will become possible. If those things become possible, then it will be possible to create what we called an HTTP of money. That you could create a protocol where you could represent traditional money, like dollars as a digital currency, and then you could transact them, like you can transact or exchange data with HTTP. So we kind of had this idea, and we knew that that would eventually arrive, and we just said, okay, well, let's start working towards this now. And again, we went into it with the thought that maybe this would emerge on top of bitcoin. The first product we built actually essentially tried to build a user experience where you could take dollars and you could use bitcoin as a transmission network.
00:21:48.106 - 00:22:55.950, Speaker C: And we had a real time, kind of fiat crypto liquidity engine so that you could spend dollars from a traditional payment instrument directly over the bitcoin network to an address. And it was actually a beautiful user experience. We had to build a lot of infrastructure to make that possible. But anyway, that was one of the big ideas. You'd be able to have a protocol that made it possible to do sort of dollars on the Internet, that these platforms would allow for programmability. The idea of programmable money was a super powerful idea. And I think our conclusion was, if you have money as a native data type on the Internet, and you have programmability around that, and that programmability can be executed by sort of autonomous machines on the Internet, or what people call smart contracts, that you could actually really imagine kind of reinventing how savings, lending, capital formation, capital allocation, and the time value of money, these building blocks of finance, you could imagine how those could move to that infrastructure.
00:22:55.950 - 00:23:32.842, Speaker C: And our belief was that maybe it would take five to ten years for a standard, for a protocol, for dollars on the Internet to work, probably take another ten years for those other forms of how the financial system works, the allocation of capital, the time value of money, that these things would take longer. It's been interesting because DFI has really started seriously in 2018. And so that in some ways came earlier than we thought, and now it's accelerating really fast. And then these things kind of feed on each other.
00:23:32.916 - 00:23:52.262, Speaker B: Obviously, looking at what's happening in Defi now and comparing to your conviction, your vision back then and your thoughts now, maybe, can you also talk a little bit then, what aspects of Defi are particularly important to you and why?
00:23:52.396 - 00:25:20.974, Speaker C: There were like a couple of, I think, really things that we've been excited about, and we're starting to see some of this mature. I mean, I think one was that essentially the concept of a capital market could move to be executed on chain. And there's a bigger idea, which I've talked about for years, which is the idea of long tail capital markets. And the concept of the long tail has been a concept in the Internet space for a long time. It originally kind of came about with online media, but the idea is that the Internet's really great at convening multi sided markets, and a lot of those have been basically through centralized multi sided markets, eBay being the first classic example. But massive multi sided markets like Adwords and Google's advertising platform, or YouTube or so many others. And that multi sided platform model, where you have the reach of the Internet and the openness of an open marketplace, of whatever problem it's solving, allows for long tail markets to exist.
00:25:20.974 - 00:26:58.434, Speaker C: And so in advertising, before you had auction marketplaces and online advertising platforms like Google, it was really inconceivable that a small business could do super, super targeted advertising to find exactly the customer that they wanted from anywhere in the world, it was just impossible, right? So the long tail made it possible for even the smallest individual to kind of more fairly participate in those kinds of value exchange. And Alibaba and Amazon are like these long tail markets for products, right? I can create a product in any country in the world, and I can find a distribution path to any consumer in the world. And this is all done through these long tail markets. And that's really amazing. It's changed so many industries. The idea is, will crypto and blockchains allow for long tail capital markets? And I think that the answer is very clearly yes. And that's a really profound concept, because I think it gets to this idea that any entity, whether it's an individual or a firm, will be able to source capital, be able to, whether that's through raising capital or selling what we think of as the security, like a future obligation, households will be able to take things that they have and get capital against those.
00:26:58.434 - 00:28:00.470, Speaker C: Or a long tail capital market would also have the ability to use risk and reputational data and identity data and other things to very efficiently price risk. But those things could be done entirely online and in the blockchain world, those can be done entirely by market structures that exist just in code on the Internet. So it's even more profound. And this decentralization web three model rate will apply to other markets, not just financial markets. But that idea is really significant, this idea of long tail capital markets. And I think you're seeing versions of that today. I think things like the Uniswap model and this idea of automated market makers and these liquidity pools, where even a token that is super illiquid, that in and of itself, it would be very, very hard to establish a market.
00:28:00.470 - 00:29:14.830, Speaker C: Actually, there is an incentive mechanism to create liquidity that's specific to a super niche thing that's like a pretty profound innovation. And evidence to me that long tail capital markets are emerging now. It still needs to really connect out to the real world more, right? So a lot of the tokens are like tokens on other protocols. And it's sort of this recursive loop of, I'm trading protocol tokens using protocols with tokens to generate elaborate forms of incentivized yield. That's sort of detached a little bit from the real world economy. So I think the thing that we're excited about is how do real world entities, individuals, households, firms, connect to these and both provide and access capital from them on a global decentralized market infrastructure? So I think we're still a ways away from that. But I think we're seeing evidence through innovations and on chain capital market structures of that.
00:29:14.830 - 00:30:40.310, Speaker C: Similarly, I think we have always imagined that borrowing and lending behaviors, for even individuals or firms, where the borrowing and lending decisions could involve not just people who are over collateralizing a borrow with something like a bitcoin or over collateralizing kind of margin trading type borrowing, which is, I think, almost all the borrowing that exists today. Now that's sort of interesting from a financialization perspective, but I think it's much more interesting if a household or a firm can show up at a market and there's a way for enough data to be available to that on chain market, that people can underwrite risk, and take risk and insure risk and allow people to do unsecured lending and allow people to borrow capital that they don't have collateral against, which is a huge, huge part of what a capital market provides to the real economy. And so I think there are experiments in that, for example, that are happening today. They're fairly nascent and small, but I think those are things that we're quite interested in because I think they really advance this idea of an open Internet capital market that can serve real economic purposes.
00:30:41.610 - 00:31:20.642, Speaker A: Certainly, DeFi is at a very early stage, right, if we look at the traditional financial capabilities and markets. So, as you said, there are not significant on chain leverage platforms that allow you to do like 100 x or ten x leverage. But DFI is also innovating beyond the capabilities of tradfi or traditional finance, for example, with flash loans, while still learning and mirroring tradfi, in a sense. So when do you think, will we experience the moment where Tradfi will start mirroring concepts from Defi?
00:31:20.786 - 00:32:00.142, Speaker C: I'm much more interested in just Defi just continuing to grow as opposed to tradfi emulating. We talk about circle as we're trying to build a global digital currency bank. We're trying to build a commercially focused entity, so we're not facing consumers, we're facing businesses and things like that. And businesses need to borrow capital all the time. This is the real world need. I want to hire employees. I want to build a factory.
00:32:00.142 - 00:32:47.090, Speaker C: I want to start a company. I want to access capital to grow. And today that takes place through fractional reserve banking. It takes place through unsecured lending. And at one extreme, it's venture capital or venture debt. At another, you have an existing business and a bank is looking at your cash flows and your assets and saying, yeah, okay, we'll give you a loan on these terms as long as you bank with us, right? Or things like that. I'm really interested in seeing the guts of commercial finance moving entirely to defi infrastructure.
00:32:47.090 - 00:33:30.640, Speaker C: And I think that's quite possible. And I think it's going to be a far superior model of both capital formation and lending and borrowing. I think it's just going to be far superior to what banks do today. And I think it's possible to do on a full reserve digital currency as well. And this gets to your comment about things like flash loans, which is what if I have all of this sort of constructs around the time value of money, right? So I have capital, I don't need it right now. I'm willing to let other people use it for a period of time, if they pay me for that use. I mean, that's the most simplistic definition of that.
00:33:30.640 - 00:35:07.920, Speaker C: And I think that central banks and commercial banking is built on a fractional reserve lending model, in part because of the inefficiencies of storing and moving value. And I think in a world where all value is instantly and immediately connected to all other nodes, and where even tiny fractions of value can be made available and utilized at virtually no cost and contractually locked in different ways, that it's actually going to be possible to have what look like demand deposit accounts, I-E-I have a pool of money that I effectively can get at any time I want. And for that underlying money to be really broadly utilized by the real economy in different ways. And flash loans are a really interesting example of that. It's like someone needs a borrow for a short, for bursts of time, and you can imagine that at a massive scale, matching different needs on a full reserve base of capital. So I'm excited about things like that. That could really change what's possible with lending, but do it in a safer way, do it in a way that's more resilient, that's safer, that doesn't involve money creation in quite the same way.
00:35:07.920 - 00:35:25.510, Speaker C: These sound money principles that are, I think, inherent in the crypto world, that are implicit in some ways in the architecture of crypto, can be at least I think are important and important to kind of carry through the future of DeFi as well.
00:35:25.660 - 00:35:33.538, Speaker A: When you mean safer lending, are you referring to less risks of liquidation or what specifically?
00:35:33.634 - 00:36:50.314, Speaker C: I mean, obviously liquidation risks are always going to exist if someone is borrowing and they don't have collateral against that. So I do believe that we see this today in online lending. The growth of things like buy now, pay later are indicative, really of basically machine learning, being able to make risk decisions much, much more efficiently than a bank traditional credit risk model. Right. And so you're seeing the scale of data that's available around an entity, an online entity, like a person, enabling AI to effectively make these risk assertions much more easily. If you could bring essentially richer and richer data to on chain markets, then I actually think, just from an underwriting perspective, I think that you'll be able to have incentivized underwriting that's happening by market participants who are incentivized to underwrite as effectively as possible. I think that can lower risk.
00:36:50.314 - 00:37:52.542, Speaker C: Right. And so it's sort of distributing out the underwriting model into market structures, but you need to have more information connected into those to make that work, but I think that is possible. I think the other part of the safer is the sort of money creation process of you have a base of, say, a million dollars in deposits, and then you create $10 million of loans from. That inherently means there is this money creation happening in the economy. The fractional reserve component of that does in fact create an implicit risk. And if it's possible to not actually have money creation happen, but just to have more efficient ways to lock that base capital and utilize that base capital, that would actually make the underlying financial system safer.
00:37:52.686 - 00:38:24.000, Speaker A: It's really beautiful how you convey that the access to the information will make the system safer as a whole. The distributed nature will make it safer. And you earlier mentioned that you hope that DeFi will take over everything. I actually had planned to ask you what will be done by DeFi? What will be done by CFI in the financial market? But you really believe everything will be captured by DeFi or mostly, there are constraints, right?
00:38:25.330 - 00:39:25.694, Speaker C: The physics of blockchains are a very real constraint, right? Nanosecond level market decisions that are made on centralized infrastructure. The most advanced electronic markets in the world are operating at that nanosecond kind of performance, right? The ability to have shared consensus of state in nanoseconds on a blockchain, it's just inconceivable in some ways right now. I don't know. Is that a quantum computing thing? I don't know. Maybe you need quantum crypto to get there. So, right now, I think blockchains like Solana have demonstrated without sharding an ability to get to settlement finality. And effectively, that's the speed with which information can travel on a blockchain in like 350 milliseconds or 400 milliseconds.
00:39:25.694 - 00:40:23.698, Speaker C: And I think if you talk to people in the space, there's a belief that maybe over the next several years that could come down to like 80 milliseconds, but that's pretty good. I think that's like the speed of light on fiber or something like that. That then becomes the speed with which market signals and data can be seen by everyone. And so that will definitely allow for taking on more and more types of market decisions and risk decisions and other things. But there are going to be certain things that just can't be done on a blockchain. So you could have a synthesis of sort of off chain compute, off chain transactions, and on chain kind of finality that can also be an architecture that people use.
00:40:23.784 - 00:40:49.286, Speaker B: Now, let's move on to talk a little bit more about USDC so a reserve backed stablecoin is a very new subject, and very few lawyers and regulators are familiar with such new concepts and technologies and so on. So can you share a little bit how you started and developed and scaled reservex, stablecoin, USDC?
00:40:49.398 - 00:41:33.530, Speaker C: Some of this obviously relates to things that I talked about earlier, which was we were always interested in this idea of a protocol for dollars on the Internet, a sort of HTTP for money. And in late 2016, Ethereum had reached a point where it was like production beta. You could actually start to build things on it. And we actually sort of said, okay, we can now build something like this. And we actually publicly talked about starting an open source project. At the time we called it Spark, that was the code name. And we made a couple of blog posts about it.
00:41:33.530 - 00:43:03.670, Speaker C: And we basically said, we're moving away from using bitcoin as a payment and settlement infrastructure, and we're going to move to Ethereum and we're going to work on a new open source project to enable fiat currency tokens on Ethereum. And we didn't talk much about it, people didn't really pay much attention. But that was actually the early work that began on what eventually became USDC. Now, when we worked on the technology and frankly, there were certain releases of Ethereum and upgrades to Ethereum that were kind of necessary to make it work. But for the most part, the smart contract piece and the token piece was actually the simplest part of it. And if you actually go look at GitHub or you just go look on chain at the source code for the USDC smart contract, it's super simple, right? That's not the hard part. And actually the simpler the better, because you want to have as few opportunities in terms of the attack surface for a monetary system, right? So we had built out a lot of capabilities as a company around getting licensed as a company that could basically sit between the existing banking system and virtual currency, as it was largely called back then.
00:43:03.670 - 00:44:31.762, Speaker C: And we had gotten licensed throughout the United States and had the first bit license in New York, and we'd built out a lot of the fundamental infrastructure, the banking partnerships with leading banks and different types of relationships to the card networks. We had built out risk engines, compliance engines, a lot of these things that we had built up for other products. And we basically said, hey, what if we express all of that capability and connect all of that capability to a fiat token protocol? And this is before people had the word stablecoins. So the white paper for USDC, which was the center IO white paper, we would talk about fiat tokens. We're going to have these different fiat tokens and fiat token protocols, but we wanted to build something that was based in a legal and regulatory framework. We wanted to actually have something that was issued under a regulatory framework, and that therefore, was something that people could trust more. And there was a lot of discussion around crypto collateralized stablecoins back in 2018 as well.
00:44:31.762 - 00:46:09.202, Speaker C: And we could talk about that as a topic, because I think it's a really important topic, and I think in the future, already, it's growing, and it will grow for sure. But our view was that there's a huge opportunity to connect the existing financial system to this new blockchain financial system. And we wanted to kind of build a hybrid model that could take advantage of real dollar assets and use those to back a digital currency unit and do it under a regulatory framework that's the same regulatory framework that is the basis for your PayPal balance or your square balance. So it's the electronic stored value money transmission law in the United States. So we're able to build a product with a regulatory framework around it and have it issued by a regulated financial institution, which was circle, but release it as sort of an open protocol that could run on a public blockchain so that anyone could transact with it and anyone could connect to it and use. You know, we really tried to set a high bar for compliance, regulatory, and being based in the US, with us based banking, with major global public accounting firm, that was auditing not just circle, but also examining the reserves and their backing and attesting to that every month. And we wanted to build something that could be not just more trusted, but actually was treated more like a standard people could build around.
00:46:09.202 - 00:47:01.854, Speaker C: And that was actually liquid, right? That you could easily create and redeem. And so we brought in Coinbase as a partner to help launch this. That was a great partnership. It is a great partnership, and I think created a way for the average retail person through Coinbase, or an institution through circle, to very easily create and redeem at par, at no cost, with high quality banking system integration. And that was really important. So all those things, I think, were the basis for a product that the market was really interested in. And then in 2018, as DFI projects were getting started in 2019, as more and more exchanges and wallets and DFI protocols were developing, USDC became kind of a go to trusted stablecoin.
00:47:01.854 - 00:47:45.626, Speaker C: And we saw the product market fit was very strong, and it was achieving early network effects. And so we decided to put a huge amount of investment behind growing that growing ecosystem, building out more products and services around it. And that has been timed well with the overall growth in DFI and digital assets. And so I think it's grown really fast. The numbers, it grew ten x last year, will probably grow more than ten x this year. And I think it's a network effects business, right? It's sort of like with messaging apps. The more people who have the messaging app, the more valuable the messaging app becomes.
00:47:45.626 - 00:48:01.878, Speaker C: And it sort of feeds on itself a little bit. USDC is going through a little bit of that right now because just more and more people are using it. And because more people are using it, there's more demand for it, and then more people provide support for it. And so we've definitely seen that happening.
00:48:01.964 - 00:48:17.030, Speaker B: Also, there has been a lot of discussions on central bank digital currency, CBDCs, especially recently. So what do you think about CBDC, and what do you think the relationship is between CBDC and USDC?
00:48:17.110 - 00:49:21.950, Speaker C: The way we look at this is through a few different kind of lenses. I think the first is just to kind of look at what electronic money is in the world today before digital currency. So there's a good almost 70 years of electronic money history. It goes way back to the first credit cards, but eventually the international wire system, the card networks themselves, what a lot of people would have thought of as electronic money, were developed principally and operated by private companies. And most of the major innovations in electronic money have come from private companies or consortiums of private entities. Swift itself is a great example of that. The swift electronic money messaging system is just a consortium of commercial firms agreeing to a set of technical standards for interoperability.
00:49:21.950 - 00:50:08.362, Speaker C: The clearinghouse is a similar example in interbank settlement in the United States at least. And obviously, the credit card networks, the debit card networks, eventually things like PayPal and Apple Pay, a lot of these things have all come from private sector innovation. And 95% of the electronic money in the world is issued by private companies. Today, only 5% of electronic money is sort of the records in the SQL database at the Federal Reserve. It's literally a SQL database. So I think we have to kind of look at that in perspective. And I think what we're now seeing is a combination of not just private sector innovation, but open Internet innovation.
00:50:08.362 - 00:51:23.474, Speaker C: This idea that there's a public infrastructure that we can build on and rely on. A lot of the things we talked about earlier, open Internet infrastructure, open source technologies, open compute platforms, which is what a blockchain is, the ability to synthesize that whole arc of open Internet infrastructure with private sector innovation in digital currency is a very powerful force and I think will grow, and I think it has potential to grow very, very large. So if 95% of electronic money today is commercial bank electronic money, what I call Ach money, it's like $100 trillion plus. We think that digital currency models, fiat digital currency models that operate on public infrastructure that are issued through private infrastructure, private sector innovation could be a big piece of that in the future. And I think that's like an innovation curve that's happening. And clearly, as it grows and becomes much more large, governments are going to regulate it more. They're going to sort of say, hey, these institutions that are doing this, they should be supervised, like national banks.
00:51:23.474 - 00:52:39.440, Speaker C: They have to have special security rules, special safety rules, capital reserve buffers, all this fun stuff. Right? And we agree with that for what it's worth. And at the same time, I think the rapid growth of digital currency, which relative to the existing financial system is still quite small, but it's growing so fast, has really gotten a lot of governments to say, holy cow, cryptographic money is real. There's a need for this kind of technology. And I think in some ways, there's a belief that there needs to be a public option, that you can't have a monetary system where there's no public option. And I think that's an important concept, right within a sovereign model. The ability for someone to ultimately get the sovereign coin of the realm to have an obligation directly with the government that they can hold, that's not intermediated, that's not created by a private entity is, I think, philosophically important.
00:52:39.440 - 00:53:40.260, Speaker C: And so my own view is most governments are very, very early in thinking about this. And if you think about how long it will take to operationalize something, for most governments, it's many, many years, and especially for a country like the United States, many, many years to do that. And so in the meantime, there's going to be all this private sector innovation, and it will grow. But eventually, could there be, instead of the m one, which is the database records in an oracle database, instead, you could have it in a cryptographic form that's on some form of crypto ledger that is controlled by the government. Is that like a reasonable upgrade to that infrastructure? I think it is. Right. That seems like a good infrastructure upgrade that should happen.
00:53:40.260 - 00:53:47.746, Speaker C: But I think the vast majority of digital currency in circulation is going to come from the private sector.
00:53:47.858 - 00:54:29.746, Speaker A: You're speaking about regulations, right? How we need regulators to convey trust or to secure customers. That's likely one of the main reasons why we have regulations to protect customers from all kinds of mishaps that might happen. So regarding Defi, if you just look at the current landscape or maybe the next two, three years, because I guess you have a little bit of a forefront view in that regard. So to what degree do you think is DeFi either over or under regulated at the moment?
00:54:29.848 - 00:55:45.974, Speaker C: Well, DeFi is definitely not over regulated right now. There's virtually no regulation on DeFi right now. So I think it's complicated, right? Because there's never been a situation where the market infrastructure is performed by autonomous software that exists in an immutable fashion. Immutable autonomous software that's on the public Internet, that's just like a big concept, and that's never existed. So what does it mean to regulate Defi? So I think you might be able to regulate how different types of intermediaries can interact with it, sort of regulate the use of the technology, not the technology itself, as some. As some people say. I think the, you know, there are questions being raised now about, well, there are software developers and maybe the software developers.
00:55:45.974 - 00:56:29.046, Speaker C: You regulate the software developers somehow. I think that's a very dangerous concept. I think this is all fundamentally just math and free speech. And I think we want to live in a society where you can't define what math is possible and you want to continue to have open free speech in the form of code. So I think those are the realities. And this was like in the early days of the Internet, there was a lot of discussion about basically trying to regulate encryption, which is crypto. Right? So there was early a lot of big discussions about regulating crypto.
00:56:29.046 - 00:56:48.366, Speaker C: Public key cryptography was becoming available, and it's becoming commercially available. And the national security establishment said, this is weapons grade technology. We have to control this. We can't let it be exported. We have to control who can use it. That didn't happen. Right.
00:56:48.366 - 00:57:37.870, Speaker C: I think the idea that this was just math and free speech won. I think it's challenging, but I think it's possible to have regulations around. You know, I think that households and firms are going to rely upon regulated financial intermediaries for various forms of conduct. And it's kind of like, yes, I can set up a mail server on my own machine and be a peer on the SMTP network. I have the freedom to do that. But I just use Google apps and Gmail. Because you know what? I don't want to worry about backup security, storage.
00:57:37.870 - 00:58:00.630, Speaker C: I don't want to worry about a lot of stuff. I want someone to be my custodian. I want someone to deal with the complexity of that. That's sort of the case with crypto today, right. The vast majority of users of crypto, they don't self custody it, right. They're terrified to self custody it because it's a terrifying thing to do. That will become easier and easier over time.
00:58:00.630 - 00:58:46.390, Speaker C: Self custody will be easier. But I think that firms and households will want to depend on Internet services to deal with this. And I think that's where regulation will come. I think circle is a regulated financial intermediary. We are regulated in terms of a whole series of obligations around consumer protection, money laundering risk, and then over time, maybe more things as well. And so it's the kind of business conduct, the activity, and the intermediaries where I think rules could apply. And I think that's very likely what we'll see more of.
00:58:46.390 - 00:58:54.200, Speaker C: I think it's hard to regulate the open source software itself.
00:58:55.210 - 00:59:11.018, Speaker A: I really like how you tie together the freedom of speech, the openness of the financial system, and then the efficiency of it, but clarify how to remain kind of in a regulated and trustworthy environment.
00:59:11.114 - 01:00:10.750, Speaker C: It could be that there's regulations that say, like, if you're an intermediary that's going to provide capital to or borrow capital from a Defi market, it may be that the regulation says there are levels of audits, security audits, or record keeping requirements or other things that have to be in place to be able to offer that as a financial service. There's operational risks, there's security risks. Those are actually pretty deep risks from a consumer protection perspective. I think it's an interesting thing. We see these rug pulls. We see smart contract hacks that result in hundreds of millions of dollars of theft and loss in the existing traditional financial system. That's unacceptable.
01:00:10.750 - 01:00:39.562, Speaker C: And I think there is self regulation to some degree. There's sort of auditing standards that people say, hey, you need to go through this level of audit. There's these technical code, auditing firms and so on. But maybe there's more to do there around the practices that are involved in providing a financial service to households and firms that are built around these things.
01:00:39.696 - 01:01:03.474, Speaker A: Many of our students are actually quite entrepreneurial, so they look up to serial entrepreneurs like yourself. And you've already shared quite an important lessons, right? Such as having a deep conviction and being in there for the long run. What other important leadership lessons and recommendations for early entrepreneurs would you like to share with us?
01:01:03.672 - 01:02:18.230, Speaker C: There's a lot of lessons I think a lot of the lessons that I've learned have to do with people. Most of what a business is is it's just about the people. You know, as I like to say, circles like, you know, it's 350 people with laptops. That's all we are. It's really the 350 people. And everything we own, everything we create, everything we do, it's all just us and our laptops, but it's just us. And I think so much of what it is to be effective in building things is about establishing really strong core values, establishing a culture that makes it a place where people feel welcome, ideas can be heard, where there's humility.
01:02:18.230 - 01:03:27.006, Speaker C: So much of it just has to do with what values you bring to the table and how you organize people around those and how you get things done. So I think being very intentional about those things is really important. I think so many times, people, they're basically kind of a means to the end. The end justifies the means. Just like we're just gonna. It's all about driving really hard, or it's about, you know, take no prisoners or, you know, it's a lot of these sort of attitudes that I think are destructive, burn people out, frustrate people, but being very well grounded in values, I think having very clearly articulated and rolling objectives and measurable results, very clear, small steps, what you're doing is really important, so everyone understands what they're trying to do. Those are important things.
01:03:27.006 - 01:04:32.420, Speaker C: And, yeah, I mean, there's some bigger lessons in terms of people. I mean, I think the group of people that wants to join a startup from zero to, say, 50 people, it's very likely that the vast majority of those people won't be around when you're 200 people or 300 people. And I think there are certain types of people that want to be involved at certain scales. And I think a lot of times, the people who you might have, they might be your friends, you may have started a company with a friend. I think that's fine, but you have to realize that at some point, they're not going to be in the right job. Not everyone scales, not everyone knows how to operate at higher and higher levels. And so I think just being aware of the limitations of people is also really important.
01:04:32.420 - 01:05:40.794, Speaker C: And that doesn't mean that people have to be fired. It just means that the, the role that they play might evolve, right, as the organization grows and evolves. And I think it's important for people not to be too fixated on what do I own? Am I going to own it forever. Am I always going to work for this person? Those are mistakes that I think are often made and understandable because everyone is very focused on themselves oftentimes. So I think establishing a culture that sort of acknowledges that people's role and work and responsibility is going to change, and that's a good thing. It means that the organization is evolving in important ways. I was actually talking to someone today about scaling a particular function in my company and how there are people who are in certain roles and their roles are going to be diminished because we need to scale, because we need to have a multiplier effect.
01:05:40.794 - 01:06:22.322, Speaker C: We need to be able to do more with more people, with other types of leaders. And the subdivision of labor actually should be celebrated. It should be celebrated because it means we're scaling, it means we as a team are going to be able to accomplish more together. So that's some of the thinking that I have, and it's an overused metaphor, but operating a business, building and operating a business, it's a team sport. It's very much a team sport. It's not about the star quarterback, it's not about the star running back or whatever metaphor you want to use. It is totally a team sport.
01:06:22.322 - 01:06:31.866, Speaker C: Everybody has a role. Everyone has to be celebrated. And the more that you understand that, I think the more effective you can be.
01:06:31.968 - 01:07:03.326, Speaker B: Yes, people often say ideas achieve. It's really all about execution. And really what determines success of execution is the people. So, yeah, thank you. Thank you so much for sharing that. So you've shared quite a bit about your conviction and your vision for the space and how you started circle. So, looking forward, what do you think? What problems need to be solved to make USDC ubiquitous? And what is next for circle in Defi?
01:07:03.438 - 01:08:18.122, Speaker C: There are a few things that we're focused on that I think are really necessary. And the way I think about this is what will it take for something like USDC to be usable by like a billion people and to operate basically at nearly free, to transact at scale for nearly free? And I think there's a few big things. One is just blockchain infrastructure itself. So there's this sort of arms race or a lot of competition for third generation blockchains. And there are many, I think, impressive technologies that are there. There's projects like Ethereum two, which will take another couple of years to mature, and then there are projects in the market today, and there's different scaling techniques and so on. But fundamentally, this needs to be usable at web scale, right? It needs to be usable where you have an application like USDC could be used by a billion different users in different ways.
01:08:18.122 - 01:09:29.362, Speaker C: So that's one. It's just scaling. And with scaling, it's also cost efficient scaling, right? To have transaction settlement models that are very inexpensive. And so again, we're seeing really good progress. And I'm confident that over the next two years or so that we'll get to that point where you could have on chain infrastructure that are supporting web scale applications and USDC would really benefit from that. I think a second problem is really around user experience. And we saw this in the evolution of the Internet in other areas, right? To use email, originally, you had to learn how to configure port settings in a piece of software on your computer and configure your popmail server and all kinds of crazy stuff, right? Which people are like, what is that? But when you could use webmail and someone had built a simple user experience on it, it just made it much more usable for people.
01:09:29.362 - 01:10:32.934, Speaker C: And right now, crypto payments are too complex. I think for people who are motivated by things like trading and investing, or are super motivated by it, hashed public keys are okay, but the user experience needs to improve. And in some ways, the blockchain transaction layer needs to be a little bit more in the background. So whether that's like leveraging domain name structures or real name structures, and actually very likely seeing companion protocols to stablecoins that facilitate some of what I call the vernacular of payments, I think that things like that will be important for this to be something that would replace a lot of existing payment methods. And I think those are very solvable problems as well. Some of it is standards work, some of it is user experience work. So I think those are important.
01:10:32.934 - 01:11:45.370, Speaker C: And those are not just things for a company like circle to solve. Those are things that everyone needs to solve. The whole industry has to get behind these things. And then I think the third is, this isn't going to achieve that scale without more regulatory clarity, because a mainstream corporation, Starbucks or whoever, they're not going to adopt this as a system to store their money or to borrow and lend or accept payments if there's not clarity as to what stablecoins are and how they fit as a financial market infrastructure in the real economy. So we have to have the regulatory clarity in order for this to be something that companies of all sizes feel comfortable with. So again, the people who are crypto native or crypto forward and have a strong incentive to use it, that's one thing. But kind of crossing the chasm right and bringing that early majority onto this, it requires more regulatory clarity.
01:11:45.370 - 01:12:46.240, Speaker C: So those are things that I think are there and then in terms of the role in mean I think we're just kind of along for the ride on that, right? There's just so much innovation happening there and we want to make sure that USDC is usable on all those projects and just continue to support what developers are doing and find ways to support those and invest in those and things like that. I think in many ways what's happening in the broader defi ecosystem is something that we can just be kind of an enabler but not actually we, we want to just see the projects just developing and growing and some of the areas I talked about earlier for how market structures could evolve in know we're following all that really closely and hoping to see some of those things come about.
01:12:46.690 - 01:12:48.650, Speaker A: Thank you so much Jeremy.
01:12:48.810 - 01:12:50.814, Speaker B: Yes, thank you. Thank you so much.
01:12:50.932 - 01:12:53.450, Speaker C: You're welcome. Absolutely my pleasure.
