00:00:01.800 - 00:02:00.470, Speaker A: I thank very much the organizers that have given me the possibility to give this talk in this beautiful place, in this beautiful city. I'll speak about a joint paper with Alexandro Diemca, with Pietro Piokora and with Gabriel Sticlaro and we construct three curves adding lines to a given curve. The idea speaking about arrangements is linked to the leftist properties because in the paper with Jean Roberto de Gennaro we studied the link between ideals, artillery and ideals failing the SLP in the grid to rank d minus two with the arrangements with unstable derivation bundle. So we have continued to study arrangements, this time with curves and lines. We construct new families of free curves and nearly three curves by adding lines to a fixed curve which lines either order inflectional tangent lines of c or lines joining the singularities of c or lines in some tangent. These lines have in common the property that have with the curve a finite number in common a finite number of points, a small number of points and then we introduce the notion of super solvable plane curve and we give the conjecture that this curve is always free and it comes from some examples and from a theorem in the case of quasi homogeneous singularities. But before I want to speak about the inflection points if we have a plane curve reduced but not necessarily irreducible, we can consider its homogeneous polynomial and the essence, the essence is the curve.
00:02:00.470 - 00:03:27.182, Speaker A: The polynomial given by the determinants of the second partial derivatives derivative is equal to zero. If we intersect the curve radiation, we obtain the set inflection points and set of singular points and if we have a smooth point and the projective tangent line in the point we can define the inflection order of the point as the multiplicity of intersection on the curve and the tangent line in p minus two and if we have an inflection point, we know that this inflection order is greater than zero. But this inflection order is given also for its move point by the multiplicity of intersection of c and the esch and p. And so we have that the inflection order is less than or equal to d minus two and except the case in which the curve contains a line and so the tangential line is this line and so the inflection order is infinity at this line is also contained in the action but now we want to do the definition of multiplicity of intersection, the curve and the action in p also very singular point also for a singular point. So we take a plane curve and take a singular point. We can translate it in the origin for a plane curve. The singularity is the quasi homogeneous singularity.
00:03:27.182 - 00:05:03.254, Speaker A: If there exists a nullomorphic change of variables so that the equation becomes with the homogeneous. It means that there are regional numbers alpha and beta such that this polynomial is homogeneous. So we can define the Milner number and Turing a number of a singular point in the origin, because we then translate it in the origin and the Milner number is dimension over the ring of the convergent power series over the ideal generated by the partial derivatives and the tyrinna number is the dimension of this ring over the ideal generated by the partial first derivatives nF. We have that obviously the tyrina number is less than or equal to the mean or number and we have that the degree of the jacobian where the jacobian is this ideal is the sum of the tyrian number calculated in the singular points of the curve. If we have that the point is a quasi homogeneous point, quasi module singularity, we have that this degree is also the sum of the Milnar number calculated in the singular points. But there are examples in which the Trina number is less than the Miller number. If we consider the free arrangement given by x y z equal to zero times x times y times z zero, it is possible to prove that it is free of type of exponential one.
00:05:03.254 - 00:06:37.826, Speaker A: If we do consider the debt generated by the three partial derivatives, we can choose two conics in this net and we consider the curve gamma x times y times z times the pens generated by these two conic and it is free with exponents two to k. If we take the divisor in p two, x times y times z times times phi one f two that are the two conics. We have that it is made by three lines and conics that passes through these three lines and it is a free divisor as it's written before, of exponents two form. If we add another conic that does not belong to this pencil, we but passes through the points we have that we can find with the singular that the tylany number in zero is less than or equal to 15, while the Milner number is 16, because it is the number of the branches minus one squared. And so we have found this example. We remember now the classification of ade singularities. Okay, because we need then these singularities when we have a singular point.
00:06:37.826 - 00:08:16.152, Speaker A: We can now give the definition of not definition the formula for the multiplicity of intersection of c and the essential of c in p. But before we have to define what is the tangential multiplicity of a line and the union of the branches of the curve that has this line as tangent the tangential and we want to also remember what is a k or the ik multiple points. It is a point that has k move branches with distinct tangents and so it is and the tangents are multiplicity. Mj is greater than or equal to two and it is an ordinary k multiply point of type m one mk. If mj is equal to two, we say that the ordinary k multiple point is simple. Now we can in a singular point give the formula the multiplicity of intersection of the curve and the ash and p is given by three times the milner number in p plus the multiplicity of the point minus three plus the tangential multiplicity where the line is in the tangent cone of the curve, varies in the tangent cone of the curve. And so for construct three plane curves starting with a curve, we have to find inflectional tangents.
00:08:16.152 - 00:09:52.674, Speaker A: It is lined such that we have to count the inflection order of the point, the inflection point such that the tangent this point is l and it has to be large respect to the degree. So we can remark that the total inflection order is three times d times d minus two minus the multiplicity of intersection of c and dash and in p where p is a singular point. And in general the multiplicity of intersection on a line is less than or equal to the total multiplicity, the total inflection order of the curve equality. Also, if for any point p one has that tangent line in p is l and we have also that this inflection is less than or equal to d minus two multiplied the number of the points of intersection of l and c. We can give some examples. For example, for we have two smooth branches that meet transversally two tangent lines and the type of the node is the multiplicity intersection of the first branch with the first tangent in p and the second branch with the second tangent with its tangent in p. And we have that mj, the tangential multiplicity is greater than or equal to two and when it is two we say that is a simple node and we calculate the multiplicity of intersection on c and the h and dp it is six.
00:09:52.674 - 00:10:48.814, Speaker A: In general, we can generalize the previous formula when we have an ordinary m multiple point. So m move branches with distinct tangents and this is the formula for this is the formula for the multiplicity of intersection. In the case of a singularity a to m minus one, it means that there are two tangent branches with the common tangent line. We can do we calculate we can calculate the formula and this is the multiplicity intersection. And when we have a singularity of type a to m, there is a unique branch with a tangent line. In the case m is equal to one, we have a cusp and so this is the formula and for a cusp the tangential multiplicity is three and with this multiplicity or intersection is eight. In this case.
00:10:48.814 - 00:13:09.728, Speaker A: Now we want to remember some fact about three, nearly three, and maximizing curves in p two, we can consider the grade depth module of a c linear derivation of the polynomial ring s and for a reduced curve we can introduce the that consists of derivation that preserve the ideal f and we have this decomposition d zero f is made by the derivation killing the polynomial f direct sum with s times the error derivation and we say that reduced curve is free or that the d zero of f is free. If d zero f is a free graded s module and the degree of the basis, the degrees of a basis are the exponents of the curve d. It is true also that if we have two exponents of every curve that satisfy that d one plus d two is equal to d minus one, we find the two independent elements which are as linearly independent and that satisfy no the exponents, excuse me, the exponents satisfy the fact that d one plus d two is equal to d minus two. But it is also through the converse that if we have two elements which are independently satisfied d one plus d two equal to d minus one, we find the curve with exponents d. Now we can define the minimal degree of a derivation killing f, the minimal error such that d zero f in degree is different from zero and we have a result of the plusy wall. Let s be a reduced plane curve of degree d and let this minimum value killing f this one. Okay, the minimal degree of derivations killing f can happen.
00:13:09.728 - 00:14:12.780, Speaker A: Two cases. If r is less than d over two, then the total trianar number is less than or equal to this number d minus one squared minus r times d minus l minus one. And if we have the equality, the curve is three and if r is greater than or equal to d over two and less than or equal to d minus one, the total t number is less than or equal to this number. This one and a curve is degree d is nearly three. If o r is less than d over two and the total trina number is the previous number t max minus one, or d is d over two and the total trigger number is t max. In addition, we know which are the exponents of nearly three curves are given by the pair d minus r. Now we give a definition of a curve degree d having only ad singularities.
00:14:12.780 - 00:17:10.614, Speaker A: We say when it is maximizing, it is maximizing if either d is equal to two r and the total tuition number is three times r times r minus one plus one, or d is equal to two r plus one and the total tuition number is three times r squared plus one and die became pokora have proved that a curve of degree d having only ad singularities is maximizing if and only if or d is equal. Either d is equal to two and c is free curve with exponents r minus one r or d is equal to dou one and c is a free curve with exponents r minus one r plus one and we have found that for a plane reduced plane curve in any singular point with the multiplicity k, we found that multiplicity of intersection with the curve and the ersch and impression is greater than equal to three times k times k minus one and we have the equality if the point is in ordinary simple k multiple points. So we can found that the total inflection order of the curve is less, is less than or equal to times d times d minus two minus the sum over k where k is the number where nk is the number of singular points of multiplicity k minus the sum over k over three times k times k minus one times nk, the number on a singular point of multiplicity k and it is an improvement of this one. But now we arrive to the construction of free curves, adding all eigen order inflectional tangents or lines in the tangent cone or lines join the singularities of the curve. If we take a curve of Tom sebastiani type, it means that we can take linear forms in xy and bm distinct linear forms. And if we consider this curve, the product of this over the power kj to kj of the linear forms minus z to d. If we consider this curve, kj are positive integers greater nor equal to one and lj, the line represented by lj in xy is the inflection tangent in the point if kj is equal to one and it is the reduced tangent cone when kj is greater than one.
00:17:10.614 - 00:18:25.740, Speaker A: So we have this theorem. If we consider the curve obtained multiplying the Thompson Bastiani type curve with the product, we do the product with the linear forms with j varies between one and m. We obtain a curve of degree d m and it is free with the exponents m minus if z is equal to zero is a line passing through these points. If we add also this line, we have a curve of degree d m plus one three with the exponents m minus 1d plus one and we can give some examples. Because the examples are important, we can consider a small Fermat type curve and we add all its inflectional tangents and also then the coordinate axis and we obtain a free curve. This is the Fermat curve and let epsilon be any root of this equation. If we consider this line y equal to epsilon x, it intersects c only in this point.
00:18:25.740 - 00:20:16.982, Speaker A: It is an inflection point of maximum order and we have d of this point and so we have the inflectional points, the inflectional tangents, and so these inflection points, the inflection points are the intersection of the curve with the line z zero. If we permute x y z, we obtain three times the inflection points and also the inflection tangents. And so we can apply the theorem, the previous theorem when kj is equal to one because these are inflection tangents, then it is possible to prove that if we consider the curve, the smooth fermat curve multiplied by the inflectional tangents, so x to d plus epsilon d, we have a free curve of degree root two d, and the exponents are d minus 1d. When d is equal to three, this curve is maximized go degree c. When we add also the line that passes through this point, we have a free curve of degree 2d plus one and of all exponents d minus 1d plus one. And when d is equal to three, the curve is maximizing of the grid seven. If we continue to add inflectional tangents, when we add another one, the curve is nearly free with the exponents four, five when we add another one and another infection tangents, it is not nearly free.
00:20:16.982 - 00:21:04.604, Speaker A: So it is not the property that we need. But we have this general result. If we have the smooth thermal curve, we have said that it has exactly three times the inflectional tangents and their union is a line arrangement. So we can add to the Fermat curve this line arrangement and lines that passes through the inflection points. We obtain a free curve with the exponents to d plus one to d one. But we can also take the Fermat curve and we can add only 2d inflectional tangents and the line that passes through the inflectional points. And so we obtain a free curve with the exponents d plus one to d.
00:21:04.604 - 00:22:02.614, Speaker A: When d is equal to two, the curve is maximizing over degree a two. Because it is interesting to find maximizing curve of every degree. Now we consider another example. This example has no inflection points, so the inflection tangents has to be sub. We can put not inflection tangents but tangent cones and so we may add two or three tangent cones or just one tangent cone. Two lines during singular points and we have this result, this curve, the product of the curve we have written before, multiplied by two over the three tangent cones. It is free with exponents two m minus one two m for any m less, greater than or equal to two, and also the curve obtained.
00:22:02.614 - 00:23:18.304, Speaker A: Multiplying for a one tangent cone at two lines join the singular points, we obtain a free curve without exponents m plus one to m. Now we want to give the definition of a modular point for a curve. For a plane curve, we consider always reducing plane curve. A point is a modular point for the curve. If the center projection induces a locally trivial vibration on the complement and a curve is said super soluble, if at least one module of point, it induces a locally trivial vibration on the complement. So we have as basis ap one without points a finite number of points, and also the fiber and it is the the map uses a locally triggered fibrillation of complement of the complement if and only if. For every line passing through p line not containing the curve, one has that multiplicity of intersection of c, and this line is multiplicity over the point for the curve and a multiplicity of intersection of the line with the curve in a different point from p is one.
00:23:18.304 - 00:24:08.476, Speaker A: The fibration as a base and as a fiber. I project a line with the number of points deleted and when g is a line arrangement, this case is studied and the line arrangement super solvable is free. So we do the conjecture. A super solvable plane curve is free and we prove a theorem about this conjecture. We prove the conjecture in a particular case. Let seed zero be a reduced plane curve. We consider a plane a point in the complement, and we consider the set of lines passing through p such that there is a point in the oven.
00:24:08.476 - 00:25:34.494, Speaker A: There is a point in the intersection of the line in c with the multiplicity of intersection with this line with the c zero in this point greater than one. And we suppose that all the singularities of c of the curve obtained by adding these lines are quasi homogeneous. In this case the curve is super solvable and free. And in particular, this is also when all the singularities have multiplicity p t two and p is not on any tangent cone of a point or a singular point with the mean or number greater than or equal to three. For example, if we consider a plane curve having only nodes and cusps as singularities, and we take in the complement, a generic point, this result is known. But we want to find also other types of examples, examples that are not in this. In that theorem, Brevis theorem, we can see that the free cars c one and c two that we have constructed in theorem are examples of a type of theorem eleven.
00:25:34.494 - 00:26:38.694, Speaker A: And the free curve of theorem ten is different because in this case we have that the point belongs to the curve and not all the singularities are quasihomogeneous. So it is interesting to find new examples in different situations with respect to the theory. Okay, the free curve constructed in theorem ten is super solvable. The other examples are not super solvable. Now we want to describe all smooth plain quartic that have the maximum possible number of flexes or maximal order. For a quartic, the maximal order is two and the number of flexes is twelve. There are only two such curves, the Fermat curve and another example.
00:26:38.694 - 00:27:50.614, Speaker A: And then we want to discuss some singular plain curves and free curves that we obtain, adding some lines in the tangent cone. Okay, so as I have said, the maximum possible number of flex points over there too. For smooth cortex is twelve. And we ask if there are a classification booth quartz, which have twelve flexes over the top. We can consider a pencil of ucciani that Czarni considered in the 19th century. This is the pencil of the quartic and there are two values which led to special members of the pencil. For lambda equal to zero, we have the fermatic and we know we have studied before as we can construct new free curves, beginning by the firmaquartic curve or lambda is a root of this equation.
00:27:50.614 - 00:28:53.652, Speaker A: And in this case we get the clay quartic, the Klein quartic. But the Klein quartic has not flexis of maximum order, the thermoquartica. Yes, it has exactly twelve fluxes over order two, but the klein quartic has only flexes over order one and the number is 24. Okay, and, but there is another interesting example. In this pencil of quartz, the quartic that we obtain, taking lambda equal to three and c three, the curve that we obtain is smooth and edge has found that this curve has exactly twelve flex order two. And if found the coordinate over the inflection points and also the equation of the associated tangent lines. This is the calculation, the action.
00:28:53.652 - 00:30:39.070, Speaker A: So when we intersect, we find the flex points over the two and these flexes are all over these six lines and the flex have the following coordinates, the following coordinates and there are four flexes on each of these lines. And there is a result of Kuribayash and Komiya and they prove that the only smooth plane quartic curves having twelve flexes over there too, the only smooth plane are the Ferma and this one and the c three. But so we have another example as the Ferma and in this example we can add inflection tangents and the line that passes through inflection points for finding new family of recurs. But while for the Fermat particle that has twelve inflectional tangents in order to and if we use the triangle and we add these inflectional tangents, we get the free curve of degree 19. If we the same construction for the quartic curve c three, the result does not obtain a free curve. And the reason is this one. The reason is that if we add the inflectional tangents to the thermo aquatic and we have that the total tridden number is big respect to degree of the curve.
00:30:39.070 - 00:31:44.982, Speaker A: When we add the inflectional tangents to the c three, the total trianar number is not so big respect to degree and so we have no free curves. As example. Now we want to consider the case of singular cups. Any nodal cup e cubic is equivalent projectively to the curb cubic x times I times z plus x to the cube plus y to the cube equal to zero. If we consider the Hessian and do the intersection, we obtain four points. The first one is the node and the other one are the inflection points where j to the q plus one is equal to zero. So p one is a simple node and the pj gives three inflection points over the one.
00:31:44.982 - 00:33:15.200, Speaker A: And so we can do the calculation of the multiplicity of intersection of the curve and the essence in p one and the sum of the multiplicity. And we can add the sum of the multiplicity of intersection of c and the essential in the inflection points. So, before we have proved that the first one is six and for the three inflection points we have plus one plus one plus one and so we obtain nine. We have calculated the three inflection tangents that are given by this equation and where jk are the three roots of the equation j cubed plus one equal to zero and the three inflectional tangents are not concurrent, so we not have every curves as before. But if we add to the tangent cone, if we add to the curve the tangent cone at a singular point at a node, we obtain this curve that is free with exponent two we can find with the sigma and this example is super solvable because p one, the node is a modular point for sigma one c prime. Any cuspidal cubic is projectively equivalent to the cubic x squared times z plus y to the cube equal to zero. We calculate the essence and we do the intersection.
00:33:15.200 - 00:34:12.144, Speaker A: We obtain the cusp and an inflection point over the one. And so when we calculate the multiplicity of intersection over the curve and the ession in p one, we obtain eight. We have calculated before this multiplicity intersection in p one plus the multiplicity of intersection of c and reaction in p two, that is one because it is inflection order. So we obtain nine and this is a special case of theorem seven. Before another example is given by some, we can consider some plane quartic curve. This quartic which has a d four singularity at zero zero one. We calculate the action and the point p one.
00:34:12.144 - 00:35:23.074, Speaker A: It is d four singularity is an ordinary simple singularity or multiplicity three. And so if we do the calculation of the multiplicity of intersection of the curve and the action in p one, we obtain 18. And there is also, there are also c inflection points, not only the full singularity and over the one and these are two points, 10 minus 10, one minus one and two and four points. That comes as solution of this equation. Okay, if we add the tangent code of a singular point x to the cube plus epsilon to the cube is equal to zero, we get the free curve, our degree seven and exponent three three. And also this curve is super solvable because p one is a modular point for c prime. Then we can consider a particular case of the previous example.
00:35:23.074 - 00:36:56.324, Speaker A: X squared times y squared plus y squared times z squared plus x squared times z squared equal to zero. It has three nodes or type three and we have no inflection point points. We can consider the Asian and we can consider one tangent line because there are two tangent lines in each nodus. If we consider one tangent line at each of the three nodes, we obtain these lines and adding these lines we obtain every curve of degree seven when exponential three trip finally, we found we consider the quartic of x squared times y squared plus y squared times z squared squared plus x squared plus times z squared minus two x y z multiplied for x plus y plus z equal to zero. It has three cusps, a two, and has no inflection points. If you calculate the Hessian, we obtain this one and these are the lines in the tangent cones of the tricuspid. And these lines are given by these equations.
00:36:56.324 - 00:37:47.364, Speaker A: And we can consider the curve c. We add to the curve c, the first, the first line, and we obtain c one. Then to c one, we add another line, the second line, and we obtain c two. And then to c two we have the third line and we obtain c three. And all these curves are free with exponents to two, two to three to four. And in this way we obtain that c one is fico of degree five and the curves c two and c three are maximizing curves of degrees six and seven. Okay.
00:37:47.364 - 00:39:11.304, Speaker A: Also this curve is super solvable and point is a modular point for it. Okay, this example is interesting because it is not an example of the theorem before about super solvable curves, and because all its singularity sarcasmogeneous, but p belongs to the tangent cone of the three cusps. And then we can consider the last example, the example we have considered at the beginning and this curve we have also considered before the example with m equal to two and before it had three nodes. Now, the curve has three ordinary m multiple points 100-1001 which have type m plus one m plus one m times. And these singularities are quite homogeneous. And so the churrino number and the minor number consists and are equal to m minus one squared in pj. And so we can calculate the multiplicity of intersection of c in the Asian in PGA.
00:39:11.304 - 00:40:50.594, Speaker A: And we see that by the previous equality that c has no inflection point and this curve also for m, for m equal to three is not nearly three. And we can add twelve x, y, z and it becomes free with exponents m plus one, m plus one. And we can remark that the only singularities of c one are again the point pj, which are ordinary homogeneous, quasi homogeneous singularities over multiplicity m plus two. Also for the curve c one and we can calculate the total trianar number of c one, it is three times m plus one squared. And we find l and r is m plus one and this so we can apply the theorem of the wall and we find that there is the equality between the number tmax that we considered before and the total trina number of c one. And so by the theorem over the perceived wall, we can see that it is free. Another idea for constructing free curves is to use for example some examples found by Bjorke Miro Royg.
00:40:50.594 - 00:41:33.884, Speaker A: In their paper they consider eperosculating cones. And we have found that if we take these eperosculating conics and we can construct, taking a particular point on this line, and also on this line, we can construct a new example of super solvable curves. I have finished.
