00:00:00.280 - 00:00:46.696, Speaker A: The second week of focus program on function spaces and their application. We start with mini course by Professor Ransford from Laval University, followed by two plenary talks. And the same schedule will be repeated, of course, with different plenary talks tomorrow and the day after. And on Friday there is a colloquium talk about by Professor Wolbert. I apologize because we forgot to include the colloquium talk in the message sent by the Fields Institute. So another message will be sent to highlight the talk by Professor Wahlberg on Friday. Now we start with mini course by Professor Ransford.
00:00:46.696 - 00:00:48.264, Speaker A: Tom, please go ahead.
00:00:48.424 - 00:00:58.664, Speaker B: Thank you. I'll just share my screen. Okay. Is that visible to everyone?
00:01:01.844 - 00:01:02.584, Speaker A: Sure.
00:01:03.084 - 00:01:39.414, Speaker B: Yes. Great. So thank you, Javad, for the introduction, and well, thank you also to Javad and fellow organizers and Damia for the invitation to speak at this distinguished gathering. And in fact, I want to thank them for the whole focus program. It's a really impressive program that you've put together. It's expanded from, I think it was originally three months to six months. And it's really incredible the hard work you've put into this.
00:01:39.414 - 00:02:25.712, Speaker B: Thank you also to the fields Institute for making it possible. And, well, last but not least, thank you to all of you for coming along to listen to this, to these lectures. So I'll begin, incidentally, if you have questions, I'll try and keep an eye on the chat as we go along. So either you can type in the chat or feel free to open your mic and. But in the lecture. Okay, so let's begin at the beginning. What is the Dirichlet space? I'm going to use the letter script D to denote this space.
00:02:25.712 - 00:03:27.774, Speaker B: It's the set of all holomorphic functions in the open unit disk whose Dirichlet integral is finite. So that's the integral with respect to area measure of mod f dash squared. And straight away, let's see the relationship between what we're doing this week and what was done last week, and what you're going to see next week. So there's a very simple calculation you can do if you take your function f holomorphic on the disc. So it has a Taylor expansion, and you plug the Taylor series into the expression for the Dirichlet integral and use polar coordinates to evaluate it. And what pops out is a very simple expression, this series here, sigma k mod ak squared. So the Dirichlet space, you can think of it as being the set of Taylor series such that this sum here is finite.
00:03:27.774 - 00:04:33.742, Speaker B: And clearly, if this series converges, then the series without the factor K will converge as well, which just says that the, if you're in the Dirichlet space, then you're also in the Hardy space, which is just the set of functions such that sigma mod ak squared is finite. The Dirichlet space sits inside the Hardy space. So everything you saw last week for Hardy space functions remains true for Dirichlet space functions. And we'll see that to a certain extent even more is true for these functions. This is kind of where the interest lies. And, well, at the opposite end, instead of looking at Sigma, well, instead of looking at the derivative here, you could just integrate mod f squared, the area, and that would give you a different norm. In fact, it would be the same series as we have here with sigma k mod a k squared, except you put the k in the denominator k plus one, in fact.
00:04:33.742 - 00:05:20.274, Speaker B: And this gives you another space, the so called Bergman space, which is a bit bigger than Hutton space. And so this is going to be the subject of next week's talks. Okay, so the Dirichlet space is practically a Hilbert space. With this expression for the square of the norm, there's a slight technicality, which is that constant functions would have Dirichlet integral zero would only give you a semi norm. So to get a real norm, it's usual to add something on. And the most common choice, I think, is to take the square of the h two norm of f, and then that gives you this expression for the square of the norm. So in that case, you get a genuine Hilbert space.
00:05:20.274 - 00:06:33.174, Speaker B: Okay, so that's basic definitions. So here's a very, very, very brief history of the Dirichlet space. And, well, the first thing to say is that it was not invented by Dirichlet. The reason it's called the Dirichlet space is because if the definition features the Dirichlet integral, maybe this integral here, the Dirichlet integral more generally, is what you get by integrating the gradient of f squared for any smooth function f. And it was introduced by Dirichlet as part of the Dirichlet principle, which is that among all functions that have given boundary values, the one that minimizes the Dirichlet integral is the one that's harmonic on the disk, and it's a way of solving the Dirichlet problem. But the name has stuck. I would say that the beginning of the history, at least, the more profound developments.
00:06:33.174 - 00:07:45.574, Speaker B: It starts with the thesis of Birling in the early 1930s, and Berling published several papers on this subject, and then followed by Carlisson in the fifties and sixties. And between them, they really uncovered a lot of the deeper properties of D. And in particular, I would say that to Berlin goes the credit of recognizing that this space has an intimate connection with potential theory, which gives us a lot of the flavor of this subject, which is very different from that of the hearty space. Now we're going to see the names of Birling and Charleston pop up very frequently. And, well, I mean, it's after that I'm just going to put three dots, because there are a lot of developments after the 1960s, and, well, you'll see these as the lectures go on. That concludes my very brief history. So why might we want to be interested in this space? Well, as I already mentioned, it has an intimate connection with potential theory, and in particular the notions of energy and capacity, and give it a very interesting flavor.
00:07:45.574 - 00:08:34.094, Speaker B: There's also a geometric interpretation that's of interest. And in order to explain that, I'm just going to go back once again to the definition of the Dirichlet integral. So what you see here is more or less the expression you would get if you were to try and evaluate the area of the image of f, the image of the unit disk under f. This is more or less the value. In fact, if f is one to one, it's exactly that value. If f is not one to one, then you need to count areas with multiplicities. So you can think of the Dirichlet integral as being the area of the image of f.
00:08:34.094 - 00:09:16.844, Speaker B: And this geometric way of seeing things has interesting consequences. So one interesting feature is that it's invariant on the Mobius automorphism. So if you apply a pre composer for the Mobius automorphism of the disc, it doesn't change the Dirichlet integral. And Dirichlet space is essentially the unique Hilbert space of holomorphic functions. With that property. It's a kind of natural property, but it actually characterizes the douich leisure space. I'm being a bit sloppy there, and later on I'm going to be rather more precise and say exactly what I mean by that.
00:09:16.844 - 00:10:06.276, Speaker B: But it's a, it makes the Dirichlet space stand out amongst all the function spaces on the disk. One of the reasons that the Hardy space h two came to prominence was that it played a central role in Berlin's solution of the problem of classifying the shift invariant subspaces. So once again, I'm going to go back to the definition of the space. Excuse me for that. So Berling's idea was, okay, we're interested in the space little l two. We have the shift which takes any sequence in l two and shifts it one place to the right. What are the closed invariant subspaces? And Birling's idea was to say, well, let's think of little l two as the Hardy space.
00:10:06.276 - 00:10:58.854, Speaker B: I mean, the two are. Just identify the sequence ak with the Taylor series of the function f. And in that case, shifting one place to the right, the Taylor series corresponds to multiplying the power series by z. Multiplication by z is the shift, and viewing it that way, it becomes much more natural to guess what the invariant subspaces should be. And, well, this led eventually to burling solution of the problem. So you might ask, well, what happens if, instead of taking the shift operator, one starts looking at slight variations, for example, weighted shifts, or equivalently the ordinary shift operator, but on a weighted sequence space. And one of the very first weights you might want to consider is this one here.
00:10:58.854 - 00:11:44.352, Speaker B: And so you end up asking, what are the shift invariant subspaces of the douich ray space? And as we'll see, quite a lot is known about this. And there are also important things that are still unknown. And another reason that the Dirichlet space is interesting is, as we'll see later on, that is, in a certain sense, it's a borderline case. It's right on the edge of being an algebra. It isn't quite an algebra, but it's very nearly a Banach algebra. And if it were a Banach algebra, it would simplify many things. But this feature of being on the edge sort of makes it interesting.
00:11:44.352 - 00:12:36.594, Speaker B: And as we'll see, there are still a number of important open problems. So these are just a few of the reasons that one might be interested in studying deep. Okay, so the, what I'm going to do in these talks is to try and just show you some highlights. I'm not going to give any proofs, except perhaps the odd one line proof, but I want to try and sort of bring out highlights of the theory that I think are interesting. And here are some topics that in fact, you might want to consider for any function space. I think you've just muted yourself. Sorry.
00:12:36.594 - 00:13:37.306, Speaker B: Okay, so, boundary behavior, how does the function of the functions in the space behave on the boundary of the unit disk? Are they continuous? If not, how close are they to being continuous? What are the zeros like? So, because we have a holomorphic function on the disk, zeros must be isolated. So the zeros certainly form a sequence going towards the boundary. But is there any constraint on how fast they have to reach the boundary in the case of the Hardy space, we know the answer exactly what happens in the Douichrow space. Is it the same answer? And the answer to that question is no, it's different multipliers. So if your space is not an algebra, then certain functions in the space will still act as multipliers. And it's interesting to find out what they are, because that leads to all sorts of developments. Again, in the case of the hardy space, the multipliers are just the bounded holomorphic functions.
00:13:37.306 - 00:14:31.526, Speaker B: What happens in the case of Dirichlet space is this, do you have a reproducing kernel? And if so, what can you say about it? Does it have nice properties? And again, I'll explain this in more detail when we get there. There are problems of interpolation, problems of conformal invariance, and I've already mentioned shift invariant subspaces. So these are all things that one might ask of general function spaces. And as we'll see, in the case of the Dirichlet space, a lot is known about them. In some cases we have a fairly complete knowledge, and in others it's still rather incomplete. Okay, so these are sort of the topics that I want to cover in today and next two days. And where to find out more.
00:14:31.526 - 00:15:46.944, Speaker B: Well, first of all, I have produced a text file in which essentially containing a copy of these slides that you're watching, and if, I'll send a copy to everyone right now. So I guess if you look in the chat, you should see a copy of this file. So basically it contains a copy of what you see on the screen, with one difference. I've added in references, so if you want to chase anything up, the references are there. There's more than 50 of them, and I hope that might be helpful if you feel moved to find out more, then here are some suggestions for places that you might look. So there are a couple of survey articles. The first one is dates back to 2006, Bill Ross, and then a little bit more recently, Arkatsi, Roushberg, Sawyer and Wick.
00:15:46.944 - 00:16:41.574, Speaker B: The emphasis on these two articles is a little bit different. I would say Ross is perhaps a bit more oriented towards complex analysis and operator theory. And the second article may be a bit more oriented towards harmonic analysis. And then there are two books, one that I co wrote with Omar el Fala, Karim Kelly and Jawad Mashegi, and then another one by the same authors of the second survey article. And again, I would say the emphasis in these two books is a little bit different. Once again, the first one is more oriented towards complex analysis and operator theory, and the second towards harmonic analysis, though of course there is some overlap. These lectures are going to be based fairly largely on the first book in this list.
00:16:41.574 - 00:18:08.890, Speaker B: I guess I'm biased, and so most of the proofs that I don't give in the lectures can be found in the book, at least all the ones dating from before 2014. Okay, so I think with that, we're ready to get started. Any questions before I move on? Okay, so before actually diving into the dirichlet space itself, I need to discuss rather briefly the notion of capacity, because this will feature in a lot of the statements of the results. I can't really give you a detailed introduction to this. I don't have the time, but at least I can give the basic definitions so that what I'm saying has some logical sense to it. So here's the the first definition. So I want to, first of all define energy.
00:18:08.890 - 00:18:38.050, Speaker B: So suppose you're given a measure. Oh, I should say, before I start, I'm going to define capacity in potential theory just for subsets of the unit circle. That's all we need in this particular course. Of course, it can be done in much more generality, but I'm going to stick to the subsets of unit circle. So the first thing I need to talk about is what the energy of a measure on the unit circle is. So, suppose mu is a finite positive measure. Think of it as being a.
00:18:38.050 - 00:19:35.064, Speaker B: I don't know if this is helpful, but think of it as being a distribution of electric charge around the unit circle. So what is the energy of that charge? Well, in two dimensional potential theory, the mutual energy between two points is basically log of one over the distance between the points. That's logarithmic potential theory. And so what this double integral is saying is that we're simply adding up mutual energies over all pairs of points of the unit circle weighted according to the electric charge mu. The reason for the two up on top here is just a technical simplification. It guarantees that the function we're integrating, this kernel here is always positive, because Flander and and Zeta are in the unit circle, and the distance between them is never more than two. This simplifies certain arguments, but it's not really important.
00:19:35.064 - 00:20:13.654, Speaker B: So it could happen that a measure has infinite energy. For example. That would be the case if Mu were simply a point mass, because then you wouldn't have much choice. Lambda and Zeta would have to be equal, and you would get an infinite integral. And it also happens for certain other measures that are not just single mass. I mean, it happens for any mass, any measure with an atom in it, and even for some measures with no atoms but that are very close together. And, but anyway, that's, that's a possibility.
00:20:13.654 - 00:20:57.076, Speaker B: But much of the time the energy will be finite. And then there is an expression for the energy in terms of the Fourier coefficients of MU. This is not very difficult to prove. I mention this because it sort of starts to explain why this might be relevant to the Dirichlet space. You'll notice that there's a factor of k in the denominator here. This basically comes from the fact that the Taylor coefficients of log have basically one over k. There's some signs, and this k is just the right thing to cancel off the k in the numerator of sigma mode, sigma k mod ak squared that we saw in the jewish integral.
00:20:57.076 - 00:21:41.626, Speaker B: And this is kind of behind some of the proofs. It explains the connection. Okay, and now I can define capacity. So I'll just give you the definition and try and motivate it a little bit later. So we look at all the probability measures sitting on a subset, compact subset f of the unit circle, and we try and minimize the energy. And, well, look at the infemum, and the capacity is one over that. So it's the usual definition in electrostatics of the charge divided by the potential energy.
00:21:41.626 - 00:22:40.494, Speaker B: The charge is one, because our measures of probability measure. And, well, anyway, I've just defined it like that. And there are various elementary properties that one can prove pretty easily from the definition. So if your set grows and the capacity grows as well, it's monotone. It has a sort of upper semi continuity property. If you have a sequence of compact sets fn that decrease to compact set f, then their capacities decrease to the right limit, and capacity is sub additive in this sense. So these are all things that one can prove relatively easily from the definition and a few examples of, or at least relations between capacity and other notions.
00:22:40.494 - 00:23:21.294, Speaker B: So it's related quite closely to the notion of diameter. And you have this relation here. I'm not sure I'm ever going to use that. But anyway, the capacity is related to the diameter of the set. The capacity is zero whenever f is either finite or countable. In fact, when you think about what capacity zero means, it means that this infemum here is not finite. It has to be that whatever measure you try distributing on your compact set, it's so squashed up against itself that the energy is always infinite.
00:23:21.294 - 00:23:50.990, Speaker B: And then the infemum is infinity and one over infinity is zero. So that's what capacity zero means. And capacity being positive, means simply that you can distribute the charge in such a way as to have finite energy. So finite and countable sets have capacity zero. That's fairly easy to see. And there are certain other sets that also have capacity zero that are uncountable. So certain types of very thin count offsets.
00:23:50.990 - 00:24:41.834, Speaker B: For example, there's a relation between capacity and measure on the circle. So mod f here signifies the arc length measure of f. This inequality implies in particular that if you have capacity zero, then you have arc length measure zero. But the converse is false. For example, if you take the usual cantor middle third set and just wrap it around the circle, then that has length zero, but it turns out to have positive capacity. So this is this lot, these last two remarks. Capacity zero implies measure zero, but not conversely, will be quite important in what follows.
00:24:41.834 - 00:25:44.204, Speaker B: Okay, now I just defined capacity of general of compact sets, excuse me, but we need a little bit more than that as a technical extension. So I need to define capacity of general subsets of the unit circle. And, well, by analogy with measure, you might think that the natural definition would be that the capacity of a general set e should be the supremum of the capacity of all compact subsets of e. And for many purposes that works. But for certain things you need a slight variation on that theme. And you have to define the so called outer capacity, which is usually denoted by C upper star, which is the infemum of capacity of open sets. Overall, open sets containing either.
00:25:44.204 - 00:26:33.368, Speaker B: And the reason that, the main reason why outer capacity is needed is that it is countably sub additive, whereas that's not true in general for inner capacity. However, you can avoid the problem for many sets because of a wonderful theorem of schrocky that says that if e is any Borrell set, then the inner and outer capacities coincide. This is not obvious, quite a deep result. And finally, a piece of terminology or notation that's going to be used quite a lot. I need to have to express that a property holds outside a set of capacity zero. Outside a set of outer capacity zero. I'll say it holds QE.
00:26:33.368 - 00:27:18.234, Speaker B: Qe stands for quasi everywhere. So that's much more stringent than saying that a property holds almost everywhere. If it holds outside a set of capacity zero, then the exceptional set is really small. Okay, and one last thing I need to mention, or I just want to mention it, which will explain a little bit where this definition of capacity came from. So once again, let's assume we're in the situation where we're given a complex subset of unit circle. And just recall, this is how I defined capacity. It was one over the infemum.
00:27:18.234 - 00:28:06.988, Speaker B: So the reason for considering in femum of the energy of Nu is that that's what happens in physics. If you start with a charge and you plunk it on a, on a conductor, the charge will redistribute itself to minimize the energy. And so it's a natural thing to consider the problem of minimizing I of mu over all probability measures mu on the set f. And if this measure, if you find such a measure, it's called an equilibrium measure. So it represents the way that electric charge would distribute itself if you were to place it on f. And there's a, mathematically, you can prove that this exists whenever the capacity is positive. So whenever the problem really makes sense.
00:28:06.988 - 00:28:48.574, Speaker B: In other words, there are measures charge, charge, distribution to finite energy. Then there will be a mu for which the infimum is attained. And so I could have defined, in that case, the capacity to be one over the energy for that particular nuke. And moreover, this measure is unique. It will always charge, will always redistribute itself the same way. That's a proposition. And the reason that this is of interest is that this measure, excuse me, this measure has a particular property that makes it very important.
00:28:48.574 - 00:29:39.058, Speaker B: This is a theorem due to Frostmann, often called the fundamental theorem of potential theory, and with good reason. So, let's suppose that we have in front of us the equilibrium measure for a given compact set f, and we associate to this charge distribution. We associate a potential. So this is the function that assigns to a point z the energy, potential energy at z due to the charge distribution mu. And this potential function always has the property that it's bounded above on the unit circle by one over the capacity. And you have equality quasi everywhere on the set f. That's the theorem of Frostman.
00:29:39.058 - 00:30:36.874, Speaker B: So the, this, once the measure, once the charge has redistributed itself, the potential energy will be less outside the conductor and constant on the conductor. The constant value is one of the capacity. I'm afraid I can't really say much more about this, except that if I were to give the proofs that I'm going to skip throughout the course, this theorem plays a rather central role. It's very important, but I'm afraid you're not going to see that. Okay, so that concludes what I had to say about potential theory in general. And now I want to start to apply this to look at boundary behavior. So maybe I'll just pause for a moment if there are any questions.
00:30:36.874 - 00:31:33.594, Speaker B: Okay, I see most of the questions were technical things to do with the notes, but there was one question. Although Dirichlet space is associated with harmonic functions on rn and range, so the answer there is yes. There are all sorts of dual spaces you can do instead of holomorphic functions, you can do harmonic functions instead of the f dash. You look at the gradient, you can look on more general domains in the plane or in higher dimensions. There are also analytic Dirichlet spaces in higher dimensions. On CN, you can do weighted Dirichlet spaces. We're going to see some of these things in the course, but most of the time, I'm just going to concentrate on the classical Dirichlet space, because as you're going to see, it's sufficiently rich to keep us busy for at least 3 hours.
00:31:33.594 - 00:32:32.154, Speaker B: Okay, so, boundary behavior. So, as I mentioned at the beginning, the Dirichlet space is included in the Hardy space h two. And so any theorem that you prove for h about boundary behavioral functions in h two automatically goes over for functions in the Dirichlet space. So straight away, any f in the Dirichlet space, you can say that it has radial limits or even better, non tangential limits at almost every point on the unit circle. And, well, you might wonder whether you can do rather better than that. Could it be, for example, that every function in the Dirichlet space extends continuously to the boundary? That would be nice. Well, the answer to that is no.
00:32:32.154 - 00:33:13.024, Speaker B: And there is a simple example, in fact, even it can happen, that functions in the Dirichlet space are unbounded. And here is one of the few things I'm going to prove. Here's an example. So consider this power series z to the k over k log k. So what is its Dirichlet integral? Well, we just use the formula that I mentioned at the beginning, sigma k mod ak squared. So we get sigma k and this is the mod ak squared, and you end up with this series one over k times the square of log a that converges. So our function belongs to the differential space.
00:33:13.024 - 00:34:39.044, Speaker B: On the other hand, if you consider what happens when z is real and positive here, and just take the lim inf as put z equals r and let algorithm one, you easily find that the limit of f of r is at least this sum here and well, that series divergence. So for this particular function, we have divergence as you go to at least one boundary point. So, okay, so what can you say about boundary behavior over and above? What happens in the Harvey space. So the big theorem where we, the starting point is this beautiful result of burning, which is that if we're in the Dirichlet space, then your function has non tangential limits, not just almost everywhere, like hardy space functions, but quasi everywhere. So you can associate boundary values to f that are defined up to set of capacity zero, not just measure zero, but capacity zero. And I want to emphasize this point, because it's going to play a very important role in, in what follows. So the, this is a really important result.
00:34:39.044 - 00:35:25.914, Speaker B: Now, just a historical note here. Boeing actually didn't quite prove this. He proved his result for radial limits, but the thing goes through for non tangential limits as well. And his theorem is char. This is an improvement on the example that I just showed you, the theorem of Carlson. You can actually construct a function of zero space whose radial values diverge not just for one point in the boundary, but for a whole set of points of capacity zero. In fact, any, starting with any compact set of capacity zero, you can find a function whose radial boundary values diverge at all those points.
00:35:25.914 - 00:36:36.684, Speaker B: So Boeing's theorem is really the sharp result. Okay? And the ideas used in the proof of Birling's theorem can be developed further to say something about the behavior of the boundary function. So, I'm going to denote f star by a star, the radial boundary limits of f wherever they exist. So, for the function of the Dirichlet space, this is true outside a certain capacity zero. And in the same article, Berlin proved so called weak type inequality for f star, which you can see here. So, you look at the set of points. This is a bit, perhaps shorthand notation, but you look at the set of points of unit circle where mod f star is greater than t, and the capacity of that set is controlled by some universal constant times the square of the Dirichlet norm of f divided by t squared.
00:36:36.684 - 00:37:30.568, Speaker B: And this is quite a powerful result, because you can use it to get an estimate for the measure of the set where mod f star is greater than t. And the estimate here looks rather more impressive. It's an exponential estimate square e to the minus b t squared. So the f can be unbounded. But f star, it's not far from being bounded in the sense that it's, it can't be, it can't be large on a, on a large set, it's large on a very small set. And actually, one can do a little bit better than Boehling's result. There's a more recent theorem that actually is due to several people.
00:37:30.568 - 00:38:10.864, Speaker B: But the final step was taken by Hansen in 1979, which is a strong type inequality. And, well, the weak type is a consequence of the strong type. This is very, very easy to check just by elementary estimates. But in fact, you have even this result here. This is really the ultimate result. There are certain things where you really need this estimate. Okay, now we're talking about boundary values.
00:38:10.864 - 00:39:20.528, Speaker B: And one of the things Javad mentioned in his lectures last week in the Hardy space was that very often you can think of the Hardy space as a space of functions on the polymorphic functions on the open unit disk, but you can equally think of it as a space of functions on the unit circle. And sometimes it's better to do it that way because it allows you to bring in all the tools of harmonic analysis on the circle. And so you might wonder, what about the Dirichlet space? Can you do the same thing there? And one of the first questions you would ask is, well, is there a way of computing the Dirichlet integral of f purely in terms of the boundary values of f? And the answer is yes, you can see it in front of you here. This is a formula due to Jesse Douglas, and it appears actually in a very famous paper. This is his. It was a tool he used in his solution of the plateau problem, which actually won him one of the two inaugural fields medals in 1936. The other one went to Alfors, who was a student of Berlin.
00:39:20.528 - 00:40:11.168, Speaker B: So both those fields medals are somehow linked to the Dirichlet space, which is nice. The proof of this is actually not very difficult at all. I'm not going to stop to do it here, but it gives you a, a very usable expression for the Dirichlet integral, purely in terms of boundary values of the function. And it has some, some nice consequences. And here is one. And again, I'm not going to start to prove this, but again, it's not very difficult. From the diverse formula, you can prove that if f is in the Dirichlet space, then not only does it have non tangential limits almost everywhere, but oracyclic limits.
00:40:11.168 - 00:41:09.158, Speaker B: So the approach region, instead of being a cone which is not non tangential, is a disk that's tangential to the unit circle. And you can prove that at almost every point as you, for almost every Zeta, as you approach Zeta from within a domain like this, the limit exists. Now, you might ask whether oracyclic is really the best you can do. And actually, no, you can do better than that, even. This is a theorem of Nagel, Rudin and Shapiro. So if f, again, blast the Dirichlet space. And almost everywhere you have convergence as z tends to Zeta, even in this region.
00:41:09.158 - 00:42:05.114, Speaker B: So this, I didn't draw a picture, but it's a very, very tangential type of region, exponentially tangential. And this is actually the best you can do. This is part of the result. But it is an almost everywhere result, not a quasi everywhere result. And if you're interested in, well, I'll come back to this, perhaps right at the end of the chapter. Another thing one might be interested in is what happens if you factorize f in terms of its inner and outer factorization. So I think Javad mentioned this in passing in his lectures.
00:42:05.114 - 00:42:48.356, Speaker B: So if you're given any function in a hardy space, you can factorize it as a Blaschke product times singular inner function times an outer function. So I've written that b s singular o outer. And there's a remarkable formula for the Dirichlet integral in terms of these three factors. You separate them out. This is due to Carlson. So look at the first time, it looks very complicated. So this, the first term, takes care of the outer factor.
00:42:48.356 - 00:43:28.324, Speaker B: So if there were no inner factor, if the singular measure of s were just the zero measure, if there were no zeros in the Raschke product, then all you would have left would be the first term. So this would be the Dirichlet integral of an outer function. And often this is the way it actually gets used. And at first sight, it looks very similar to Douglass's formula, except it's more complicated and messy because you've got products of things and there are logs that appear. So what's, what have you gained out of this? Well, what you've gained is that in contrast with the Douglas formula. I'm just going to go back. Excuse me just a second.
00:43:28.324 - 00:44:08.670, Speaker B: What you've gained is that the, the new formula is expressed purely in terms of mod f star, not f star, but mod f star. So you don't need, so here you really need to know the argument of f star in order to be able to handle this. Whereas in the Carlson expression, you don't. It's expressed just in terms of mod f star. And for another function, basically, you have full control over mod f star. You can define it how you like. The only constraint is that log mod f star on the, on this unit circle has to be integral and mod f star has to be square integral.
00:44:08.670 - 00:44:36.504, Speaker B: And subject to that, you, you can define the outer function how you like. And this gives you a, an exact formula for its Dirichlet integral. It's, I think it's absolutely fantastic. It's a really remarkable result. And then on top of that, you can take care of the zeros in f in the blaschke product. And also, if there's a singular in a factor, the singular measure also here. So it's an exact formula.
00:44:36.504 - 00:45:26.600, Speaker B: Fantastic result. Now, here are a couple of very simple consequences that follow immediately. So, if f belongs to the Dirichlet space, then so does its alpha factor, because if you remove the unit factors, what happens is simply that the, the last integral disappears. You just get left with the first one. So the outer factor has a smaller Dirichlet integral than f itself. And another nice consequence is that if you're looking for inner functions in the Dirichlet space, well, purely inner functions, there are not many of them, because if f were an inner function, that would simply say that its outer factor is one, in which case the first integral just disappears. And here you have a one.
00:45:26.600 - 00:46:00.464, Speaker B: So you can just get rid of the mod f star here, and you're just left looking at the integral of these two things. And the second integral is always infinite, unless sigma is zero. So there is no singular inner factor. And the integral of the first term is, if you think about it, just the Poisson integral. So what you end up calculating is just a sum of ones. It's the value you get for the Dirichlet integral is just the number of zeros of f. So the only inner functions are finite flashcards.
00:46:00.464 - 00:46:46.126, Speaker B: That's the only way that the Dirichlet integral could be finite. Okay, so, I'll just finish today by mentioning a couple of further developments. And I'm sure people will have suggestions for other things that I should add into this list. So, this is very welcome, and I'll. I'll add them into the notes eventually. But here are a couple of things that occurred to me. So, there's a very beautiful result due to Alice Chang and Don Marshall that somehow makes even more precise the fact that f star can't have large, can't be large on large parts of the unit circle.
00:46:46.126 - 00:47:36.144, Speaker B: It's a very precise result. And the other thing I would mention is, as I said earlier, the theorem about exponential approach regions is an almost everywhere result, whereas the theorem about non tangential approach regions is a quasi everywhere result. And actually, there's a whole sliding scale of results where you trade off the width of the approach region with the size of the exceptional set. And so I mentioned a couple of references here. There's a work of Borichard and Toomey. Okay, so that concludes this chapter. And I think that's just a good point to stop for today.
00:47:36.144 - 00:48:31.126, Speaker B: I'll just react to a couple of things in the chat. So, Dima Havinson corrects me. Alphault was actually a student of Lindelof and northerner. I meant to check that before the lecture today, and I forgot. Anyway, and what is the best approach region known in the case of outer capacity, measure zero set for functions in the Dirichlet space. So I suggest that you have a look at these, these papers of Borichovn Toomey, which gives a very complete answer to that. Okay, so before I, I don't know if anyone wants to, I'll stop there and hand back to the, the chair.
00:48:31.126 - 00:48:40.794, Speaker B: But before I do that, let me just one more time, send the file. Those people who arrived late, apologies to everyone else.
00:48:55.354 - 00:48:57.186, Speaker A: There's one more question, Tom, in the.
00:48:57.210 - 00:49:45.594, Speaker B: Chat, do we have an exact value for the capacity of the cantor set? So the answer to that is no. And there's quite a lot of work being done on that. We have pretty good bounds to the extent that I think we know the value to something like 16 decimal places. And we even try to, I mean, I've worked on this myself. We even try to, there are sort of places where you can do a search where you, you give a number with enough decimal places and the program will tell you some analytic expression that is equal to this number. And we tried that, but no luck. So the answer to your question, my either, is no, we don't tell them exactly.
00:50:01.914 - 00:50:02.346, Speaker A: Do you?
00:50:02.370 - 00:50:02.578, Speaker B: Stop.
00:50:02.626 - 00:50:03.226, Speaker A: Come here.
00:50:03.290 - 00:50:05.814, Speaker B: Yeah, sorry, that's, that's the end. It's time.
00:50:06.994 - 00:50:29.294, Speaker A: Thank you very much. Let's thank the speaker. We have nine minutes before the next talk, but it's a friendly environment. If you have.
