00:00:00.760 - 00:00:50.870, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, thank you so much for coming on the podcast, Stefan. Really excited to have you here. We initially met in breakpoint and it was awesome to meet you and your team and overall, just super excited what you're building at squads, excited for the partnership that we're building out. But no, just excited to have you talk more about what you're building. Because I think, especially now at this point in time, self custody is more important now than ever. So I think to start off the podcast, I always try to start from the beginning and would love to just hear how you got involved in tech and then ultimately from there, how you got involved into crypto and blockchain.
00:00:51.810 - 00:01:15.950, Speaker B: Sure. And yeah, thanks for having me. I'm excited for our partnership. Excited to chat with you and kind of dive in into all things quads and what's happening. I think it's the right time to do this as well. My story is pretty strange. I haven't met too many people that did the transition from big law into tech and then crypto.
00:01:15.950 - 00:01:58.944, Speaker B: We just had this legal dinner in Lisbon with different lawyers from different teams. So there I met a bunch of people that did that as well. Yeah, I think it's an interesting story from a perspective that I never did. I'm not a developer, I never did any coding, but I did corporate m and a for about five years before doing this. I worked with some startups, helping them out from a legal side of things, but that was maximum of my exposure to tech at the time. And the first time I think I got into crypto, at least in some capacity, was around 2017. I was at Clifford Chance, one of the sort of larger UK law firms.
00:01:58.944 - 00:02:52.624, Speaker B: And bitcoin was booming, and clients started asking, how do we invest? What's blockchain? What are potential legal repercussions of doing that? I did some research for them at the time and learned some things myself. That was the initial exposure, I guess there were a few years a gap in between. And then around 2020, I started looking specifically at the governance space on ETH at the time, and sort of the idea there was. It was pretty clear to me how Defi could disrupt finance. And I was curious to see how sort of the governance tooling and the governance tooling space could disrupt what I was dealing with. And by then I already left sort of the larger firms and I had my own smaller private practice. I was dealing with sort of highs, mid net worth individuals, helping them structure asset ownership and do transactions and things like this.
00:02:52.624 - 00:03:30.842, Speaker B: And definitely there was tons of inefficiencies and so I turned to blockchain just to see maybe there is like, a solution out there that actually makes it better. And, yeah, so started looking into governance tools early 2020, and then spent a year doing that. And early 2021, kind of decided to transition to actually building things and started thinking about what could that be? And learned about Solana and, yeah, a couple of months stuck around the discord, and then the hackathon started and we kind of took off from there.
00:03:30.986 - 00:03:50.750, Speaker A: That's amazing. That's wild. Ultimately being in law and kind of transitioning into tech and then ultimately building tech company, that's a big jump. Have you found that there's been, like, any parallels from, like, the legal side of things to building a company?
00:03:52.170 - 00:04:47.664, Speaker B: I mean, I like to preface this by saying I actually really don't like consulting in general. So I think that I was thinking a lot about doing something else right. So definitely having experience doing consulting helped in running a company because you kind of, the feeling of being in the arena and actually like going at it is a lot more fun, a lot more stressful in some ways, but a lot more fun. And yes, I think there are some parallels. There are more parallels with me running my private practice that I did for a few years as well, that seemed more familiar, and it was already kind of decentralized for me. I had employees in different places and I was getting into it, I guess, but it's still, there's a learning curve. A lot of the experiences I had in the last year and a half have been, for sure, first time experiences.
00:04:47.664 - 00:05:20.020, Speaker B: But I think one thing that helped a lot is in law, you have to be very meticulous with details. You need to review all the documents and make sure that everything is just so and things are not missed. That is helping me throughout whatever we do, whether it's the operational side of things, whether it's content, its product, like, it's relevant everywhere. So for sure, I'm glad that I spent a couple of years staying in the office till 05:00 a.m. reading documents. And that's been helpful.
00:05:20.560 - 00:06:04.100, Speaker A: Yeah. A lot of the people that I have met have kind of either been through the fire in some sense. My co founder ultimately did investment banking, and whether it's legal or tech or investment banking, whatever it may be, you have to put in your 10,000 hours to get those reps under your belt. Super cool that you came at it from the law background. What, in 2020 ultimately inspired you again to come back into the crypto space? Was there anything in particular that caught your eye and what drew you back in?
00:06:05.200 - 00:06:30.002, Speaker B: It was actually more external. It was more like, I really want to learn what's going on there because I haven't heard in a while anything about it. And specifically think. I think, yeah, there was something around Daos. I'm not sure what it was. Maybe it was like a YouTube video from a 16 z crypto startup school or something where they would talk about benefits of dowsing. Yeah, something like that.
00:06:30.002 - 00:06:57.374, Speaker B: And I think that kind of made me go back in and take a look. And at the time, it was just like, Aragon compound, Governor Bravo, some of the earlier tools, like colony. So a lot has changed since then, and I'm glad I kind of got back into around 2020 to actually see kind of transition from all in one governance tooling to modular. And that in many ways also helped to shape what we ended up building.
00:06:57.422 - 00:07:11.930, Speaker A: With squads moving forward, definitely. So maybe to jump into squads. Could you kind of share the squad's vision ultimately why you decided to build the protocol?
00:07:12.670 - 00:07:43.110, Speaker B: Sure. I mean, we did a lot of, like, we navigated the idea mas, I think, pretty well in the last year and a half, but there's been a lot of navigation and turns and things. I think, like, the very original idea for squads at the time was around this kind of. I think for the hackathon, it was even like mobile first, and we were trying to just make group chat with a bank account, sort of like telegram with a multi site. That was like the very original idea.
00:07:43.490 - 00:07:45.906, Speaker A: Where was the first hackathon that you're at?
00:07:46.098 - 00:08:11.292, Speaker B: That was Solana season hackathon that they did in May 2021. I mean, it was online like, it wasn't in person. But that's where I met Sean, my co founder, and Danny. I knew from back in day, we're old friends, and so all three of us kind of came together there, and we kind of realized that. So that was like the very original idea. Group chat with a bank account. And then we started moving towards, okay, well, it needs to be, obviously desktop first.
00:08:11.292 - 00:09:06.178, Speaker B: And then as we were kind of going along, we realized we were going kind of lower and lower in terms of layers of infrastructure and realizing that Solana is so new that kind of, by Christmas 2021, we were like, okay, we have to build the core infra because it doesn't exist. And for us to actually realize the product vision that we had very much back in the day, we actually need to, if we do want to do that, in end, we need to build all the layers before. And so we started in the ecosystem at the time didn't really have a multi six standard. It could rely on like a smart contract wallet standard. And so we started building that. And there is still the vision for squads today is that it's a very agnostic multi signature infrastructure layer for Solana. Multi signature, also something we are potentially going to make even broader by starting to refer to smart contract wallet infrastructure.
00:09:06.178 - 00:10:21.830, Speaker B: I like that just because it can be a multi sig, it can be other things, just because of hackmaster, because I always say that in all the interviews on Twitter that it's agnostic. What I mean by that is that you can really do, it's very programmable, you can really do anything with it and kind of tailor it towards the needs of your team, your users who are using it for your product. And so the way we think about squad is that there's the protocol layer, which is this basically piece of code that's secure, reliable, very modular, has a lot of functionality that you can shape towards your needs. And then there's the product layer, which is a UI, a very dedicated product experience that we're delivering to Solana ecosystem that it needs today. And it's primarily focused on teams and builders doing things in Solana. And so a lot of it is about managing core on chain assets, like treasury programs, tokens, workflows, validators. So the idea behind it is that, like you're a project that's starting to build something on Solana, you can rely on squads as your core infra to manage different assets as they sort of come and go to you as a team, as a project, throughout the lifetime of your existence.
00:10:21.830 - 00:11:02.498, Speaker B: So you join a hackathon, you get a Grant, you put it in the multi seg, you launch on Mainnet, you transfer that authority to the squad, you decide to mint your token and start vesting it. You mint it directly from the squad, and then through integrations, you can vest it to investors, employees, and whoever you want to vest it to. And then as you kind of decide, okay, where to decentralize, you can spin up a governance instance on realms, for instance, and start transferring those assets to the community. And then you can rely on squads to actually utilize it as a subdiv framework for your dao as you kind of progress. So we really try to be there for all parts of lifecycle, our project, and so far so good.
00:11:02.674 - 00:11:21.370, Speaker A: That's awesome. A lot in there. Let's start. Ultimately, I always find it fascinating. I think today, one of the hard parts of blockchains, more broadly, is that there's so many different blockchains. There's ethereum, which I think a lot of us ultimately got started with. Ultimately, Solana came in.
00:11:21.370 - 00:11:39.650, Speaker A: Now there's Avax, swe, aptos, a bunch. Ultimately, how did you and your team decide to choose the Solana ecosystem to build the squad's product?
00:11:40.970 - 00:12:12.956, Speaker B: Right. That's a great question. I've been actually thinking about this for a few weeks now, trying to remember how it all happened. And I think, like, to be honest, it was really organic. I was in a position where I wanted to realize a certain vision. I had kind of a lot of business background, legal background, but non technical. And my approach was to kind of get, get, you know, get out there and talk to as many people as possible about ideas I have, about kind of the vision that I have.
00:12:12.956 - 00:12:27.480, Speaker B: And I joined a bunch of discords. I joined some of, like, ethereum developer related discords, stacks discord. That's the bitcoin, I think, smart contract layer. Yes. And then. Yeah, a bunch of others. And Solana.
00:12:27.480 - 00:13:04.474, Speaker B: Solana as well. And it just seemed really vibrant. Like, there were so many developers that wanted to do stuff and wanted to build things, and so it seemed like sharing, exchanging ideas and concepts was, like, the friendliest. The friendliest space for that was Solana discord at the time. And so that's what led us to meet Sean, to meet Bastian, our core developer that has been with us since. And so that already happened organically. And so, you know, kind of one thing led to the other, and we realized, oh, we're actually building this on Solana, and that's happening.
00:13:04.474 - 00:13:18.990, Speaker B: And then, you know, then one thing led to the other, like, oh, we're actually raising, you know, the first round, and we're going full time. So all of it kind of really happened naturally. We wasn't, like, meticulous planning that got us there.
00:13:19.290 - 00:14:23.330, Speaker A: That's awesome. No, it's been interesting. I've been talking with a lot of different founders, and I'm always curious because there's a lot of different options now today, and I think now more than ever, it's still extremely important to essentially choose the correct one. And it's not always easy or obvious in the beginning. So ultimately, I'm super excited that you and the team, the squad's team are building on Solana, obviously very large fans of the Solana ecosystem, and so excited for you and the squads, team and Solana to kind of grow together. But out that another thing that you said that caught my eye was ultimately debility, or instead of just describing squads as a multisig kind of more as a smart contract wallet. Could you dive into why you kind of want to reframe it and some of the new possibilities that you're building within the squad's ecosystem?
00:14:24.270 - 00:15:15.240, Speaker B: I think that's a great question. I think the whole rebranding or adjustment of messaging comes from us learning more about the infrastructure we are building ourselves and about the users that come along and broaden the use cases for us. Originally, multisigs have been thought of as wallets because they were there to hold your treasury assets, and that was that. And so we would refer to it as a multisig wallet. Then we started exploring managing program upgrades, managing validators, managing tokens, a lot more things. And so we started saying, well, maybe it's more of a consensus mechanism than it is a wallet, because once you get into program stuff, that's not really treasury. And so then for a while, we were calling it internally like a consensus mechanism on a sort of team level.
00:15:15.240 - 00:16:25.470, Speaker B: And then now, as we're like, everything that happened the last few weeks kind of reinvigorated the discussion around self custody and making self custody easier for kind of retail users and those that are not in web3 yet. And so I think smart contract wallets has just given a kind of broader way to describe it, where it's not necessarily about kind of managing things together or about managing even these kind of core assets. It can be about just, you can utilize the same infrastructure to create individual wallets that, for instance, don't have seed phrases, have social recovery. And so that kind of goes into the account abstraction territory, because basically a multisig is already an example of account abstraction, where you kind of separate the signer key, and then there's the contract itself that holds the assets. And so we're thinking that direction a bit more and trying to understand how can we position the infrastructure that we have. So it's welcoming towards building these kind of things on top of it as well.
00:16:26.610 - 00:17:31.896, Speaker A: I love that. I think ultimately, the ownership over private key management, I would still say is one of the hardest issues, and I'd say even highlighted by kind of FTX with, and I mean people more broadly just kind of holding crypto assets on exchanges. And I would say either being afraid or not understanding the private key management and being afraid to kind of move their, exchange, their assets off the exchange, or just like either that or there's just not enticing applications yet for them to, like, learn and kind of get over the hurdle. But I'm super excited. Ultimately that squads is kind of reframing the problem in some sense to address kind of a bigger issue in the space and also the social recovery. I've always found that fascinating about wallets, because if you ask the normal person to write down a twelve or 24 seed phrase word and be like, all right, this is your piece of paper, don't lose it. If you lose it, you're screwed.
00:17:31.896 - 00:17:36.060, Speaker A: And so the social recovery makes a lot more sense in my eyes as well.
00:17:37.200 - 00:18:26.848, Speaker B: Yeah, I think two things that come to mind on all of this. One is that I don't think that I've been talking to a bunch of people that have worked in very large web, two startups that grown, and I was just really curious about their OPSEC practices. They obviously don't use a multiseq for things. How do you manage your core network architecture, infrastructure and this kind of thing? The answer is that always it's tied to a person. And so there would be a security company that verifies that this person is actually the right one and they would get some kind of key access or token that allows them to manage it. I don't think that's a perfect system, and I think it makes sense to me that it's hard to rethink it. We have cryptography, all this new infrastructure, that's great.
00:18:26.848 - 00:19:25.596, Speaker B: And so it's fine that it takes time and kind of trial and error. I think the second point is that today it's kind of binary. It's either you use self custody or you rely on centralized custodians. I think what we will see in the next few years as it develops is that it's going to become a kind of spectrum that you can navigate with your wallet, in a sense that you will opt in to give certain level of control over your assets or over your wallet in general to a certain provider that you want to service from. You want fiat on off ramp, so you give a certain level of control to them and you want to be able to have overdraft, borrow things to then purchase them right away. That's another layer of this, the dapp that you're interacting with to be able to recover your assets. So you need to give them some level of control as well.
00:19:25.596 - 00:20:09.182, Speaker B: And you can kind of go along throughout your web3 journey interacting with these things, kind of picking and choosing, and then you can obviously reclaim it back. And I think that's where programmability of smart contract wallets and the nature of account abstraction really make it possible. And so I think that's very early. We're not really exploring that too far along yet, just because we definitely tried to do an iterative approach because Solana is still pretty early, even in terms of general multi seg adoption. So that's the primary objective. But thinking ahead, this is definitely something we're. And there's a bunch of projects already on Solana that are looking into building in that space and thinking about the kind of traction that's for wallets.
00:20:09.182 - 00:20:18.520, Speaker B: And we're in touch with them in terms of us helping them out with our infrastructure and utilizing it for different kinds of products.
00:20:19.100 - 00:21:08.082, Speaker A: Yeah, different levels of permissions for different types of assets or even different types of applications. Totally makes sense. And it is funny, like you mentioned, like a lot of these things even, I mean, Solana, but more broadly, just the crypto ecosystem, the amount of users just using these applications is so little. I think sometimes we forget how early we actually are. And even some of these basic things that you're like, oh, yeah, that obviously should be the case, do not exist yet. And so I'm glad that you and the squads team are thinking about it, because ultimately, to onboard a billion people, these are definitely the type of things and products that need to be built to get to that point. So maybe kind of continuing on just some of the products that you and the squads team are building.
00:21:08.082 - 00:21:22.160, Speaker A: You mentioned treasury, like program management, even like workflow management. Could you kind of break apart those three and kind of the goal or vision that you're with each of those core products?
00:21:22.980 - 00:22:01.860, Speaker B: Right. So they all like make come together basically in the product experience that we deliver today. I think, like treasury management is pretty basic in terms of what teams rely on today because majority of treasuries are kind of vc raised or grant funds. So there isn't that much to manage. There's usually they want to safely store them and then do payroll or pay costs for things. So that's like treasury management side. It's more about providing them with a core multi sig infrastructure that they can trust and rely on to hold their assets, as opposed to doing that with centralized custodians or banks.
00:22:01.860 - 00:22:55.690, Speaker B: And so treasury management is pretty basic today, but we expect it to get more complicated, potentially as kind of more complicated payroll gets on chain as well as just, I think teams today, they still kind of diversify in terms of where they hold their treasuries. So some of it is still in banks, some of it is maybe on Ethereum, some of it on Solana. It's kind of more of those treasuries get on Solana, and it can get more interesting on that front. I think in terms of programs, that's definitely the killer use case today, because with treasuries they have a choice, and with programs they don't like, it needs to be on the game somewhere and so on. And so the options are, have a single key that manages it. That's a single point of failure. And program upgrades, to give you context, is basically that kind of key that allows you to completely change the whole program however you might want to.
00:22:55.690 - 00:23:46.390, Speaker B: The stakes are high. If it's a program that contains a lot of TVL, it needs to be stored securely. And the flow that we provide in the product is centered around the idea that even if you trust your teammates, you still would want more visibility into that process, and you want control of that. Maybe the most important asset that you have to be decentralized to be under control of multiple keys, even from security perspective, so there aren't any accidents. But also that, because it's kind of a joint decision to upgrade our main program. And so I think because majority of Solana programs are upgradable, so they're not immutable, there's like a whole other discussion that is happening right now, and that we're having that internally as well. But I think generally, program management is essential.
00:23:46.390 - 00:24:36.680, Speaker B: And we have seen in the last few weeks, kind of another wave of protocols transitioning to using squads for this. And I mean, for us, it's the most complicated job that we were trying to do, particularly with v three. The most recent version was around kind of selling the standard, like convincing the ecosystem and doing everything right, that this is the piece of code you can trust with your program or with your temporary. And so we're still very much iterating on it, but we had a very clear roadmap on what we wanted to do on the security side, on the architectural side that we're performing. And I think the first chapter of this should be completed by the year. It's kind of a new year present for me. We'll.
00:24:36.680 - 00:25:13.094, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's how we're seeing it. And then I. Workflow management is just this very abstract term. So basically, there are certain workflows that your team might want to manage through a multisig when it comes to managing your own protocol. For instance, if you're an oracle and you need to approve new publishers and new price feeds, you might want to do that together or have a dedicated part of the team that's responsible for this. And so they would jointly approve it as opposed to just doing that individually. So that's just like one example.
00:25:13.094 - 00:25:50.420, Speaker B: And to facilitate that, we have the transaction builder that basically allows you to create custom transactions and populate them with average instructions so you can really interact with any program on Solana with your multisec. And so really is a playground for developers to create these things. And then sometimes they reach out and ask us to create certain templates to make it easier to interact with a specific program and do certain things. So we do that as well. We have a bunch of templates there right now. We did a few of them for Jitto guys to manage their stake pool program and other things as well. So that's been also one of the interesting streams for us, for sure.
00:25:50.720 - 00:26:36.660, Speaker A: Nice. Yeah, it's interesting. I mean, even just recently, again, kind of with the FTX fallout with serum, we saw kind of the community come together for serum, because that contract upgrade key, I believe, was an individual instead of the company, or even people outside of the company being able to upgrade that contract. So again, squads would have come in and be able to provide a much better solution, ultimately having multiple people, at least, ultimately being able to sign, and then a couple extra steps of oversight there instead of one individual.
00:26:38.000 - 00:27:15.100, Speaker B: Absolutely. And it's not just like security. Sometimes it's ux. For instance, we're working right now on the integration with Wordcell, where for instance, with word cell, the idea that right now you link your wordl account to an individual key, if you want to transfer it to somebody else, you need to give them control of the wallet. If that was a multisig, it could be multisig with three signers, one out of three threshold. So always one key would be able to post things, but you never need to. If you want to transfer the account to somebody, you just swap them out on the multisig as opposed to transferring the wallet to somebody.
00:27:15.100 - 00:27:20.140, Speaker B: It's not just about security. Potential enhancements and things like this is definitely relevant as well.
00:27:20.320 - 00:27:47.530, Speaker A: Interesting. There's a lot of cool things that you guys are working on. I would say, out from the product perspective and user experience, what do you feel like is going to be some of the larger or biggest challenges that you've seen today for people just to adopt some of the multi SIG standards or to either create easier to use products for just people in crypto more broadly?
00:27:48.830 - 00:28:53.286, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it really depends on the type of the user. I think these kind of more advanced teams that use program management features and more complex things for them, they have different problems basically, than just regular retail user. I think the problems we're trying to solve today are very much around balancing security and kind of features, because a lot of the features that we want to introduce, like, for instance, dynamic thresholds for different types of transactions, that's a great UX improvement, and many teams want it. At the same time, we want the core multisig program to be very minimal, very rigid, so that it's like 600 lines of code, really easy to review, really easy to formally verify, and that's it. Right. I, for some teams, there's a certain level of comfort knowing that it's a very simple program, so worst case, they can review it themselves. And so that's like the hardest balancing act when it comes to solving for Ux as opposed to keeping it.
00:28:53.286 - 00:29:49.462, Speaker B: And so the solution that we came up with, the only thing we came up with is that it's like continuous iteration, but with cutoff dates. So, for instance, we already know in our heads where V three will be when we formally verify it and freeze it and which features it will support. And we're already working on V four, which will be a separate program which will have a larger code base and we'll have more features. And so we can, like, we built it up to a place, we cut it off. So, like, when we're certain that it's complete and done and secure and formally verified, and we move on to the next one, and like, maybe it will never end, maybe after a couple of versions it will be complete. And we're also trying to solve that by doing a modular architecture where there's a lot of companion programs around the main squads program. So we're never contributing to the main code base, but actually building different modules around so we don't need to touch the core logic.
00:29:49.462 - 00:30:00.970, Speaker B: And so we try not to touch it at all, again for like the purpose of security. And, yeah, so that's like more on the more advanced user side for sure.
00:30:01.390 - 00:30:38.890, Speaker A: On the topic of security, I think that's kind of the other kind of hurdle people in their minds probably have to get over with feeling comfortable with holding their assets on these programs or using multisig and trusting the multisig. I know you and the Ottersec team ultimately gave a presentation at breakpoint on formal verification on a high level. Could you kind of just touch upon some of the aspects of that formal verification and how they contribute to security?
00:30:40.630 - 00:31:41.444, Speaker B: For sure. I mean, it's been like a huge focus for us the last few months. And the reason formal verification came about is we were thinking, okay, what's this final frontier for making sure that squats code bases as secure as it can be? And we did a bunch of audits on autosac as our ongoing security partners or whatever, every companion program, everything we send their way to check. But formal verification is this basically higher level avoided, where you kind of break down the code into math and you prove that certain things are possible and certain things are not possible in the code base. That's how I understand it with my legal non developer mind, really. It's Robert doing all the work, and the auto SEC team, and we are just in constant sort of contact with them, trying to make it easier for them, because we obviously also iterate on the program. And the reason it's a complicated task for everybody involved is because Solana is pretty new.
00:31:41.444 - 00:32:23.110, Speaker B: And so there isn't really a framework for specifically form verifying Solana programs. There are frameworks for us like Kanye and Prushti that allowed to do that, but nobody has meaningfully did a deep dive and actually formally verified a Solana program. So we're hoping that squads will open floodgates for this as well. Bear in mind that, again, the reason it's possible is because squads is very small, it's very minimal program. So there aren't that many things that you need to formally verify. If it's a few thousand lines of code and there's a lot of complicated logic, it just, it's possible as well that it will take very long. Like, it's even for us, it's taken a while, a few months, right, to get it done.
00:32:23.110 - 00:33:12.376, Speaker B: And so for us, after it's formally verified, we will make it immutable. And so with that statement, we want to do, we want to try and lead the way in the ecosystem in the sense that trying to convey that those two things actually very important for pretty much any program to get formally verified and eventually become immutable. And so that's very important for us to. And that's why we did a presentation breakpoint, because we think it's essential, and we don't want to encourage more projects to think about immutability, as well as think about at least formally verifying parts of the code base. And, yeah, and so Robert is having a bunch of sleepless nights and days and weeks getting it done. But, yeah, that's my new year present.
00:33:12.568 - 00:34:14.920, Speaker A: I'm hoping that's awesome. Been talking with Robert quite a bit and definitely plan to get him on the podcast as well and do a deep dive on the formal verification, but no, I think how you're approaching it, being able to mathematically approve or essentially state that this is secure, ultimately modularizing the code base so you can ossify kind of the specific contracts so you know those don't change and then kind of allowing other applications to integrate with it. It is super fascinating. Can you talk about. So you talked about kind of the workflow, treasury management, program management, but you have a couple other projects that are kind of under the squads umbrella with like the squad command line interface. And I don't know if you have talked about it at all, but squads x, could you touch upon both of those as well?
00:34:15.940 - 00:34:43.770, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. I think, yeah. So the CLI interface, the CLI package that we have is just this very simple command line interface for squads for like the very pro users. We actually shipped it during breakpoint together with an immutable version of the program. We called it the based Multisig. It has its own nice kind of cyberpunkish landing page. It's really for those users that is squads upgradable.
00:34:43.770 - 00:35:29.546, Speaker B: We're like, well, the current version still is, but if you care about this sort of thing, here's the non upgradable version as well. And it doesn't have a UI, but it has a CLI because we feel like if you care enough about it, you should navigate the CLI. The squad zacks, we can actually announced it yet. It's kind of in private beta right now. We're testing it internally. And the short of it is that it's. I don't want to comment too much on this yet, just because it's kind of sort of, but I can tell you that, like, it's a UX improvement, additional tool that improves the UX of how you interact with your multiseq with other protocols on Solana.
00:35:29.546 - 00:35:53.096, Speaker B: And the core idea behind it is that, like, we're trying to make it as easy as possible for you, the user of our smart contract wallet, to be able to do anything that you can do with Phantom or with glow or the backpack, to be able to do that with your multi stick. So I think that's where we can kind of seal it off for now, but we'll also announce things.
00:35:53.248 - 00:36:26.270, Speaker A: Cool. No, super excited for everything, ultimately that the squads team is doing. One thing I would love to continue to dive deeper into is on like the application front. So you've announced kind of multiple partnerships as of recently, or applications also integrating with squads. Could you talk about how that works? And kind of, again, like some of the goals or vision that you're trying to achieve with those partnerships.
00:36:27.610 - 00:37:07.866, Speaker B: Right. So those partnerships are usually like, there's multiple kind of inspirations for them. I think one is, the main one is that with V three specifically, we try to be as user driven as possible, as much as possible for this, for sure. And the way it works is that we have scs that's like a collective of teams that use squads and help us kind of refine it and move the product forward. And so a lot of the integrations and features that you see are driven by them. Like, they would ask us for a specific feature, and if there's, like, enough interest across the board, we would implement it. The other part is kind of business development.
00:37:07.866 - 00:38:09.240, Speaker B: For instance, there would be a very large project that would say, we want to use your multisig for treasure management, for program upgrades, but we obviously want to, for instance, manage our treasury through our own protocol. And so that also calls for an integration if you feel like that's important enough to get them on board. So those are probably two main ones. The way it works is interesting is because with v two, every integration that we've done was hard coded in, and so it took a while and involved the alteration of the on chain code, with V three, again being agnostic, which is great. Everything is just an arbitrary instruction from the on chain level perspective. And so every integration that we do is just a different UI frontend wrapper on top of an arbitrary instruction. And so that sense we really just do front end work when we talk about doing an integration, which is a huge relief, right? And again, contributes to security of things that are happening.
00:38:09.240 - 00:38:34.274, Speaker B: Some of the highlights. So we've got a lot of staking integrations. We've done the jitto liquid staking. We integrated the stakewiz, a platform that lain, the validator operates. And so you can really stake with any Solana validator directly from your multisig. We did the dead God staking as well. So that was just like requested a lot because people wanted to hold their.
00:38:34.274 - 00:39:08.424, Speaker B: That goes on the multisig. At the same time, we wanted to stake them, right? And so we had to accommodate the dust. Labs guys have been super helpful in getting it across the board. We also have the magic Eden integration that allows you to buy nfts directly with your multisig. And we're about to ship, like the sell feature as well, as well as the auction and things like this. Then there's apps. So we did Soland, we did site options and friction, so you can diversify a treasury directly from the multisig.
00:39:08.424 - 00:39:55.432, Speaker B: And those are like iframe apps. So they basically have a little in app browser within squad that allows you to kind of interact with their interfaces. And when you connect and when you open it, it shows that the squad is like the connected wallet instead of a traditional wallet. And then there's like smaller integrations that we did on the NFT side with cardinal for rentals, for instance. So, like, if you have. If you hold nfts in the multisig, but you still want to do, you know, past discord gates, do the community things that utility of that nifty brings, so you can rent it out via cardinal from your multiseq vault to your hot wallet, and then do things that you want to do. Then there's obviously dialect integration that allows you to get notified on multi transactions.
00:39:55.432 - 00:40:19.390, Speaker B: I think that's like, the most amazing thing is when I talk to people from other ecosystems, specifically like Ethereum, that thing gets them, like, going. That thing gets them amazed that, oh, you can get like a, you know, telegram message or an email or a text message that you need to sign this Maldives transaction, that seems to be the killer use case for them. And, yeah, a lot of teams rely on that, Lex, for sure.
00:40:20.170 - 00:40:47.640, Speaker A: Why? I mean, yeah, on, like, ethereum per se. I used to be more of an eth maxi at one point in time, but I've. I've just learned a lot about the tech to kind of continue to remain at EtH maxi. But why are some of these things, like, in your point of view, just much harder on the Ethereum ecosystem to build? Or, like, why did you not build squads on Ethereum versus trying building it ultimately on Solana.
00:40:50.140 - 00:42:05.390, Speaker B: I think if we were to make a decision, like, if there was a point where we had to, like, you know, which ecosystem we go to build things in, I think, like, Ethereum has a very reliable, smart contract wallet standard that's been around for a while, and that's very much trusted and Lindy by now. And I think the safe team is great. And, you know, if today I had to make the choice, today I realized that I really like building infrastructure. I like building the whole stack as opposed to parts of it, at least at the outset. On Ethereum, if we would want to do something like this, we would actually go into just the product layer and build it on top of safe, which is also very interesting. But if I have an opportunity to own the stack and focus on all parts of it, that potentially is more fun for us to focus on today. And then Solana itself, though, kind of allows us to bring, like, for instance, a lot of the things that you do with your safe on Ethereum, you either rely on the gnosis chain that they have, or there's like, I think aspects of it are off chain completely.
00:42:05.390 - 00:42:59.518, Speaker B: I think on Solana, it allows us to have everything on chain and it doesn't compromise any uX. And potentially it is easier for, you know, from the kind of integration perspective for certain things. It basically, having everything on chain from many perspectives makes it a better ux for us in terms of doing integrations and iterating on the protocol as well as for users and partners that integrate with us. Yeah, I think, I've never been on Ethereum, Maxi, but I think a lot of the things that are happening there are very interesting. And I think in the end, there will be a way that two ecosystems complement each other more than what's happening today. But I think, yeah, definitely today we're very much focused on Solana. And within those, there's a clear problem.
00:42:59.518 - 00:43:09.400, Speaker B: There's a clear user that wants to have, that needs a specific piece of infra, and we're excited to be bringing it right here and now.
00:43:09.820 - 00:43:41.670, Speaker A: That's amazing. Yeah. I remember ultimately trying to set up like a Genesis multisig on Solana during the bull market, but the ETH gas fees were just so high. I think it was like 500 or $1,000 ultimately to set up this multi sig on Ethereum. And one thing that I initially captured my eye about Solana is just how cheap everything was. Fractions of a penny. How much ultimately, on average, does it cost to set up a squads multisig on Slana?
00:43:44.130 - 00:44:49.952, Speaker B: I mean, it's flexible depending on the size, but if it's like up to 15 numbers, I think you'll land at around 0.045. I mean, it's pretty cheap, to be fair. Today, deploying a safe on ETH is on Ethereum. Mainnet is also not a huge fee, but at the time it was prohibitive for me as well. I think when it comes to things like safe, if you're deploying a multi sig, you probably have a pretty good reason to, and you want to have certain security for certain assets. I think where Ethereum is a bit more prohibitive is when you want to play around with things if you want to just if you're very new and you want to test, you want to play around with Uniswap or do things with lending protocols. I think that's where Solana initially had a huge advantage for all of users and for me as well, even to test those core defi primitives and understand how they work and get excited about them.
00:44:49.952 - 00:44:54.128, Speaker B: It's easier when the pricing of the install is not prohibited. For sure.
00:44:54.224 - 00:45:29.696, Speaker A: For sure. No, I mean, ultimately I, and that's why I think I got frustrated with, like, the blockchain ecosystem and started, like, studying the different scaling solutions so heavily because I think the technology is so cool. And ultimately you're not going to be able, you're not, you're not, you're never an expert from the beginning. You have to play around with things. You have to test things, you have to sign with a private key, you have to set up the multisig, you have to use dapps. And if it's so expensive, that that's just like prohibitive. It kind of made me sad.
00:45:29.696 - 00:46:17.460, Speaker A: And that's why I was so excited ultimately when I dug deeper into the sono ecosystem and I was like, oh, this is like, actually a legitimate alternative and that, like, will actually scale. So it's been fun kind of following along with the ecosystem, but it's definitely been challenging as of recently, has any of the recent events, say, with FTX change your point of view on Solana or the Solana ecosystem? Because I think now a lot of, at least in the news or the clickbait articles, it says, like, everybody's leaving Solana, it's going to zero. So curious to get your thoughts around. Yeah. The state of the salon ecosystem.
00:46:21.640 - 00:47:26.070, Speaker B: Yeah, I think, like, I think for us, nothing has changed. Like, the only thing that changed is, like, more people realize that they need to rely on self custody tools and that they need ones with good ux, I think there's a lot of concerns on Twitter and different articles around, like, what's going to happen to Solana. I'm not worried, nor is the squad's team, nor any of our partners or investors. Like, everybody's kind of really doubling down and kind of sincerely believing that what happened with FTX is@worst.net neutral for the ecosystem and very likely net positive. And I think in general, it only highlighted the strengths of the ecosystem. And the timing of it, luckily, was right after breakpoint, at least, where we all got to get together and talk to each other and meet each other and learn about what everybody's building and get actually really excited about the ecosystem at large.
00:47:26.070 - 00:48:22.502, Speaker B: Like, with everything that an Tollie and the jump guys with Fire Dancer have mentioned, what's happening on the kind of the very foundational layer of Solana, as well as all the new projects and apps that are coming on board as well. So I think there's a lot of things to be excited about. The ecosystem today feels very much connected, and people help each other out, and the Openbook example is great. A bunch of protocols that potentially can be competitors came together to rebuild this foundational piece of infrastructure that they all need to operate. So I think, yeah, I mean, the fundamentals around Solana haven't changed. And if only the recent events just, like, highlighted why we're all here, why we're all kind of chose Solana. And, yeah, I mean, we're definitely excited to see what's happening in the coming sort of weeks and months.
00:48:22.502 - 00:48:48.790, Speaker B: And to be honest, I get a lot of, while I read all these news, I also get people reaching out to me directly or kind of asking basically advice about the ecosystem, thinking that they want to get more involved. And there's, like, potentially larger players that are exploring coming in from kind of what kind of. From my perspective. So I think definitely there's a lot of reasons. There are a lot of reasons to be excited about Solana.
00:48:49.210 - 00:48:57.320, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I couldn't agree more. It was interesting. I mean, I think. Were you at breakpoint last year?
00:48:57.780 - 00:49:00.356, Speaker B: No, I actually wasn't microfounded. Daniel was. Yeah.
00:49:00.428 - 00:49:46.688, Speaker A: Okay. Breakpoint last year was funny. After, personally, after reading a bunch about Solana and it kind of being the first, like, large conference that they held, I was like, I have to go. Uncoincidentally, or coincidentally, ultimately, breakpoint last year kind of marked the picotop. And so it was funny just being there and everybody kind of euphoric and super excited. And I was definitely interested this year to see how the breakpoint conference would go, just with kind of being in a bear market. And I was surprised because so many engineers, so many builders, the hacker houses, even preceding the breakpoint event, the energy was quite electric.
00:49:46.688 - 00:50:19.520, Speaker A: People were excited to be there, people were showing off different demos, but it was really even a stronger community presence than I felt in the breakpoint the prior year. The funny thing is, the day after is when FTX ultimately imploded. And I would say for the people that were still in Portugal, the vibe definitely changed. But it was exciting to see that ultimately people were excited in building on Solana.
00:50:20.610 - 00:51:15.320, Speaker B: Absolutely. And I think it was a much more builder focused conference. There was less noise, and it was really focused on the very core things. And we decided consciously to go bigger at breakpoint leading up to it from a perspective that we identified pretty much early on with v three, that breakpoint will very likely have all of our core user base out there, and we definitely wanted to cater to them. And so the talks that we did, some other things that we also ended up doing at breakpoint, we very much driven by the fact that we understood that it will be a builder's conference and that those are users we want to attract first. And that paid off for us, I think, in many ways. And then, yeah, the fact that it happened the next day with FTX definitely was.
00:51:15.320 - 00:51:19.960, Speaker B: Yeah, just shows the cyclical nature of.
00:51:21.660 - 00:52:07.950, Speaker A: Picotop from 2021 to almost pico bottom, at least hopefully in 2022. But I highly, highly recommend anybody that's involved in the Solana ecosystem, or even people that are just curious and wanting to learn more to. Definitely a trend, either the Solana hackathons, but if they can, the breakpoint event, just because it is so cool to be able to meet the engineers and I think you and the squad teams did a fantastic job of one, just your talks on stage, and then ultimately just your presence. I was able to meet a lot of people on the squads team, and I was personally just super excited to talk to him. So your presence was definitely well known there.
00:52:08.840 - 00:52:19.420, Speaker B: I appreciate it. Yeah. And the events that we did, it was also very exciting for us just to meet everybody and, yeah, it was a fantastic event, for sure.
00:52:21.040 - 00:52:56.690, Speaker A: Yeah. It's been fun to just watch the progress, I would say, going forward for this next year and kind of with some of the noise removed from the bull market now, just kind of reiterating the focus again on actual building and creating products and users love. What are some things that you would like to see happen in squads kind of for this coming year, or something that you would like to see happen in the sauna ecosystem more broadly?
00:52:58.150 - 00:54:25.410, Speaker B: I think with squads. I want to validate my thesis that I mentioned earlier around getting to a point with a certain version, cutting it off, formally verifying it, making it non upgradable, and moving on to the next one, and seeing how that works from a perspective of attracting more users and how that also helps us to develop a code base that's supposed to be complex but yet needs to be very secure. And I'm curious to see how that approach goes forward. I feel like what I definitely want to see is to create a baseline with v three, specifically that this is a very simple standard that you can build on top of, you can rely on to hold your assets on chain, and I definitely want to see more assets flowing into Solana and just being held on Solana, because I think having a reliable infrastructure to do that definitely will help kind of the general public to be more comfortable in holding assets on Solana. I think also that pairs really well with work that Solana itself has been doing in terms of working on performance and resolving technical debt that was created during the bull run. So I think all of that combined is very interesting for me, sort of seeing where that goes. As probably everybody mentions, I'm super excited about fire dancer, for sure.
00:54:25.410 - 00:55:16.920, Speaker B: Also very excited about Solana Mobile. When I first heard about Saga, I wasn't certain how I feel. And as I was learning more about it and I got to play with it at breakpoint and talk to the guys that are building it who are amazing, I became really, I'm really bullish now, and we're building our own mobile app for Saga as we speak and trying to get it out as soon as possible and make sure that it's there from day one. So super interested in seeing how that transforms things as well, but also from a self custody perspective, because to me, that's also a great value prop. It's a ledger, but it's also a phone, basically with a secure element then. So I think that's also super interesting to see. And I'm very excited to.
00:55:18.860 - 00:56:38.868, Speaker A: Yeah, now, fire dancer, the Kevin talk from Chump was fascinating, and hopefully something's in the works relatively soon to get Kevin on the podcast and we can do a deep dive of fire dancer and all the cool things that the jump team is working on to make Solana perform it as well as the SMS guys. I met that team ultimately and was able to attend some of their events. And yeah, I had kind of the same reaction as you be like, why are they making a phone? And then after a while, like, I was like, okay, like, it's starting to make more sense. You do have the ledger element to secure your assets ultimately on the phone in a secure enclave. And I was like, okay, I'm going to preorder it now. And again, like, going back to being able to really kind of, I think one of the main premises of crypto is, like, ownership and being able to own that data, and that includes the private key management. So anything, whether it's what the SMS team is working on, whether multi signature that you and the squads team are building, anything that can make that experience more simplistic, I think is dramatically needed for the ecosystem to get more users.
00:56:38.868 - 00:57:27.750, Speaker A: So there's a lot of awesome things with the scaling, with being able to make private key management easier. That's happening in the Solana ecosystem then. Now, ultimately, as you said, getting some more assets on the chain, making the chain more reliable. All those things have slowly been battle tested, I would say, for the past year, and so excited for those two. Ultimately, I would say just more confidence in the ecosystem. So it's definitely going to be an exciting next year. But I think really, you and the squads team and a lot of the builders that I've talked to are very well positioned to continue to grow with the Solana ecosystem as well.
00:57:28.970 - 00:58:33.350, Speaker B: Yeah, I appreciate it. And I think I've been thinking a lot about blockchain performance and reliability of layer ones lately and throughout this year. And I think if I was to choose a chain where I would build, I would probably wouldn't go with a chain that is very new and didn't have any problems yet, didn't have that experience, particularly after building some blockchain infrastructure myself, and understanding what potentially the process might entail and how complex that is. You'd want for the blockchain to make as many mistakes as possible, as quickly as possible, to get through them, to actually make it a reliable piece of infrastructure. I think the more issues we had and then seeing them being resolved and seeing all the work that's being done right now to get them resolved so we never go back to them, is actually more bullish than just expecting those things to never happen. So I think I'm very excited for what's coming.
00:58:33.930 - 00:59:09.400, Speaker A: Yeah. The amount of throughput that Solana is doing compared to the Ethereum virtual machine chains, Solana is doing more throughput than all of them combined, which I always found fascinating. And so the level that Solana has been tested to, those chains have a long way to go. So, yeah, I agree. Being able to iterate quickly is super important. Awesome. Well, maybe kind of my last and final question, let me change it slightly, or let me ask it in two parts for my spicy questions.
00:59:09.400 - 00:59:31.550, Speaker A: I guess the first one won't be too spicy, but for anybody more broadly, that's either wanting to build or I would say, get involved in the Solana ecosystem, or even more like blockchain and crypto. More broadly, what would your advice be to like builders? And then what would your advice be to people that are just wanting to learn more about the ecosystem?
00:59:33.570 - 01:00:04.582, Speaker B: I think the builders, the advice would be join the hackathon. That helped us enormously. I think the work Solana is doing with ease is great. I would visit the hacker houses, if you can, because meeting people in real life actually is a different experience. I would definitely be active on Twitter. I would try to talk to as many people as possible. I don't remember what the name of this Cunningham's law something Kyle will talk about.
01:00:04.582 - 01:00:47.820, Speaker B: This being wrong on Twitter, being wrong in public is actually great because you'll learn much quicker. I think that's a great advice. So I think, yeah, probably all of these things. If you ask like Chase from Solana Foundations, you probably mentioned exactly these three things. As I'm thinking about it, I think more kind of from our experience. The thing I was thinking a lot about as well, there was a lot of reflective reflection on my side in the last few weeks for sure. And when it comes to bringing sort of investors, partners, employees on board, definitely like personal connection and relationships, they matter a lot.
01:00:47.820 - 01:01:29.490, Speaker B: And particularly with investors, I would get advice early on that think about what value they bring, think about what they can do for you. And to me, that was always important. But you really need to treat your investors as founders on the bench, and so you need to like them, they need to like you, and you need to have a connection if you want to make that relationship meaningful and helpful to you and exciting for both of you. So that's probably for the builders. And I think more broadly, if someone was to learn about Solana ecosystem. Yeah, again, I really like just personal connection. So I would definitely talk to people in the ecosystem, talk to builders.
01:01:29.490 - 01:02:17.322, Speaker B: I think, like, I'm always doing these things myself. For instance, I'm not really sure what's happening in the gaming part of things on Solana. And so I would just tweet, where do I start? If I was to learn about gaming on Solana, what are the top ten projects you would highlight? That's how I usually go about it. I pick a sector that I'm interested in and then I just ask people that I like about what they like from that specific part of things. That usually leads me into the rabbit hole of learning a lot more. I do that a lot. And I think Solana has amazing infrastructure, has great NFT tooling, some awesome NFT projects, and Defi, if you actually, I recently did that, by the way.
01:02:17.322 - 01:02:45.800, Speaker B: You're just curious to see what's happening in the DeFi ecosystem today. Who is the most active? And there's so much going on. So, yeah, do deep dives, don't be afraid to ask questions. And also, and then play around with things again, Solana is at today's prices, it's even less prohibitive than ever for you to come and test all these dapps and do whatever you want here. So definitely that's a good time to do it.
01:02:46.860 - 01:03:26.710, Speaker A: Awesome. I would totally echo all that advice and then maybe my last question, normally I ask kind of what project do you think are doing things uniquely bad? But maybe I'll reframe that in a sense of like what projects do you think ultimately need the most support kind of in today's age. And then what projects outside of squads do you think are like doing things really well that you think are helping pushing the ecosystem forward?
01:03:28.210 - 01:04:33.570, Speaker B: I think. Amazing question. I think in terms of support, it's also a really good way to reframe it. I think in terms of support, we're kind of lucky with squads. We have been lucky with squads from perspective that we can both apply to retail and we can apply to the internal ecosystem participants and apply to builders and potential institutions and like we have a broad appeal. I think there's definitely some interesting work being done on like retail facing projects and there isn't as much retail as there used to be. And so I think like definitely helping these projects to kind of stay afloat and test their hypotheses and just kind of like test what they trying, you know, what they're trying to build basically and understand if it's viable in the current market environment is definitely an important thing because a lot of them are great and they just need like, you know, to be able to survive until kind of ecosystem becomes a bit more active.
01:04:33.570 - 01:05:36.220, Speaker B: I think like on the which projects I think are doing exceptional things, there's so many. Always first comes to mind is probably Helios, Helios Labs and what they're doing on the infrastructure side and I'm a huge fan of myrrh and like, yeah, I think he's really becoming this like very significant participant in the ecosystem in his own right as well as Helios becoming very important for us. So definitely super excited about Helios. I think Solana fam is like, they're really good. Like the way they approach this very complicated product that for a while I thought is very simple and can kind of. There are only so many ways you can do a block explorer and they always find amazing ways to make it, to make it exciting. And then I think dialect and the breakpoint, they announced their smart messaging stack and yeah, I think those guys are incredible.
01:05:36.220 - 01:06:17.720, Speaker B: Like what they're trying to do and the thing they already did with notifications was great and it's still super useful, but how they're trying to approach their new products now is super interesting to me, and the dialect app is very exciting. So probably those are top three, but to be honest, there's so many that I can mention. I also probably should give a shout out to tensor. Definitely a big fan of what these guys are doing with this kind of like pro NFT trading platform. Definitely. I'm really curious to see more interesting takes on NFT infrastructure on Solana, Cardinal and tensor. Definitely there in the front lines.
01:06:18.620 - 01:06:54.256, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, no, I appreciate your thoughts. It's a lot of awesome teams building on Solana and so excited for what is to come. Appreciate your time, appreciate what you and your team are building at squads. As I said, private key management and kind of that entire process is probably one of the more difficult challenges. And so I'm exciting, appreciative that your team is kind of making that easier for everybody. So again, thank you so much for your time.
01:06:54.256 - 01:07:15.040, Speaker A: Stefan, really appreciate you coming on the podcast, sharing your thoughts about the ecosystem, sharing details about the many different products, the formal verification on the safety side that you're doing, the partnerships that you guys announced. You're doing a lot. But appreciate your time and appreciate you coming on the podcast.
01:07:15.620 - 01:07:18.196, Speaker B: Thank you so much for having me. It's been great.
01:07:18.388 - 01:07:19.100, Speaker A: Awesome. Thanks.
