00:00:04.560 - 00:00:32.202, Speaker A: Hey. Curious about the world of ethical hacking and looking to safeguard the digital universe? Or maybe you're an absolute beginner, eager to learn more about becoming a top notch security expert. Well, brace yourself, my friends, because you're about to go from zero to 60 in no time. And here is why. This is your ultimate pit stop. Reason number one, you get to learn from Alexa. With over half a decade of experience in the cybersecurity field, Alexa isnt just any instructor.
00:00:32.202 - 00:01:09.064, Speaker A: Hes a seasoned penetration tester skilled in unveiling vulnerabilities across various company systems and even government infrastructures. He is as professional as they come. Reason hash two, the cyber onslaught is real. Believe it or not, 64% of companies have battled web based attacks and in the wake of Covid-19 cybercrimes have surged by 300%. So yes, this is an in demand field where you literally have limitless opportunity. Reason number three, your learning doesnt have to stop here. This tutorial is actually part of alexas complete comprehensive ethical hacking bootcamp course.
00:01:09.064 - 00:01:51.020, Speaker A: So once you finish watching this video, make sure to check out his complete course where youll learn about many more advanced topics like vulnerability analysis, man in the middle attacks and even build twelve hacking tools along the way. One more thing, if you're liking this tutorial and are finding it helpful, please drop it a like. It really helps us out and it shows us that you want us to keep creating great free content for you. Alright, enough chit chat from me. Let me hand it over to Alexa so you can start your journey into the adventurous world of ethical hacking. Enjoy. Welcome to the complete ethical hacking course.
00:01:51.020 - 00:02:44.624, Speaker A: In this course, we will be covering everything you need to know as an ethical hacker, from theory to the practical examples. We will start with basics first, and the further we go in the course, the more intermediate and advanced stuff we will cover. Knowing theory and practicing different attack methods that we will learn will eventually make you a master in ethical hacking. But wait, wait a second. We just started the course and I'm already talking about being a master in ethical hacking. Let's slow down a little bit. What even is ethical hacking? And what does an ethical hacker do? Or you might also wonder, I can I get in trouble by doing this? Don't worry.
00:02:44.624 - 00:03:32.482, Speaker A: Remember, we are ethical hackers. This means we are hired to hack into a network or a device, or in general, we want to find as many vulnerabilities inside the target system, but not to do bad things. Quite opposite, we want to secure them. An ethical hacker who is hard to find as many vulnerabilities in a certain system is also known as a white hat hacker. Now, I mentioned a word system quite a few times by now. What do I mean by finding vulnerabilities in a system? Well, system can be anything. It can be a network of multiple computers, or it could be just one single computer.
00:03:32.482 - 00:04:16.080, Speaker A: It could also be some company server that they keep their important data on. We could also be targeting a webpage or a website. A vulnerability, on the other hand, is anything that could allow someone to have an unauthorized access to that system. We are there to discover them and secure them. But why are we doing this? Well, as you know, there are the bad guys, or also known as black hat hackers. Their goal is also to find vulnerabilities in a system, but not to secure them. Instead, they want to perform malicious activity once they gain access to that system.
00:04:16.080 - 00:04:56.958, Speaker A: That is difference between a white hat hacker and a black hat hacker. A white hat hacker is there to find vulnerability, notify the person that hired him, and let him know of a possible unauthorized access. You can think of us as a cyber police. We are there to protect a black hat hacker, on the other hand, is there to perform malicious activity such as stealing your data. They could also try to steal your online money. They could install a virus or a keylogger on your PC and track everything that you do. They can go as far as doing something like stealing your identity.
00:04:56.958 - 00:05:38.542, Speaker A: However, the methods white hat and black hat hackers use can be quite similar. The difference is we, as white hat hackers, must make sure that we have a permission to target a certain system. An example would go like this. We get hired by a certain company. That company could have a website, different networks with computers inside the building where, for example, employees work. It could also have large servers and databases holding important company data. And as we already know, our goal is to make sure that data is secured from cyber attacks.
00:05:38.542 - 00:06:23.270, Speaker A: That also employees and their machines are also in a secure network. And that website doesn't have any bugs that could present a threat to that company. How do we do all of this? Well, we do it by attacking the company. We act as a black hat hacker would, but with a different goal. Ok, but here we come to another problem. You might be wondering, well, how am I going to learn this? Or how am I going to practice this? I just said that we need a permission to attack any system, right? Well, dont worry. We will simulate all of these targets with the help of our home devices, and also with the help of virtual machines.
00:06:23.270 - 00:07:05.150, Speaker A: It will be exactly the same just this way you won't be breaking any law while you practice since the targets that you will attack will be yours. Okay, more about virtual machines later. Right now I want to give you a small challenge. One of the biggest online cyber attacks is something called phishing. In most cases, phishing is an act of black hat hackers tricking you into entering some of your private data, such as usernames and passwords, into a web page that isn't to be trusted. This is one of the ways how they steal online accounts. Let me show you here I have two Twitter login pages.
00:07:05.150 - 00:07:45.680, Speaker A: One of these two that you can see right here is a fake login page and the other one is real. Let's take a quick look at them. So let's take a look at first one. Here it is. And if we take a look at the second one, they appear to be exactly the same. Right? Have you figured out which one is real and which one is fake? The first one that we saw is the fake login page, while the second one right here is real one. Lets mention some of the obvious reasons why this page right here that youre looking at is a fake login page that can be used to steal your account.
00:07:45.680 - 00:08:37.376, Speaker A: Even though they are identical at first glance, if we take a closer look we can see it doesnt really have twitter.com as the website name. Instead we have some random ip address in our search tab and this is the biggest indication that this page is indeed a fake page and that you shouldn't enter any private information here. The original page should be twitter.com dot. Another thing we can notice is that next to the website name on a real page we have this green lock right here and this green lock indicates that this is an HTTPs page or in other words it is secured as it says right here. Secure connection usually phishing websites won't be HTTPs and they won't have this green lock right here.
00:08:37.376 - 00:09:21.046, Speaker A: However, these two can be forged in a more advanced phishing attack. And just to compare, our fake login page doesn't have this green lock. If we click right here it says connection is not secure. And even though many of you probably knew these things already, if you were in a hurry and you got redirected to this fake login page, you could potentially enter your password here. And little do you know, in just a few seconds your account has been compromised and stolen by the bad guys. Since the information that you enter right here on this page gets sent to them and not to twitter.com. but dont worry if you arent familiar with these type of attacks.
00:09:21.046 - 00:10:28.914, Speaker A: Throughout the course we will learn not only how to secure ourselves from these attacks and how these attacks work, but also we will learn how to perform the attacks themselves. And by the way, we also have a discord channel where we answer your questions. So if you havent already, feel free to come and join us in discord since that is where we notify everyone about any new course updates that will come out. And that is also where you can reach out to us in case you run into any problem during the course. Nonetheless, I welcome you once again and let's get straight into the course. Okay, so what is a virtual machine? This is something that I mentioned in the previous video, but it is important for us to fully understand what it is. I can just give you a definition and say virtual machine is a machine within our physical computer that is using its hardware resources, but for most of you, this will be a new term that you haven't really encountered before.
00:10:28.914 - 00:11:15.964, Speaker A: So I would like to explain it furthermore for you as well as mention why are we going to use it? Let me start like this. All of us are running an operating system and 99.9% of us are running one of the three main operating systems. You either have Windows, macOS or Linux. Most of you will have Windows or macOS. I doubt anyone will be running Linux, but nonetheless, these are the three main ones. But what if we wanted to run two different operating systems on the same machine? Can we do that? For example, let's say you have Windows installed on your physical machine, but you want to install Linux too.
00:11:15.964 - 00:11:51.190, Speaker A: Or even better case, you want to install five operating systems running on different virtual machines. Can you do that? You can. How would that work? Well, picture it like this. Imagine these four lines representing our computer. And we already know that any computer will have one of the three main operating systems, Windows, macOS or Linux. But operating system is not the only thing defining our machine. Our machine also has its computer parts.
00:11:51.190 - 00:12:34.830, Speaker A: We have hard disk, processor, ram, memory, motherboard, and many more computer parts that, with the operating system, make our machine work. These computer parts are also known as hardware. But wait a second, Alexa, why are you telling us this? Thought this was a lecture on explaining how virtual machines work and not on hardware components. Well, hang on for just a second. We're slowly getting there. Picture a virtual machine to be this smaller rectangle within our physical machine, which is this larger rectangle. And let's imagine that our physical machine is running windows operating system.
00:12:34.830 - 00:13:37.236, Speaker A: But if you took a look at this course content, you would probably notice that we're going to be doing all of our hacking stuff over Linux. Does that mean that we must delete our windows and install Linux? Nope. We'll install Linux as a virtual machine and for this machine to work, it will need to have access to our hardware components. What does this mean? Well, since virtual machine will act as a machine of its own, it must have its own computer parts. And what we will do is we're going to borrow our physical machines, cpu power, ram memory, hard disk memory to our virtual machine so it can run just like our physical machine. In other words, we are splitting the power of our physical machine into two different machines or more. If we decide that we want to create multiple virtual machines, does that mean that they will be slower since they will be splitting hardware resources? Well, technically yes, but it will not be noticeable for us.
00:13:37.236 - 00:14:53.800, Speaker A: However, the more powerful your PC is, more virtual machines it will be able to run effectively. Another important thing is that once you shut down your virtual machine, all the hardware resources used by it will get freed back for your physical machine to use. Okay, good, but what are other benefits that we have if we create a virtual machine? Well, since we are hackers and we will be doing a lot of things and running a lot of programs on that virtual machine, we want to make sure that we are doing it first in a safe environment, at least while we learn. The good thing about virtual machines is that if for example, our machine starts getting some annoying error or we get locked out of our files, or simply we delete a file that we shouldn't have deleted and it crashes our virtual machine. But what if we, for example, get infected by a malware or virus by accident? Or we simply just install the wrong version of operating system which we dont need. Dont worry, with two clicks we can delete the entire virtual machine with all of its files and it will have no effect on our physical machine. Then we can proceed to create a new one for as many times as we want.
00:14:53.800 - 00:15:56.770, Speaker A: We can also create something called a snapshot, which will allow us to save the current state of a virtual machine and with it we can revert it back to dead state whenever we want. This could be used if we, for example, run into some errors with our virtual machine. Sounds cool, right? Now that we know how virtual machines work and why are we going to use one? You must be wondering, how can we create a virtual machine? Actually this is pretty easy. All we need are two things. We need an operating system that we want to install in that virtual machine and we also need something called virtualization software. Now what is this? Even though it sounds harsh saying virtualization software, what it essentially is, is a program that will allow our physical machine to borrow hardware components to our virtual machine. Or we can also define it as a program that will allow us to run multiple operating systems on a single host or a single machine.
00:15:56.770 - 00:16:57.302, Speaker A: So with these two combined we can create our virtual machine. And in the next few lectures we are going to see exactly how to do that. See you there. Before we actually proceed to creating our virtual machine that we will use for hacking I believe most of you are wondering why Linux? Why are we installing Linux operating system on a virtual machine? Can we hack using Windows or macOS? Well, yes, we can, but Linux is something far better for that. So what are the benefits of using Linux? First thing that's great about Linux is that it is an open source operating system. This means that we can inspect the code of it and see how it is made of and what programs or functions it runs. It can be used for any type of work, not only for hacking.
00:16:57.302 - 00:17:27.552, Speaker A: Many programmers also use Linux. Many servers all around the world are running on Linux. And another great thing about it is that most of the Linux distros are free of cost. Maybe some of you have heard about Ubuntu, Linux Mint or Debian. Well, to use an updated Windows operating system you must pay for a license. Linux on the other hand is free to download for anyone. And not only that, but it also due to it being an open source.
00:17:27.552 - 00:18:14.528, Speaker A: It allows the users of Linux to edit, copy or distribute various aspects of Linux based operating system without violating any copyright law or terms and conditions. This is one of the main reasons hackers use Linux. Because they can easily develop softwares used for hacking and penetration testing on Linux. And they can change and edit the operating system for their needs. It is also very light, requires lesser disk space, consumes lesser ram in order to run. So it can be easily ran alongside any other operating system like Windows and macOS. And last but not least is that as we mentioned, due to Linux being an open source and allowing anyone to change and interact with the operating system.
00:18:14.528 - 00:19:00.440, Speaker A: It allows people to create an operating system that will specifically be made for one purpose. Such as for example, ethical hacking or penetration testing. And Linux distros like this already exist. There are Linux distros called Cal, Linux parrot backtrack and others that are especially made for penetration testing and checking for security loopholes. And all of them are widely being used by hackers. And in this course we will be using Kali Linux, one of the Linux distros specially created for hackers and penetration testers. What's great about it is that it automatically comes after installation with bunch of different tools used by penetration testers for hacking.
00:19:00.440 - 00:19:49.824, Speaker A: And we're going to cover those tools and go step by step through them. Plus we'll be installing tools created by other people. And at the advanced parts of this course we'll be creating our own hacking tools. How cool will that be? So now that we know exactly which Linux distro are we going to install and what are the benefits of using Linux? In the next video we can create our virtual hacking lab. Welcome back. So we have talked about virtualization software and Kali Linux in the previous lecture and now is the time that we finally start creating our virtual machine. Now to do that, remember we need two things.
00:19:49.824 - 00:20:31.430, Speaker A: We need the virtualization software and the operating system that we're going to install. So for the virtualization software we will use virtual box. Now to navigate to virtualbox page you can simply just type virtualbox in your Google search bar or you can simply just navigate to the link virtualbox.org dot. Once you navigate to that link, it will open this page where you will be prompted to download the newest version of VirtualBox, which is currently 7.0. Now the one that we use in the course is I believe 6.0, but feel free to download the newest version at the point of you watching this tutorial.
00:20:31.430 - 00:21:05.450, Speaker A: If there is, for example virtualbox 7.2, feel free to download the newest version. Okay, so to download it we simply click on this download virtualbox and we will have several options here depending on the operating system that our host machine is running. Now since I'm on Windows eleven, I will click on Windows hosts. But if you're on Linux you would go with Linux distributions. For intel macOS you would go for this. But since I'm using Windows eleven, I will click on Windows hosts.
00:21:05.450 - 00:22:01.750, Speaker A: Now it will ask me where do I want to store this virtualbox installation file? I already have it downloaded, it's on my desktop. But for you simply just save it wherever you want and click on save right here. Once you have the virtualbox installation file downloaded, you want to navigate to Kal Linux official page to download the Kal Linux operating system. To do that, once again, simply just type Kal Linux in your Google search bar or navigate to the website kali.org dot. Once we visit the website, we will be prompted with a simple description of the Kalinix operating system. So as it says right here, Kali Linux is an open source debian based Linux distribution geared towards various information security tasks such as penetration testing, security research, computer forensics and reverse engineering.
00:22:01.750 - 00:22:52.162, Speaker A: If I simply click on download, it will lead me to the download page for Kali Linux where we will have several different options that we can choose from. Now the one that we want to use for the course is the installer images. The virtual machines one will work as well, but if you want to have it exactly as we do in the course, you want to go with installer images. So I'm going to click on installer images and here we get the newest version which is Kali Linux 2023.2. Once again we're using the older version in the course, but if there is a newer version available compared to this 2023.2 at the point of you watching this tutorial, feel free to download the newest Kal Linux version since we always create update videos for the newest Kalinux versions. The current one is once again 2023.2
00:22:52.162 - 00:23:31.090, Speaker A: and I want to download this 64 bit installer image. Now you will notice right here that there are three options which is 64 bit, 32 bit and Apple silicon which is for M one and M two chip for MacBook. Now since my host machine is Windows 1164 bit, I will select 64 bit and download this installer just by clicking on it. It will open this window for you to download it. I already have it downloaded same as virtualbox. I have it saved on my desktop. But for you simply just click on save and it will start downloading your Kalinux ISO image.
00:23:31.090 - 00:24:32.634, Speaker A: If you are on a 32 bit system you simply select 32 bit. And for anyone using a MacBook on M one and M two chip which is Apple silicon, select here Apple silicon and select the installer image which will work on M one and M two chip. Now one more thing for users that are on Apple silicon, if you are using the MacBook with M one or m two chip, virtualbox will cause issues for you. As you notice right here, there is not macOS m one m two chip installation package for VirtualBox. So for you, you want to navigate to getutM app and you want to download the UTM which is a virtualization software for Mac. This will work for you and it is rather simple to install and use. Now if you are on Intel Mac or if you have intel processor in your MacBook, feel free to go with the regular 64 bit installer image as everyone else.
00:24:32.634 - 00:25:40.180, Speaker A: So once again Windows users 64 bit or 32 bit depending on your architecture. Mac intel users also use 64 or 32 bit installer image and m one m two chip MacBook users navigate with Apple silicon and download that image. Now if you for whatever reason want to download an older version of Kali Linux, you can navigate to this webpage which is old dot kali.org navigate to base images and here you will have all the previous Kali Linux releases that you can download. But I always do advise that you go with the newest version of Kali at the point of you watching the tutorial, okay? So once you download these two files you should have this virtualbox installer and you should have this kali Linux ISO image. In the next lecture we're going to take a look at how we can create our first virtual machine with Virtualbox. Welcome back.
00:25:40.180 - 00:26:37.724, Speaker A: Just a quick update on the new Kali Linux website. Okay, so they have just changed the downloads section of this page and how they made it can be a little bit confusing. So I'm just making a quick update video to explain which exact version should you download. So once you navigate to the Kali Linux page, navigate to the download section and this is the new design. They separated different versions into different categories on this page. Now since we talked about virtual machines, it might seem to you that we want to go to the virtual machines and download a version from here, but not exactly for our course. We want to go to the bare metal, click on that and here we want to download the version according to accordingly we select 64 bit or 32 bit depending on our machine.
00:26:37.724 - 00:28:00.714, Speaker A: Since my machine is 64 bit, I would go with the 64 bit version. If you're running an Apple m one chip then you want to select this one. Since once again I'm running 64 bit I want to go 64 bit installer and it will download the ISO image on my desktop. Awesome. That's all that I wanted to say and let's continue with the course. Welcome back. So in the last lecture we downloaded our installer file for Virtualbox and we also downloaded the ISO image for Kali Linux.
00:28:00.714 - 00:28:36.516, Speaker A: Now it is time that we combine these two together in order to create our first virtual machine. But of course to do that we need to install virtualbox first with this installer file. So double click on the virtualbox installer file. It will require administrator privileges. Simply just input your admin password and it will open this window welcoming you to the virtualbox. Now it says here the setup wizard will install oracle vm virtualbox on your computer. Click next to continue or cancel to exit setup wizard.
00:28:36.516 - 00:29:20.008, Speaker A: We want to proceed so I'll just click on next here under the custom setup I personally won't be changing anything. You don't need to change anything as well. You might want to change location if you prefer a different location to this one. But I do advise that you leave this location and that you just proceed to the next step by clicking next. And here we got a warning that says installing Oracle VM virtualbox networking feature will reset your network connection and temporarily disconnect you from the network. Now it's just a warning that says you might be disconnected from the network while installing virtualbox. Now in my personal experience, this has never happened, but it might happen for you.
00:29:20.008 - 00:30:09.652, Speaker A: So if you're doing anything important over the network at the moment, wait for that to finish and then proceed with the virtualbox installation. I will just proceed with the installation right now by clicking on next or on yes, and it will tell me that there are certain missing dependencies. Now in order to install them, you simply just click on yes and you click install to begin installation. So I'll just click on install. This shouldn't take too long. It might take 30 seconds or up to a minute for installation to finish. And once it finishes we will get this window prompted that says start oracle vm virtualbox after installation want to click on finish and in just a few seconds here it is.
00:30:09.652 - 00:30:39.316, Speaker A: We get virtualbox window opened. Now in your case, the window will not look like this. I already have some virtual machines installed. You won't have any of these machines installed on the left side. Your window will look something like this. Now it should welcome you to Virtualbox, but once again you won't have these machines installed or available on the left side. But more about that later.
00:30:39.316 - 00:31:13.490, Speaker A: Once we install the virtual machines for now on we're going to pretend as these don't exist and we're going to create our first virtual machine. So to create our first virtual machine we want to click on this new button. If I click on new, it will open this window where it will ask me certain questions about the virtual machine that I want to create. The first question is name. So I'll just call it kali Linux 2023. I'll just leave it at that. You can call it whatever you want.
00:31:13.490 - 00:31:48.428, Speaker A: You can simply just call it kal linux. It doesn't matter now. What matters is this ISO image here. We want to select the ISO image of kali Linux that we downloaded. So since it says that it is not selected, I want to click on here, I want to click on other and simply just navigate to where you have your kali linux ISO image saved. In my personal case it is on desktop and here it is. I'll just click it and click on open and you can see right here it selected the path to the ISO image under type.
00:31:48.428 - 00:32:34.516, Speaker A: Want to have it set to Linux? And under the version, if you remember from the Cal Linux official page it said that it was Debian based operating system. So ideally here we want to find Debian operating system which is right here. We can see that it has bunch of versions, but we can simply just choose to the regular Debian 64 bit. Now of course if you downloaded the 32 bit Kalinux image, if your host machine is 32 bit machine, you can simply just use Debian 32 bit. Since I'm on Windows 1164 bit machine, I will select Debian 64 bit. Once we do that we can navigate to unattended install and there is nothing that we need to change. Right here we can proceed to hardware.
00:32:34.516 - 00:33:07.950, Speaker A: And here is where it gets a little bit tricky. Remember that they said that virtual machines will use your hardware resources. Well, here we need to allocate those hardware resources here. The first question that it asks us is the base memory or ram memory that we want to give to our virtual machine. Now this will be different for everyone depending on what ram memory or how many gigabytes of ram you have. In my personal case I have 64 gb of ram. So I'll just allocate four gb of ram to my virtual machine.
00:33:07.950 - 00:33:53.890, Speaker A: Now if you have less than 16, I do advise that you lower this to two gb of ram. For example, if you have eight gb of ram, two gb ram for Cal Linux will be more than enough for it to run properly. If you have four gb of ram then you can proceed with either two gb or you can even try lowering it to to 1gb of ram. But 2gb will be ideal. Now once again I'll proceed with four and under the processors you can simply just leave it on one cpu core. No matter how many cpu cores you have, it will work just fine with one processor running for the vm. Now we go down to hard disk and here we want to allocate space for Catalinux virtual machine.
00:33:53.890 - 00:34:29.096, Speaker A: Now by default it will set it to 20 gb, but that will not be enough. You ideally want to have it between 30 and 40gb of free space for the virtual machine. I will leave it on 40 just like this. This should be more than enough for the virtual machine to run. And all we have to do right now is click on finish. And once you click on finish you will have your first virtual machine added right here on the left side. In my case here is the virtual machine that we just created, Kali Linux 2023.
00:34:29.096 - 00:35:00.670, Speaker A: If you click on it you can see all of its settings. On the right side we can see that we allocated 4gb of ram. Right here. We used Debian 64 bit operating system and you can see all the other settings that we used to create this virtual machine. Okay awesome. Now that we created this virtual machine in the next lecture we are going to start it for the first time in order to install the operating system. See you in the next lecture.
00:35:00.670 - 00:35:30.834, Speaker A: Alright, we have made a big step. We have created our virtual machine in the previous lecture. All that we're left to do right now is to install the Cal Linux operating system. Now it should be rather easy. I will guide you through all the steps. So let's start it straight away. To start your vm, simply just click on the VM.
00:35:30.834 - 00:36:20.826, Speaker A: You can either double click it or you can select it and click on this start button. It will take a few seconds. On the right you should see powering VM up and in just a few seconds this small window will open. Now the first thing that we see is this Cal Linux window asking us which type of installation do we want to proceed with. Now the two options that interest us are graphical install and install. Now since this window is quite small, what I'm going to do is I'm going to click on view and I'm going to enter scaled mode which will enlarge this window a little bit. Now to enter scale mode you can simply just do what I did and to leave scale mode you use right control button and c.
00:36:20.826 - 00:36:56.612, Speaker A: So right control button and c will enter scale mode and it will also leave scale mode. From here I can just enlarge this screen a little bit so we can see everything better. And now we're good to go. So I'm going to select graphical install. I'm going to press enter and just a quick note inside the virtual machine. During the installation your mouse will not work so make sure to navigate with arrow keys on your keyboard. Now this mostly refers to certain parts since at the beginning of the installation the mouse key will work.
00:36:56.612 - 00:37:27.468, Speaker A: But if you find it not working simply just use your arrow keys to navigate up and down and enter to continue to the next step. So the first thing that we're prompted is to select a language and you can simply just select whichever language that you want. I'm going to proceed with English and I'm going to press enter to continue. Same here. The location you can find your country right here. If you do not see it on the official list right here. You can just click on other and select it from there.
00:37:27.468 - 00:38:07.764, Speaker A: Now, since this is not an important step, I'm just going to proceed with United States and I'm going to click on continue. And configuring the keyboard, I'm going to select American English. You can select whichever keyboard configuration that you want or you can proceed same way as me with american english keyboard. Let's click on continue. It will perform a few steps, so let's wait for it to get to the next step. Okay, so here is the next question that we get asked, and that is to configure the network. Please enter the hostname for this system.
00:38:07.764 - 00:38:41.718, Speaker A: The hostname is a single word that identifies your system to the network. If you don't know what your hostname should be, consult your network administrator. If you're setting up your own home network, you can make something up here. Now, since most of us are in our home network, we can simply just make something up here. So I'm just going to type kali, simple as that, and I'm going to press continue. We get one more configuration of network, but this time it is domain name. And here the domain name we can simply just leave empty.
00:38:41.718 - 00:39:14.064, Speaker A: So just the delete whatever is inside this input bar and proceed to the next step. Okay, so here is where we set up the full name for the new user on the Kal Linux system. And since we are hackers, of course we are not going to use our full name. We could just make something up here. I'm going to call my new user mister hacker. Now you can call your user whatever you want. This is not that important step.
00:39:14.064 - 00:39:49.098, Speaker A: Just make sure to remember it for later. Once you name your user, click on continue and it will ask you to select the username for that new user. I will just leave it as Mister hacker right here and I will proceed to the next step. The next step is giving the password to our new user. So in the first field, type in the password that you want your user to have. I'll type it like this. And if you want, you can make sure that you typed it properly by clicking show password in clear here.
00:39:49.098 - 00:40:26.234, Speaker A: We want to re enter the same password just to confirm it. And fun fact, make sure that you add a strong password because in the history many of the black hat hackers have been caught by having weak passwords. Now of course we are not black hat hackers, we are white hat hackers. But we still want to have a strong password for our Kal Linux machine. So once again, once you type your password in and you confirm it, you can click on continue. Here it asks us to configure the clock. I will proceed with Eastern.
00:40:26.234 - 00:40:56.990, Speaker A: You can choose your time zone accordingly. I'll just proceed with Eastern. And here we come to the partitioning of disks. Now under this step, if you're a beginner, simply just click on guided use entire disk and click on continue. It will give you this one option, which is your hard disk that you created in the previous lecture. For me it is the 40 gb large hard disk. For you it might be different, but just select it right here and click on continue.
00:40:56.990 - 00:41:40.270, Speaker A: Again partitioning disks here it says that this can be partitioned using one of several different schemes. If you're unsure, choose the first one. Since we are beginners and it does say right here recommended for new users let's select this one which is all files in one partition and let's click on continue. We want to select finish partitioning and write changes to disk and click on continue once again. And here we want to click on yes and click on continue. And it finally finished partitioning our disks and it will start installing the base system for Kali Linux. Let's wait for the next step.
00:41:40.270 - 00:42:16.960, Speaker A: And after a minute or two here is the next step. Software selection now ideally here you don't want to change anything. You can simply just leave it as it is. So let's go to continue and after this step. This next step, which is selecting an installing software, can take some time, even up to an hour or in some cases over an hour. So just sit back and enjoy, grab a cup of coffee and I will see you as soon as next step pops up. Okay, here we are at the next step.
00:42:16.960 - 00:42:57.610, Speaker A: This installation took quite some time. Now for me personally, it took about 15 to 20 minutes. For you it might have been more or less. Now for anyone that might have encountered an issue during the last step or during the software installation, double check if you have provided enough free space for the Kal Linux machine, make sure that you provided at least 30 gb of free space. Now if you didnt encounter any error and youre at this step, it asks us whether we want to install the grubboot loader. And here is the simple explanation. It seems that this new installation is the only operating system on this computer.
00:42:57.610 - 00:44:41.650, Speaker A: If so, it should be safe to install the grubboot loader to your primary drive. Now dont let this confuse you. Remember that this is a virtual machine and it doesnt know of any other operating systems other than kali linux. Since you might be wondering well it isnt the only operating system on this computer im running windows on my host machine but this virtual machine does not know that for it this is the only operating system which were currently installing so since were installing kal Linux as a virtual machine we can install the grabbit loader to our primary drive just select here yes or leave it at yes because its the default option and click on continue and it will ask us once again the device for bootloader installation. We don't want to enter device manually so just navigate to the lower option which is this one right here and click on continue. This will finish up the installation and once the installation is done it should boot into our Cal Linux machine and here it notifies us installation is complete so it is time to boot into our new system make sure to remove any installation media so that you boot into the new system rather than restarting the installation now since we don't have any installation media such as CD or USB, we can simply just click on continue and this should open up our Cal Linux virtual machine. Let's wait for a few seconds for it to boot up and here it is.
00:44:41.650 - 00:45:31.984, Speaker A: Here is our login window now at this point I will leave the scaled mode by pressing right ctrl C and you will notice that my window will get smaller but this will be fixed in just a second. Let us first login my username, if you remember, is mister hacker for you. Just type in your username and then type in your password that you used during the installation. Click on login and this will open the Kali Linux desktop. Now to enlarge this window, usually all you need to do is simply just enlarge this window, lower it once again and enlarge it once again. But here is our first error. You might have noticed that my screen went black and that can happen to you as well.
00:45:31.984 - 00:46:47.200, Speaker A: Now what I would do in this case is I would lower the screen, I would close the virtual machine and I can do that by clicking on x and then clicking on power of the machine, navigating back to my virtual box, selecting my machine, navigating on settings, navigating on display settings and under the video memory. I want to enlarge this to let's say 80 and I want to click on ok now if I start the VM again it will once again take a few seconds to boot up. Here is the login window once again I'll pipe in my password and now you see that my virtual machine went in full screen mode okay awesome. Now if you have encountered the same error of getting the black screen on your Cal Linux virtual machine. Just remember, navigate to your virtual machine, navigate to settings, navigate to display settings and increase video memory. This should fix the issue. All right.
00:46:47.200 - 00:47:16.170, Speaker A: Awesome. So this is our Kal Linux virtual machine. Looks quite cool. Right here is the desktop. Here are certain apps that we have. We can find even more apps by clicking on this Kalinux icon that says applications and you can experiment and research a little bit if you want. But in the next lecture we're going to take a look at how we can set up network settings for our Kalinux virtual machine.
00:47:16.170 - 00:48:07.460, Speaker A: Welcome back. This is a quick little update video that we do every time a new release of Kali Linux comes out. And since today is the 1 June 2023, we got a new release of Kal Linux which is Kali Linux 2023.2. Now if you want to read all the new things about this release, you can navigate to the Cal Linux official page, click on blog and the latest blog will be the Cal Linux 2023.2 release. Now all in all, there are not many new things that are interesting for us or for the course, but nonetheless you can read all the new things that are added which are summarized right here. If you want to read about any of these in details.
00:48:07.460 - 00:48:55.182, Speaker A: For example, let's say you're interested in what new tools were added. You can click on new tools which will lead you down the article where you will see all the new tools that were added in this Kal Linux release. Now to install or to download this release, you simply navigate to get Kali installer images. And here you can download the 64 bit installer image. Or if you're using Apple Silicon M one or m two chip, then you can simply select Apple silicon and download the installer like this for all the other machines. The 64 bit regular installer will be a way to go. Now if you for some reason don't want to install the newest version, maybe you want to go with the one that we use in the course.
00:48:55.182 - 00:49:27.190, Speaker A: You can always navigate to old dot kali.org and you can navigate to base images where you will find all the releases of Cal Linux and you can choose whichever one you want to download. Alright now before we close off this lecture, let's also see how does the new Cal Linux look like. And it pretty much looks the same. Here it is. The display is rather the same same as in the other Cal Linux releases. And all the tools that we use throughout the course are still in this release.
00:49:27.190 - 00:50:28.372, Speaker A: Nonetheless, let's not make this any longer. Once again, feel free to download whichever version you want. I do advise that you go with the latest Kalinux version, but you can feel free to download the older version if that's what you prefer. Okay, thank you for watching and let's go straight into the next lecture. Alright, we got our hacking machine running and ready to use before we get to explaining all of the stuff you see on the screen. First we need to make sure our machine is working properly, so we'll just go through a few checks. The first check that we want to do is, is your machine in full screen mode? Now in the previous tutorial I showed you what you can do to get it in full screen mode and all you need to do is minimize this screen and maximize it once again in case it already wasn't in full screen mode.
00:50:28.372 - 00:51:42.000, Speaker A: And that is because newest versions of Kali Linux automatically set your machine to be in full screen mode without installing any additional tools for that. Usually this trick should work and if it didn't work and your machine is still not in full screen mode, then we need to install something called Virtualbox guest additions and I would advise all of you to do it even if you already have a full screen mode machine, because guest additions will not only help us with getting our machine to be full screen, but they will also make our machine run smoother and better. In previous versions of Kali Linux we always had to install virtualbox guest additions to get the full screen mode. So let us see how we can do that in the newest version as well. First we need to do is we need to go up here and click on devices, then navigate down to the insert guest edition cd image and click on that. They should get imported and in just a few seconds we should see a disk icon on our desktop. If we double click it, it will open a folder where we will see a bunch of files and other directories.
00:51:42.000 - 00:52:20.220, Speaker A: Don't worry, we don't need to know what each of these files are or what do they do. The only thing we need to remember is the path to where these files are. And up here we can see that these files are located at mediaev cdrom zero. So let us copy this. If we right click copy, now comes the fun part. We have to open something called terminal and terminal is something that we will use for the entire course. It is the most important tool you need to master as a hacker.
00:52:20.220 - 00:53:17.118, Speaker A: But for now just follow what they do and we will explain things. As we go to open a terminal, right click on your desktop and click on open terminal here it will open this window where we can execute our commands. And once again, since terminal is an important tool that you must master and learn from scratch, we will cover it in the next section in greater details. For now on, we just want to install virtualbox guest additions. The first thing that we want to do is we want to navigate to that path that we copied. And to do that using terminal, we must use a command called cd. This CD command stands for changing directories and you can see that we are currently on the desktop directory which says right here to change the directory we type the Cd command and then we paste the path where we want to go.
00:53:17.118 - 00:54:04.946, Speaker A: So change directory Media Cd ROM, press enter and you will see that in the next line we will be changing directories to the desired folder. Now to list all the files inside of this directory, we need to type another command which is called ls. What this command stands for is simply just listing the contents of the current directory. So you can just remember ls to be a short command for list. If I press here enter, we will see a bunch of the files that are located in the current directory. These files are actually the files that we saw once we opened these virtualbox guest additions. You can see these are the same files right now.
00:54:04.946 - 00:55:22.920, Speaker A: We are just there inside of our terminal and out of all of these files now we must run one of them. Can you guess which one? We know that we can't run the exe files since those are aimed for Windows systems and we are on a Linux system, but we can however run this one called Virtualbox Linux editions run. If you guessed that one, congrats. This is the one that we will run. To run it we can use a command that says sh Virtualbox Linux editions run and this sh is just a way for us to actually run this file which we are also going to explain once we get to explaining terminal in greater details. For now, if we press enter hmm, this program must be rantaine with administrator privileges aborting. For now, don't think about this and just run the following sudo sh virtualbox Linux additions run if we press enter here, you should get a prompt like this asking you for your password.
00:55:22.920 - 00:56:10.800, Speaker A: Then type in your password and keep in mind that even while you're typing you will not be able to see anything appear right here, which doesn't mean that you're not typing, you are typing just it doesn't show anything inside of the terminal. Once you typed in the password, click Enter and it will ask us do we want to continue with the installation we want to specify right here. Yes, and it will start the process of installing virtualbox guest additions. Now you will notice that this entire process will be performed automatically. We do not need to do anything anymore. This will install on its own. And don't worry if there is a part of this entire process that you did not understand.
00:56:10.800 - 00:57:00.050, Speaker A: We will discuss all of these commands and tools later on. This installation right here will take a minute or two, so let us just wait for that to finish. Okay, so it has finished and we can see right here that it tells us running kernel modules will not be replaced until the system is restarted. What this simply means is that this installation will not have any effect until we reboot or restart our machine. So there are two ways that we can do that. You can either go in right corner right here, click on this and click on restart, or you can do it in the cool way using terminal. So if I cancel here and go back to my terminal and type the command reboot, it will say command not found.
00:57:00.050 - 00:57:44.080, Speaker A: And if you get this message as well, what we want to do, we want to type Sudo and then once again reboot, press enter and this will restart our machine for us with just one, one command that we ran in terminal. Now we're ready to perform the second check. And the second check would be Internet connection. So we want to see whether we can access the Internet and to check that we're going to use our terminal once again and we will try to ping Google. So let us open up our terminal. We already know how to do that, right click and then open terminal here. And if we receive responses back from Google that means we can access the Internet.
00:57:44.080 - 00:58:07.770, Speaker A: So let's check it out. Type ping google.com and here it is. We're getting responses back. Great, we can access the Internet. To stop this we must press control c. As we can see right here, 21 packets transmitted, 21 received and 0% packet loss.
00:58:07.770 - 00:59:08.740, Speaker A: But even though we can access the Internet, I want to .1 thing out. If we go to settings of our virtual machine and we select the virtual machine, navigate to settings and from the settings navigate to network settings, we will notice that we are attached to nat. And what Nat is, is a network address translation. This means that the IP address that our K Linux machine has will be given to us by a virtual box. So if I go to my cal Linux and in the terminal type sudo ifconfig, press enter, enter my password here we will see that we got the IP address of ten dot, zero dot, two dot, one five and this is the IP address given to us by virtualbox. Since this can present us a problem later on, we want our IP address to be received from our DHCP or from our router.
00:59:08.740 - 00:59:59.050, Speaker A: And before I show you how to do that, I want to point out why this could present us a problem. Well, this IP address right here does not belong to the IP range of my local area network. If I go to my Windows machine and open up command prompt to check out the IP address on my physical machine, I can type right here ipconfig and I will see right here that the IP address that my physical machine has starts with 192168 dot one. And this is not the same IP range. It starts with 10 dot zero dot two. So I want to change this to start as my physical machine with one nine two dot one six eight dot one. To do that, my Cal Linux must receive the IP address from my router.
00:59:59.050 - 01:00:58.470, Speaker A: And for all of you Mac users you can also type in I've config in your terminal on your Mac. Basically you can check the IP address of your Mac the same way that we did inside of our Cal Linux by typing ifconfig. And all we need to do to change this IP address is go to the network settings and switch from NAT to bridged adapter. This will automatically set my bridged adapter and my adapter to be this one. Since this is the only one I have and since I'm connecting over cable connection I want to go to the advanced and check right here cable connected. You can select your adapter right here. And once you do click on ok, just one more thing before we click on ok in case your wireless adapter is not working in kali linux, since there are some wireless adapters that are not supported by Kali Linux yet, keep in mind that the cable connection will always work.
01:00:58.470 - 01:01:35.820, Speaker A: So if your wireless adapter doesn't work, just switch the adapter to cable connection and then press on. Ok, now that we changed this, if I go back to my K Linux machine and run the same command which is sudo ifconfig now it starts with 192 dot one six eight dot one. And keep in mind that for you it might start differently. It doesn't have to start with these three numbers. It might be something like one nine two dot one six eight dot zero. Or it might be something like ten dot one dot one or 10 dot zero dot one. It depends on your network.
01:01:35.820 - 01:02:16.286, Speaker A: Now we can see that both of these IP addresses are starting the same. Okay, great. Now that we went through both of the checks for the full screen and network connection. In the next few lectures we can proceed to get more familiar with the Kali Linux environment and hackers terminology. See you there. Welcome back. In the last lecture we talked about configuring our Kal Linux network settings to have Internet connection inside of our Kal Linux machine.
01:02:16.286 - 01:03:05.412, Speaker A: Now let's see whether that is set properly. And in case it isn't, let's see what we can do to get network connectivity within our Kal Linux machine. So a quick reminder. Last lecture we selected our Cal Linux machine, we went on settings, we went on network settings and we chose bridged adapter for our Kalinux machine. Now to check whether that works, we can type once again I've config inside of our terminal that we can open by clicking on this icon right here, which is the terminal icon. And under the eth zero interface we should get our ipv for address that should belong to our network's ip range. If you do get it, that's good.
01:03:05.412 - 01:04:03.210, Speaker A: If you don't get it, or if you don't get any IP address at all right here, then we must change something. But before we do that, we want to also check whether we can ping, let's say Google or any IP address or any website whatsoever. As you can see, I am receiving responses right here from Google, so that is good. I am also getting an IPP four address that belongs to my network range. So both of these things are good and I can proceed to the next lecture with bridged adapter. If both of these also work for you, feel free to continue and you can skip the rest of this lecture and just move on to the next one. If your bridged adapter however is causing some issues, whether that being your ip not being present here or you not getting any packets back from Google or any other website or IP address, then we have to change our network settings.
01:04:03.210 - 01:04:35.986, Speaker A: So go back to Virtualbox window, select your virtual machine or your Cal Linux machine, go to settings. And another option that we can go besides bridged adapter in case bridged adapter doesn't work. So always go first with bridged adapter. But in case it doesn't work, we want to go with NaT network. So don't confuse it with Nat. We are not choosing just Nat, we want to choose NaT network. And here you will notice that we don't have.
01:04:35.986 - 01:05:17.776, Speaker A: Net network selected. That is because we haven't created one yet. But before we create it, let's just quickly explain what NAT network is. Essentially, NAT network allows us to have a separate network where our virtual machine will be connected to. And later on, once we create multiple virtual machines we can put several different virtual machines onto the same NAT network and they will be able to communicate with one another. If we just leave it on. Net, which is default, then our virtual machine will most likely have Internet connection but it will not be able to communicate with machines inside of our network.
01:05:17.776 - 01:06:00.120, Speaker A: Okay, if we select. Net network, let's click on cancel first so we can create it. And to create the NAT network we want to click on tools, we want to click on preferences, we want to go to network. And here under the NAT networks we want to click on this plus sign which will generate the NAT network for us. If I double click it, it will also give us the information about the NAt network. And if you want you can change certain things right here such as whether you support IPV six or you want to change the range of your network. It doesn't matter the network name, it's all up to you.
01:06:00.120 - 01:06:36.010, Speaker A: I will just leave all of this on default and I will click on I will also click on ok here and all I have to do is go back to settings of my Cal Linux virtual machine, go back to the network settings and switch from bridged adapter to. Net network. And now you will see that under the name we have our. Net network selected. Once I click ok it will save the settings. I will now reboot my virtual machine. Let's give it a restart.
01:06:36.010 - 01:07:25.500, Speaker A: So here it is, our kali Linux or my kali Linux has rebooted. And now let's see whether we do get an IP address and whether we can ping websites from our. Cal Linux. So first thing we do, once again we open terminal by clicking here and if I type of I've config now we get a different IP address which is the IP address from the NAT network right here, which is good. And yours might be different. Just so you know, it doesn't have to be the same as mine. And the second test that we perform is we ping Google or we ping any other website or IP address and we are getting response back so our NAT network works properly.
01:07:25.500 - 01:08:26.496, Speaker A: Okay, awesome. That will be all when configuring network settings. Now two things to take away from this lecture and previous lecture are if your network settings work well with bridged adapter then proceed with the bridged adapter here and for any future virtual machine that we create throughout the course, if you have problems with bridged adapter, whether that being not having an IP address or not being able to browse Firefox or not being able to ping any website. Then proceed by going onto the NAT network. Configure the NAT network which we did from tools and then preferences and then select the NAT network here, reboot your machine and it should have the NAT networks IP address as well as it should be able to ping different websites. The same thing should be applied for any future vm that we create throughout the course. If your.
01:08:26.496 - 01:09:19.740, Speaker A: Cal Linux is on NAT network, the other virtual machines should also be on NAT network in order for them to communicate. Nonetheless, thank you for watching and I will see you in the next lecture. It is time we slowly start getting into penetration testing process. For now we didn't yet perform any hacking but we are getting there. It is important we get the basics first and that we know why we do everything. And trust me, later in the course we will be doing some serious stuff and everything will make sense because we covered all the basics first and we didn't just jump into something without any preparation. So in this video we will be briefly talking about stages of penetration test.
01:09:19.740 - 01:10:35.104, Speaker A: How does it go? In which order do we perform the steps and which steps are crucial? For now on we got our virtual lab set up. We installed Kal Linux and all the tools that hackers use are now available for us in our machine. We also performed some configuration to it to get it full screen as well as performed setup for Internet connection. From now the basic steps that we are going to do is we will use our Kal Linux machine to scan and attack different machines, networks, websites and accounts. But how are we going to do that? Do we just magically attack it and do we just install virus on their machine somehow? And if so, how do we do that? What about trojans, password cracking or phishing? Is that what we do? Well, that is just a small portion of a penetration test. First thing and most important thing before we even start a penetration test on a target is to figure out do we have permission to attack this target. This is very important since you don't want to be attacking machines or target networks that you do not have permission to attack.
01:10:35.104 - 01:11:24.622, Speaker A: It could be that client told me to only test one machine on the network and not the entire network. Therefore I'm only allowed to test that one machine. Or it could be that our client has multiple networks and they only allowed us to test one of them. That means you should not go around and try to hack different machines on a different network. Now these are only some of the examples, but what's important to get out of this is that always have permission to perform a penetration test. Trying to hack or hacking something that you are not allowed to hack could potentially get you into some serious trouble if you get caught. Now that we got that out of the way, let us finally talk about different stages of penetration testing.
01:11:24.622 - 01:12:28.924, Speaker A: We already know that there are five of them, and the first one is reconnaissance or information gathering. Now, reconnaissance is the act of gathering information about your target to better plan out your attack. And this type of penetration testing is the only one that you can perform on any website or target that you want. Since gathering information about something is not illegal, there are two ways that we can go about doing information gathering actively by directly interacting with our target, or it can be done passively without interacting with the target. A simple example of this would be let's say you want to gather information for Facebook and you will do it actively by visiting Facebook page and getting all the information that you can from the Facebook page itself. While passively it would be if you went on some other website that talks about Facebook and you get information about Facebook from that other website. This would mean you never interacted with Facebook.
01:12:28.924 - 01:13:16.650, Speaker A: Therefore you performed a passive information gathering. After this step comes scanning. Here is where you can start getting in trouble if you do it without permission. Scanning is a deeper form of information gathering, using technical tools to find openings in the target and in the systems that you're attacking. These openings can be gateways, open ports, operating systems that the target runs, and so on and so on. In this step, we also perform vulnerability scanning, which is just searching for vulnerable software in the target system or network that could possibly be exploited. After information gathering and scanning comes third step which is gaining access or so called exploitation.
01:13:16.650 - 01:14:07.536, Speaker A: And this is the step where we actually hack the target. We use information that we gathered in phase one and phase two take control of any number of target devices. Gaining access of target devices allows us to steal data from their system or to use those devices to attack other devices on the same network. Usually after this step you can consider penetration tests to be successful since you manage to gain access to a target system. However, this is not the last step of a penetration test. After exploitation comes maintaining access, this step with the fifth step is sometimes optional. You might not need to always perform last two steps since client might only care whether their system is penetrable.
01:14:07.536 - 01:14:40.574, Speaker A: Therefore you prove them. It is after the third step if there was a vulnerability. Of course. However, maintaining access is also important step and it is commonly done by installing backdoors and planting rootkits. What a backdoor and rootkits are, are simply programs that will allow us to gain access to that target whenever we want without the need to exploit it. Again. We just connect to the backdoor that we planted in the target system and there it is, we are again on their machine.
01:14:40.574 - 01:15:36.030, Speaker A: And last step of penetration test is covering tracks. Covering tracks is simply removing all evidence that an attack ever took place. This can involve deleting or hiding files, editing logs, or basically reverting any changes that you did to the system while the attack took place. Okay, so these five steps are entire process of a penetration test and we're going to cover them in great detail throughout our course. Keep in mind that these steps should be performed in order. And one more important thing is in case you're a beginner, you might think that third step which is exploitation or gaining access is the most important step of the process. Even though it is very important and crucial, the most important steps are actually information gathering and scanning.
01:15:36.030 - 01:16:21.160, Speaker A: It is in these two steps that we gather information about the target and discover vulnerabilities. So if you are not that good in gathering information, you might miss some things that could be used to gain access to the machine, therefore preventing you to find an actual vulnerability. So just keep that in mind, that information gathering is 70% of work. Ok, good. So we talked a little about these phases, but before we get to perform each one of these steps we must first get a little familiar with our Kal Linux machine. So in the next few lectures we are going to get into details about terminal and some of the commands we can run and execute with it. See you there.
01:16:21.160 - 01:17:29.826, Speaker A: Welcome back. Here we are in our Kali Linux machine and it is time we finally learn how to use that mysterious tool that is said to be the most important tool that we must master. Don't worry, terminal is not difficult to use. But before we get to open it and run bunch of the commands, let us first define what terminal is. So what is it? Terminal is a program that allows us to interact with Linux operating system using different commands. We can create files, delete files, create directories, run programs, set different tasks to execute and we can do many more things using it. It is important you get used to it, especially if you never used it before, because if you are coming from Windows or macOS, you probably are used to opening files or folders by clicking on different icons and navigating like that.
01:17:29.826 - 01:18:07.980, Speaker A: For example, on Windows we usually open files by double clicking on an icon and it will open that folder. And on Linux we can actually do the same thing. So if I go right here and for example I want to open this home folder, I will double click on that folder and it will open the folder with all the files inside of it. But we don't want to be doing it like that. Let us see how we can do it using terminal. So let us close this first and we already know how to open terminal. Right click on desktop and click open terminal here.
01:18:07.980 - 01:18:58.130, Speaker A: First thing that we notice is username that we have right here and the hostname that we have right here. But we also noticed this slash desktop this means that our terminal process has opened inside of the desktop directory. Does it always open there? Nope, it only opened there because we told it to open there. Remember we right clicked on desktop and clicked open terminal here. If we for example went to the home folder and right clicked here open terminal. Hmm. It doesn't say home like it did in desktop.
01:18:58.130 - 01:20:09.852, Speaker A: It just gives us this wavy minus sign. Well that sign in Linux means that you are in your home directory of your user, and our user is called Mister Hacker. So the directory name should be home misterhacker and to check the directory name we can type the command PwD. If we press enter, it will give us the current directory in which our terminal process is running and it is home mrhacker and this PwD simply just stands for print working directory. If we for example go to the folder once again, which is home folder mrhacker and we double click on documents, try to open terminal here. So open terminal here, this will open a second terminal and you will see right here that it says documents. But do we always need to go to that folder and open terminal inside of that folder for it to be inside of this directory? Of course not.
01:20:09.852 - 01:21:18.580, Speaker A: We can use a command called cdna and you should be familiar with this command since we already used it before. Let us test it out. Let's go to the documents directory from our home directory. So I will just close this second terminal and right here we are inside of our home directory or home misterhacker we know that inside of this directory there is a documents directory. Since we managed to open it right here and to navigate to this directory using terminal we can use the command CD and then the name of the directory which is documents, we press enter and here it is. We are in documents directory. If we type Pwd here, it will tell us the current working directory is home misterhacker documents and for example, if we wanted to go one step or one directory back, we can type the command cd and then two dots.
01:21:18.580 - 01:24:15.610, Speaker A: What this command will do is it will go one directory back and if I type pwd once again we will now be again in home mrhacker directory so these two dots tell the terminal to go one directory back. Okay, great. But how can we know which subdirectories and files are in home directory? For example, we knew there was a documents directory in home folder because we opened it right here we didn't open it over terminal, we opened it right here from our desktop once we open it again, we can see all of the folders and files inside of this home misterhacker directory but we didn't see these files inside of our terminal so how can we list them? How can we see all of these files using terminal? So we know which directories are available inside of this home misterhacker directory to check files and folders in any directory, we can use another familiar command which is ls and the LS command stands for list so let's just test it out. If we type it, press enter here we are, we can see same folders and same files that we can see inside of this window right here so what we did for now is we used terminal instead of clicking on bunch of files, bunch of icons, we now are doing all of that with our terminal. Now that we know which folders are in this directory, we can choose which folder we want to go to and use cd command to go there but let us go one directory back from the home mister hacker to do that, we already know we can type CD and then two dots and by the way, Cd simply stands for changing directory don't know if I mentioned that, but Cd is changing directory and now we can see once we went one directory back, we are in home directory if we type ls here, we can see here is our mister hacker directory that is containing these files right here since we went one step back, we can only see Mister hacker directory since this is the only folder inside of the home directory let's go one more step back. If I type CD two dots once again now I'm in slash directory and it is called slash directory because it is only specified as a forward slash and we can go more than that. This is the main directory that has all of the other files and directories in the system.
01:24:15.610 - 01:25:16.914, Speaker A: If we try to type CD once again, you will see it will still be in the directory and remember when I told you during Kali Linux installation that we will shortly see home TMP VAR directories that occurred in one of the installation questions? Well, if I type ls right here, here they are these are all just standard Linux directories. And here is home from which we came from. Here is Var and here is TMP and bunch of other directories. And these are all just standard Linux directories. From here you will notice that not all of it is same color. This is because not all of the stuff we see here is the same thing. Something is a directory, something is a file and for example we cannot use cd command onto a file.
01:25:16.914 - 01:26:14.206, Speaker A: We can only use cd to go to another directory. So if I try for example cd and I choose this file so cd init rd, img and press enter, this will not work. It will give us an error saying not a directory but if we type cd and then c for example which is this directory and press enter now I will be inside the etc directory and here I can type ls to list all of the files inside of the etc directory. And you will also notice that here we got a mixture of files and directories as well. Directories are these dark blue names while files can be other colors depending on file type. Usually they are white. Ok great.
01:26:14.206 - 01:26:47.810, Speaker A: We learned the basics of navigating through Linux system and directories using different commands. Now before we finish this video, here is a practice test. Try returning to the desktop directory from this directory using only the commands that we learned. I will give you right now a few seconds and I will show you how to do it. So try it out. Okay, don't worry if you didn't get it. This will come with practice.
01:26:47.810 - 01:27:39.502, Speaker A: So here it is how we can do it from the ATC directory we know that we must go back to the directory and in this directory we got our home directory. We can check it out by typing ls and inside of this home directory we know that we got the Mister Hacker directory and the Mrhacker directory has the desktop directory. So to navigate there we can type cd home type ls here. Then type cd mister hacker type ls here once again to check out all of the available directories and CD desktop and now we are on our desktop directory once again. Great. So practice a little bit with these commands. This is nothing really too hard.
01:27:39.502 - 01:28:33.270, Speaker A: Just take some practice and you will get used to it pretty soon. And in the next video we are going to see how we can create files and folders using terminal as well as we are going to see how we can run programs. See you there. Okay, so we know how to find our way to the desired directory in terminal. But what if we need to create a file or a subfolder in another directory how can we do that? Well, first let's open up our terminal. And by the way, another way that you can open terminal. Instead of right clicking and going open terminal here is going up here to this icon which says terminal emulator and clicking on it.
01:28:33.270 - 01:29:04.220, Speaker A: By default, this will be inside of your home directory, which we know to be this sign. And if we type the PWD command, we get home. Misterhackerdirectory we know that our desktop directory is also inside of this directory. So let's go there. Cd desktop, press enter and now we are in the desktop directory. Let's get back to the files. To create a simple empty file, we can use a command called touch.
01:29:04.220 - 01:29:48.450, Speaker A: If I simply just type touch file and let's call it file one, press enter. This will create a file named file one and it will have no contents inside of it. We can also see that file one has been created as it is right now on our desktop. Since we created it inside of the desktop directory, and if we also type ls, we can see that the file is in our desktop directory. To make sure this file is indeed empty, we can use the command cat. And this command, once executed on a file, writes out all the contents that are inside of that file. Let's try it out.
01:29:48.450 - 01:31:01.910, Speaker A: So we specify cat and then file one, press enter and this will give no result since as we already mentioned, the touch command creates empty files. If we want to, for example, put something inside of that file, we can use a command echo. You simply just type it like this echo, and to put something you specify after the echo, let's say today is a really good day. So we specified an entire sentence, and all we need to do to put this sentence inside of this file is to specify this arrow to the right, and after it specify the name of the file that we want to put this sentence in. So, Echo, today is a really good day. Into the file one, press enter, and if we cat it once again with the cat command, so cat file one, we will see that now it outputs exactly what we've written to that file using the Echo command. Okay, that's all good, but there is an easier way and more practical way to do all of this.
01:31:01.910 - 01:31:34.652, Speaker A: We can use a text editor to write things inside of a file, and an easy text editor that we can run from terminal is called nano. So let's try to do the same thing we just did using nano. If we type nano, and after nano comes the name of the file that you want to edit. And since we want to edit a new file, that we haven't created yet. We can simply just type name. Let's call it file two and press enter. This will open this empty window where we can type anything we want.
01:31:34.652 - 01:32:12.980, Speaker A: We can type file content here and it can be anything. We can type, for example, text here, but we could also type code if we wanted to. Let's start with text. First, let's write just hello world as a text. To save this, we press control o together, then enter to save under this name, and then control x to exit the nano editor. If we now type cat and then file two. And by the way, we can notice that file two has been created along file one on our desktop.
01:32:12.980 - 01:33:14.080, Speaker A: But if we cat file two, we can see the output of hello world. So we managed to do it only using one tool which is nano, instead of using two tools which are touch and echo. But I also mentioned we can do the same thing with programs. For example, how can we create a Python program using nano and terminal? First we need to open a file. So let's type nano and then file three, py and in this case we add py because that is an extension for Python programs. Then inside of it, after pressing enter, we're going to run a simple command which is print and then hello world between the quotes and you will see that some stuff changes colors. This is because the nano editor recognizes this as a Python program.
01:33:14.080 - 01:33:52.750, Speaker A: What we did right here, in case you're not familiar with Python, is we just ran a simple function that will print out the string that is in between the quotes. So this will just print out hello world. Let's save it with ctrl o, then press enter and then ctrl x to exit. And luckily for us, Python is already installed in Cal Linux. So all we need to do to run this program is to type Python three and then the name of the file. File three py, press enter and the program will execute. Here it printed out hello world.
01:33:52.750 - 01:34:43.552, Speaker A: Cool, right? You will also notice that the icon is different than these two icons. This is also once again because this is recognized as a Python program. It even has the Python icon. Now that we know how to create files and execute Python programs, the next question would be how can we create directories? To create a directory, we can use the command mkdir which stands for make directory to check it out. Let us run Mkdir and name a directory folder. So press enter and if I type ls, we will see that we got our files as well as a directory which is different color and it is called folder. Remember, we differentiate them by color.
01:34:43.552 - 01:35:12.430, Speaker A: And also if we try to change directory to the folder, it will work. It will even give us the path of desktop folder. Great. In that folder you can do pretty much anything you want. You can create subfolders or create files. Whatever you want to do, you can. To move, for example, our python program from the desktop directory to our folder directory, we can use command MV, which stands for move.
01:35:12.430 - 01:35:49.880, Speaker A: We must first navigate back to desktop directory. So let's do it using cd and then two dots to go one directory back. And from it we run the command Mv file three py into the folder. So we specify move. Then the second parameter is what we want to move, which in our case is file three py, and the last parameter is where we want to move it. We want to move it inside of our folder. So press here, enter, and you will notice that the file three py disappeared from our desktop directory.
01:35:49.880 - 01:36:47.242, Speaker A: We can also check that by typing ls and notice that our Python program is no longer here. But if we go to the folder directory and type ls here, we will see it here because we moved it here it is file three py. Now this is a handy command and you will use it a lot. Besides moving the file, we also want to see how we can copy a file, and we can do it using the CP command. This does the exact same thing as move command, but it doesn't move it from original directory to desired directory, it just copies it. So let's try to copy file three py and call it file four py. If I type cp, which stands for copy file three py, and I type file four py right after it, this will create an exact copy of our file in the same directory.
01:36:47.242 - 01:37:28.570, Speaker A: If I press enter and type ls, here it is, we got file three py and file four py. If we want to change whether they are exactly the same, we can catch the content of file three py and cat the content of file four py, and we can see they're both the same Python programs. And last command that we want to cover regarding files is the command rm. This command deletes files and directories. And let's say we try to delete file four py. That is our copy of our python program. We can do it by typing rm and then file four py.
01:37:28.570 - 01:38:08.826, Speaker A: Now be careful with this command, since once you delete a file, there is no trash bin where you can retrieve it. It is gone. If I type entertainment and type ls, you will see our file four py is no longer there. Okay, but how do we delete a directory? Let's first create a directory inside of our folder directory and to do that we type mkdir and let's call it folder two. Folder two is a subdirectory of our folder. If I type ls here it is. And so let's say we did create this directory by mistake and we want to delete it.
01:38:08.826 - 01:39:07.716, Speaker A: Can we use rm folder two? Well, we can try it. Hmm, cannot remove folder two and it will tell us that it is a directory. So how do we delete it? Well, we'll remove it in the same way we remove files. We just add an option at the end of the command. So type of rm folder two and then at the end add space and then r press enter and this will delete our directory. Also double check what you're deleting with this command, since if you go to our slash directory, which is directory containing all folders and files in system, and if we were to type for example in that directory rmd, then this star sign and then r this command will delete entire cal linux machine with all of its files. So always pay attention.
01:39:07.716 - 01:39:52.530, Speaker A: What exactly are you deleting in Linux and from which directory are you deleting? Since inside of the Linux you will not be stopped in deleting anything you want, you can easily delete a crucial file for the operating system and make your cal Linux machine unworkable. That is also a reason why we are practicing with virtual machine. So let's whoops. I actually ran this and you will notice that the results of this command if I type ls now our folder is completely empty. So I actually ran this by mistake. And keep in mind, if I actually ran this from the slash directory which is our root directory, I would delete entire cal Linux system for now on. It is good since I only deleted our python program, so it is not a big deal.
01:39:52.530 - 01:40:30.310, Speaker A: Okay, great, we learned bunch of the commands in this lecture. Now I got a practice test for you that you can try to do for the next lecture inside of our folder directory. Since I deleted my python program, I want you to create the file tree py once again. You can type anything you want inside of it. You can use the print hello world statement that we used. And what I want you to do using the commands you learned in this video is to copy that file in the desktop directory from our folder directory. So you create it inside of this directory and they want you to copy it back to the desktop directory.
01:40:30.310 - 01:41:38.450, Speaker A: A hint is that it can be a little tricky once you copy file from some directory to directory. Anyways, just try it and we're going to see the solution in the next video. Welcome back. Have you managed to figure out the command from previous video? Don't worry if you haven't, since it was a tricky one, let us see what the solution is. So if I navigate to my folder which we created in the previous video, we wanted to copy our file three py, which is our Python program from folder directory to the desktop directory. And if you try to solve it but didn't manage to, you probably went with command CP file three py desktop. And if I press enter, this command probably surprised you since it created another folder or, pardon me, another file in the folder directory called desktop.
01:41:38.450 - 01:42:36.954, Speaker A: This is because it read our command as if we wanted to copy our file into another file in the same directory and we call that file desktop. And this is just how the command works. In order to successfully copy the file to desktop directory, we must run the command and specify the full path to the desktop as well as the name of the copy that we want. So it would look something like this. First we're going to delete this desktop file since we don't need it, and then you specify Cp file three py and we specify the full path to the desktop which is home mister hacker and then slash desktop after it. We also want to specify slash and type here the name that we want our copy to have. So let's just call it our copy Py.
01:42:36.954 - 01:43:28.180, Speaker A: We add it py since it is a python program. Press enter and you will see right away on the desktop we got our copy py. Now that we got that figured out, let us talk about a few network commands that we will use a lot throughout this course. The most important command we already know is ifconfig. We use I've config command to get our IP address and what the output of this command is is all the network interfaces as well as IP addresses corresponding to those interfaces. If I run ifconfig, oops, we get command not found. So we must run sudo ifconfig, press enter, then we enter our password.
01:43:28.180 - 01:44:13.470, Speaker A: And here I have a few interfaces. So let me enlarge the terminal so we can see entire command. Let's just fully enlarge it and run the command once again. And by the way, you can navigate to the previous commands using upper and lower arrow so I can navigate between all the commands that I ran previously. And here is Sudo ifconfig and this is the output of my ifconfig command for you. This will probably be different. Here I have eth zero interface, which is my cable connection, and it has an IP address of one nine two dot one six eight dot one dot one two.
01:44:13.470 - 01:45:04.852, Speaker A: And I can also see the loopback interface which is this lo which all of us should have. And it will be an IP address of one two seven dot zero dot zero dot one, which is also a local host IP. For this course, we will usually be interested in this eth zero IP address. If you have another interface called differently, that is also fine. You could have a different named interface if you, for example, are connecting over Wi Fi. This IP address that we get right here is called local IP address, which means it only works inside of our network to communicate with other devices that are also inside of our network. There is also something called public IP address which we are going to talk about later in the course.
01:45:04.852 - 01:46:01.870, Speaker A: For now, just remember that I've config outputs local IP address as well as our network interfaces. Another thing we can get from ifconfig is our Mac address for a specific interface. So for the eth zero interface, here is my Mac address. And what Mac address is, is a unique identifier for every device. Unlike local IP addresses that could be the same in different networks. For example, it is a great possibility that you also have the IP address starting with one nine two dot one six eight dot one, while the Mac address is unique for every device in the world. And in case you're new to all of this and don't have much previous experience with Mac addresses and IP addresses, you might be asking why do we need both of them? Well, let me explain like this.
01:46:01.870 - 01:46:38.304, Speaker A: Mac addresses are unique and usable in communications with your neighbor machines or simply with machines that are on your network. While IP addresses are used to communicate over Internet and they can also change. Remember it like this. Mac address tells you who you are. IP address tells you where you are. So that is the ifconfig command. And now that I think of this ifconfig command, there is one more important command that I didn't show you and that you will use a lot, which is Sudo.
01:46:38.304 - 01:47:09.128, Speaker A: Remember we used it with ifconfig. Now, Sudo is not a part of the ifconfig command. It is just a command that we use once we want to execute something as a root user. And just to remind you, a root user is something like an administrator. It has highest privileges above all other users. With root user, you can execute any commands that you want. For example, once we ran this ifconfig command, it told us command doesn't exist.
01:47:09.128 - 01:47:42.766, Speaker A: If I just type once again ifconfig, it will say command not found. But after using Sudo ifconfig, we managed to execute it. That is because I've config. Command must be ran with root privileges in order for it to execute. Throughout this course, we will encounter many programs and many commands that will require Sudo in order to run. And sometimes there could be multiple commands at once that we must execute. As a root user.
01:47:42.766 - 01:48:32.960, Speaker A: There is one cool trick, so you don't have to type Sudo before every command is to run at the beginning Sudo and then su press enter and if you're running Sudo for the first time inside of one terminal session, it will ask you for your password and then it will login into the root terminal. So everything you run from now on, you will run as a root account. Right now I no longer need to specify sudo I've config. I can just specify I've configured and it will not tell me command not found, it will execute it since I am a root user. As it says right here, it is no longer mister hacker. It is now root. If you want to exit out of this root terminal, you simply just type exit and it will go back to your mister hacker terminal.
01:48:32.960 - 01:49:13.140, Speaker A: Now this can also be applied to files. Some files might be created only for ute account to edit. For example, if we run the command sudo touch file one, we press enter and if we for example, type sudo nano file one, type here. Hello there. We control o to save and then control x to exit. We won't be able to edit this file as a normal user without the sudo command or without the root account. If I lower this terminal, here is our file one.
01:49:13.140 - 01:49:56.380, Speaker A: And the reason why we can't edit it is because this actual file right now has been opened and edited with root privileges. And once we save it, we saved it as a root. So right now if we try to nano, it will tell me file is unwritable, which means I cannot write anything. Well, I mean I can, but if we try to save it, it will tell me right here. Permission denied. So let's close this and open terminal once again. However, if you go as a root account, sudo nano file one, and we type our password now we can type anything we want.
01:49:56.380 - 01:51:01.030, Speaker A: Just 1 second. It seems that we opened the wrong file. This is the file one that we created from the previous video that says today is a really good day and to go to the file one that root account created I believe it is one directory back or let's just go to the sudo user type enter cd mister hacker cd desktop cad file one nevermind. Since we can't really find it let us just create another file. Just make sure you go to the root account of the terminal and then type nano test file and once you type nano test file here type hello there. Save this, exit the root account and if I lower terminal right now we will see this test file right here on our desktop but it also has this lock right here. This means we as a normal user cannot edit this file.
01:51:01.030 - 01:52:00.228, Speaker A: We first need to go to desktop directory. So let's go to the mister hacker and then desktop and we nano test file. It will tell us once again file is unwritable only root account can edit it and this is something you will encounter a lot so it is really important. Next time you see either something like command not found or write protected file or this requires root privileges just know that it needs to be ran with sudo. Alrighty, so with this we finished our small crash course for Linux and I would advise you to practice a little bit with the commands we learned and also explore cal Linux operating system a little bit. Go to different directories, see what it all has but be careful not to delete some important files. Okay, now we are ready to finally go into the process of penetration testing.
01:52:00.228 - 01:52:39.440, Speaker A: Hopefully you are excited since this is where the fun starts. Let us see how to perform the first phase which is information gathering. See you there. Welcome back. It is time we learn in details what is information gathering and how can we perform it. We already know that information gathering is the first step in penetration testing and it is an act of gathering data about our target. It can be any type of data that we might find useful for the future attack.
01:52:39.440 - 01:53:44.310, Speaker A: And if you remember there are two types of information gathering. We got active information gathering and passive information gathering and we talked briefly about them but now it is time to fully explain what both of them are. So let's start with active information gathering. In active information gathering we use our Cal Linux machine and we try to get as much data or as much information about our target while interacting with them. It could be a target website that we need to test so we need to find as many things about it as we can or it could also be a network that we're testing or perhaps an entire company. The main point is that with active information gathering we directly get that data from the target. This could mean directly exchanging packets with the target by visiting and enumerating their website.
01:53:44.310 - 01:54:39.474, Speaker A: Or it could also mean talking to an employee that works there. We could maybe call them over mobile phone to try to get them to tell us something important, but this part is also considered social engineering nonetheless. Any action where you exchange something with the target is active information gathering. This can be legal to an extent. If you start performing some advanced scans or OS fingerprinting on the target, you most likely wont get in trouble, but you should still not do it without permission. And it is important to mention that usually active information gathering will provide us with much more important data than passive information gathering since we are directly interacting with the target. On the other hand, we got passive information gathering and it is similar.
01:54:39.474 - 01:55:38.042, Speaker A: We got our Cal Linux machine and our target, but we also have an intermediate system or what I like to call a middle source. And what this middle source is, well basically it could be anything from a search engine to a website. It could also be a person. But what matters is that information we get is going through that middle source. For example, if we want to find out something about a certain target, and we google that target to find some pages that contain information about it, this is considered passive information gathering. Okay good. But what are the goals of this? What exactly are we searching for? Which information could be of value to us? Usually the first thing we search to identify a target is their IP address or IP addresses.
01:55:38.042 - 01:56:23.566, Speaker A: If the target has multiple addresses that belong to them. This could be for example, a company that has servers and buildings all around the world. And if we were to test this company, we would also be interested in their employees too. For example, we would want to gather their emails, which could be useful for a future attack to gain access to that company. Or we could possibly want to gather their phone numbers, which could also be useful. But most importantly, and what we are mainly interested in are technologies that the target has. If it was a company, we would want to know how many networks they have, what softwares are running on their machines, what operating systems they have.
01:56:23.566 - 01:57:18.810, Speaker A: If it was a website, we would also want to know how that website was built, which programming languages it has. Does it have JavaScript or PHP, for example? Just one software on one machine that is outdated or that has unknown vulnerability that could be exploited is our way in. So now that we know what we are looking for during this first step, it is time we see what tools and programs can we use to find out as much information as possible about our target. Let's do it. Welcome back. Since this is our first video in information gathering, we're going to start off with something easy. Let us see how we can identify our target and get its IP address.
01:57:18.810 - 01:57:58.590, Speaker A: We're going to check how we can do this both actively and passively. Let's do it with active information gathering first. So this means we're going to interact with our target. So just go on Google and pick a website that you want to use for this. It can be any website that you want and you can also use the ones that I will show in this video. First, open up your terminal and what we're going to do for the first test, I'm going to use this website. This is just some university page that I picked and what we can do to get its IP address is to ping it.
01:57:58.590 - 01:58:41.058, Speaker A: Most of you will already be familiar with ping tool since it is installed by default on any operating system. By pinging this website or any other website, we are sending something called ICMP packets to that website. And if we get responses back, that means that website is up and running. But what we also get besides that response is the IP address. So let's try it out. I will leave this link right here and I will just add at the beginning ping space and then hit enter. And it seems that we are not getting any responses back.
01:58:41.058 - 01:59:24.980, Speaker A: But what we did get is an IP address. Here it is. And we are not getting responses back from this side because it is probably blocking ping probes which some websites often do. Let us try another site to see how it looks once we get responses back. So to stop this you can simply just press control c and it will tell us 32 packets transmitted and 100% packet loss. Now this doesn't mean that this website is offline since if we visited this link right here or this IP address we would open a page to that website. But just in case, let us see how it looks like once we get the response back from the ping command.
01:59:24.980 - 02:00:18.710, Speaker A: If we try to ping a big website, for example like Facebook. So let's type ping facebook.com. here we get an IP address of Facebook and we can control c since we can notice that we are getting packets back which means Facebook is up and running and also responding to our ICMP packets. Just to note, this IP address right here is just one of the IP addresses that Facebook uses. So for you, once you ping it, you will probably get a different result. Okay, what we saw right here is an example of active information gathering to get the IP address. Since we directly send packets to these websites, another tool you can use to get IP from a website is called nslookup.
02:00:18.710 - 02:00:56.564, Speaker A: So if I go down here and type nslookup and then the name of the website, which in our case let's try with the first one which is this one. And once again you can test any website you want with this. It doesn't matter if I press enter it will give me this response which says server and address right here. But this is not the IP address of this website. This is just my router. And where the result or where the IP address of this website is is down here. Here it is.
02:00:56.564 - 02:01:29.982, Speaker A: If we compare this one and we go back to the ping command, you will notice the IP address is the same. So we got the same result which is good. Let's try the same with Facebook. So just type right here nslookup facebook.com. and we also get the IP address of Facebook. Now if you wanted to do this passively, you would search for this information such as IP address over some other website. Let us see how we can do that.
02:01:29.982 - 02:02:28.100, Speaker A: First of all, we want to open our Firefox. And to do that just click on this Cal Linux icon in the top left corner and type firefox. You should see Firefox ECR, click on it. And what we're going to look for is a website that provides us with IP address of a different website. And since I don't know any website that does that, I will simply just go right here in the search bar and type what is an IP address of this website? If I press enter, it should probably give me a few results of different websites that will do exactly what we want, which is get the IP address of another website. And let's go with this one IP checker which is IP info info. If I click on it and down here we see something that says IP domain checker.
02:02:28.100 - 02:03:01.462, Speaker A: We need to specify the IP address, the domain or URL and if we type the domain name of that first website. So if I type the same domain name and click right here on check. Okay, so some security checked. Select all traffic lights. Let's select all traffic lights that we see. And here is the result. And you will notice that right here we get even more information than we asked for.
02:03:01.462 - 02:03:34.918, Speaker A: For example, here is the IP address of this website. We also get from which country it is as it says right here in the brackets. And we also get its geolocation which says even the city. We can also check it out on Google Maps if we wanted to. Down here we get even more information such as reverse DNS. Here we get information about registration date, modification date, expiration date. Down here we get some of the DNS servers and here we get its physical address.
02:03:34.918 - 02:04:22.870, Speaker A: So this is the exact location to where this server is located. Now this is just the same result I believe down here we also get some email addresses as we can notice right here. All of this could be useful for us depending on which type of attack we would plan. Now of course we're not going to be attacking this website since we do not have permission, but we're simply just gathering information to see what can we retrieve from the Internet about this website. And for now we're getting a bunch of information about it. Now, similar response that we got right here we can get using a tool called Whois. Whois not only gives us an ip address of the specified domain, but it also gives us bunch of other information about that domain.
02:04:22.870 - 02:05:16.898, Speaker A: It is already installed in Kali Linux. So let's test it out. If I close this page and type in my terminal whois the same domain name, press enter, I will pretty much get the same information that I saw previously on that website. As we can see right here, we get those DNS servers, the registration date, modification date, expiration date. We get the physical address and some other things such as id number, tax id, which is not really of interest to us. And let us also test this tool on Facebook since different websites might give different information. For example, if I do the same on Facebook, since it being a much bigger site, it will probably give us much more information as well.
02:05:16.898 - 02:05:48.320, Speaker A: So let's type it whois facebook.com dot press enter. Let me just enlarge the terminal so we can see everything clearly. And if I scroll all the way up, we get some name servers, Tech street, city, state, province, postal code. We also get some phone numbers right here. Here are some of the email addresses for the tech email. So we get another email address right here and even more phone numbers.
02:05:48.320 - 02:06:34.090, Speaker A: We get the city, the street. If I go all the way up, we can see that this is a whoisresponse. So this all information is public to us and this would be pretty much it. This is all the information we get for Facebook using Whois tool. And by the way, in real penetration tests that you will perform, all of the interesting information is something that you want to write down in our report. For now, we only saw how we can get basic information such as IP addresses, country origin, physical address and similar. But later during information gathering and scanning, we might find something that shouldn't be out there on the Internet and that would be called information disclosure.
02:06:34.090 - 02:07:11.660, Speaker A: It is something that client doesn't want to be seen but it is still publicly available. So anything that you might think is interesting, you would write down. Okay great. Now we know how we can identify a target by getting its IP address and also getting its physical address and some other interesting information as well. And even though this isnt really hard information to get, it is a good beginning. Let us see in the next video. What else can we find out? Welcome back.
02:07:11.660 - 02:07:58.350, Speaker A: Now we are going to discuss a tool called what web? This tool is used to gather information and to scan any website on the Internet. So it is primarily used to scan websites. Since this tool recognizes web technologies including web servers, embedded devices, JavaScript libraries and many more things, they explain it really well on the website page for this tool. So we can read right here about all the details that this tool has. We can notice they have over 1700 plugins. Each one of them used to recognize something different. So they use these plugins to perform the scan on the website and discover what technologies does that website run.
02:07:58.350 - 02:08:52.420, Speaker A: What is important for us is this second paragraph since down here it tells us that default level of aggression called stealthy is the fastest and requires only one HTTP request of a website. Now what this simply means is that this what web tool has different levels for scanning and the default level is the level of aggression that is called stealthy which we can use on any website that we want. The other levels of scanning are more aggressive and should only be performed during penetration tests. So we should note use the more aggressive scans on the websites that we do not have permission to scan. We can however use the stealthy scan on any website that we want on the Internet. And don't worry, we are going to see all of these options in just a second. For now it's good that we know what we can or cannot do.
02:08:52.420 - 02:09:31.230, Speaker A: So let's test this tool out in our Cal Linux to do it. Open up your terminal and to to check out all of the options we can do with what web. You can simply just type what web in your terminal and press enter. This will give you a smaller help menu with some of the basic features that what web has. As we can see we can specify targets which can be anything from URL's host names or ip addresses. Here is that aggression level which we specify like this. There is the aggression level one which is stealthy and the aggression level three which is aggressive.
02:09:31.230 - 02:10:27.826, Speaker A: The default level is level one which is good to notice. So we don't want to change this? If we scan a random website on the Internet we can also list all of the plugins that it uses but we are not currently interested in this. And we can have also our bose output. But these are just some of the options for the what web tool? To get even more available options with what web we can type the command what web help press enter and this will give us a much larger help menu with all of the possible options that we can use for what web. And down here. Here is the aggression level we can see besides the stealthy that we are going to use on random websites. And besides the aggressive scan that you would use in a penetration test, there is even more aggressive scan called heavy and it says right here makes a lot of HTTP requests per target.
02:10:27.826 - 02:10:59.460, Speaker A: URL's from all plugins are attempted. So this is basically the deepest scan that what web tool can perform on a website. Up here are also the targets. So we specify a target first. And if I go all the way down, you will notice right here we got some of the examples of usage of what web. So we can see right here that the most simple example is running what web and then the domain name. So for the first run let us go with this one.
02:10:59.460 - 02:11:27.390, Speaker A: We're only going to specify website as an option. So just type down here what web? And since we are using the aggression level one, we can scan any website that we want. So I'm going to go with this one. And this is just another university website from my country. Feel free to scan any website that you want or you can also go with this one if you'd like. If I press here, enter. In just a few seconds we should get response for this website.
02:11:27.390 - 02:11:54.960, Speaker A: And here it is. We already got something. We got two responses as we can see by the links right here, the command has finished executing. So let us just go through these results and see what we got. It tells us that it most likely performed a redirect as soon as we tried getting this link. We can also see that we got the Apache web server. We even get the version which is two 4.6.
02:11:54.960 - 02:12:22.292, Speaker A: We got some cookies right here which the website uses. We got from which country it is, which type of HTTP server it uses. If I go down here, here is the IP address of this website. Here's the PHP version that they use and the redirect location. If you remember, I told you that it most likely redirected us to a different page. Here is to where it redirected us. And once we got redirected we got the response of 200.
02:12:22.292 - 02:13:06.754, Speaker A: Ok, and this is just an HTTP response code which tells us that we successfully loaded a page. We got the same Apache version, the bootstrap version, which cookies it uses. Down here we got the country and we also managed to extract some of the emails as we can see down here. These are some of the emails from the page that belong to this domain. Down here we also see that it uses HTML five, which HTTP server it has, which Apache version it has, once again which PHP version, the IP address. It also uses jquery, lightbox and bunch of other things we can see right here. But I don't really like how this is outputted.
02:13:06.754 - 02:13:32.676, Speaker A: It is hard to read. To output this a little bit prettier, we can use this verbose option that I saw in the help menu. Here it is. And what this verbose option does is it also includes plugin descriptions. It will also tell us for each plugin that the what web tool managed to discover. It will tell us what exactly that plugin is. So let's try it out.
02:13:32.676 - 02:14:26.140, Speaker A: If I type what web and then the same website, but I add v option at the end and press enter, it will pretty much give us the same result. Just it will be outputted a whole lot better and easier to read if I scroll all the way up to the beginning of the command. Remember we got two responses. Here is the IP address and this is the first request or first response which tells us to move to the actual website. So the redirect response, we get all of this information that we got previously, but we also get this section right here which says detected plugins. And for example, if we didn't know what Apache was, we could read right here what Apache is. And down here we get the version that this website has of the Apache.
02:14:26.140 - 02:15:06.060, Speaker A: We also get for cookies, same thing for HTTP server. We can see which operating system, which Apache server it is, which PHP version it is. It tells us right here what PHP is. For example, if we didn't know PHP is a widely used general purpose scripting language, redirect location. So after this request it redirects us to this location. And down here we get the response 200 for the actual page we get once again the country, the IP address and all of the detected plugins. And we can read through this and discover what is this website running.
02:15:06.060 - 02:15:57.610, Speaker A: And it is outputted a whole lot better and easier to read than the previous command. Okay, good. So we managed to get the information as to what a certain website is running, which technologies it has, and in the next video we're going to deeply go into this tool and try to perform some of the more aggressive scans as well as experiment with some of the different options of what web as well. Welcome back. Let's continue with our what web tool. So in the previous video we only saw how we can perform the basic stealthy scan on a certain website. Another thing that we can do with what web, besides testing a website is to test a range of IP addresses all at once.
02:15:57.610 - 02:17:08.920, Speaker A: So if I open up my terminal and I type what web dash dash help once again to list out all of the available options and scroll all the way up here under the targets, we can see that we can specify URL's hostnames, IP addresses, but we can also specify IP ranges. We can specify them like this or like this. Now to test this out, I'm going to scan my entire home network and to know what range of IP addresses should I scan for my home network. I could type down here command I've config or sudo I've config. Since remember, this requires root privileges. Press enter, enter our password, and we can see that my IP address is 192 168 1.4. And what's more important than the IP address in this case is the netmask and my netmask is 255 255 255.0.
02:17:08.920 - 02:18:06.900, Speaker A: The subnet mask right here means that only the last octet of my IP address is changeable, which is this last number. So these first three octets or these first three numbers never change in my home network. This also means that the range of IP addresses that belong to my network are going to be from zero to 255. So basically the range of the IP addresses that my network can have is this 1192 dot one six eight, dot one dot 02192 dot one six eight. This is the range of my home network. So let me scan it now for you. It might be different based on what type of network you got, but in most home networks the subnet mask is going to be this one.
02:18:06.900 - 02:19:00.090, Speaker A: Therefore just the last octet will be changeable for you. Now, before I actually run the scan, I don't have any websites hosted in my home network, but I do got some devices running something on port 80, and port 80 is an HTTP port that websites use to host their pages. So we should still get some result from scanning my network. Let us go delete this and type what web and then the range of my home network. Let us go with 1192 dot one six eight, dot one dot two five five. So this is the range of IP addresses that I want to scan and all of them belong to my home network. And the good thing right here is that I can use whichever aggression level I want, since it is my own network.
02:19:00.090 - 02:19:56.321, Speaker A: Let's test out aggression level three. To do that we can specify aggression, and then three after it, we can also specify the v option to better output all of this and let's press enter. You will notice we are getting some of the results, but there is a lot of this error happening on the screen. Now what this error right here is, let me just ctrl c since we're not going to wait for this to finish, and this error is, is all of the hosts that it tried to scan but couldn't manage to. And the reason why it couldn't manage to scan these hosts is because they do not exist. I currently only have around two or three devices on my home network, and all of these other IP addresses are out of use. So let me go up here to see what it found.
02:19:56.321 - 02:20:32.740, Speaker A: It found the result for the IP address. One nine two dot one six eight dot one dot one. And this is my router. Down here we can see all of the plugins that it managed to detect. For my router we can see an interesting plugin which is password field. This is something that we would write down since any password field that we find we can use later on in something like a brute force attack to try to guess the password and try to brute force the login credentials, but nonetheless this is just a router so we're not really interested in it at the moment. This is just an example of a test of how it would look like.
02:20:32.740 - 02:21:00.932, Speaker A: And since I don't have any website on my home network, it didn't really give much result. We can see right here. Here is another IP address that is active. It is one nine two dot one six eight dot one dot 10. And this is an IP address of my laptop which is currently up and running. It detected this HTTP server on it, but it got the status code of 403 forbidden, so it is not allowed to visit that page. Therefore this is as much information as it managed to get.
02:21:00.932 - 02:21:41.760, Speaker A: And all the other ones down here are simply just offline. Now if you don't want this outputted, this red text, you can use the same command and at the end add no errors. What this no errors option does is it simply just doesn't print these offline IP addresses. Let's test it out. If I run the same command just with no errors, you will see we are not going to get any red text anymore, it will only scan these two live IP addresses, which is my home router and the laptop. And that is basically it. That is everything that it will output.
02:21:41.760 - 02:22:48.358, Speaker A: Okay, so it took just a few seconds to finish. And keep in mind that since we are running level three of aggression scan, it will take a little bit more time to scan something than with level one since it is performing a deeper scan than just the level one stealthy scan. Okay, so we ran this command and we use the aggression level three. We use V to output all the detected plugins as well as their description. And we used no errors to not print out these offline IP addresses. But what if we, for example, wanted to save this output that we got in a file for some future references? Well, if I type the command what web help? And I go through this help menu once again, I will get to this part which is logging. And down here we can see that there are a bunch of options that we can use to log our file or to save our file.
02:22:48.358 - 02:23:46.328, Speaker A: So let's just go with the first one, or we can even use the second one which is to log verbose output. To do that, we use this option right here and then equals and then the file name that we want it to save to. So if I go down here and another useful command, once you have a bunch of things happening in your terminal, and by bunch of things I mean just bunch of text printed out, what we can do to get rid of this is run the command clear. This will clear our terminal so we get much cleaner look. Now if I press upper arrow to find the command that we ran previously, and at the end I add log and then dash, verbose equals. And here I can call the file results. For example, if I press here, enter now, you will notice that besides of this outputting it to the terminal, it will also save it inside of a file.
02:23:46.328 - 02:24:31.554, Speaker A: Let's wait for this to finish, to check out the file that we got. Okay, so it finished, let us clear the screen once again. And if I type ls right here, we will see our results file. Let's lower the terminal and open this file to see what it got saved. And if I enlarge it, we will see that we got our results saved for both IP addresses, for my laptop IP address and for my router IP address. Now for your scan, if you scan your home network, you will probably have more devices or less devices, or you might not get any result. In case none of your devices is having an open port 80, or in case none of your devices is running an HTTP server.
02:24:31.554 - 02:25:06.920, Speaker A: So don't worry if you didn't get any device. This is just an example to see that we can even run the ranges of IP addresses and to test out this aggression level tree scan since we can only do it on the websites that we own or have permission to scan. Okay great. So look at all of the commands that we crafted with all of these options right here. And this is just a part of this what web tool. You don't need to be learning all of these commands. You can always just run the help command and read through its help menu to discover what you want to run.
02:25:06.920 - 02:26:31.560, Speaker A: We won't be going through all of these options in what web tool since there is too much of them, but I encourage you to play with it a little bit and see if it has any other interesting options. Great. In the next video we're going to see how we can harvest or gather as much emails as possible from just knowing a domain. See you there. Right now we are going to see how we can gather emails for a certain company or a domain. Remember, people are always weak at security. If we manage to send some malicious program to someone working in a company and they run that program, we got our way in.
02:26:31.560 - 02:27:03.716, Speaker A: We can also use emails in something like a brute force attack. We can use them in the username fields. There are many ways this could be useful, but for now let us just see how we can get them. Since emails are public information, we can test this on any domain we want to get emails. We are going to check out two different options. A tool called the harvester that's installed in Cal Linux and a website called Hunter IO. Let's start with Harvester first.
02:27:03.716 - 02:27:47.630, Speaker A: So open up your terminal and to just run the help menu from the harvester we can type the tool name. So just type the harvester with capital h and press enter and this will output us with a smaller help menu just like the what web tool did. Once we specified its name, we get its banner and some of the options that we can run. It tells us since we tried to run it with just the name of the program that there is an error. The following arguments are required so we need to specify the domain. But before we specify the domain, let us just run the bigger help menu so we can see all of our available options. Okay great, here it is.
02:27:47.630 - 02:28:36.080, Speaker A: So we get the domain option. So we need to specify either a company name or domain name to search. This is the limit limit of search results which is default equal to 500. And all these other options are not really of interest to us besides this last source option and this last source option, we specify with b and we specify where we want to search for emails. Now we can either specify one of these, we can for example specify we want to search for Twitter, LinkedIn, Bing, Google, or we can simply just specify all and it will go through all of these in search for usernames, hosts and emails. So let's try it out. If I clear the screen, type d harvester.
02:28:36.080 - 02:29:09.140, Speaker A: And first thing we need to specify is d for the domain. And for this test I will go with this domain right here, which is another university domain. You can go either with this one or you can pick any website that you want and use it instead. So if I specify the harvester d, then the domain name, the next option that I want to specify is b. And remember, b option is the source. So where we want to search for the emails, host names and usernames. And let's for the first try specify all.
02:29:09.140 - 02:29:53.698, Speaker A: And the last option is l, which is the limit that is set by default to be 500. So we can either specify more than that or less than that, or we can simply just not specify l at all. And it will just by default scan 500 results. So if we leave it just like this and I press here, enter, the running of this command will take some time. It will search for different results, it will search for host names, it will search for usernames, and it will also search for emails. As we can see down here, it says searching 300 results and this will go up to 500 since we are using the default l option, which is 500 results. And it seems that we already got some users found.
02:29:53.698 - 02:30:34.384, Speaker A: Here are some of the names as well as what do they do? So this is already some result for us. Let's just wait for all of this to finish and then we will go through all of the results that we managed to gather. Okay, so it has finished. Let us check out what we got as an output. So it searched through bunch of different platforms as we can see, LinkedIn, virustotal, Yahoo, Twitter, but it didn't manage to find any results for these platforms. The only thing we got is these users right here. But this is not what we looked for.
02:30:34.384 - 02:31:16.202, Speaker A: We wanted to find some email addresses or perhaps some usernames. There is one thing with this harvester tool. From my personal experience, this tool doesn't always work. There are days when it gives amazing results, but there are days when it doesn't find any emails or any hosts, just like in it. In this case, as it says, fail to detect a valid ip address from this domain name. We also didn't get any emails and I'm talking about scanning this same domain just on two different days. That's why it is always good in case you don't get any results for this tool right now to scan it multiple times.
02:31:16.202 - 02:32:06.004, Speaker A: So if I scan it once again and instead of b all I will select b and scan only from Google to see if I get any different results. And if we still don't manage to get any results, just try the same command either later or tomorrow and I guarantee you it will usually give you a different result. As we can see, we didn't manage to find anything with this tool. That's why we got a second option. And that second option is a website hunter IO. So let's go and visit that website, open up your Firefox and in the search bar up here type hunter IO. It will automatically lead you to this website.
02:32:06.004 - 02:33:02.336, Speaker A: And we can see right here we got this search bar where we specify a company domain and we click on find email addresses. But on this website you must first create an account and you either have a free account or a paid account. Technically you can even search without creating an account, but it will only show you first five results and they will be half blurred. Let me show you, if I go here and type the same domain name that we used for harvester and let me just enlarge this a little bit so you can see in greater detail. And I click on Find email addresses, it will show me first five results and they will all be blurred. Now you can technically try to figure out what these email addresses are, but they will be blurred nonetheless. And down here it also tells you how much results it managed to gather.
02:33:02.336 - 02:33:42.990, Speaker A: It managed to gather 315 more results besides these five emails. And those results will be available if you get a paid account with free account. However, let me show you how free account looks like. If I go in, sign in and I sign into my account for you, just go and create an account right here and sign in into your free account. Once you create an account, you should be able to have about 50 searches per month with a free account as it says right here. So we got zero out of 50 and these monthly requests reset in about one month. And as I mentioned, even with free account you also don't get all the results outputted.
02:33:42.990 - 02:34:35.790, Speaker A: But at least the emails that it gives you are not blurred. Let's test it out. If I type the domain name that we used, this entire video and click on search right now, I managed to get some of the results right here. So I get up to ten results with its email addresses and with their names. So we got the name and we also got the email addresses we get right here which pattern it used to find email addresses. And all of these email addresses are also split into different sections. So if I click on IT engineering, I will even get what type of work does this person do? Project advisor, IT engineering, production engineering, technical editor as well as their email addresses we also get from which sources we managed to get these emails.
02:34:35.790 - 02:35:25.304, Speaker A: And if I go to all right here and I remove this IT engineering down here, we will also get that there are 310 more results for this domain name. So it is completely up to you whether you think you should get paid version for this. Just keep in mind that with the paid version you get much more results than with the free version. The bad side about the paid version is that it isn't cheap at all. If I go to my account up here and I click on subscription, I can see down here which plan choices I have available to purchase. And you can see 1000 requests per month will be around 50 per month. So this is completely up to you.
02:35:25.304 - 02:36:03.344, Speaker A: But nonetheless, what we did learn in this video is different ways to gather emails about a certain domain. And I encourage you to also later try out this harvester tool once again because it does know to give really good results once it works. And one more thing is that at the end of this section I will give you a tool that is coded in Python three that will be able to gather even more emails from a specified domain. So it will be even better than these two options that I showed you right here. And it will be our own tool. I will give you its code and also show you how to run it and how it works. Okay good.
02:36:03.344 - 02:36:45.090, Speaker A: In the next video we're going to see how we can install some additional tools that we might need for information gathering. See you there. Right now we are going to see how we can gather emails for a certain company or a domain. Remember, people are always weak at security. If we manage to send some malicious program to someone working in a company and they run that program, we got our way in. We can also use emails in something like a brute force attack. We can use them in the username fields.
02:36:45.090 - 02:37:29.816, Speaker A: There are many ways this could be useful, but for now let us just see how we can get them. Since emails are public information, we can test this on any domain we want to get emails. We are going to check out two different options. A tool called the harvester that's installed in Cal, Linux and a website called Hunter IO. Let's start with Harvester first. So open up your terminal and to just run the help menu from the harvester we can type the tool name. So just type the harvester with capital h and press enter and this will output us with a smaller help menu just like the what web tool did.
02:37:29.816 - 02:37:56.904, Speaker A: Once we specified its name, we get its banner and some of the options that we can run. It tells us since we tried to run it with just the name of the program, that there is an error. The following arguments are required. So we need to specify the domain. But before we specify the domain, let us just run the bigger help menu so we can see all of our available options. Okay, great, here it is. So we get the domain option.
02:37:56.904 - 02:38:46.400, Speaker A: So we need to specify either a company name or domain name to search. And this is the limit, limit of search results, which is default, equal to 500. And all these other options are not really of interest to us. Besides this last source option and this last source option, we specify with b and we specify where we want to search for emails. Now we can either specify one of these, we can for example specify we want to search for Twitter, LinkedIn, Bing, Google, or we can simply just specify all and it will go through all of these in search for usernames, hosts and emails. So let's try it out. If I clear the screen, type D harvester, and first thing we need to specify is d for the domain.
02:38:46.400 - 02:39:21.692, Speaker A: And for this test I will go with this domain right here, which is another university domain. You can go either with this one or you can pick any website that you want and use it instead. So if I specify the harvester D, then the domain name. The next option that I want to specify is B. And remember, b option is the source. So where we want to search for the emails, host names and usernames and let us for the first try specify all. And the last option is l, which is the limit that is set by default to be 500.
02:39:21.692 - 02:40:13.380, Speaker A: So we can either specify more than that or less than that, or we can simply just not specify l at all and it will just by default scan 500 results. So if we leave it just like this and I press here, enter, the running of this command will take some time. It will search for different results, it will search for host names, it will search for usernames, and it will also search for emails. As we can see down here it says searching 300 results and this will go up to 500. Since we are using the default l option which is 500 results and it seems that we already got some users found. Here are some of the names as well as what do they do? So this is already some result for us. Let's just wait for all of this to finish and then we will go through all of the results that we managed to gather.
02:40:13.380 - 02:40:48.372, Speaker A: Okay, so it has finished. Let us check out what we got as an output. So it searched through bunch of different platforms as we can see, LinkedIn, virustotal, Yahoo, Twitter, but it didn't manage to find any results for these platforms. The only thing we got is these users right here. But this is not what we looked for. We wanted to find some email addresses or perhaps some usernames. There is one thing with this harvester tool.
02:40:48.372 - 02:41:43.230, Speaker A: From my personal experience, this tool doesn't always work. There are days when it gives amazing result, but there are days when it doesn't find any emails or any hosts. Just like in that in this case, as it says, fail to detect a valid IP address from this domain name. We also didn't get any emails and I'm talking about scanning this same domain just on two different days. That's why it is always good to, in case you don't get any results for this tool right now, to scan it multiple times. So if I scan it once again and instead of be all, I will select B and scan only from Google to see if I get any different results. And if we still don't manage to get any results, just try the same command either later or tomorrow and I guarantee you it will usually give you a different result.
02:41:43.230 - 02:42:36.872, Speaker A: As we can see, we didn't manage to find anything with this tool. That's why we got a second option. And that second option is a website hunter IO. So let's go and visit that website, open up your Firefox and in the search bar up here type of hunter IO, it will automatically lead you to this website. And we can see right here we got this search bar where we specify a company domain and we click on find email addresses. But on this website you must first create an account and you either have a free account or a paid account. Technically you can even search without creating an account, but it will only show you first five results and they will be half blurred.
02:42:36.872 - 02:43:30.556, Speaker A: Let me show you, if I go here and type the same domain name that we used for Harvester and let me just enlarge this a little bit so you can see in greater detail. And I click on find email addresses, it will show me first five results and they will all be blurred. Now you can technically try to figure out what these email addresses are, but they will be blurred nonetheless. And down here it also tells you how much results it managed to gather. It managed to gather 315 more results besides these five emails, and those results will be available if you get a paid account with free account. However, let me show you how free account looks like. If I go and sign in and I sign into my account for you, just go and create an account right here and sign in into your free account.
02:43:30.556 - 02:44:18.678, Speaker A: Once you create an account, you should be able to have about 50 searches per month with a free account as it says right here. So we got zero out of 50 and these monthly requests reset in about one month. And as I mentioned, even with free account you also don't get all the results outputted, but at least the emails that it gives you are not blurred. Let's test it out. If I type the domain name that we used this entire video and click on search right now, I managed to get some of the results right here. So I get up to ten results with its email addresses and with their names. So we got the name and we also got the email addresses we get right here which pattern it used to find email addresses.
02:44:18.678 - 02:45:28.580, Speaker A: And I all of these email addresses are also split into different sections. So if I click on it engineering I will even get what type of work does this person do? Project Advisor, IT Engineering, production Engineering, technical editor as well as their email addresses we also get from which sources we managed to get these emails. And if I go to all right here and I remove this IT engineering down here, we will also get that there are 310 more results for this domain name. So it is completely up to you whether you think you should get paid version for this. Just keep in mind that with the paid version you get much more results than with the free version. The bad side about the paid version is that it isn't cheap at all. If I go to my account up here and I click on subscription, I can see down here which plan choices I have available to purchase and you can see 1000 requests per month will be around 50 per month.
02:45:28.580 - 02:46:07.900, Speaker A: So this is completely up to you. But nonetheless, what we did learn in this video is different ways to gather emails about a certain domain. And I encourage you to also later try out this harvester tool once again because it does know to give really good results once it works. And one more thing is that at the end of this section I will give you a tool that is coded in Python three that will be able to gather even more emails from a specified domain. So it will be even better than these two options that I showed you right here. And it will be our own tool. I will give you its code and also show you how to run it and how it works.
02:46:07.900 - 02:46:59.166, Speaker A: Ok good. In the next video we are going to see how we can install some additional tools that we might need for information gathering. See you there. Ok, so for now we took a look at couple of tools used for information gathering. But what happens if some of the tools stop working or if they get outdated? What are we going to do? We cannot depend on certain tools. If a tool breaks, we must find our way around to do the task either using other tool or by creating that tool ourselves. Well luckily there are a lot of tools available for us to download online and we cannot cover all of them.
02:46:59.166 - 02:47:37.366, Speaker A: But what is important to cover is how we can download them. So in this video we're going to be searching for an information gathering tool that we can download online and then run in Kali Linux. And the best place where we can find those to download is GitHub. Most of you, if you are either a developer or a programmer, are already familiar with GitHub. And for those of you who don't know what GitHub is, GitHub is world's largest community of developers that build and share their software. So let's see how we can download some additional tools from there. First of all, open up your firefox.
02:47:37.366 - 02:48:44.220, Speaker A: And when we download tools, we either know exactly which tools we want to download, so we search them by their name or we have no idea what tools even exist. And this is the case where we don't even know what we want, we only know that we're looking for a tool used for information gathering. So let's just type that in. Search bar type information gathering tools GitHub up here information gathering tools GitHub Press enter okay, so let's just click and go with the first link. Information gathering tools make sure that it is from the GitHub page and down here it will output us with bunch of different tools that are used for information gathering. As we can see in the description scan, all possible TLD's for a given domain name. Information gathering website reconnaissance this is a program to detect probability of admin page and we got bunch of different tools.
02:48:44.220 - 02:49:21.356, Speaker A: If we go to some other links will also see some other tools available. So from the second link we get the Sherlock, the photon f society pentesting Bible. If I go all the way down here is the harvester. Remember this tool we used in the previous video. And by the way, if you didn't test out once again whether you managed to get some of the results with it, try it out right now. And down here we will get this cover which is also a known tool, raccoon, striker, Redhawk, sandmap and bunch of others as well. And let's just go with any one of them.
02:49:21.356 - 02:49:43.072, Speaker A: Let's just go with this one. Let us read the description. It says all in one tool for information gathering, vulnerability scanning and crawling. A must tool have for all penetration testers. Okay, so it seems interesting, let us click on it. Click on Red Hawk and here is the page of the tool. These are all of the files that the tool has.
02:49:43.072 - 02:50:16.394, Speaker A: We can see them right here. Down here we got readme. This is what we can perform with Redhawk. So we can read what are our available options with it. And down here released versions changelog. Down here we also get how we can install it, how to configure it, and we get usage. Now sometimes you will need to install some of the requirements that the tool needs in order to run and you can almost always find the commands that you must run on this tool page.
02:50:16.394 - 02:50:54.692, Speaker A: So as we can see right here, we got the usage and installation. So all we need to do is follow both of them. And different tools might need different requirements, but this is something that you will get better at the more tools you install. However, to just download a tool from GitHub, you will always use the same command. And for this command what we need to do is we need to copy the link to this tool. So copy up here this link right click copy. Let us lower this page and open our terminal and the command is git clone.
02:50:54.692 - 02:51:32.340, Speaker A: And by the way, make sure that you are in the desktop directory before you run this. Then type git clone space and then paste the link and press enter. And this is the command that we use to download a tool from GitHub. As we can see right here, it downloaded all of the files. And right now on our desktop we got the folder called Redhawk which is our tool. And also keep in mind that sometimes once you're searching for a tool, you might need to download multiple different tools before you run into a good one. So let's test this red hoc tool out.
02:51:32.340 - 02:52:14.810, Speaker A: Let's see whether it is any good to run it. Well, we don't know how to run it, but we can go to the Redhawk directory and see what files we got right here. So we got some Php configuration files functions php these are all of the files that we really are not interested in at the moment. If there was, for example, a usage file, we would most likely want to read that in case the tool is complicated. But for now we got this Redhawk php file and out of all of these files, this is the file that seems to be the tool. So how can we run this? Well, first we notice what type of file it is. It is a Php file.
02:52:14.810 - 02:52:51.282, Speaker A: So to run it we must type Php and then the file name. If it was for example a python file, we will type python and then the file name. So depending on which file type it is, we run it like this. So Php redhawk php and press enter. It will load this with its banner and it tells us right here that some of the modules are missing. And it tells us that we can try fix command or we can simply just install it ourselves using terminal. So let's see whether this tool will install it for us.
02:52:51.282 - 02:53:19.858, Speaker A: If I type fix, checking if curl module is installed curl module not installed and installing curl operation requires sudo permissions. You might be asked for password. This asks us for sudo password and let's input it. And it seems to be downloading the curl module for for us automatically. And we don't need to run other commands. It is also installing the second thing that I'm missing. So let's just wait for this to finish.
02:53:19.858 - 02:53:49.130, Speaker A: And it tells us right here, job finished successfully, please restart red hoc. So let's clear the screen and run once again php redhawk. And right now we don't get any error messages right here it only asks us which website we want to scan. So let's just go with Google. Why not? Let's see what are the available options that we have. Enter one for HTTP or enter two for HTTPs. And since Google is HTTPs, of course we will select two.
02:53:49.130 - 02:54:32.770, Speaker A: And here are all of the available options that we can use with our red hoc basic reckon site title IP address cloud thread detection so let's see just the basic reckon of Google. If I type number zero it should perform the basic reckon. And here are some of the basic output for Google. So we got site title to be Google IP address web server Cloudflare and it seems to be stuck at Cloudflare. So let's just control c, it could be just a bug and let's run it once again. Type google.com, type two for HTTPs and let's go once again with zero just to see whether it will perform it correctly right now.
02:54:32.770 - 02:55:03.400, Speaker A: And never mind, it seems to be stuck at Cloudflare once again. So let's just go with other options and test them out. Now this is what I'm talking about. Maybe if you don't like this tool, maybe you want to consider going and finding some other one. But for now we only tested one of the options, so let's go with other ones as well and see what else can we get the who is lookup, let's go with that one. And we get the whoisresponse for our Google. Good.
02:55:03.400 - 02:55:30.210, Speaker A: So this option seems to work. It tells us scanning complete. Press enter to continue. So let's continue and let's go with Geo IP lookup. This should tell us the coordinates of the Google and it does tell us the country, the IP address, the latitude and longitude, but city and state seems to be unavailable. Let's go with another option. We got grab banners, DNS lookup, subnet, calculator, NmAp port scan.
02:55:30.210 - 02:55:59.814, Speaker A: And this option right here is something that we are not going to run right now since this is something that we cover in the scanning section. The subdomain scanner is also something that we are not going to be doing right now. These options as well. So these are just some of the advanced options that we are going to cover later on. So we won't be running them at the moment. We can go with for example DNS lookup to check out which DNS servers it has and here is the output. So this tool seems to be pretty good.
02:55:59.814 - 02:56:37.304, Speaker A: It does give us some of the information for Google. Now, of course there are other options that we didn't run and that I would advise you not to run since some of them can be considered advanced scanning methods, but nonetheless we will be covering them in the next section. So for now on, what we did is we managed to find a random tool on GitHub, install it and get it to work. We also tested it out and it did give us some of the information. Now what I want you to do for the next video is try to download the same way, a tool called Sherlock. It is also tool from GitHub. We saw it up here.
02:56:37.304 - 02:57:24.000, Speaker A: If I go one step back to this page, the first tool that we saw was, I believe called Sherlock. Try to download this tool. It is a tool that is used to discover different accounts on different platforms based on the usernames that you specify. Try it out and we will see how to download it and run it in the next video. Welcome back. Here we are ready to start our scanning phase. We have covered the information gathering which was first phase of penetration testing and now we will proceed with the second stage by scanning our target and trying to get even more information about it.
02:57:24.000 - 02:58:34.810, Speaker A: Now the difference between information gathering and scanning is that scanning is performed on a much deeper level. And also while in the first phase we gathered all kinds of information such as emails, phone numbers and bunch of other things in the scanning we are mainly focused on technology side, so we want to find out as much as we can about our targets. Technical aspect we are going to talk about in just a second as to what exactly are we looking for in this stage and what are all the goals of this stage. But first you could be wondering what are we going to scan? Since remember that scanning is something that we are not allowed to do on any target that we want. Don't worry. For this stage and any future stage from now on we're going to be using vulnerable virtual machines. There are lots of paid vulnerable virtual machines that you can buy and test on, but for this course I will be showing the free ones so all of us can download them, install them and then try to hack them.
02:58:34.810 - 02:59:48.746, Speaker A: All of these virtual machines are going to be running some outdated, vulnerable software that we will be able to exploit in the third stage and they will also require very little hardware power, so all of us will be able to run them while also running Kali Linux. And keep in mind that penetration testing process will look exactly like it would look in real world if you were to test some website or some network. The only difference is that right now we know that these machines are vulnerable, since I just told you, and in real world you wouldn't essentially know that before testing them. However, just knowing they are vulnerable doesn't really help us as we need to figure out in what way are they vulnerable and how can we take advantage of that. Scanning will help us with this. We will be using our Kali Linux machine to scan these machines, and by scanning these machines, what they really mean is we're going to directly exchange packets with our target. And once that target sends packets back to us, hopefully it will discover something about the target machine that we will find useful and what we will be sending to the target.
02:59:48.746 - 03:00:56.040, Speaker A: Are you TCP and UDP packets? TCP and UDP are just protocols that are used for sending bits of data, also known as packets, and we will discuss them in a little more detail in the next video. For now, just think of them as different communication protocols that will allow us to get information from our target. I keep talking about information and scanning and all of that without actually explaining what do I mean by scanning and getting information. What are the goals of this? What are we looking for exactly? Well, we're looking for open ports, and I don't mean USB ports or some physical ports. I mean we're looking for virtual open ports that every machine has, and it uses them to host their software and communicate with other machines over Internet. For example, you watching this over Internet on a website means that the machine that's hosting this website has port 80 open. Why port 80? Well, port 80 is used to host a web server.
03:00:56.040 - 03:01:58.308, Speaker A: It is used for HTTP, and it's also known as HTTP port. So every time you visit a website, you are essentially making a connection to that machine hosting that website on port 80 or on port 443. Since port 80 is used for HTTP and port 443 is used for HTTPs, and HTTPs is just a secure version of HTTP, these are the two most usual ports that target that you're scanning externally will have open. And by externally scanning, I mean that you're scanning it while not being in the same network as the target. An example would be you scanning some website from your home and a port that could sometimes be open if you're scanning internally, which means either scanning machines on your network or you're performing network penetration testing inside of some company. You could, for example, find port 21 to be open. This is an FTP port, and it's used for file transferring.
03:01:58.308 - 03:02:30.138, Speaker A: FTP stands for file transfer protocol. These are just two of the ports, and there are a lot of them. You could, for example, have port 22 open, which is SSH port or secure shell port. It is used to log into the target machine and execute commands on it remotely. We could also have, for example, port 53 open, which is DNS port. Or we could have port 25 open, which is SMTP Portlandhouse. So there are a lot of ports.
03:02:30.138 - 03:03:19.714, Speaker A: Matter of fact, every machine has 65,535 ports for both TCP and UDP. And if there is just one open port with one vulnerable software running on that open port, then that target is vulnerable and it could be exploited. Now, the highest secured machines are the ones that have all ports closed. These are usually your home devices, such as laptops or computers that you use just for browsing online or playing video games or something. They don't need to be hosting any software since they are not a server that someone will connect to for a certain service. They're just home devices that you use. But websites, for example, must have port 80 or port 443 open since they're hosting a web page there.
03:03:19.714 - 03:04:02.912, Speaker A: Also, in companies, their machines could have some port open. Maybe they use that port on all their machines within that company to internally transfer files between different machines. It could be anything basically. Now the problem occurs if that software they use on their open ports is outdated and has a vulnerability. Then our job as a hacker is to scan that machine for open ports and exploit that machine through that vulnerable software running on that open port. But the goal for now in the scanning section is only to scan the target for the open ports. Then we want to discover what software are they running on those open ports.
03:04:02.912 - 03:04:45.200, Speaker A: And we want to go as deep as discovering what version of software is on that open port. Are you ready? We're going to be covering a lot in this section. And in this section we will cover one of the most important tools that a hacker must master. That tool is called Nmap. Let's dive into scanning. Welcome back. Before we proceed with scanning, I just want to give a basic overview of TCP and UDP protocol for anyone that is encountering it for the first time.
03:04:45.200 - 03:05:30.508, Speaker A: We already mentioned what TCP and UDP are. They are two different protocols used for sending bits of data or also known as packets. TCP and UDP are not the only protocols that are out there however, they are the most widely used ones. Lets talk about TCP first. TCP stands for transmission control protocol and it is the most commonly used protocol on the Internet. When you load a web page, your computer is sending TCP packets to the web server address, asking it to send the webpage to you. Then the web server responds by sending a stream of TCP packets which your web browser stitches together to form the webpage that you see.
03:05:30.508 - 03:06:24.250, Speaker A: The same happens once you for example, click on a link or sign in or post a comment. Your web browser sends TCP packets to the web server and the server sends TCP packets back. However, TCP is not a one way communication. The remote system sends packets back to acknowledge that it received your packets. So TCP is based on three way handshake and as the name says, three way handshake is consisted out of three steps. First one is syn. In this step, the client wants to establish a connection with the server, so it sends a segment with syn and what syn stands for is synchronize sequence number which informs server that client wants to start communication and with what sequence number it starts the segments with.
03:06:24.250 - 03:07:06.752, Speaker A: After the syn step comes the syn acknowled which is the second step. And in this step the server responds to the client request with syn. Ac signal bit set. ACK signifies the responsive segment it received and scene is the same from the first step, it signifies with what sequence number it is going to start these segments with. In the third and final step, which is just ack. In this step, the client acknowledges the response of server and they both establish a reliable connection with which they will start the actual data transfer. This is just an example of TCP communication establishing between a client and a server.
03:07:06.752 - 03:07:54.332, Speaker A: Once the data transfer starts, TCP guarantees the receiver will get the packets in order by numbering them. Then the server sends messages back to the sender saying it received the messages or packets. If the sender does not get the correct response, it will resend the packets to ensure the server got the packets. All of those packets are also checked for errors, so TCP is all about reliability. Packets sent with TCP are tracked so no data is lost or corrupted in transit. That's why once you download a file, for example over the Internet, your file is working once you run it in your machine because it is being transferred with TCP. So all of the packets will reach their destination without any errors.
03:07:54.332 - 03:08:35.062, Speaker A: UDP on the other hand, stands for user datagram protocol. A datagram is the same thing as a packet of information and UDP protocol works similarly to TCP, but it throws all the error checking stuff out. Thats why UDP is much faster. It is used when speed is desirable and error correction is not necessary. For example, UDP is frequently used for live broadcasts and online games. That's why UDP doesn't really care whether packets received its destination and it will not resend the packet if it didn't reach the other part. It will just continue sending other packets.
03:08:35.062 - 03:09:42.480, Speaker A: You cannot ask for those mason packets again with UDP. And these are just the basics behind two most known protocols for communication. Even though many of you probably knew this already, it is good to have a refresher since we are going to need this knowledge once performing scanning see you in the next video. Remember I told you that we must have vulnerable machines that we can scan? And before we actually proceed to performing scanning and covering different tools that we will use, let us first see where we can get a vulnerable machine and how we can install it. And trust me, it is pretty easy. So just type top ten vulnerable machines and you will see this rapid seven link that says ten places to find vulnerable machines for your lab. Click on that link and down here, if I scroll all the way down, I should see a list of ten different vulnerable machines that we can use as a hacker to practice our skills.
03:09:42.480 - 03:10:16.828, Speaker A: And for this action, we're going to be going with the first one. So the name of it is metasploitable. Click on it and it will route you to another page of rapid seven website and it will tell you metasploitable virtual machine to test. You can read through this if you want as it tells you some of the information about the metasploitable. But what's the most important part is down here. In order to download this machine you must fill in this information. Now it is up to you what information you will fill right here.
03:10:16.828 - 03:10:51.680, Speaker A: But as soon as you fill all of this you can click on submit and it will lead you to a page where you can download metasploitable. Up here it tells us that metasploitable is free to use after we fill out the form. So this is something that you must do in order to download it from the official website. And after you finish downloading it you should finish up with a file that looks something like this. So metasploitable linux zip. You want to extract this file. As you can see I have already extracted it and you should see these files right here.
03:10:51.680 - 03:11:20.446, Speaker A: This vmdk file is our hard disk that we are going to use in a virtual machine. So let's see how we can install it. Go open up your virtualbox and we want to be creating a new virtual machine. We already know how to do that. Click on this new button right here and it will ask us for the name of virtual machine and the operating system. You can name it anything you want. I will just name it meta exploitable two.
03:11:20.446 - 03:12:02.730, Speaker A: And the reason why I'm naming it two is because I already have it installed right here. So the names differ in the type of operating system you want to select Linux and in the version of operating system you want to scroll all the way down and select other Linux 64 bit. Once you got these settings ready, click on next and this is what they talked about. These virtual machines will use very little hardware resources from your physical machine. Thats why for this virtual machine for the metasploitable we can leave 512 megabytes of ram. It is more than enough for this machine to run. It will even work if you lower it to 256 megabytes of ram.
03:12:02.730 - 03:12:43.940, Speaker A: But 512 is recommended so let us leave it on 512 and if you dont have this much ram to use you can leave it on 256. Then proceed on next. And in this step, instead of creating a virtual hard disk, now we want to use an existing virtual hard disk. Once you select this option, click on this icon right here and click on add, then find your virtual hard disk wherever you got metasploitable downloaded. For example, I got it on my desktop right here. Here it is. Find this Vmdk file, select it and then select it right here again and click on choose.
03:12:43.940 - 03:13:15.060, Speaker A: Once you do that you can click on create and this is pretty much it. We got our metasploitable created. All we are left to do right now are two things. The first thing is navigate to settings, go to the network settings and switch from natin to bridge adapter. The same thing we did with our Kal Linux machine. Then choose your adapter and click on ok. This will just make our mate exploitable to IP address belong to the IP range of our network.
03:13:15.060 - 03:13:57.870, Speaker A: Once you do that, click on start and this will start the process of installing metasploitable for you. Unlike in Cal Linux right here you don't need to do anything. This will install machine on its own and it will take about a minute or two, maybe even less so at the end. After this finishes it should prompt us with a login and you will notice that this machine doesn't have a desktop or anything else. It is a command line machine. That means we can only navigate through this machine using commands and those commands are simply terminal commands. So just picture this as one big terminal.
03:13:57.870 - 03:14:59.934, Speaker A: As we can see the installation has finished and down here we got metasploitable login. And if you read through this website right here, if you read through this paragraph, it tells us right here that the metasploitable login is MSF admin and the password is also MSF admin. So let's try it out. Go to our machine, type MSF admin and under password again MSF admin and here we are. We managed to log into our metasploitable just to check our network type I've config and it will tell me that my IP address is 1921-6813 that is because we set it to be our bridged adapter and if we try to ping Google for example, it will work. So our machine is set up and it is ready to be scanned and attacked. You see, this was pretty simple to do and in the next video we are ready to start our scanning process.
03:14:59.934 - 03:15:52.610, Speaker A: See you there. Ok, so we know what scanning is. We also created our virtual machine that is vulnerable and now we are ready to see what information can we get by scanning that machine. But before we scan a single machine to discover open ports, we must first discover what machines we got on our network. So the first part of scanning a network is to figure out how many hosts you have active and what are their IP addresses. In this case, we are going to act as if we got a task to scan our home network and we want to discover vulnerable machines within our home network. So let's start by seeing how many hosts we got active first.
03:15:52.610 - 03:17:04.396, Speaker A: There are many ways that we can go about doing this, since I know that all the possible hosts for my network must go in range from 192-1681 to 192-168-1255 since my IP address starts with these three first numbers, let me just type the password and here it is, 192-1681 this is the part that doesn't change. And to scan all 254 hosts inside of my network, I can just go and ping each and every one of them and see whether they respond to our pinging or nothing. If they respond, they are online, if not, they are offline. But what if I had to test more than one network? What if I had ten more networks besides this one that I needed to test? Am I about to try to ping every possible host from all those networks? Of course not. Thats why were going to use different tools to perform this much faster. Let us try with the first tool called ARP. Now ARP is a tool in Cal Linux, but it is also a packet.
03:17:04.396 - 03:17:46.304, Speaker A: Arp packets are used in discovering hosts on the network, but more about them later on once we get to the man in the middle section. For now, just remember that they are packets for discovering hosts. Before we use this Arp tool, make sure your metasploitable is started up. And in case you got some other devices that you can connect to the Internet, connect them just so we can get various output and try to figure out which ip address belongs to which hosts. Now our Arp tool works based on those Arp packets that I mentioned. So if I type Arp help and press enter, it will tell me command not found. Now this is because I must run the tool with sudo privileges.
03:17:46.304 - 03:18:21.672, Speaker A: So Sudo Arp help and here is the tool. It doesn't have too many options. We got a which displays all hosts in alternative BSD style, e display all hosts in default Linux style. And these options down here are not something that we're interested in. All we want to do is use this a option. So if I go down here, clear the screen and type sudo Arp A, it will tell me it only discovered my router. But why is that? I got my metasploitable running.
03:18:21.672 - 03:19:02.420, Speaker A: I also got my laptop running so it should be discovering other hosts as well. Sometimes we must ping a host first before it appears right here, since this information is being read from our Arp tables. So if I, for example, try to ping my metasploitable, it will get responses back. And if I run Arp a again now, we will see that we got an entry for the metasploitable inside of our ArP tables. So this tool doesn't seem to be that good for discovering hosts. Sometimes it will have all the hosts available, since you already communicated with them before. But sometimes it seems that we must ping the host first before it shows them.
03:19:02.420 - 03:19:47.220, Speaker A: That's why a much better option is tool called netdiscover. To run netdiscover, we can simply type Sudo net this cover inside of your terminal, press enter, and this tool will find all of the available devices on your network on its own. You don't have to ping anything, you don't have to communicate with anything. You can just leave this tool to run, and it will find all the devices on your network. So right here, it managed to find five of them. We can see up here that it is still scanning, and it is just scanning different subnets. So it already finished mine, and you can control C this if you already see the result, since this will scan all the usual subnets that occur in a network.
03:19:47.220 - 03:20:27.700, Speaker A: Right here we see that we captured five Arp packets, and there are ArP requests and Arp replies. But once again, more about that later. This just means that we managed to discover five hosts using these packets, and these are those five hosts. Let me control C this since it won't really manage to find anymore hosts. And right here we got their IP addresses, their Mac addresses, and their Macvender name or hostname. So right here I know that this is my metasploitable, which is this one. This one I is my host machine, or my physical machine that I'm running my cal Linux on.
03:20:27.700 - 03:21:08.406, Speaker A: These two down here are two laptops, I believe, and this right here is my router. And how do I know that this is my router? Well, usually routers start with the first number. Either it will be something like zero or one. And just so you can be sure which IP address is your router, you can type the command netstat nr. And under this gateway column, we should see the IP address of the router, so you can see they do match. The next step would be to go about scanning each and every one of them. And for this, we are going to be scanning our metasploitable and you can also scan your home machines just for even more practice.
03:21:08.406 - 03:21:53.220, Speaker A: See you in the next video. It is time to start with the first big tool that is essential for reticle hackers. That tool is called Nmap. We're going to cover a lot of things inside of it. And unlike all the other tools that we covered by now, which you might or might not use in penetration tests, this is a tool that you will almost always use without any doubt. So what is nmap? NMAP is a network mapper. It is a free and open source network scanner, and it is used to discover hosts and services on a computer network by sending packets and analyzing responses.
03:21:53.220 - 03:22:37.050, Speaker A: It has a lot of different options and we are going to check them out in the next few videos. For now, let us just see how we can start NMap and run a basic scan. First thing, make sure your metasploitable is up and running. And also, if you got any other devices in your home network, turn them on just so we can scan them as well. Okay, let us see how we can run NmAP. And what options do we get with nmap? Just like all the other tools, we can get the nmap help menu by only specifying NmaP in terminal or specifying NmaP help. And you will see right away we get a lot of options right here.
03:22:37.050 - 03:23:20.916, Speaker A: And this right here is just a short help menu. We will see the longer menu once we start experimenting with these options right here. But for now, we're only interested in running NmaP with just a basic scan. So for basic scan, all we need to do is specify an IP address. If we go to the help menu and you scroll all the way to the top, we should see target specification right here. It tells us that we can provide a hostname, an IP address, or a network for scanning. And below that we got some of the examples of what we can specify with Nmap and what is the syntax for specifying hosts.
03:23:20.916 - 03:24:19.004, Speaker A: We can also read our targets from a list by specifying option il. And if we want, we can exclude some hosts that we don't want to scan by specifying exclude option for the first time, let us get an IP address from our metasploitable and let's scan it to see what results we get for scanning one IP address. We already saw how we can get metasploitable IP address. You can either run netdiscover to see all the online hosts, or if you don't want to bother, you can just go to metasploitable right here and type ifconfig I can see that the IP address of my metasploitable is 1921-6816 so that is the IP address that I will use. Lets run our first nmap scan. If I type nmAP and just 182 168 dot one, dot six and press enter. Wow this finished pretty fast.
03:24:19.004 - 03:25:00.536, Speaker A: But dont get used to it. The only reason that this scan finished so fast is because the target is on my home network. True NmAP scans can sometimes take hours to finish depending on where your target is, how many ports they have open, are they protected by firewall? And many other things that we are also going to cover. But for now this is the response for our metasploitable with our basic scan. So it tells us that host is up, it tells us which open ports it has. We get the exact number of which ports are open on the target machine. And right here we can notice that there are a lot of ports that are open.
03:25:00.536 - 03:25:36.350, Speaker A: That is because metasploitable is running a lot of services. NMaP also tells you besides the port that is opened, which service is running on that open port. And this is this third column. So we can see that port 21 is open and it is running FTP which we already know that it's file transfer protocol. We got port 22 to be open and that port is for secure shell. We got port 80 that is opened and that is an HTTP port. And this could mean that our mat exploitable could be hosting a webpage.
03:25:36.350 - 03:26:41.690, Speaker A: We can check this out if we type the IP address of our mat exploitable inside of our firefox. So let's go up here, open up our firefox and if I go up here and type 1921-6816 press enter, this will automatically go and try to connect to the port 80 and indeed it is hosting a web page. But more about this webpage later on in the course as it holds bunch of vulnerabilities which we will cover for now let us just see what other things we got with our NMAP. So besides these known ports that we got right here, we also discovered bunch of other ports hosting different services and some of them could be vulnerable. We also see this right here that says not shown 977 closed ports. But wait a second, I said that there are over 65,000 ports. Why does it say that it didn't show only 977 ports or it shows that only 977 ports are closed.
03:26:41.690 - 03:27:13.138, Speaker A: That is because NMAP by default scans most known 1000 ports. It doesnt scan all 65,000. We can tell it to scan all 65,000, which we will see later on, but in most cases it is not necessary. Ok, cool. Our first NMAP scan gave us some results. And all of these results from our scans you would write down in a report in a real penetration test. Now that we know how we can scan one IP address, let us see how we can scan a range of IP addresses.
03:27:13.138 - 03:27:47.650, Speaker A: Let's say we want to scan our entire network. And for this, once again, you must know your subnet of your network or your network's IP range. We talked about this earlier. For me, it is from one nine two dot one six eight dot one dot one up to one nine two dot one six eight dot one dot two five five. So we can specify this in two different ways. We can type NMAP 182, 168, 1.1 255, or we can type it like this, one nine two dot one six eight dot one dot 124.
03:27:47.650 - 03:28:34.970, Speaker A: And if you're new to subnetting, you can think of this 24 as something that says first three octets are not changeable. And by first three octets I mean first three numbers, which leaves us with only last octet or last number that will be changeable inside of our IP range. So let's scan it. If I press enter now, this scan right here might take a little bit more time, since it is not only scanning one host, it is scanning multiple hosts. And even though it's scanning multiple hosts, it finished relatively fast because it is scanning my own network. Let us read the results. So this right here are the results for the metasploitable as we can see by the IP address.
03:28:34.970 - 03:29:12.540, Speaker A: And we got the same results as before. Which ports are open and what services are they running down here? We get that it scanned to 156 IP addresses and three hosts are up. Let's see what other two hosts are up. Besides our metasploitable, we got a device with the IP address of 192168 1.4. And it says right here all 1000 scanned ports on this device are closed. And you remember when I told you that this is the more secure version since right now we cannot connect to any one of these ports. And this is probably some home device, possibly my laptop.
03:29:12.540 - 03:29:50.048, Speaker A: It has all 1000 scanned ports closed because it doesn't host any service to other machines. And the last device that we got is my router. We got its IP address, and we also got which ports it has open. So it has port 22 for SSH, port 23 for Telnet, port 53 for the domain, port 80 and port 443 for HTTP and HTTPs. And this port right here that says service unknown. This is because NMAP couldn't figure out what service is running on this open port. Okay, great.
03:29:50.048 - 03:30:40.000, Speaker A: For now, we performed basic NMaP scan without adding any additional options to it. And with this, we managed to discover open ports on our target machines. That is good for the start. In the next video, we will see what else can we discover using NMAP and what other cool options it has. It is time we discuss different scan types that we can do with NmAP. Now, NMAP is a huge tool and it offers many different types of scans that we can perform, and we will be covering just some since there are a lot of them. However, at the end of this video, I will give you a really good tip as to how you can really master the NMAP tool.
03:30:40.000 - 03:31:16.746, Speaker A: Talking about different scans doesn't necessarily mean that we will get different results. Matter of fact, many of these different scans will give us the same result. And in this video, I am going to explain exactly what the differences are between certain scans. To fully understand this, you will need a background knowledge on TCP and UDP. So in case you didn't watch the short video I made on TCP and UDP, make sure to watch it. Before covering this, let's start with first type of scan. And that scan is called TCP syn scan.
03:31:16.746 - 03:31:50.940, Speaker A: Let me open the terminal. The command that we must run is NMAP ss. And then we're going to be scanning metasploitable in this video, since that is the machine that we are attacking. So the IP address of my metasploitable is 182, 160. And this SS is TCP synscan. Synscan is probably the most popular scan in NmAP. It can be performed quickly, scanning thousands of ports per second on networks that aren't protected by a firewall.
03:31:50.940 - 03:32:46.010, Speaker A: And the reason why it is called a syn scan is because it never really opens a full tcp connection. You only perform the first step of three way handshake, which is sending syn. And the way it works is if the target sends syn ack back for a certain port, that indicates that that port is listening or it is open. Target can also send something called RST, which stands for reset, which would indicate that the port is closed in case it doesn't give any response back after several tries, port will be marked as filtered, and filtered is just another state of ports that happens once NmAP cannot determine whether a certain port is open or closed. The filtered state could happen if port is, for example, protected by some filtering or a firewall. And now that we know exactly how TCP synscan works. Let's test it out on our metasploitable.
03:32:46.010 - 03:33:31.368, Speaker A: There is one thing with this command. If I try to run it, it will not work. It will tell me you requested a scan type which requires root privileges. And the reason this requires root privileges is because we are only sending one part of three way handshake and telling our machine that we do not want to respond to a synagogue bit set in case it is sent back from the target that requires root privileges. So we must run this with Sudo, sudo and map ss. And then let's type in our password and we will notice it gives us the results of ports that are open very fast. And it is also very important and satisfying once we know how certain scan type works.
03:33:31.368 - 03:34:15.978, Speaker A: Once again it sends only the syn and waits for a syn, ack or RST and it never establishes a full tcp connection. Let us check out the result. So we got these ports open and we also got what service is running on those open ports. Now here is the time that it took and we are going to compare this with different scans. And the reason it finished this fast is once again it doesn't establish a connection compared to this scene scan that we just performed. We also got something called TCP connect scan or also labeled as Stanley. So in order to run this, we can just change this command from SS to St.
03:34:15.978 - 03:35:02.680, Speaker A: And you will see all of these options if you run the help menu of NmAP. What's interesting about this is that it does not require sudo privileges. And the reason it does not require is because it performs a normal TCP three way handshake connection. So the only difference between this and previous scan is that TCP connect scan establishes a full connection. The important part here that you should remember is that this scan will leave much more trace that you performed an NMAP scan on the target machine and it is easily detected. That's why once you can run NMAP as root, usually syn scan will be a better option than the TCP connect scan. Nonetheless, let's test this one out so we can remove sudo as it does not require root privileges.
03:35:02.680 - 03:36:08.126, Speaker A: And you will see it also finishes relatively fast. The output will be exactly the same as with the syn scan, but sometimes it could take a little bit longer than the syn scan since it is performing a full TCP connection. And even though we got the exact same result, which are just the open ports and the services that they run, now we know how both of these scans work and now you know that for example, this scan is much more detectable than the syn scan. Or you can say that it just makes more noise on target machine. The last scan that we're going to cover, and keep in mind these are just some of the scans and I will show you where you can find the rest of them and possibly test them out if you want to. But the next scan that I'm going to cover is pretty unpopular and that is the SU scan or also known as UDP scan. The reason why it's unpopular is because many services on the Internet run over TCP protocol as we already know, since UDP scanning is much slower than TCP scanning and more difficult.
03:36:08.126 - 03:36:57.900, Speaker A: Sometimes when people are developing security for their ports, they ignore the UDP ports and this results in a mistake as there are a lot of exploitable UDP services and we should never ignore this scan just because it takes time. Let us test it out. This also will require sudo privileges. So let us type sudo NMAP Su for the UDP scan and specify the IP address of my exploitable. You will notice this scan will take time. You can check at how much percent it is currently at by pressing the upper arrow key. So if I press upper arrow key down here, it will tell me it is currently at 3% and I'm just going to leave this running while I show you the cool tip for the NmAP.
03:36:57.900 - 03:37:32.030, Speaker A: So remember this, the key to learning NmaP in great details is not in reading its help menu, but in reading its manual. And to open the Nmap manual you can open your terminal and type manual nmap. And let me do this in a second terminal. So I will open it up type man and then nmap. This man right here is shortened for manual. Press enter in this file. It explains every nmap option in great detail.
03:37:32.030 - 03:38:07.836, Speaker A: Let us find different scan types that also exist. Since we didn't really cover every one of them. Let's scroll all the way down to different NmaP scans. And as we're scrolling you will see that we are passing the actual help menu that we get outputted once we run the dash dash help and below this help menu it explains every option in great details. And as I'm scrolling I came to this part which says port scanning basics. And here are the six port states recognized by Nmap. And this is good to read.
03:38:07.836 - 03:38:52.364, Speaker A: So we got the open port state, the closed port state, we got filtered port state, unfiltered port state, open and filtered and closed and filtered. So if you want read through this it is really useful knowing once you get, for example, filtered ports to know exactly what that means. And if I go a little bit more down, here they are. Here are the different scan types that NMAP has. So here is the TCP scan scan that we performed, which is SS. Here is the ST, which is full TCP connection scan. And down here you will notice after the UDP scan that we got different options as to how we can perform our scan.
03:38:52.364 - 03:39:30.330, Speaker A: And you can read about each and every one of them and see when are they useful and how you can specify them. Here is the TCP X scan. Here's the TCP window scan. And you will see there are a lot of them. There are also different options such as this scan flags, which is custom TCP scan, but this is an advanced option and we might take a look at this later on. Here is idle scan, echo scan, let's see all the way down IP protocol scan, FTP relay host FTP bound scan. And that would pretty much be it for the NMAP scans.
03:39:30.330 - 03:40:08.400, Speaker A: So depending on your target and what you exactly want to get from this scan, you would pick one of them. So, for example, if you wanted to discover open ports, you would use the TCP scene scan. Now, the axe scan, I believe, which is the SA, which we saw a few seconds ago, is useful, I believe, to mapping out the firewall. Just read through them if you have time, and you will discover how they work and when are they useful. So let's see how much percentage our UDP scan is at. So it has finished about third of the scan, and we know that this will take at least ten to 15 more minutes. So we're not going to wait this.
03:40:08.400 - 03:40:57.210, Speaker A: And by the way, about the NMAP manual, you don't need to read that entire file, just, it is good to know that it exists. So sometimes when you forget something or you want to check out if NMAP has some other option that you need, you can just open that manual and read until you find what you need. Nobody expects you to know everything inside of that file, but after some time, you will start picking some of the commands up and memorizing them. Cool. We covered a lot in this video. The next two videos will be even more important. We are going to check how we can discover operating systems that our target machines run and what versions of services are they running on an open port, which is, remember, one of the most important things that we want to find.
03:40:57.210 - 03:42:23.072, Speaker A: Let us check out how we can figure out what operating system is our target running just by scanning it. With Nmap in Nmap, this feature is quite popular as they have a database of thousands of known operating system fingerprints that they compare with the host that you scan in order to find out what operating system is it running. But for this to work, a target machine must have at least one port open and one port closed which we need not to worry about since our metasploitable has both open and closed ports. However it could not work for some other targets. What I'm going to do in this video is I'm going to try to scan my meta exploitable which is running Linux and then I will try to scan my windows seven virtual machine that I got right here and I will try to scan my windows ten host machine and let us see what results can we get. Let's see whether nmap can figure out what operating systems are they running. If I go back to my cal Linux and let's go with metasploitable first, to run the operating system feature we must use sudo and after nmap we specify o for discovery of operating system.
03:42:23.072 - 03:43:45.912, Speaker A: Then we specify the IP address and if I specify the IP address of my metasploitable, first press enter, type in my password. It will take just a few seconds and down in the results we can see the os testing. It tells us right here that metasploitable is running Linux and down here in the OS details it tells us which version exactly is it running and how many hops is the target distance from us. It says one which means host is inside of our network. And besides all of this it also tells us that the machine that we are scanning is a virtual machine as we can see right here it managed to figure this out by the Mac address that metasploitable has since virtualbox machines have Mac addresses that start the same and these are these three first numbers. This is really interesting because it can sometimes help us to realize that our target is an actual virtual machine and not a physical machine which could possibly indicate that we're scanning a honeypot which is usually a purposely vulnerable virtual environment that is used to lure in hackers in order to find out whether they are being attacked. This is because usually an attacker will go for the most vulnerable machine first and that's how they catch him.
03:43:45.912 - 03:44:18.840, Speaker A: That vulnerable machine could possibly be put there on purpose. So for our metsplittable we got the correct result. It tells us that it is running Linux which is correct down here it even tells us which version of Linux is it running. And we can also see right here by the Mac address that this is a virtual machine. So we got a lot of useful results for metasploitable. Let's try with my Windows ten physical machine. So if I type sudo nmap O and to scan my physical machine, I must check the IP address inside the my command prompt.
03:44:18.840 - 03:45:01.530, Speaker A: If I type ipconfig, it will tell me that my IP address is one nine two dot one six eight dot one dot seven. Let us type it in 182 168 1.7 and run this scan. It should also take just a few seconds. Once again, you can check at what percentage is it at by pressing the upper arrow key, and it's currently 81% done. So let's just wait for the remaining few seconds to finish and it will tell me right here that it didn't manage to discover OS details. Now why is that? Well, because we can see right here all thousand scanned ports are either closed or filtered.
03:45:01.530 - 03:46:01.150, Speaker A: And remember, to discover an operating system, we need at least one open port and one closed port. In this case, there is really nothing that we can do to discover operating system with Nmap, since all ports seem to be filtered. Let's try the same of Windows seven virtual machine. I know for a fact that the Windows seven virtual machine has one port open, so let's see whether it will manage to figure out the operating system on that machine. If I type Sudo NMAP O and I already typed ipconfig in my Windows seven, the IP address is one nine two dot one six eight dot one dot one four let's specify it right here. Let's wait for this to finish and it gives us bunch of OS details. Up here we have a warning that says results may be unreliable because we could not find at least one open port and one closed port.
03:46:01.150 - 03:46:47.044, Speaker A: It did manage to hover find one open port, which is this port 445, but all the other ports are filtered. However, based on this one open port, it tried to guess what operating system it has and it was relatively close. It managed to guess that the operating system is windows, and sometimes this could be enough for us. We can see right here it specified Windows seven, which is correct, but it also specified Windows Vista and Windows 2008, which are incorrect guesses. Hmm. So we can say that it managed to narrow it down for us, but it didn't really hit the correct one. So we checked how to figure out what operating system is the target running.
03:46:47.044 - 03:47:34.070, Speaker A: We noticed that it doesn't always work, but this information with the information which we will get in the next video, will be more than enough for us to be able to conduct a vulnerability analysis. Let us see in the next video how to get exact version of services running on open ports. Welcome back. Let us finally check out how we can figure out the version of software running on an open port. For now we managed to discover open ports. We also learned what different scans do and which ones are better to use. And we learned how we can identify an operating system on some of the targets that we scan.
03:47:34.070 - 03:48:23.766, Speaker A: Now let's see one of the most important parts that will also help us in identifying vulnerabilities. So why do we care about versions of software so much? For example, I might somehow find out that metasploitable is running Apache web server on port 80. But that doesnt narrow all the possible attacks too much. Of course it narrows it down to only search for Apache vulnerabilities. But Nmap can even go as far as discovering what exact version of Apache is it running. Then after knowing the version, we can search that version on Internet and try to see whether there are any known vulnerabilities for that specific version. So version discovery helps us a lot, and let's see how we can perform it.
03:48:23.766 - 03:49:14.680, Speaker A: To perform version discovery we use the option sv. So we'll run the command Nmap sv, and as usual we're going to be scanning our metasploitable. Now, this command also requires pseudo privileges, so make sure to type it at the beginning of the command sudo Nmap sv and then the IP address, press enter, enter the password, and this particular scan could take longer than other scans, because right now we are deeply scanning the target. Let us check out at what percentage is it at, so 91%, it should finish in just a few seconds. Let's wait for it. And here it is. We can see we got a bunch of results right here.
03:49:14.680 - 03:49:59.422, Speaker A: The new thing that we got from all the previous scans is this fourth column. Remember, once we scanned previously we only got these first three columns, which are the port number, the state of the port, and the servers that it is running right now. We also get the version of the service. So let's go quickly through this. We got port 21, which is FTP, and right here we got the exact version of what type of FTP software does it have for the SSH? We get the same thing. So the version of ssH is OpensSh 4.7, Debian Ubuntu, we got the telnet, the SMTP, the HTTP, we got that.
03:49:59.422 - 03:50:40.518, Speaker A: It is running the Apache HTTP two 2.8 for the SMB protocol, which is port 445 and 139. We got that it is running samba from the three point something to four point something. So in this range will be the version that it is running. And what we would do with this information, as I already mentioned, is we will just try to search for some known vulnerabilities for the specified versions. For example, if this Apache version right here has a known vulnerability, would discover it by pasting this in Google and typing vulnerabilities and whatever comes up. We would test this on this target and see whether it works or not.
03:50:40.518 - 03:51:10.110, Speaker A: Since some vulnerabilities could be patched, we never know. So we want to try it out down here. We also got the versions for the other ports, so we get a bunch of results right here. What you would do with this scan, since this is really useful, we would type this on our report and we would use for the future references. For now, let me show you another option that you can use with the version scan. And that option is intensity of scanning versions. We can type it like this.
03:51:10.110 - 03:51:57.788, Speaker A: So if I use the same command, let me just clear the screen so we can see it better if I use the same command. And after sv I type version intensity. And after the version intensity, we need to specify how high we want the intensity to be, and it can be set between zero and nine. The default one which we used in the last scan is seven. So every time you don't specify this option, it will be seven by default. If we set it all the way up to nine in this scan, then we will have higher possibility of identifying correct service version. However, in 99% of NMAP scans this option is not needed.
03:51:57.788 - 03:52:41.056, Speaker A: You can just leave it on default, which is seven. If you set it to nine, it will take longer time. And since we're scanning a target that is on our own network, it will still do it in just a few seconds or minutes. But if you were to scan a real target, NMAP scans could take a lot more time to accomplish. So you always want to consider not only performing most accurate scan possible, but also performing a scan that will be equally fast and accurate. So sometimes we have to lose one thing in order to gain the other, and that would be pretty much all for the version scanning. Now we're not going to be running this command since I can tell you right now that it will give us the same output as the previous one.
03:52:41.056 - 03:53:16.440, Speaker A: So in this case, increase in the version intensity won't help us too much. And as far as these options go, there are more options for the version discovery that you can check out inside of the NMap manual. But before I end this video. I want to show you another thing that I also use a lot, and that is the a option. So let me show you right here. If instead of all of this, I specify a and a is so called aggressive option, it enables some advanced features of Nmap. Those advanced features are.
03:53:16.440 - 03:53:55.450, Speaker A: Well, first, it enables os detection without specifying the o that we already covered. It also enables the version detection without specifying the SV. And it enables something called NMaP script scanning. What NMap scripts are are something that we will cover shortly. For now, just remember that a enables all of those things that we covered in the previous videos, including NMap scripts. And since a is one of the more aggressive NMaP options, please do not try this on targets that you do not have permission to scan. However, let us test it out on our metasploitable target.
03:53:55.450 - 03:54:30.550, Speaker A: And if you want, you can also try to scan your home network with it. Just keep in mind that since it is using all of these options, it will take some time even if it is scanning our home network. So if I run this command, this will take some time. If I press upper arrow, it is 78% done. And the output of this option we are going to see in the next video, as well as some other useful things that we can do with Nmap. As soon as we check that, we are going to get into firewall evasion using Nmap. See you there.
03:54:30.550 - 03:55:19.564, Speaker A: By now, if you covered all of the Nmap videos that we did, you should have an intermediate knowledge of NmAP. All we are left to do to check out is just some of the few options that you might find useful once you're performing your scans, which we will check out in this video. And after it, we need to check out two more things. One of them is running nmap with scripts. Which part of it we are going to see right now with the results of our a scan from the previous video. And the second thing is how we can bypass firewall ids and ips using NMAP. So for now, we only noticed how we can perform different scans.
03:55:19.564 - 03:56:26.192, Speaker A: But we never really talked about what if our target is well secured? What if they have a firewall? We want to perform our scans as quietly as possible in order for us to not get detected. But before we jump into all of that, let us check out the output of our A option. Remember, from the previous video, a runs bunch of different things such as OS detection version scan, and it also runs something called NMap scripts. You will see down here that we are getting output that we didn't get before. So besides the open port and the version that the open port is running, we also get the output of different scripts that are running on the target as we execute this scan. So right now here we can see that it executed the script for FTP anonymous login and it says that it is allowed and we will check out what the FTP anonymous login is for. Now I can tell you that it is nothing really that secure, even though if we go all the way down here it says FTPD two 3.4
03:56:26.192 - 03:57:04.380, Speaker A: which is this version that the target has is secure, fast and stable. And I can assure you this is one big lie as this FTP version is vulnerable. And we are going to see in the exploitation section how we can exploit this and gain access to our target machine. Down here we also get the enumeration of the SSH. So we get the SSh host key. Nothing really too useful for us. The SMTP commands that are allowed, the SSL ciphers right here we also get the HTTP server setter, the HTTP title, and these are just some additional information that we got from running scripts.
03:57:04.380 - 03:57:35.322, Speaker A: If we go all the way down we also get information for some other open ports. And down here we will see that our scan also performed the SMB enumeration. So we got the computer name, netbios, computer name, domain name, SMB security mode. Down here we also get the trace route to this targets IP address. And this is the one hop that we have since it is in our own network. It tells us down here that it also performed the OS and service detection. And here is the OS detection.
03:57:35.322 - 03:58:09.188, Speaker A: But we already saw this, we got Linux running. So this is just some additional information on top of the information that we already had. But remember a is an aggressive scan. It does give us the most output out of any other options. But it is also pretty aggressive and easily detectable if target has some security measures. Since our metasploitable doesnt have any security measures or is not behind any firewall, this scan is best for targets like that. So we got the most information using a.
03:58:09.188 - 03:59:01.146, Speaker A: Yeah, but besides this dash a, let us also check a few more useful options that NMAP gives us. And to do that we're going to run the NMAP manual. So type man and then NMAP and it will open up the manual once again. We already know how we can go through it with upper and lower arrow and we're going to just go really quick through it and see whether there are any useful options that we haven't covered, but that you might want to use. So if we go down here, this SN option is really useful option, and it is not really useful for discovering vulnerabilities or open ports. Matter of fact, this option right here performs the same thing that our net discover tool did. Remember, we use net discover to locate all of the hosts that are up and running on our network.
03:59:01.146 - 03:59:35.992, Speaker A: And sn pretty much does the same thing. As we can see right here, this option tells nmap not to do a port scan, so you will not find out any open ports with this scan. The only useful thing we get from this is which hosts are up and running. So let's test it out real quick. And this is a scan that you would use probably on multiple machines to discover which ones are up and which ones aren't. But you can also use it on one machine if you'd like. For this scan, I will use my home network, so SN and then 192 168 dot, one dot 1255.
03:59:35.992 - 03:59:56.166, Speaker A: If I press enter, this should pretty much in just a few seconds. And here it is. It will give us which hosts are currently up. We get their IP addresses. So one eight, two dot, one six eight dot, one dot, 10. This is my laptop. We get the metasploitable, we get windows ten, probably, and we get a router.
03:59:56.166 - 04:00:23.774, Speaker A: So instead of net discover, you can use this to figure out which hosts are up. But for me personally, I like net discover output a little bit better than this one. This right here looks a little bit messy. Okay, so the second thing that I want to show you is dash p option. And this is an actual option that you will use a lot. So for this, we're going to scan our metasploitable. So change the IP address to the meta exploitable IP address.
04:00:23.774 - 04:01:09.014, Speaker A: And what p option is, is simply you can specify what range of port you want to scan with Nmap. So remember, when we perform any other scan, it scans top 1000 ports. But what if we, for example, only wanted to scan one port? For example, let's say we wanted to scan port 80 on the metasploitable. Can we do that? Well, if you specify p and, and then 80 and then the IP address here, it will tell us port 80 open and service that it is running. So we can scan only one port if you want. This option is useful if you're only attacking one port and you don't want to bother, really. And let Nmap scan 1000 port.
04:01:09.014 - 04:02:00.988, Speaker A: When you only want to enumerate one single port, you can also do it on multiple ports. For example, port 80, port 22 port 100 and let's see what the output is. And here we can see port 80 and port 22 are open. While the port 100 is closed we separate different ports with comma and instead of separating them with comma, if you want to scan a range of ports you can also do this. You can do port one to port 100 and here are the results not shown. 94 closed ports and we got six ports that are open in 1st 100 ports. And remember when I told you that there are over 65,000 ports? Well this is the option that we can use in order to scan all 65,000.
04:02:00.988 - 04:02:32.720, Speaker A: If I type the same command just I scan from one to six 5535 and press entertain. This scan will take longer than any previous scan that we did. Since it is scanning 65,000 ports. Here we can see the output it finished in 7.74 seconds. And here are all the open ports that it managed to discover. Here are some of the ports that we never really discovered with previous scans that we did in last few videos.
04:02:32.720 - 04:03:22.960, Speaker A: So this is really useful. If we used regular scans and we only scanned 1st 1000 ports we would never really know that these ports are also open. Now on the contrary, instead of scanning 1000 ports or 65,000 ports we can use a cool option which is f and it is capital f. And what this option does is instead of scanning 1000 ports it scans 1st 100 ports. So in case you want to perform a quicker scan and you also want to scan top 100 used ports, you would use the dash f option. If I press enter you can see it finished in less than 1 second and it scanned top 100 ports. Now this doesn't mean that it scanned port from one to 100.
04:03:22.960 - 04:03:52.232, Speaker A: This simply means it scanned 1st 100 ports that are usually most used. So we got 2122-2553 and bunch of others as well. But whenever you really want to find out everything you can about the target, this scan will be more useful. The one where we scan 65,000 ports. Since you can see there are a lot more ports that are open than with this scan. Okay cool. Let me show you one more option before we proceed to the next video.
04:03:52.232 - 04:04:35.142, Speaker A: And that option is how to output an Nmap scan. So there are a few ways that we can do that. If I run Nmap and then we use the scene scan which we covered and let's say we scan the metasploitable. There are two ways that we can do this. If we want the output to be inside of a file we can use two arrows to the right and then output of scan txt let me see, you requested the scan type, which requires root privileges, so let us run it with root and press enter. Type in password and you will see we get no output to our terminal. That is because all of the output is stored in this file.
04:04:35.142 - 04:05:09.314, Speaker A: If we use the cat command to output the results, here is our scan that is being stored inside of this file. So this is useful once you want to for example, add this to your report. So you just save it in a file and then later on copy and paste this on our report. Another way that you can do this in case you want the results to be saved both in a file and also outputted in your terminal. We can use the on option. So on. I'm not sure if it is with capital n or lowercase n.
04:05:09.314 - 04:05:47.930, Speaker A: We're going to check that out with the help menu. So let's go to the output settings and it is dash on option and we can see right here on option is output scan in normal. So we can simply just save this in a normal file. If you want some other file type, you can use ox for the XML. And we got some other options here as well that you might find interesting. For now, we are just going to check out this one. So if we go down here and type NmaP on and then ss, of course we need to run this with sudo and we specify 182, 168 1.5.
04:05:47.930 - 04:06:14.744, Speaker A: Output file begins with yeah, we need to specify the name of the file that we want to save it. So let's just call it output. And here it is. We get the output to our terminal. But if I also type ls and cat the output file, we also get the results saved inside of this file. Okay, great. These are just some of the basic options that I wanted to mention since you might find them useful.
04:06:14.744 - 04:07:26.170, Speaker A: And by now, as I already told you, you can consider yourself an intermediate NMAP scanner. Now to take this to the advanced level, we're going to check out in the next few videos how we can bypass firewall ids and ips using NMAP scans. In this small section, we are going to cover how we can use NMAP in our advantage to be able to bypass some of the security measures that the target might have, such as firewalls and ids. These options that we will use in NMAP can be considered advanced. So don't worry if you don't fully understand everything that we talked about in next few videos. Just make sure that in case there is something that you didn't understand, rewatch a video a few times and you will get it? But wait, Alexa, I don't even know what firewall or IDS is. So what are they? Well, firewall is a network security system that monitors network traffic, and it is based on the security rules that are predetermined.
04:07:26.170 - 04:08:17.116, Speaker A: There are two types of firewalls, network firewalls and host based firewalls. Network firewalls filter traffic between two or more networks, while host based firewalls only filter traffic that is going in or out from that specific machine. And what IDS is is intrusion detection system. It is usually a software application that monitors the network for any malicious activity. For example, some of the NMAP scans that we did in the previous section can get caught by intrusion detection system. So in this section, we will check out a few options that could help us bypass that. All in all, firewall and IDS helps us secure our network or machine.
04:08:17.116 - 04:09:06.376, Speaker A: In the previous section, where we covered NMAP basics, we used our Kali Linux machine and we scanned our metasploitable target. We scanned different ports, and with the scans that we did, we managed to figure out what ports are open and what ports are closed. But some of our targets might host services on ports hiding behind the firewall. And once we scan them, it will tell us those ports are filtered, which we know that it means. NMAP can't figure out whether that port is open or closed. What this means is that we're sending packets to that target, but their firewall keeps dropping those packets. And in this section, we're going to see what NMaP options can help us in bypassing this.
04:09:06.376 - 04:09:47.706, Speaker A: Let's get straight into it. Let us talk about different options we can use in our scans to bypass firewall. Firewall is something unpredictable. You don't really know its rules in order to know exactly what type of scan you need to perform in order to bypass it. Some of the firewalls could use Mac address filtering in order to allow certain devices to connect to a specific port or in order to block certain devices. Some firewalls could block different types of packets. Some firewalls could block only some ports and not all of them.
04:09:47.706 - 04:10:42.790, Speaker A: And we can't really know what the exact rule is. What I'm going to do is I will give you a few different options as to what you can try in order to bypass firewall. First of all, how can we know if some of the ports on target machine are behind the firewall? We already mentioned this in the previous video. NMap will tell us that those ports are filtered by now, we should already know what filtered port is but let us define it once again. Filtered port is when Nmap cant figure out whether a certain port is open or closed, and that is due to it dropping packets, possibly because that port is behind a firewall. Therefore we dont get any responses back from that port and Nmap flags it as filtered. Let me show you this on a windows machine right here I have windows seven virtual machine and this virtual machine.
04:10:42.790 - 04:11:26.840, Speaker A: If I go to the control panel and then system and security and Windows firewall. This machine has firewall turned on if we try to scan it using scene scan which we covered in the previous section. So let's do it right here. Remember it requires sudo privileges, so Sudo NMAP SS and then the IP address. I will use the IP address of my windows seven virtual machine and if I press here, enter type in the password. In just a few seconds the scan will finish and we're going to compare this result when the firewall is turned on, with the result once we turn off the firewall. So let's wait for this to end.
04:11:26.840 - 04:12:02.806, Speaker A: And here it is. It doesn't have any port open. Matter of fact it will tell me all 1000 scanned ports on this PC are filtered. Now this doesn't mean that all could be closed or all could be opened. This just means that they are behind the firewall and any packets we send get dropped by that firewall. So our target could have a few ports open and other closed, but we don't really know that. Let me show you the response of the same scan once we have that target turn off their firewall.
04:12:02.806 - 04:13:05.084, Speaker A: So let's go to Windows machine and I will click on this, turn Windows firewall on or off and in both of these settings I will select turn off Windows firewall, click on and now once the firewall is turned off, let us perform the same scan that we did right here. So we'll just use upper arrow, run the same command. And here it is. We can see that some ports are indeed open. This firewall right here doesn't have any special rules since it is made to block all traffic. So techniques that I'm about to show you in these few videos will not work on regular machines that just turn on their firewall and that dont accept any type of connection. However, once firewall rules are applied, and they usually are applied in some servers or machines that need remote access or that need to communicate with other machines, then we can test these options and see whether those rules have any vulnerability that we can bypass.
04:13:05.084 - 04:14:18.386, Speaker A: I will turn the firewall back on right here, I will close this and let's start with our first option. We're going to use an option f. So if I clear the screen and type the command sudo NmAP f and then the IP address, this f option causes the requested scan to use tiny fragmented IP packets. Now, you might be wondering, why would we do that? Well, the idea behind this is to split TCP header over several packets to make it harder for packet filters or intrusion detection systems to detect what you are doing. If we specify the option once, just by adding one f, the NMAP will split the packets into eight bytes or less. So if your packet had a 24 bytes TCP header, this would be split into three different packets of eight bytes. Now you can also specify the option twice with f and then once again f, and this will split the packets into 16 bytes per fragment.
04:14:18.386 - 04:14:58.850, Speaker A: But be careful once running this option on an actual target, as some programs have trouble handling these tiny packets. If you want to increase fragment size even more, you can use the option MTU and after it the fragment size. Just remember that offset you specify must be a multiple of eight. This fragmentation won't always work. If I run this again, this option will not work most of the time. Actually, it only works if a network that you're scanning can afford the hit that this will cause. Therefore they just leave it disabled.
04:14:58.850 - 04:16:10.660, Speaker A: Some networks also can't enable this because fragments may take different routes into their networks. Nonetheless, it is good to mention this option, as it might come in handy one day. Another option we can use, which is more focused on hiding your IP address than bypassing security, and that option is creating decoys using D. So if I specify and then capital D, creating this decoy scan makes it appear to the target as it has been scanned not only by you, but also by the decoys that you specify. So their intrusion detection system might report multiple IP addresses that scan them, including yours, but they will not be able to determine which one is real, so you successfully hid your IP address from them. There are two ways that we can do this. And just to show you how this works, what I'm going to do is I will open a software called Wireshark on my Windows ten machine, and with this software we will be able to see which IP addresses are communicating with my Windows ten machine.
04:16:10.660 - 04:17:06.634, Speaker A: Now you don't need to have wireshark for now, just pay attention to the scans that we perform and results that we get in wireshark right here, I will select ethernet since that is what I'm currently using and we should already see some packets coming in, but these packets right here have nothing to do with our scan. So if I go back to my cal Linux and I run the command sudo nmap djdehdeh and to specify how many random IP addresses we want to use to scan the target, we can specify D and then R and D, two dots, and then the number of IP addresses we want to use. So in this case, I will use five random IP addresses. If I press enter right here and go to my wireshark. Hmm, it doesn't seem to be flooding anything. Are we successfully scanning? Oh, that's right, we are scanning windows seven machine. My bad.
04:17:06.634 - 04:17:45.840, Speaker A: So we need to be scanning our windows ten machine. So let me check the ip address on my windows ten ipconfig 192 168 1.7 and right here I will just change from 16 to one seven. And let's go back to wireshark once again. Hmm, it doesn't seem to show for some reason. Let us try adding this command and we will use the scene scan to perform this press enter. And the reason this might not work is because sometimes Varshalk will have a problem capturing the packets that we send from a virtual machine.
04:17:45.840 - 04:18:15.000, Speaker A: And that is mostly because we are scanning our host machine from the virtual machine. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go to my laptop and run the same command. Give me just a second. And I'm running the same command that we ran right here. I just ran it. And if I go back here, here, we can see now the output. We can see that our windows ten machine is getting flooded with random IP addresses.
04:18:15.000 - 04:18:53.016, Speaker A: If I stop it, I can see different IP addresses right here. So we got 193245 213.77. We also got the other IP addresses. But I will also see my laptop's IP address, and it kind of sticks out. Since this R and D option that we used creates random IP addresses, all of those random IP addresses will be truly random, while the only IP address that will stick out will be this 182 dot one six eight dot one dot 10. And that is a local IP. So this will most likely not work.
04:18:53.016 - 04:19:52.794, Speaker A: They will recognize it as the true IP. So how can we change this and make it seem like the scan is coming from five local IP addresses that belong to my home network? Instead of running the command like this, what we can do is we can run the command like this, sudo nmap. And then d. And after d, we specify five different IP addresses, including ours. So we'll specify 1821-6812 let's also use 1921-6815 for example let's use one eight two dot one six, eight dot one dot six. Let's use one eight two dot one six, eight dot one dot one five and let's at the end use my IP address. And to specify the cal Linux Ip address we can simply type me what this command will do is it will use these random IP addresses to scan the target including our true IP address.
04:19:52.794 - 04:20:38.434, Speaker A: So all we need to specify is the IP address of my windows ten machine. And if I run this go back to wireshark. Yeah of course once again I must run this from the actual laptop in order for this to work. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to run the same command in just a second and I'm running it right now. If I go to my wireshark here we can see now it is getting flooded with local IP addresses. We can see one eight, two dot one six, eight dot, one dot, two dot, one dot five dot one dot one five and 110. And they will never really realize that this one is the correct IP address since they are getting flooded with a lot of them.
04:20:38.434 - 04:21:18.048, Speaker A: And you can change this number. You can use more IP addresses if you want or less. But the point of this is that in case you're scanning a target that is inside the same network as you use local IP addresses. And in case you're scanning the target that is outside your network you can use this option right here which will generate random IP addresses and the security will have hard time figuring out which one is the correct one. Cool. Right? Now don't worry. Since this didn't work on my Windows ten machine, the only reason it didn't work is because my K Linux machine uses the same network interface as my Windows ten host machine.
04:21:18.048 - 04:22:06.724, Speaker A: If you were to scan any other target except your host machine this would work in every case. So for now we looked at these two options and in the next video I will just quickly mention a few more options used to evade security and then we will proceed to vulnerability analysis which is the last step before we start gaining access to our target. We mentioned fragmented packets and creating decoys the previous video. Right now we're going to mention a few more options and even though they are not that important it is good to know they exist. So let's go through them real fast. I will not be running these options but you can test them out if you want. I will just mention them.
04:22:06.724 - 04:23:08.516, Speaker A: So you know what else you can use? The first thing we got is option s and you run it like this sudo nmap s and this option is used to spoof your IP address. It will make your target think that someone else is scanning them. The problem with this is that you will not get results of scan back since they will be sent to the IP address that you're trying to impersonate. So for example, you can be trying to impersonate eight dot, eight dot, eight dot, eight and your target will be scanned and with this IP address, or at least it will seem that the scan is coming from this IP address. For this option to work, you must also specify Pn. And the reason why you must specify Pn is first of all, Pn is used to assume that all hosts are online, so it doesn't perform the ping scan to discover whether a host is up and running. Without the dash Pn, this option would not work.
04:23:08.516 - 04:23:50.614, Speaker A: And the reason is because your target will be scanned with this IP address and we will not be able to get the packets back and see whether the target is on or off. That's why we will just assume that the target is online so we can scan them with a different IP address. Otherwise we will never get the result whether they are online. And sometimes with these two options, you must also run eternity. E is used to specify a network interface. So you would simply just type ifconfig check out what network interface you're using and you would specify it right here. In my case that would be eth zero.
04:23:50.614 - 04:24:43.302, Speaker A: Another cool option besides this that NMap has is you can specify the source port with g option. This can sometimes help bypass a firewall. For example, a network administrator may set up a firewall and set a rule where only traffic from a certain port is allowed. And with that he is probably thinking that attackers won't be able to figure out from which port exactly. And if you perform a scan and send packets from the port that's allowed in the firewall rule, you successfully bypassed firewall, so you would specify it with g and then random port number. And one last thing that we will mention that could help you in bypassing firewall is changing different scan types. We already covered some scan types and any of them could be useful to you sometimes.
04:24:43.302 - 04:25:35.016, Speaker A: For example, in case you perform a scene scan on a target machine, and in case the scene scan is blocked by the targets firewall, which would mean that they drop all syn requests that try to initiate TCP connection, we could try to perform a Finscan and Finscan is labeled like this. SF. Now you're probably confused because there are a lot of scans that we can do. And in case you don't have any networking background, you're probably wondering what Finscan even means. Well, Finscan is just sending a fin packet without any other flags, and these syn flags and fin flags can be confusing sometimes, but with practice you will catch everything up. Just one advice I have is that every time you don't fully understand something, just google it. That is how I learned as well.
04:25:35.016 - 04:26:27.170, Speaker A: And all of these options that we covered can be combined with something called timing template. And to show you what timing template really is, I opened up my Nmap manual right here and I scrolled to this option right here which says t timing template. And if you also open up NMaP manual, this will be all the way down. So there are about one or two minutes of scrolling until you reach this option. Here in the NMAP manual we can see the d comes with six different options or six different modes. And what's interesting for us regarding security evasion are the first two modes, which are zero and one. Also called paranoid and sneaky, these two are used for ids evasion as it says right here.
04:26:27.170 - 04:27:13.540, Speaker A: Now, the problem with t zero and t one or the first two options is since they are trying to avoid ids alerts, they will take a lot longer to finish. So once you're scanning more machines or more networks, this might not be the most reasonable approach to take since this scan will take a lot of time with specifying d zero or d one. And all of this, including the options that we covered in the last video, will help you in security evasion and spoofing. What I would advise you to do is also read about other options as well that we didn't cover, just to see what else can you do in the next video. Big things are happening. We are going to create our first tool used for penetration testing. Let's do it.
