00:00:00.400 - 00:00:23.182, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Daniel Desistano, and today's the 30 July 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So today is a special day. It is Ethereum's 9th birthday. Now I feel like I've done these birthday celebrations for Ethereum on the refuel a couple of times at this point because I've been doing the refuel since late 2020. So yeah, it would have been.
00:00:23.182 - 00:00:48.552, Speaker A: This is the fourth time doing this fourth birthday, a fourth Ethereum birthday that I've been talking about on the refuel and wow, nine. Like, it doesn't feel like that long. It feels a lot longer, right? Because I mean, you guys know, I wasn't into Ethereum from the beginning. I was in since early 2017. By that point, Ethereum was already two years old, basically, or almost two years old, which is kind of crazy that I got into it that early. It didn't seem early at the time. It seemed like I was very late to Ethereum at the time.
00:00:48.552 - 00:01:25.188, Speaker A: But since then, obviously it's been another seven years and now we're celebrating Ethereum's 9th birthday. But it feels like decades, right? It doesn't feel like just nine years old. Nine years old is still very, very young, especially considering how far Ethereum has come and how far as an asset has come. I mean, ETH is worth $400 billion, guys. That puts it at something like number 26 out of all of the assets in the world. Like it's the 26th most valuable asset out of everything. Like everything, stocks, bonds, other, you know, precious metals, other kind of cryptos, obviously, except bitcoin, right? It is like 26, probably even the 25th now, because ETH price went up a little bit over the last couple of days.
00:01:25.188 - 00:02:01.312, Speaker A: So it is an incredibly valuable asset. And the Ethereum network has processed an incredible amount of transactional activity over the last nine years. A lot of that obviously happening over the last few years. And now we're on the cusp of obviously L2 is really taking off. You know, they've been taking off for quite a while, but it seems like things are definitely accelerating there, which would just bring more economic density to the Ethereum network and more usage to the Ethereum network generally. But as I said, it's easy to forget that Ethereum, Ethereum is only nine years old. And there's still probably another, I would say, till the end of the decade of Ethereum development to go until Ethereum is in like, the ideal place that we want it to be in.
00:02:01.312 - 00:03:00.092, Speaker A: You know, it's funny, because I was discussing this with a couple of friends earlier, basically about how Ethereum's kind of, I guess, decade of building is really from 2020 to 2030. It's not so much from 2015 to 2020. I think 2015 to 2020 was like the experimentation phase of Ethereum, or like the hyper experimentation phase of Ethereum, or basically Ethereum finding its feet, right? Like, where do we want to go? You know, what do we want to do here? Obviously, during that time, proof of stake was completely redone, sharding execution. Sharding was abandoned when we went towards the roll up centric roadmap. A lot of different things changed within Ethereum over those years. But then from 2022, 2020 onwards, with the publishing of Vitalik's roadmap, with the beacon chain going live end of 2020, with ETH becoming an institutionalized asset and becoming such a big asset, theory becoming such a big ecosystem, with all the L2s coming online, we've really kind of come into our own. And I think from like 2020 to 2030 is going to be that decade of basically the golden era, as I've, as I've discussed it before on the refuel of Ethereum, and we're not even halfway through yet.
00:03:00.092 - 00:03:27.584, Speaker A: We're only in 2024, 2030. I think that this, this will take us out to that, because the layer one roadmap, obviously, as you guys know, is a very long term roadmap, and there's a lot of changes on there that are going to take a while to, to kind of get out there into the network. I mean, Pector is not going live until early next year, right, early 2025, and that's the next Ethereum upgrade. But then we have so many more after that, and there's so many more things to come. And then, of course, on the L2 side, there's still a lot of work to be done. You know, most of them aren't decentralized today. They're working towards that.
00:03:27.584 - 00:04:09.572, Speaker A: Most of them have issues that they need to iron out with regards to Ux. Still, even though the UX is quite good for us crypto natives, obviously it needs to be better for the non crypto natives, right? The mass market appeal here, and we still need to just grow things generally. But really, I'm very happy with where a theorem is right now in this kind of decade long play that we're having here, because if I think back to 2020 and the position of the theorem was in then maybe at the start of 2020 to today. There has been a world of difference over the last four years, as I described some of them before. You know, the Beacon chain launch, obviously defi Summer happened in 2020, which really put defi to the forefront with we've had all the L2s and roll ups and stuff go online. We had blobs get delivered, right? We had staking just grow into its own. We have restaking.
00:04:09.572 - 00:05:00.962, Speaker A: There's just too many things to keep up with, right? And that is, as I said, we're not even halfway through the decade yet, and there is still a lot to go from here. But that's what makes it so exciting, that's what makes it so interesting to be involved with the Ethereum ecosystem over really any other ecosystem. I don't know of any other ecosystem that has such a long term roadmap and that has been executing on it in such a strong way for such a long time. That is exciting to be in because of not just the technical roadmap, but also the cultural and social values and the community aspect of it too. And I was talking, I talk to people about this all the time, where essentially Ethereum's culture, Ethereum's kind of social layer, is the strongest part of Ethereum, regardless of the tech, regardless of the economics, regardless of the value of eth, the culture and the social layer are the strongest. And we have the strongest concentration of giga brains, as we like to call them, within the ethereum ecosystem, out of. Out of any ecosystem, really.
00:05:00.962 - 00:06:11.664, Speaker A: And it's not enough just to be, I guess, like heads down in research and be like a super smart researcher. I guess I coming up with all these novel ideas, but it needs to actually be implemented into the network. I think that's the main difference between something like Ethereum and a lot of these other layer ones out there that look more like science projects than an actual ecosystem. You know, I'm going to call some of them out, right? CardanO being the obvious first one here, Polkadot being another one, I think avalanche even to an extent, right? They just feel like over funded science projects where essentially they have all this money, they spend it all on research, and then when it comes to actually implementing things and growing a community and growing out their activity on their network, they completely fail at doing that. And for a bunch of different reasons, right? There's not just one reason why this happens, but Ethereum kind of strikes the Goldilocks zone where it's like it has a really strong research community, a lot of money, goes into funding that research, but things are delivered out of it both at layer one and L2s. And that's the most exciting thing, is that layer one research is in service of both the layer one of Ethereum, but also of the L2s. And then L2s are basically Ethereum's commercial arm, which essentially means that a lot of private funding goes into that, right? Like the, a lot of the research on the Ethereum layer one side is funded via the Ethereum foundation and other entities.
00:06:11.664 - 00:06:42.484, Speaker A: It's not really, and it's not done really for direct for profit, whereas funding in the l two s definitely done for direct for profit, right? They're buying equity, which can be converted into tokens later. That's the kind of funding model they have, obviously, the VC's, angel investors, so on and so forth. But that's a good thing, I think. I don't think that's a bad thing. That Ethereum's research arm has funding across basically every aspect of Ethereum, layer one, L2, layer three, or whatever it is there, and the different parts of all of that there. And as I said, ethereum is only nine guys, and we're already at this stage. I can't imagine what it's going to be like by the end of the decade.
00:06:42.484 - 00:07:21.616, Speaker A: I really do think by the end of the decade, Ethereum is going to be so deeply ingrained into so much of the financial ecosystem or the existing financial system that we won't even realize that. We won't even realize where it is. We won't even realize we're using it a lot of the time, which is just crazy to me, considering how close we are to it today. You know, we know when we're using Ethereum today, obviously, for a bunch of different reasons, you know, you know when you're using layer one, Ethereum, because the fees are relatively high, you know when you're using layer theory, L2, Ethereum, because normally you have to change the network in your wallet, right? Or be aware of the network that you're on in your wallet and what assets are there. None of that is going to be a consideration by 2030. I mean, probably even sooner than that, to be honest. Actually, definitely even sooner than that.
00:07:21.616 - 00:07:39.122, Speaker A: None of that's going to be a consideration. That's not something you're going to need to think about. And that's the most amazing thing I think about, about all of this here. But enough of me ranting. I mean, it turned into a little bit of a bullish rant on Ethereum's birthday. You know, I may as well do that. And I did say to you guys that I'm going to keep, you know, speaking of bullish rants, I'm going to keep all the ETF stuff to the end of the week.
00:07:39.122 - 00:08:09.736, Speaker A: I'm not going to. I'm not going to talk about it day to day because I just feel like that's relatively pointless. But as I said, eth is in a really strong place to. As an asset. He's one of the most valuable assets in the world. Contrary to popular belief on crypto Twitter that ETH has been, quote unquote, underperforming, it has been performing amazingly. Like, I don't know if I mentioned this on the refill last week or in a previous episode where if you actually look at, like, the top 50 top 100 of crypto assets, pretty much almost all of them are down, like, 80 plus percent, whereas from all time high, whereas ETH is down only 30% from all time high.
00:08:09.736 - 00:08:33.172, Speaker A: ETH just got the ETF right. ETH is pretty much going to all time high sooner rather than later. I know I've been saying that for a couple of months now, but the summer lal kind of put a pause on that. But I do believe that it's going to be at all time high sooner than people think. And then the long. The other long tail of assets, they're just like, they've performed so horribly. So people really need to remember that ETH is a super strong asset and it's not going to give you a ten x, 100 x anytime soon.
00:08:33.172 - 00:08:56.600, Speaker A: Right? Like, I mean, from here for east to go to 30k. Like, my target for this cycle is 15 to 20k. As you guys know, I don't. And I don't want to rant too long here, but as you guys know, that's my target for east to go to ten x from here, 33k, let's say that's not going to happen this cycle. Probably happen next cycle, but that might be another, like, five years out from here. Right? So you're not going to get a ten X from Ethan. Definitely not getting 100 x from ETH, but also, you're not going to have the same risk.
00:08:56.600 - 00:09:24.522, Speaker A: If you go into a random meme coin that just launched and you're hoping for a ten X or 100 X, the amount of risk you're taking on for that is astronomical. Whereas with ETH, it's a store of value. It is a long term investment. It is a comfy hold. It is not something that's going to give you the outsized returns, like ten X or 100 X, but it's also not going to give you that risk that's associated with it. So there's always a risk reward here, something that I think crypto Twitter definitely doesn't think about because they're all about the, oh, we're gonna go into meme coins and we're gonna make so much money, it's gonna be amazing. But they don't do that most of the time.
00:09:24.522 - 00:09:42.946, Speaker A: But anyway, crypto Twitter is not a monolith, right? There's different kind of strikes with different folks here. But anyway, enough about that. I think that's going to be it for today on Ethereum's birthday. Moving on to some other stuff that I came across. So speaking of, I guess, like the. Actually, this is related to what I was just talking about with regards to Ethereum's birthday. Vitalik is an.
00:09:42.946 - 00:10:23.308, Speaker A: Edcon is at Edcon right now, which is an Ethereum conference. And he had this slide that someone shared on Twitter of one of his talks where he basically gave the goal of the Ethereum verse in one sentence. And the sentence is, using the greater Ethereum verse should not feel like you're jumping between 34 blockchains. It should feel like you're using Ethereum. And then basically he says, we want the 2015 era Ethereum like experience with 2015 era fees, but with 2029 era ux quality and scale. So essentially what this means is that for those of you who are around from like 2015 to, I guess, like, honestly, it's probably 2015 and 2016, the fees were really, really low. The experience was, was quite good, actually.
00:10:23.308 - 00:10:57.262, Speaker A: We had like 15 2nd block times. That was obviously too long. But the user experience wasn't. It wasn't that bad in terms of, I guess, like getting a transaction because it was very, very cheap, basically almost free, right? And then there wasn't much people using the network, but there also wasn't many things to do. So you want that kind of experience there. You want the 2015, like fees, but you want the 2029 era user experience, quality and scale, and obviously everything that comes with that, all the apps and stuff that you want to use. So that speaks to what I was saying before about these decade long roadmap that Ethereum has been on since 2020.
00:10:57.262 - 00:11:31.966, Speaker A: That's going to get us to that point where essentially we have the holy grail, Ethereum, the reunification, or the unified Ethereum, as I like to call it. But it's going to take time to get there. Ethereum doesn't take shortcuts. Ethereum doesn't want to just scale by throwing hardware at the chain. Ethereum wants to retain its most important properties, which are decentralization, censorship, resistance, credible neutrality, all that jazz that I've spoken about before while also scaling to the world. There's only really one path that we know of to do that without sacrificing those things, and that's the path that Ethereum has taken. As I said, yes, it's going to take longer than people would like it to take, but at the same time, once it's done, it's going to be amazing, guys.
00:11:31.966 - 00:11:52.134, Speaker A: Like, I really do believe this, and I believe this for many years now. It already is quite amazing. I think the, the user experience. If you're using, like, rabi and you're on an l two, the UX is pretty good. Like, for a crypto native, for someone who knows how to navigate these things, the UX is actually pretty good. But obviously for the mass market, the UX has to be a lot better. It can't just be what it is today, and that's going to come.
00:11:52.134 - 00:12:20.470, Speaker A: And obviously, jumping between chains is definitely not ideal. You guys know my opinion on this. I don't think it's like, the most critical. Like, I honestly don't have, like, such a sour view on it that other people do, because I do believe that there's that long tail effect where it's essential, essentially, that, well, if you're, if there's like two, three major l two ecosystems, we're already seeing that play out. Arbitrum is number one, base is number two. Right. And then arbitrary is part of their own kind of, like, super chain base is part of this optimism, super chain.
00:12:20.470 - 00:12:45.456, Speaker A: But then communication between those will also happen. And we already have bridges that are relatively fast. I know it's not the best ux in the world. I'm not making excuses here, but I also don't think it's as bad as it will make it out to be, honestly. And I feel like if you are on l two s, it's because you don't want to pay the high fees on l one. These l two s already have so much liquidity for you, and they really do have a lot of the same apps on them. So I really don't like, I don't know, I feel like it's an overblown thing here.
00:12:45.456 - 00:13:14.834, Speaker A: Not to say that we shouldn't work towards making sure that we reunify everything, but I feel like people are acting like it's a death knell. For Ethereum, or it's a deal breaker for Ethereum when it isn't. Because we know that L2s have been growing so rapidly over the last few months especially, we know that the Ethereum ecosystem generally is continuing to grow. We know there's a lot of work on reunifying things. So I think that it's just overblown for the short term and definitely underpriced for the long term. At least that's my view on things there. All right, just wanted to put this on your radar.
00:13:14.834 - 00:13:58.766, Speaker A: East Taker has introduced the ETH staker deposit Cli and they say here the staking deposit CLI has long needed some critical features for better staking user experience. E stakers Remy, Rory and Valofar have developed the east take a deposit deposit CLI and are starting the audit process on it so we can get these features to stakers. And just for context here, the staking deposit CLI is a critical tooling for stakers to get up and running and was developed by the EF before the launch of the Beacon chain. So solo stakers among us will probably be be aware of this tool and probably have used it before. I know I definitely have. But as was mentioned in the tweet, they want to add some more features to this and they've listed the features out here. Essentially, there's going to be new features like prompting for a withdrawal address so that you do that within the deposit CLI without having to do that.
00:13:58.766 - 00:14:34.682, Speaker A: Outside of that, the ability to create an exit message and perform a voluntary, voluntary exit for your validators. That's pretty important, actually, because of the fact that if you don't do this and then you lose access to your validator keys, it could be up shit creek and they definitely don't want to be there. Warnings if the machine you're using is connected to a network. Support for more recent operating systems and Python versions by default. Better support for generating a large number of keys at once. So some much needed features coming to the staking the staking deposit CLI here. So kudos to the Eats taking community and the Ethereum foundation for working together on this, especially to a big shout out to Remy Royde and valid here.
00:14:34.682 - 00:15:02.634, Speaker A: But you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, I wanted to have a little bit of a discussion around a tweet that I put out. I think this is yesterday where I said, after all of these years, I still strongly believe that DeFi is the main value prop of blockchain technology. Everything else is a bonus that simply plugs into DeFi to either enhance it or benefit from it. The job is not done until all of global finance settles on crypto rails. I don't know why this is controversial to some people.
00:15:02.634 - 00:16:02.864, Speaker A: When finance trade payments, you know, all the stuff that I would consider to be under the defi umbrella run the world, right? Or under the finance umbrella, it runs the world. Like, you can't do anything in the world without some kind of transaction taking place. Even in kind of underdeveloped or third world countries where the barter system is still in place for the majority of trade, that is still a form of a financial transaction in the bartering system. So when people say, oh, you know, there's all these other use cases of blockchain that we should be paying attention to, why, you know that they're going to be just as big as Defi? I'm like, no, because DeFi literally plugs into everything. For example, let's look at something that is a non, I guess, financial product or non financial app on Ethereum today. One of the biggest ones is Ens, right? Ens is nothing inherently financial because you can trade the ENS addresses, but the ENS address that you have is not a financial thing. You pay for it, obviously, and you buy it and you make sure it doesn't expire.
00:16:02.864 - 00:16:41.012, Speaker A: But the actual use case of it is just to attach it. I mean, this not the only use case, but the main use case is to attach it to your EOA or your smart contract wallet or whatever it is, and have a human readable name there, right? But then the thing is, is that, as I just said, when you go to get an ens, you're paying for it. That is a financial transaction that's taking place. That is in my mind. Maybe some people disagree with me, but that is part of DeFi there. If you're trading these Ans addresses, that is part of DeFi there. Even though it's an NFT and not a fungible token, it's still part of DeFi because you're trading it somewhere on some online marketplace, right? So as I, like said before, everything touches Defi.
00:16:41.012 - 00:17:44.900, Speaker A: And as I said in the tweet it to either enhance it or benefit from it. And this kind of like financial transactions and these, for the financial system generally, is what runs the world without a functional financial system. And without a functional system like capitalism, for example, the economies and countries fall into turmoil, basically. Like, I know that capitalism has a lot of issues, especially around wealth inequality and things trending towards monopolization over time. But it's better than a lot of the other systems that have been tried over the centuries, I guess, like in human development, right? So capitalism is currently the best that we have, and there are different forms of capitalism, of course, but crypto systems, especially if you're in with defi, they're hyper capitalist systems, right? And you need only look at the MEV ecosystem to see how true this is. Because the MEV ecosystem is the purest form of capitalism ever. It is pure profit maximization to the, just like to the extent of, you know, it's same with happens within tradfi, where the firms co locate with the clearinghouse or with the settlement layer, so that they can essentially get their orders in first.
00:17:44.900 - 00:18:21.136, Speaker A: Like, MEV is such a diverse field, right? And as I said, like a few, the purest form of capitalism that you could have. So given that, and given that it's got to do with financial transactions, given that there are transaction fees within crypto, financial transactions tend to price everything else out. But as I said, everything else tends to touch financial transactions. So there is this balance here that needs to be struck. But I have no doubt in my mind that for decades, centuries to come of Ethereum being a global sentiment layer, the main use case will be defi. The vast majority of activity will happen within DeFi. Yes, there'll be other big things that happen.
00:18:21.136 - 00:18:51.260, Speaker A: Yes, there'll be other big use cases, but all of that will just enhance DeFi, right? Like it's all just additive for DeFi. So DeFi really is that main value prop there. It is actually something that gets the most value out of a blockchain, out of decentralization, out of sync resistance, whereas I think a lot of the other use cases, especially things like gaming, they don't have to be on a blockchain, but they want to be on a blockchain. They want to be in crypto because they can plug into things like Defi. Like, that is, that is basically the, the main draw here. So Defi is the main draw. It is the main thing.
00:18:51.260 - 00:19:14.372, Speaker A: It is the most valuable thing and everything else plugs into it. If you disagree with me, feel free to sound off in the, in the Discord channel or in the YouTube comments. I'm always happy to, to read those. I'm much more likely to reply in the Discord channel. So if you want to have a discussion there, let's, let's have a discussion. But, yeah, I mean, I think there's enough evidence and enough kind of, I guess, like examples over the years of Defi being the biggest thing in dominating that. There's not much of a debate to be had.
00:19:14.372 - 00:19:38.420, Speaker A: I don't think you can debate that DeFi is the biggest, but maybe you want to debate me on the fact that you think something else will be bigger than Defi and actually enhance Defi instead of the other way around. We'll have to see. Right? But anyway, enough on that. A little, just little rant there. But yeah, I mean, this is all really bullish for Ethereum, by the way. Ethereum being like the world's global settlement layout is the most bullish thing for it. And I think that this is something that we should definitely be paying more attention to.
00:19:38.420 - 00:19:56.092, Speaker A: Defi seems to get forgotten as this old boring thing, but it is the thing, like it is the thing more than anything else. So, yeah. Anyway, enough about that. Moving on from there. So speaking of l two s, I took a look at the l two beat website. Now, the l two beat website actually tracks a bunch of different things these days. It has evolved quite a bit.
00:19:56.092 - 00:20:38.926, Speaker A: But in my screenshot here, I look at just the roll up activity. So as you guys know, I tend to refer to things as roll ups if they post all of their relevant bits, like proofs and data to the same settlement layer, in this case, ethereum l one. And I tend to refer to other things as just L2s, like things that use off chain da. So what I've done in this picture or in this, in this image on the l two B website, I've just looked at roll up only activity. And you can tick this here and you can see that includes chains like option one, base op, main net, blast, scroll, linnaeusync, stock net mode, and lisk actually in the top ten here. It's funny, Lisk used to be a layer one and has become an optimistic roll up man. My thesis on layer one's becoming rollups just continues to age like fine wine.
00:20:38.926 - 00:21:01.370, Speaker A: Like, I don't even know how I got that call, so. Right. But I did. Anyway, enough gloating. But yeah, if you go to the activity tab here and click roll ups only, you can see that the roll up activity is at all time high. And if you untick it, you can see that all L2 activity is at all time high as well. But I just wanted to look at roll ups because if you untick it, you've also got Xai in here, which is an l three that settles down to arbitrum one, I believe.
00:21:01.370 - 00:21:23.842, Speaker A: And then you've got proof of play as well. I think one or both of these settled down to arbitram one, but they definitely settle down to an l two here. But I believe they store their data kind of off chain. But yeah, roll ups only. It's at all time highs, basically, you can see here and it just keeps going up. And the other website, you guys know that I love looking at is rollup. WTF? It is a real time TPS website, so it's not going to give you historical data or anything like that.
00:21:23.842 - 00:21:54.950, Speaker A: I'm sure they're going to integrate that at some point. But this has been hovering between, usually when I look at it, it's like 250 to 300 tps. It's slightly lower at 240 tps at time of recording. But that includes Xi, right? That's not just roll up. So if I expand this and I just basically include settlement being ethereum here, this will just show roll ups only. And it's about 100 tps, which is pretty amazing. Like this is including ethereum l one, not just the, the l two s, but I mean, you can see here, base doing 32 tps, doing 22, ethereum L 114, Tyco ten.
00:21:54.950 - 00:22:30.802, Speaker A: And you guys know that I think that TPS isn't the best measure of activity generally, but it is one of many. And, you know, it's not just TPS going up, it's also TvL going up, just general activity, like stablecoin activity going up. So taking that altogether, it's very obvious that L2s are continuing to grow, which is what we like to see here. Now, staying on the L2 topic, and I came across another dashboard today that's hosted on the Cosmos station website. Now, don't let the name fool you, this is not about Cosmos. This is a website that tracks a bunch of different chains. And essentially it's a real time monitoring dashboard for the, I guess, like liveness of different chains out there.
00:22:30.802 - 00:22:47.666, Speaker A: So you can see basically it shows you blocks coming in per chain that they're tracking here. And each chain has different block time. So on ethereum, we have 12 seconds slot the block times. Cosmos, I believe it is. I actually don't know Cosmos slot time. I'm just eyeing it here. I believe it's like 8 seconds or something.
00:22:47.666 - 00:23:11.784, Speaker A: Optimism is coming in at every couple of seconds. Option one's a bit faster. But really, what I wanted to show here, and the reason why I'm bringing this up is because you can see especially between the different l one, so not don't include the l two s in this, but between the different l ones, they have different block times. Right. So bitcoin has roughly ten minute block times. Ethereum is at twelve, Cosmos is at eight. Go down to bnB, it's at like four.
00:23:11.784 - 00:23:26.808, Speaker A: I believe their times are here. Or maybe three or something like that. Polygon, which is the pos side chain, which is, I guess, like an l one, 2 seconds. Celestia. Different times as well. And, yeah, I mean, the. My point is, yeah, that they are ones.
00:23:26.808 - 00:23:50.976, Speaker A: They all have different block times. And the reason why I bring this up is because it's something that I've spoken about before where essentially, because all the l one's have different block times. This is why. Bridging between different l ones is one very slow and slower than l two s and. And two much more risky, because the risk of a real is much greater than. Than it is for anyone or else. And you're always going to be, I guess, like at the mercy of the slowest chain.
00:23:50.976 - 00:24:19.306, Speaker A: So, for example, if you wanted to bridge from ethereum to bitcoin, or bitcoin to ethereum, you'd be at the mercy of the ten minute bitcoin blockchains. If you bitcoin block times. If you could bridge there, like natively, I mean, there are some bridges here and there, but essentially what you would have to wait for is a minimum of ten minutes or a minimum of one bitcoin block. But ideally, you want to wait for more than that, just in case of a real. So ideally a minimum, you want to wait probably two. So you want to wait up to 20 minutes for that bridge there to make sure it's not reorged. And that is.
00:24:19.306 - 00:24:38.394, Speaker A: That is a huge risk. But also, what you have is an IOU. There's no escape hatch either. Here you basically have an iou. It's not like that. For example, if you bridge from bitcoin to some l two, not some l two to some, to some other l one, and the l one goes offline or gets attacked or something, there is no escape hatch for you to get back to bitcoin. You have to go through that bridge again.
00:24:38.394 - 00:25:03.784, Speaker A: And it's a. It's a mess. Because if that bridge gets hacked or if that bridge gets drained and essentially the IOU becomes worthless, it's just so messy. Whereas it's much cleaner when you have all these l two s, that even though they have different block times, they're all settling down to the same l one on ethereum. And with ethereum you still have to wait. Ideally you want to wait for finality, which is like 13 minutes, but all the l two s do that like it's all on equal footing. It's on that 13 minutes footing.
00:25:03.784 - 00:25:37.678, Speaker A: But then if you wants to do faster finality, so there's talk of obviously single slot finality, which would be like twelve second finality. But even if we got to like a couple minutes finality, that's still much, much better. And that's real finality on one settlement, like one l one, there's not relying on other l ones out there. You're only relying on a theorem l one here. So that's why I wanted to show this, because really, the bridging between different l two s and the settlement of them is much stronger and much better than it is between different l ones here. And actually, they actually do track the different l ones. It's just up here where you can actually select the category.
00:25:37.678 - 00:26:12.940, Speaker A: So I was just, I was just in the popular category. But if you go to the different l ones, you can see all different block times, right? I mean, obviously bitcoin is the longest, but, you know, everything else is quite different too. And I'm actually going to see if I can have this dashboard up somewhere in my house, because this is just actually a really cool dashboard to monitor things, hopefully. I don't know if they'll give you a way to create your own list here. Maybe they do, and I can't see it right now, but I would love to create my own list and just have, obviously ethereum and all the l two s here just have a nice little dashboard running to see, to see how things are going there. But anyway, I thought that I put that on your radar. You can go check that out if you haven't yet.
00:26:12.940 - 00:27:02.204, Speaker A: All right, last up here, just a little bit of discussion around on chain eth movements. So as you guys know, people love to watch on chain movements of ETH of bitcoin, and they love to attach a stories to it. Now, there was a big movement the other day of 92,000 ETH, and it was moved by an address that had interacted with an Ethereum foundation address before. Now, of course, people jump to the conclusion that the Ethereum foundation was about to dump 92,000 ETH on everyone. Now, initially I saw this number and I was like, hmm, that's a peculiar number, because 92,000 is actually divisible by 32 into 28 75, which would be basically be 28 75 validators if they wanted to stake this eth now, I didn't know if it was the Ethereum foundation or not. And then I saw that it wasn't because someone, I think the block, reached out to Ethereum foundation and said, no, this is not our address. Right.
00:27:02.204 - 00:27:22.644, Speaker A: And then what ended up happening with this eth is it was staked. It was staked, I believe, by bitcoin, sweeze or Swiss. I don't know how, actually, or Swiss. I don't know how to pronounce the name there, but it was staked by them. So this is the danger of just looking at the raw on chain data. Is that like, it's not telling you anything, it's just telling you that some ETH moved somewhere. It doesn't tell you who actually owns that ETH, doesn't tell you what's happening with that ETH.
00:27:22.644 - 00:27:58.028, Speaker A: Even if the ETH is sent to an exchange, it doesn't mean it's getting sold. There's a number of reasons for people to send funds to a centralized exchange. You know, the Ethereum foundation actually does it in order to distribute funds from the exchange, usually Kraken, to their employees as bonuses, so as to protect their privacy, essentially. Right? So it's not just always getting sold. So these narratives that form around this is always funny to me because people are like, oh, I'm going to panic. You know, all these eats getting dumped on me, when in reality, that's not the case. And there was actually one today where I think up to $2 billion of BTC, the Silk Road, seized BTC was moved on chain onto Coinbase.
00:27:58.028 - 00:28:25.296, Speaker A: And people were like, oh, my God, the us government is dumping on us. But in reality, it was just them moving it to Coinbase, to custody it, because Coinbase has custody services. Right? Like, as I said, don't take this stuff at face value. Make sure that you get additional information before panicking or before being like, oh, my God, we're getting dumped on, whatever, blah, blah. It's like, most of the time, not actually that. There are so many different reasons for coins to move around, for things to happen here. And also, whales play games with this, too.
00:28:25.296 - 00:28:52.754, Speaker A: Market makers, whales, they play games where essentially they know that people are watching this, so they might do a big transaction and then be like, okay, if we do this big transaction, it's going to spook the market, and then we can kind of scalp this. Right. There are a lot of games being played here, especially when certain people are watching these things. So just keep that in mind. Keep in mind that whenever you see a large on chain transaction or on chain movement happening. You need to get additional context before coming to a conclusion. And I figure like that goes for everything in life.
00:28:52.754 - 00:29:28.806, Speaker A: Like reading a headline and then drawing a conclusion is like the worst thing you can do. So just generally, not just within crypto but everything. So make sure that you're always like checking the context, checking, double checking the, I guess like headline, the body of the text and everything against other stuff. Especially when it comes to crypto and ethereum. Feel free to just ask me or ask in the daily great Discord channel for essentially like a clarification on things because there's a lot of bad information out there about Ethereum and it's very easy to get the good information if you know where to look. And I believe the daily Discord channel is actually one of the best places to get it. There are a lot of engaged ethereums there.
00:29:28.806 - 00:29:44.910, Speaker A: They care about the truth as much as I do. So if you are coming across these things and you're wondering what's true and what's not, just come in there. There's a link to the deli Wade Discord channel in the YouTube description below. Friendly bunch of people in there. We're always happy to help you, so definitely go join that. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:29:44.910 - 00:29:58.090, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up scratching newsletter. Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all on probably on Thursday. Actually, at this stage I probably won't do one on tomorrow because I missed yesterday's episode. So yeah, probably on Thursday. So yeah, thanks everyone. Bye.
