00:00:00.920 - 00:01:20.994, Speaker A: Cool. Okay, let's get started. So I want to talk to you all about today. Is, are real world assets the answer to the Defi kind of boom bust cycle? And, you know, what do I mean by that? Typically, what you see in DeFi is that revenue is generated from typically yield, and that is highly, like, correlated with the volume that's being traded or the volume that's being borrowed. When we see this ebb and flow of activity in DeFi from the bull market to the bear market, we see this very, very volatile graph of revenue generation. This is a problem that I think young companies face, like in many industries, but part of the maturation process is to start smoothing out that revenue so you have continuity of operations, because the last thing you want to do is hire 50 people, 100 people in the bull market, just to then have to let everybody go at the end and have this huge brain drain. Right.
00:01:20.994 - 00:01:54.148, Speaker A: So how do we get there? I kind of think real world assets are, like, a significant piece to the puzzle here. And so I would like to take some time to tell you why I think that is and how you can kind of go about doing that yourselves. So quick. Chill. About us, we're chronicle. We are an oracle protocol that spun out of Makerdao. Fun fact at Maker.
00:01:54.148 - 00:02:37.344, Speaker A: We actually created the first oracle on Ethereum, went live on Mainnet in May of 2017. And the reason we built this oracle was because at the time, there was no existing oracle solution. So when we were trying to build Dai, we had to, like, before we could even start building Dai, we had to build out all of these other primitives first. So Maker created the first oracles on Ethereum. We created the first Dex on Ethereum. We created the first solidity debugger. We actually just spent the first 18 months not even actually working, writing a single line of dicode and just building up the infrastructure that we needed.
00:02:37.344 - 00:03:09.248, Speaker A: And so oracles were a big piece of that. So I want to talk about Maker a little bit. And so to kind of get you guys up to speed, right? What does Makerdao do? Maker is a stablecoin protocol. We have a stable coin called Dai. It's backed. It was originally backed by just Ethereum. Then a few years later, we added the ability to use multiple collateral types.
00:03:09.248 - 00:04:07.564, Speaker A: So you could start using all kinds of lido, staked ETH, or wrapped bitcoin, or even link tokens, whatever it is. But about two years ago, maker took a pretty significant step and started using kind of off chain collateral. So assets that were not kind of crypto native. And so here you can kind of see all this data on Makerburn.com. But what essentially this is, is it's showing like all of the revenue that makerdao makes from crypto collateral. You can see up here there's different types of vaults that have different loan to value ratios and different interest rates. And you can see on this column on the far right how many millions of dollars makers is making from that.
00:04:07.564 - 00:05:25.830, Speaker A: So this screenshot is a little bit old. I think it's now up to 200 million their thereabouts. And now let's take a look at the real world asset revenue. And so what do I mean when I say a real world asset? Because I feel like this is kind of like a meme that's thrown out. And like, what is the tangible, actual asset that we're talking about here? Due to the increase of rates by central banks, treasury bills became extremely lucrative over the past couple of years, with most central banks having around between four, five and 6% rates. And from an investment point of view, this is essentially a risk free return, and maybe not as much as a potential equity return, but it's good enough for the safety that it provides. And so this was like the catalyst for RWAs taking off and really like finding product market fit, because when markets are bullish, right, people want to lever up, and that generates a ton of like, borrowing activity.
00:05:25.830 - 00:06:15.440, Speaker A: But when markets are bearish, nobody wants leverage. When number goes down, there's barely any borrowing activity. The consistency of treasury bill revenue here is very, very significant. So you can see here at the top, we have Monetales, Clydesdale, block Tower, Andromeda, and Coinbase custody. Those are all essentially vehicles for holding short dated us treasury bills with rolling maturities every month. There's even another one on here, HV Bank. HV bank is a smaller bank in east coast of the US that writes mortgage loans and essentially maker is underwriting those mortgage loans.
00:06:15.440 - 00:07:19.376, Speaker A: And we have a deal with the bank where the bank has to hold on to at least 50% of the exposure to that mortgage so they don't have moral hazard of just writing bad loans. And there's a couple ones on here, but I don't want to go into this too much, but there's essentially a plethora of opportunities here, all the way up and down the risk curve, right from the safest thing, like treasury bills, all the way up to municipal bonds, corporate credit, structured products, whatever it is, higher risk, higher yield. Lower risk, lower yield. So this is a graph of kind of like the distribution of the sources of revenue that Makerdao has had since its launch. And so in the blue here, this is revenue from crypto backed loans. Right. And so you can see up until around, like, halfway through 2022, right.
00:07:19.376 - 00:08:26.404, Speaker A: 100% of makers revenue came from these crypto backed loans. And then you see in the white. Sorry, in the yellow, I'm a little bit colorblind. You see in the yellow category, mark public credit. And this is essentially predominantly the treasury bill revenue that maker is seeing. And so maker has managed to, in around 18 months, really diversify its revenue stream, that it's not so dependent on this boom bust nature of cyclical nature that we have in DeFi. And so for those of you working in DeFi here or innovating new things, I would encourage you to explore these opportunities, because even though it may sound more comfortable and easier to stick to crypto native, you're really leaving a lot of opportunity on the table by not exploring these other options, but with anything.
00:08:26.404 - 00:08:54.316, Speaker A: It's not a free lunch. RWAs add an enormous amount of complexity. And so I think the way to sum it up is, RWAs are not crypto native, right. When you have a token on chain, you can immediately get the supply. You know who the holder is. Right. You know exactly how much they have.
00:08:54.316 - 00:09:29.526, Speaker A: Right. You can even query the price in a decentralized way. On chain, RWas don't have this, because what typically, what you have on chain is not the RWA itself. It's a representation of the RWA. And so this leads to a lot of problems when you're integrating an RWA that you don't really have with crypto native collateral. Because, essentially, the way to think about the RWA token is it's a dummy token. It's just like an entry on your ledger.
00:09:29.526 - 00:11:10.752, Speaker A: And so you require a lot of context and a lot of data, like metadata, that corresponds to this RWA that you don't really need in that crypto native context. And so while the metadata for an RWA is going to be very unique to the type of that real world asset, I want to quickly touch on a non exhaustive list of, like, some of the factors and categories of data that you may want to consider. And so, for example, let's start with custody. So when you have a real world asset, it will be custodied in some kind of institution, and there are kind of various risk factors here, but typically, you want some kind of bank or some kind of trust that is the custodian of the asset. And it's important that you have some mechanism to determine and assert in real time how much of those assets are actually sitting there in custody, because, remember, what you have on chain is just a dummy token. And so that dummy token could be completely worthless if there's not sufficient amount of assets in custody, or it could be one to one. But you need to have real time data kind of asserting what's actually there in the real world.
00:11:10.752 - 00:12:19.322, Speaker A: So we have a mirror image representation of that on the crypto side. Let's talk about liquidity. I think in crypto, we get really wrapped up in, oh, this is the price of the asset. And I think a gentleman from chain security yesterday was talking about Oracle as Defi, I think, summed it up really well, that we shouldn't think about price as like, a static number. We should think about price in the context of how many tokens y can I get if I sell x amount of tokens on the market? And so it is a price with the context of liquidity, because you can have a very high price with very low liquidity. And if you were to sell 100,000, 500,000, a million dollars into that market, you will have a drastically different price impact depending on the liquidity. And so with real world assets, some of them are extremely liquid.
00:12:19.322 - 00:12:38.704, Speaker A: Right. You know, I mentioned treasury bills earlier. Treasury bills are one of the most liquid markets in the world, but others are extremely illiquid. They may not even be publicly traded. They may only trade in dark pools. Some of them are never traded. They're just held until maturity.
00:12:38.704 - 00:13:19.524, Speaker A: It's not as simple as just here is the price of this RWA. Let's bring that on chain. And now people can borrow against that. RWA, the liquidity and the discounted pricing as a factor or function of liquidity is extremely important counterparty risk. Right. Let's kind of talk about, like, how rwas are structured. And while it's a very young market at the moment, and where there's very little standardization of how you legally actually structure one of these.
00:13:19.524 - 00:14:43.414, Speaker A: I want to delve into one example using maker to kind of give you a sense of, like, what are the different, like, actors involved here, and how do they all interact? So in a maker kind of structure, what you typically have is you have a trust, and the beneficiary of that trust is the maker protocol itself. And essentially, this trust, in its bylaws, essentially can only execute instructions that are given to it by maker governance. So maker governance has to do a vote, and the trust can only do anything if maker gives it instructions. Next to the trust, you will have some kind of broker because someone has to go and purchase and sell these securities. Right next to the broker, you'll have a custodian because the broker then needs to put those assets in custody on behalf of the trust. The trust can own the assets, but it can't custody them themselves. Then even next to the custodian, you may want to have an auditor, an auditor checking that the assets that the custodian has in custody are actually custody there and are actually what they claim to have in custody.
00:14:43.414 - 00:16:03.390, Speaker A: And so when you're thinking of, like, this data, you have to think about, well, how am I going to get that data? And I think it's a trap to say, like, oh, well, like, I'll just go to the custodian and I'll just check what's in custody. Or, oh, I'll just go to the broker and ask them, like, what did you buy and sell? Or, oh, I'll just go to the trust and be like, hey, trustee, what instructions did you give to, like, you know, for people to do, right? Or even the auditor? And the problem here is that each of these actors have moral hazard, right? They have moral hazard in the sense that if maker stops providing credit, then they stop making money. So there is a incentive for them to fib or stretch the truth or lie, if you will. And so the only way that you can really start to build up confidence on chain in a snapshot of what the state of the real world is, is by starting to have composability of all of these different counterparties. Right. And so what do I mean by that? Well, it would mean you don't just trust the custodian. You don't just trust the trustee.
00:16:03.390 - 00:16:38.708, Speaker A: You don't just trust the broker. You don't just trust the auditor. You only trust them when they all have symmetry. And so what I mean by symmetry is, well, maker governance, right? Sends money to the trust and gives them instructions, hey, buy 50 million of short dated us treasuries. The trust will acknowledge that they received those instructions, that they sent the money to the broker, and that they relayed those instructions to the broker, and then they will attest they will sign with their key, right. You know, this is what's going in. This is what's going out.
00:16:38.708 - 00:16:57.820, Speaker A: You do the same thing with the broker. The broker says, I received these instructions and this amount of money from the trust. This is what we did. We bought XYZ. We bought XYz two, we bought Xyz three. We have this amount. This is the Nav, this is the yield, this is the duration, and then we send it to the custodian.
00:16:57.820 - 00:17:41.231, Speaker A: So you do this for every actor. In, out, in, out, in, out. And so only when you have complete symmetry of all this information can you say with high confidence, okay, it's highly likely that they're not all colluding together. And so you can say with a fairly high degree of confidence, yes, like the protocol can lend against this at this rate, because this is what's happening in the real world. And so the last thing I want to talk about is yield. A lot of these real world assets are yield bearing. That's why a DeFi protocol would want to extend credit to a real world asset.
00:17:41.231 - 00:18:17.474, Speaker A: It wants to make money. So if maker now loans half a billion dollars to some entity to buy t bills, well, it's because Makerdao wants to make T bill yield. But from the protocol perspective, the protocol has no idea how much yield it's generating. Right, on particular real world asset number one, on particular real world asset number two, on particular real world asset number three. So the protocol is kind of like blind, right. And this kind of goes into the discrepancy between crypto native and non cryptonative. Right.
00:18:17.474 - 00:19:37.258, Speaker A: Where in a crypto native sense, the protocol has complete omnipotence over, okay, what is the yield, what is the price, what is the liquidity? And in an RWA context, it doesn't have that. And so yield is an incredibly important part. Let me describe to you a context in which an oracle could delivering all this data, what kind of utility it provides to your protocol. So let's assume that maker has 200 million in RWA number, 1300 million in RWA number two, and 400 million in RWA number three. The protocol wants to optimize the yield it's generating. Well, using oracles, it now has the insight into knowing that, oh, well, it's generating 3% on number one, 4% on number two, and only 1% on number three. And so the protocol can now, in an automated fashion, right, reallocate credit from the RWA number three that it has $400 million in, automatically send those instruct, sign those instructions, and send them to the trust to execute the appropriate sales, receive the money, and then reallocate that to the other RWA bucket that's higher yielding.
00:19:37.258 - 00:20:20.604, Speaker A: Right. So the protocol can now effectively automate its management of credit and optimize yield. You can talk about jurisdictional exposure management. Maybe the protocol doesn't want to have all of its eggs in one basket. And it wants a diversity of exposure between the US and Singapore and London and Hong Kong, Dubai. And it can notice, oh well, right now we have 35% exposed to the US. We want to get that down to around 22% and do this automated rebalancing in this manner.
00:20:20.604 - 00:20:51.084, Speaker A: There could be other factors. So in Makerdao the dipeg is stabilized or the hard peg is reinforced by a swap facility called the peg stability module or PSM for short. And all it essentially is is a smart contract that has a bunch of USDC or other stablecoins in it. That smart contract will let you redeem Dai one for one. So if you give it a Dai, it could give you a USDC.
