00:02:20.340 - 00:02:48.752, Speaker A: Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening everybody. My name is Kartik, one of the co founder of E Global, and I want to welcome all of you to Dow Hacks. So you're watching this thing on Ecobal TV. This is what we're going to use today for the opening ceremonies, our Summit, as well as the finale on Sunday to kind of showcase all the amazing projects. And for those of you joining us for the first time, I really encourage all of you to you log in and say hi to us. This is how you can ask any questions to our speakers today. You can engage with everybody else that's participating at this event.
00:02:48.752 - 00:03:19.044, Speaker A: And for everybody that logs in and engages with us, we'll also be giving this NFT PO app. So without further ado, let's get started. So this event is brought to you by Ecobol and Eve Global is an organization with a very simple mission. Our goal is to onboard thousands of developers into the Web three ecosystem. And we do this by running Hackathons and Summit. And Dow hacks is no different. So for the hackathon, which is what we're going to kick off today, we have over 475 hackers from 62 different countries participating from 16 varying time zones.
00:03:19.044 - 00:04:06.072, Speaker A: This is going to be an incredible next 48 hours. We can't wait to see what everybody builds. And we really hope that all of you figure out how to make this work with all of your time zones because we're excited to see this as a sparking Discord community for 24/7 for the next two days. And we also kind of planned out and mapped out where everybody was coming in from. So it's amazing to see representation from all five, six different continents. And we can't wait to say hi and meet all of you on our Discord too. In addition, we also have 26 amazing ecosystem partners and 47 ecosystem mentors who are going to be here on Discord, helping you understand kind of how you get unblocked from your hack, whether it's needing technical help or understanding how something works under the hood or understanding how some ecosystem or dow is, or even a protocol is set up.
00:04:06.072 - 00:05:11.896, Speaker A: I want to quickly point out that we'll also be doing a lot of talks and workshops. Some of them already had happened yesterday and some of them are today. And we'll be giving over $50,000 in prizes, the details of which I'll go into very soon. I want to quickly thank some of our amazing partners here. So a lot of them are offering prizes, a lot of them are kind of offering their time with giving workshops and talks and interviews. So I want to quickly thank Filecoin and IPFS for being an amazing partner. I also want to thank superfluid the graph rabbit hole unlock protocol skill Wallet lens protocol Covalent the developer Dao tally linkstao friends with benefits llama coordinate reverie coma Rebu Fund and alliance dow sorry, that's the Daoist orca Protocol Parcel coma Rebu Fund factory Dao Gearbox utopia Labs ENS and Leica So you can talk to all of these amazing partners on our Discord and they'll also be here on this live stream shortly with some incredible talks.
00:05:11.896 - 00:06:13.676, Speaker A: But let's go into the hackathon. So, the goal for this is to cover some of the logistics around how the next 48 hours are going to work. We'll talk about everything that needs to happen here as well as all the things that you need to be mindful of for your submission. So the most common question we've gotten is what can I actually build at this event? So we mapped out all the incredible themes and topics that you can think about building here. And by the way, this is not exclusive, so you are more than welcome to do anything else that you're interested in. But for those of you who are still looking for ideas, the goal here is to really help encourage interesting tooling and support and features that can help not only just manage Dows better, but also working with them in a more coordinated as well as efficient way. So there's a lot of opportunity here in making tools and services for creating and administrating different Dows, helping with the financial payments part of it that's making something easy or more transparent or more streamlined.
00:06:13.676 - 00:06:56.572, Speaker A: There's a lot of creativity that can be done in how do we use memberships and NFTs to enable access at a more wider scale. There's a lot of stuff around managing and understanding and participating with governance proposals. Of course, all these things are happening on chain. So there's so much you can do with data and analytics and understanding what's happening for a given community. And the second you kind of amplify creation administration, you also get into discovery and curation. So how do we actually understand what's out there? How do we make that easy to understand our onboard people? All that is a massive theme that can use a lot of interesting tools and ideas and services that we can all build and try out as MVPs for the next 48 hours. And of course, the last one is compliance and legal.
00:06:56.572 - 00:07:49.552, Speaker A: A lot of the Dows here do operate and interact with the real world. So being able to understand that and make that process easier is also a very active theme that we'll be curious to see some interesting acts around. So let's quickly talk about the weekend itself. So the goal here is for me to cover how all these things are going to work, team formation, how you can get help, all the prizes you can win, all the talks and workshops we're doing the summit itself, which we'll go into about 20 minutes, and the judging and submission process. So the most important thing is where all things are happening. All things are happening on the Ethgobal Discord, which means that all of you who are confirmed as hackers will have access to this Discord channel. You can see if you have access to it by seeing and noticing a Dow hacks header on your sidebar and there you'll find all the channels that are relevant for this event.
00:07:49.552 - 00:08:25.656, Speaker A: This is where you can meet everybody else that's participating, talk to any partners or mentors and really get all the help that you need. And these are private channels, which means if you are not a confirmed hacker for this event, you will not be able to see them. So please make sure that from your dashboard you have connected Discord and this will give you access to everybody participating at this event. On top of that, there's also calendar invites for all the talks and workshops that are happening. A lot of you have already gotten them and attended a lot of them today as well as yesterday. But the full schedule of everything that's going to happen is also on the website. We really want this thing to be Asynchronous.
00:08:25.656 - 00:09:34.540, Speaker A: There's going to be definitely elements here that require everybody to be on the call, for example, judging, but a lot of this is going to be Asynchronous because we are accommodating so many different time zones and we will make sure that anybody can catch up even if they have other commitments at that given time. Where do we find the schedule? All of that is available on Dow Epglobal.com. So you can go to the website, see everything from prizes to the schedule to the next steps around judging as well as talks. So how does the hackathon actually work? Officially, hackathon has begun, which means that you can start hacking on your projects now. You can work with up to five members on your project, which means that if you are working with a team, you can have up to five people, but you can also work by yourself. There's no restriction on you having to have a team. You have 48 hours to hack from here, which means well, 47 hours and ten minutes from now is when submissions are due and we'll kind of talk about what that looks like and how do you actually go about submitting your project as well as judging.
00:09:34.540 - 00:10:36.484, Speaker A: And also if you have any questions about anything I'm going to say, please ask them on the live stream chat and I'll be able to relay those questions back here and answer a lot of them in real time. So the most important thing here for this event is that this is a weekend hackathon, which means it starts today and it ends on Sunday. And as part of the rules and criteria for this event, everything that you're going to be submitting must be done from scratch, which means that you should have started your project now and everything you're going to submit and talk about should have been finished from Friday to Sunday. You cannot build from any preexisting or personal projects. It is okay to use external libraries or SDKs or boilerplates, but you cannot extend a project that you have been working on or continue something you were doing before, even if it was at an eight global hackathon. And on top of that, only RSVP hackers are eligible to win. Which means that if you are not a confirmed hacker on the team page that you're submitting for and at the point of submission, you do not see your team member's name.
00:10:36.484 - 00:11:29.684, Speaker A: If you win any prizes, we will not honor anybody who was not listed on the submission. And of course, if you have any questions about this, you are more than welcome to ping us on Discord or email us and reach out to anybody on the global team and we'll be able to clarify and answer your question ASAP. And of course, we understand a lot of you are trying to understand what could be possible here. So if you are new to all this thing, if you're not, we have a lot of stuff that's going on to help with this. You can still go to Find a Team Channel and look out for anybody else who's still looking to join a team. We've done a couple of workshops already for interactive and synchronous team matching, but there's a lot of people who are interested in finding other team members, whether it's for a specific skill set or they're still looking for an idea or they have an idea, but they need somebody who has a complimentary background to help them build it. Find a Team Channel is the place to go.
00:11:29.684 - 00:12:14.132, Speaker A: And of course, so many of you are from so many different parts of the world and we're super excited to learn more about you. So we really also encourage you to say hi and introduce yourself in the Taohacks Chat Channel and get to meet everybody else that's participating. And as I mentioned before, it is totally okay to hack on your own. You don't have to work with a team. So if you already have an idea, if you know what you want to do, or if you want to just learn and challenge yourself, please feel free to submit something on your own. On top of that, there is a lot of amazing talks and workshops and just panels that we're hosting today and have already done so earlier today as well as yesterday. So you can still learn about all these things that are happening.
00:12:14.132 - 00:12:51.968, Speaker A: For those of you who are joining us on Ifgoba TV that are not actually hacking at the event, you can still watch all this content for free and understand what's happening in this world. On top of that, there's a summit right after this thing. So the summit starts in about 15 minutes. And for the hackers, all the information that I'm going to talk about here, as well as things that you need to know, whether it's about the judging the submission process or anything else. All that is also on your infocenter, which is linked on your dashboard as well as on the calendar invites. And again, everything that we're doing here is recorded. So you can easily catch up immediately after by heading over to Youtube.com
00:12:51.968 - 00:13:30.140, Speaker A: ETHGlobal and watch any talk, workshop or panel as soon as it ends. Okay, so where do you find all this? By heading over to Dow Deepglobal.com, you'll be able to click on a talk and understand when it's happening. It's normalized to your own time zone and you can see the full schedule for the next 48 hours there. So the most important thing here I want to cover is the submission process. Submissions are due at 12:00 p.m. Eastern on Sunday the 10th, that is in relative time, 47 hours and 45 minutes from now.
00:13:30.140 - 00:14:23.036, Speaker A: And everything after that is going to be synchronous, which means that to be eligible to win any prize, especially on the main event side, you will have to be on a zoom call presenting your prize to our judges. So let's go into how judging works. You will have four minutes to demo to all of the judges or our partners. If you have participated in a previously global hackathon, you may remember that previous events require a video submission, but for this one it is not required. But we highly recommend that you still record a four minute video of your demo. This way you get to make sure there are no technical difficulties live and if something goes wrong, we will move on to the next team at the four minute mark. So you will be cut off if things take more time than needed.
00:14:23.036 - 00:15:02.830, Speaker A: We'll talk about that in a second, which is you will have four minutes to demo. You can come and demo anything live so you can quickly screen, share and talk about everything you did. You will be timed for this range and if you are going to the live demo, of course you have the same four minutes to talk about and demo and show anything you'd like. But we really prefer that you record a video. This way the same video can be used for all of the prizes that you're eligible for and people can ask questions. And also you can do things like speed up a main net transaction. If you are doing, for example, a main net transaction that requires much longer to confirm and sort of chop that piece and still be in the time limit for your four minute demo.
00:15:02.830 - 00:15:53.764, Speaker A: We know it's going to be very tricky to do all these things just as the submission deadline ends, so we really encourage all of you to not do this thing last minute. If you're recording a video, please leave at least 1 hour to make this work and at the same time really make sure that you're able to spend all this time writing all the description for your submission process and you don't get behind on the submission deadline. All these details are going to be on your dashboard and we're going to communicate them a lot today and tomorrow. So don't worry if you missed something here. We will be giving a lot of notices and just clarifying a lot of things here. In terms of how judging for prizes goes. You'll have to specify which prize you are going to be eligible for in the submission form itself.
00:15:53.764 - 00:16:39.236, Speaker A: So when you are about to submit your project, you'll see a drop down that lets you say, this is the prize I want to qualify for. And the second you put anything there, that's when we'll know that we have to notify the given protocol about your submission. So if you forget to do this thing, there's no way for us to know that you wanted to be eligible for this prize. So please make sure that you select all the prizes you're going for and you can present all these to the Sponsors on the discord. So we will be coordinating a lot of that live as well. So there's going to be a main judging and a sponsor judging parallel track, and you can join a call on Discord and Screen Share if you are ready to present there. And just as a big notice, sponsors will review based on the submission.
00:16:39.236 - 00:17:26.920, Speaker A: So we will be sending a link to your showcase to all of our sponsors for the prizes. So it's okay if you can't demo to all of them, but a demo live to all of them. But as long as they have the full information on your submission page, which is the description, possibly a very recommended video, a link to where you've deployed the project so they can test it out and see everything live. That would make it easy for them to quickly do everything on their own and then ping you directly if they have any questions or clarification. And also I want to talk about quickly the Code of Conduct. So it is an online event, but we still want to adhere to our rules for this community, which is in summary, please be respectful and harassment and abuse will not be tolerated in any form. So you can check out the Rules and Code of Conduct by heading over to Ethcopal.com
00:17:26.920 - 00:18:12.836, Speaker A: Rules. It outlines everything that we're going to be adhering to at this event, including anything that comes out of it will be an intellectual property of you and no one else. So please check out if you're interested in learning more about any of the rules for the Code of Conduct. And of course, if it's something that we missed or if you have more questions or clarifications that you would like, you can head over to our discord and message anybody on the global team or message us over email, by heading over or by sending an email to hello@apglobal.com. All right, so now I want to quickly thank some of our amazing partners who are also going to talk about the prizes they're giving. So let's jump into filecoin and IPFS. Hi, I'm Joe Ropper from Protocol Apps.
00:18:12.836 - 00:18:38.752, Speaker A: We are delighted to participate in Dio hacks to show IPFS and Filecoin. IPFS is a protocol designed to make the web work peer to peer. It is a trustless protocol. It ensures author actors cannot modify the data. To do that, it uses content based addressing. Addresses are cryptographic hashes of the data, ensuring the full and forever integrity. We use IPLD, a framework to create various link data, format files, post on a social network, or your own custom data.
00:18:38.752 - 00:19:11.604, Speaker A: IPLD can do it all. IPFS is first and foremost decentralized, allowing anyone to join and participate in the network. The core design is really simple, meaning it can work on more or less all mediums imaginable, making it very future proof. All of these points make IPFS the best tag for all of your web free data. Filecoin is the decentralized storage network. It allows you to pay storage providers to store your data. To do that, trustlessly storage providers must take filled tokens as caution for your data and post daily zero knowledge proofs that they still store the data.
00:19:11.604 - 00:19:46.292, Speaker A: If they fail to do so, they pay penalties. It uses IPLD as the same data format as IPFS. That makes them greatly intolerable. There is ongoing work on the Filecoin virtual machine. This is a WASM based smart contract platform and will have an EVM compatibility layer. The Firecoin network is enormous, storing 65 PB bytes currently, and the total committed space is around 16 xibytes, making Firecoin the solution for web free data. I will be doing a workshop on April 7, demonstrating a Dio backed journal, teaching you how to use IPFS with smart contract and what contract addressing can do for you.
00:19:46.292 - 00:20:36.804, Speaker A: Looking forward to see you. We have rewards for your projects. We will give 6000, 3000 and $2,000 in Filecoin to the first, second and first winner in our track, as well as a $5,000 price pool for anyone qualifying in our track. If you don't want to wait the workshop to learn more, you can use these links. On the left you have great tutorials, and on the right you have great easy services to get started. Awesome. So we just kind of learned about what Protocol Labs is excited to do here, and we'll go into quickly the prizes as well.
00:20:36.804 - 00:21:11.660, Speaker A: So without further ado, let's learn about the prizes you can win for Protocol Labs. Hi, I'm Joe Roper from Protocol Apps. We are delighted to participate in Dio Hacks to show IPFS and Filecoin. IPFS is a decentralized file sharing network that use constant addressing. Filecoin is the storage network for web free data. We have 6000, 3000 and $2,000 in Filecoin for the first, second and third place in our track. And we have 5000 for anyone building on IPFS Filecoin, NFT Storage or Web Three storage.
00:21:11.660 - 00:21:45.580, Speaker A: Thanks for listening and have a nice weekend hacking steph. Awesome. And just to kind of talk about their prizes again. So the best use of IPFS stack which is using IPFS file, Coin, Amtgas Storage or Web Three Storage will qualify for a lot of prizes. So the first place will receive $6,000 for being the best integration. The second place will get 3003rd. Place will get 2000 is also a pool prize for using the same for all projects, which means that anyone who qualifies as a project will split $5,000 evenly.
00:21:45.580 - 00:22:17.124, Speaker A: And next up we have Sam from Superfluid talking about their prizes. Hello everyone. My name is Sam from Superfluid and we're really excited to be sponsoring the upcoming ETH Global event Dow Hacks this weekend. We have four total prizes worth $8,000 in total. The first of those prizes is for the best overall project built on Superfluid. At the event for $3,000, we have a prize for the best Superfluid application for Dow Finance worth $2,000. Another prize for the best use of Superfluid and NFTs for Dows worth $2,000.
00:22:17.124 - 00:22:46.320, Speaker A: And then finally a prize for the best use of Superfluid and another sponsor's Tech, for $1,000. So four prizes there. We think that this is going to be a really cool event full of Dow related technologies and we're hopeful that they're going to be plenty of streaming related applications as well. So if you need any help, please reach out to me. In Discord, you'll see me, Sam F, Superfluid and our team overall is happy to give you assistance as well. Happy hacking. Awesome.
00:22:46.320 - 00:23:31.470, Speaker A: And to quickly repeat the prizes that Sam just talked about, the best overall integration of Superfluid will win $3,000. The best superfluid application for Dow Finance will receive $2,000. The best use of Superfluid for NFTs and Dows will get $2,000. And best use of Superfluid integrating with other sponsors, prize or technology will receive a $1,000. Then we have the graph. So the best use of an existing subgraph will win $1,500 as the prize. And there are two additional prizes here as well, which is the best new subgraph will win $1,500 prize and runner up best new subgraph submission will receive 500 as well.
00:23:31.470 - 00:24:14.140, Speaker A: Then we have prizes for lens protocol. So the best use case of a Dow front end or tooling for Lens that uses Lens Protocol in an interesting way optimizing for Dows will receive $1,000 for the first place and the runner up will receive a $1,000. Then we have Skill Wallet. And Skill Wallet is hosting an ID activist track. So the first place of a Skillwater Integration prize will receive $1,500, the second place will get 1003rd. Place will receive 500. There's also a $1,000 pool price that's going to be split between all skillboard submissions, so that $1,000 will be split evenly between everybody who qualifies for this category.
00:24:14.140 - 00:25:16.704, Speaker A: Then we have covalent. So the pool price for $4,000 is what Covalent is offering, which means that anybody who uses Covalent in a super interesting way, the APIs will be equally splitting, will be splitting the total amount and the criteria for how it will be split will be based on different tiers that Colint will be sharing soon. On how they analyze and measure the difficulty and the quality of the integration. Then we have unlock and the most creative use of unlock protocol to manage access to different pieces of content will receive $2,000 for the first place, $1,000 for the second place, and $500 for third place. And there's also a $500 split prize pool prize that you'll be sharing and that amount will be split equally as well. And all these things can be found on our website. So you can head over to Dow Ego.com
00:25:16.704 - 00:25:54.380, Speaker A: Prizes and check out more details as well as documentation and links to their workshops so you can learn about how to use them and integrate interactively as well. And finally, before we head over to our summit, I want to quickly remind everybody to please pace yourself. This is a weekend hackathon, but we don't want this to be exhausting for you. We really are doing this thing so you can learn and experiment and see what's possible. So we really want you to have fun. Please don't do this thing at the cost of no sleep or something else. Just try to learn about everything that's happening in the world of Dows.
00:25:54.380 - 00:26:17.956, Speaker A: So with that, happy hacking and we'll see you all on Discord if you are a hacker. And again, discord is on. Ethglobal.com discord. And now let's switch gears to the Dow Hacks summit. So I want to quickly give an overview of all the things that we're going to talk about and then we'll jump into our very first top talk. So we're going to do this for the next couple of hours.
00:26:17.956 - 00:27:06.370, Speaker A: We're going to talk about a lot of the interesting themes that we are hoping to get a lot of creative hacks around. So we're going to kick off with just talking about what's happening in the world of discovery and curation. Then we'll jump into creation administration of these Dows. Then there's a lot of stuff happening around managing finance and payments and anything from investments to coordinating payments at scale. Then we're going to have another interesting discussion on memberships and NFTs and how we can use those two to make Dows and communities more accessible then everything that's happening in the world of governance, of participation, especially as we look to get more and more people involved. And then our last talk will be on what is the latest on compliance and legal and how do we actually make Dows operate smoothly with the real world. So without further ado, let's jump into our very first talk.
00:27:06.370 - 00:27:33.048, Speaker A: This one is about discovery and curation. It's going to be in a panel with Rehan, Dennison and Alisha. They're going to be talking about everything that's, from their perspective, super interesting or things that we'd like to see. And Alicia will be the one moderating this chat. So I'll bring all of them to stage here and ask them to turn their videos on and I'll let Alicia take it from here. Welcome, everybody. All right, so everybody's default to a quick mute.
00:27:33.048 - 00:27:38.300, Speaker A: So I'll ask everybody to unmute yourself and let's get started. I am unmuted.
00:27:41.040 - 00:28:05.030, Speaker B: Hey, everyone. I'm really excited to chat to Rahan from FWB and Dennis and Alicia East from I wonder I feel like, in terms of all three of us, I wonder if just like to kick things off in terms of what you do day to day, maybe even in life, in general, how much mind share does Dowing take up for you?
00:28:09.260 - 00:28:13.050, Speaker A: A lot. Yeah, it's a lot, right?
00:28:16.540 - 00:28:30.750, Speaker B: I woke up at like 345 this morning because I had a call, like a working group call, and then I didn't communicate something to someone and it literally lifted me out of my sleep. So do you feel like that?
00:28:31.440 - 00:29:35.408, Speaker A: Yes, absolutely. I think the interesting thing about doing dow stuff, or like dowing, I like to use it kind of as a verb in the background is my baby. She babbles a lot, so you may hear her, is naturally I work on it all day for work and we're trying to think about how to solve these problems in particularly and then outside of work, I'm in so many different dows and I'm trying to build different dows. So I'm kind of always thinking about it. For me, the thing I think that I end up sort of consuming me is and I just did like a medium post kind of about this, is that sense of responsibility that you end up feeling towards these communities. Sometimes you feel like kind of irrationally responsible for lots of independent humans out in the world who are kind of like maybe looking towards you for maybe this bug and they need it fixed because they're trying to do X, they want to vote and the button doesn't click. Or someone's like, well, okay, it's a dow, but what does that mean? How does it work? Are you going to do the work or what do you mean? I'm doing the work in the dow.
00:29:35.408 - 00:30:28.816, Speaker A: I just thought I just hold the tokens and get rich. How does that work? So it can be very stressful and sometimes I just log off because I can't totally let that much wash over me. Yeah, I think that's probably something worth touching on a bit later, too. Dennis and I feel you on that 100%. So much of my day, I think, is thinking about both the macro and the micro of the dows that I'm in, obviously at FWB, so much of it is kind of member relations, making sure the general public is taken care of, but also really figuring out how. To message and promote our mission as a Dao because mission alignment is so key and so crucial to kind of escaping that trap of token speculators. We're like, oh, when's number going up, right? Because those folks oftentimes may not be the best builders or contributors.
00:30:28.816 - 00:30:47.960, Speaker A: And then for contributors, it's also kind of segmenting it into, oh, here's what you can do in five minutes and then here's how we step up, if you wish. Because oftentimes, just as it is in any voting or any community, some people just want to dip their toes in the water and some people want to get in the pool.
00:30:48.460 - 00:31:45.660, Speaker B: Yeah, I wonder. This is actually something I was just thinking about. If you think about your community in the Dow and you have kind of like at the apex, the top of the pyramid, you have maybe core contributors, people who are really involved and then say that base layer is just token holders or community members that might participate in events or whatever it is online or in real life that you do. How do you think about kind of where everyone the different roles that people play and whether you have to get everyone to a certain destination or kind of like the value of each of these different components. Whether it is just like someone who's a token holder watching the price go up, someone who I don't know. How do you think about the different roles? And does it mean that someone believes in the mission or the vision less if they're less involved?
00:31:47.280 - 00:33:10.328, Speaker A: Yeah, that is a great question. I think on the first part, personally, I'm trying to get rid of the pyramid. Currently, the pyramid with companies, they go up to the top, right? And so my day job, I'm a CEO, right? So you're like, there's this pyramid and that just feels like bottlenecking. Everyone else below you, right, that has great contributions, great vision, great idea. And when we talk about core contributors for Dows, while I think we're at a place in time when we kind of still need that, I think long term we have to think about that still just a kind another tip of the pyramid, right, and that's still kind of bottleneck. And it also, for some, Dows is kind of a danger point, right? Because that's like a point of capture that's sort of like meme, of like, will the devs do something? That comment itself is very funny, but it also implies something that I was just speaking about someone a few moments ago, which is who's responsible for making things happen. So if you have a community where we're calling it a community, but communities members say, hey, why don't the people who run this thing do something? That implies to me that actually we haven't yet fully digested the idea of a Dow, right? Because it's kind of a thing where like, no, it's not the devs, it's me.
00:33:10.328 - 00:33:42.912, Speaker A: Why don't I do something. And to the second part of, like, is that the difference between community members and I think that kind of actually is where people wake up and say, oh, this is what needs to happen. I'm spearheading it. Right. Versus will the devs do something right? Which we hear all the time. I think that I'll disagree just a little bit, Dennis, and just in a really small, nitpicky way. But so much of what I feel I do day in, day out is almost traffic and people management in a way, in terms of who's raising their hands and who's doing what.
00:33:42.912 - 00:35:01.592, Speaker A: Because you also don't want the problem of too many cooks in the kitchen, too many folks kind of submitting overlapping proposals or tapping from treasury when you have things that are maybe 80% aligned. Right? Because that's not necessarily great. So some of it's also kind of building directionality. And I think that's where a core team sets the direction, the precedent, and if you will, like the kernel of the mission, if not the final mission, right? That if your things like, oh, I want price to go up, or I want to sell out this Ten K collection, you'll operate one way. But if you want to build a lasting, durable institution that is digitally coordinated, a lot of it is almost religious in a way where it's like, all right, so our daily mission is to kill our ego and make sure that we diffuse our energy into the wider community and, like you said, allow people to contribute. So much of our view at FWB is coming from like a hardcore punk co op scene where it's like, you take the tickets, you sweep the floor, but you might also be on stage. Yeah, I love think, you know, also to sort of add to sort of my perspective, I think it's very, like, over time, organizations at the beginning are absolutely right.
00:35:01.592 - 00:35:43.224, Speaker A: Nobody knows what it's about in the beginning. So it is helpful that there's a group of people that feel inspired that sort of set the tone. I hope that they sort of break up into little smaller sections or people sort of spearheaded direction. A point that I like to bring up often is in the Dope Wars community, rather than there being, like, a leader, people sort of imbibe different aspects of the project with their own vision. Right? So it's kind of like this hip hop street project, but it didn't necessarily start that way. I had created it, but I didn't say anything about hip hop in particular in the beginning, but people said, no, this is about the streets, man, and it sort of, like, created that own vibe. Right.
00:35:43.224 - 00:36:00.844, Speaker A: Where had I been the core dev to be like, no, it's not about the streets. It's about the Gulf and country. It has just been nonsense. Right. But I do agree with you. People don't show up to somebody's house day one and say, oh, I'll just pitch in and start cooking. Right.
00:36:00.844 - 00:36:05.230, Speaker A: Because you have to sort of instill that, like, no, this is everybody's house, kind of thing.
00:36:06.340 - 00:36:27.990, Speaker B: Yeah, I wonder. Just like I really like that rehan this idea of sweeping the floor and being on stage. Do you think that dows at the moment just kind of because we're still very early in this kind of new movement and paradigm. Do you think that dows at the moment attract this kind of person? Have you found that in your own experience?
00:36:29.080 - 00:37:24.744, Speaker A: I will say personally, dows have made me a more type A personality who you have to raise your hand, you have to step up, you have to volunteer and be like, I want to do know, like, Chase and I have this convo where it's like, how do you let quiet contributors raise their hands in a dao? And I think that's also been a very huge challenge, not just for us on this call, but the space in general. And I would really behoove the audience to think about this as well, that you should always create kind of onboarding tracks for people with great ideas who may not necessarily, for example, want to be on Discord all day or Telegram or on Twitter all day. Right. Every dow needs the person who's terminally online. That's me for FWB, but a lot of folks don't want to do that. So how do we build these rails for folks to step in with great ideas, but without being, like the face? Yeah.
00:37:24.862 - 00:37:44.370, Speaker B: Denison, what about you? Do you think that have you found because I feel like we are that person, and I think it's also similar to this zero to one person, say, in a startup like Swiss Army Knife, all these kind of descriptions. What's been your experience with that?
00:37:45.140 - 00:38:28.440, Speaker A: Yeah, so for me, it's kind of interesting. I am not that person in the dows that I participate in or have created, and I don't want to be that person. I think that I am actually a little bit old school. Being on Discord is very heavy for me. Even things like zoom is very psychologically bizarre to me that I'm in a very important, meaningful discussion that I can't touch you. Right. It's also, for me, I feel when you create something, there's a special kind of responsibility you have where you can say things and people take them to be truth.
00:38:28.440 - 00:39:06.264, Speaker A: Right. So especially when you create communities and there is that religious aspect to it and people do have this sort of clicky following aspect to it, it's very easy to say something that people just take to be like, oh, that's what we're doing. You know, Denison said he likes green. Change all the headers to Green. Right. And then people will be like, well, maybe he didn't really say that. And they'll be like our leader said, like, it's weird, but when you create something that's supposed to be a community and you have to really lead by example.
00:39:06.264 - 00:39:44.740, Speaker A: And for me, the thing that I am particularly really passionate or interested in is can we create leaderless organizations? Right? And maybe I'm totally wrong on that, maybe none of these are ever going to really work. But it's very important to step back from that leadership role. So there's truly space for others to take leadership role. And in Dope Wars, very early on, I took a step back really quickly and said, hey, okay, set the mechanics. This is the idea. Let's go. And people filled in all those roles on their own, right? They made a documentary, a hip hop album, they have a newspaper, different websites, people are building on different networks, these kinds of things.
00:39:44.740 - 00:40:19.920, Speaker A: But if I were there day in, day out, people would filter things through me, right? So communities do need community like stewards. Absolutely. For me, I can't be that person. Maybe it's also I'm just not good at. Like, you know, alicia you had mentioned, I'll wake up in the middle of the night and I will have some internalized grief over. Maybe I wasn't polite enough in some response, or maybe I got tired answering the same question for the 10th time, and I was a little bit snappy. And that's very hard on me.
00:40:19.920 - 00:40:44.920, Speaker A: But also I feel like it's very important to leave that space for other people to lead because when you can show that other people can lead, other people go, oh, I can lead too. Right. And I feel like that's very important because otherwise and maybe I'm wrong in this in some cases, otherwise people who step up to lead might really actually just be following.
00:40:46.860 - 00:41:43.276, Speaker B: Yeah, I wonder in terms of thinking about how to especially like onboard and how people show up, especially when they're kind of like trying to figure out what a community feels like to be in day to day. The tools I personally think that the tools that we use and the stack that we have influences so much of the experience that people have. I do find it personally quite difficult to take a lot of time to be really intentional and thoughtful and then kind of resort to the tech stack that we do. So a really basic example is just like a written governance forum. So I basically try to get on calls with as many people as I can because I think that there is so much nuance that's lost in the written word and it's kind of like being an extrovert or an introvert. It's almost like the shape rotator of words, I think. But it's not that.
00:41:43.276 - 00:42:08.660, Speaker B: But it's like some people feel comfortable communicating with the written word, other people they don't, but they're kind of forced into these different platforms. How do you think about creating these spaces where, I don't know, we can just be as inclusive and make communities as accessible as possible? For the different ways that people shine.
00:42:11.000 - 00:42:18.650, Speaker A: I have a controversial answer which is build selfishly. Right? You build for your own community.
00:42:19.020 - 00:42:22.570, Speaker B: Oh my gosh. I always talk about being selfish. Okay, there we go.
00:42:23.740 - 00:43:33.890, Speaker A: You know, because if you build what feels good for you and then kind of fine tune it out and make it applicable for someone else in our case who's maybe not as culturally aligned or someone who's not as much of a discord geek or whatever, then you're going to end up finding tools that make sense. And then you bring other people into the fold and build out accordingly. Like one very specific example probably is like snapshot. I think that's a pain point for so many folks where if we think about just voting in the civic system, right? Like you have punch card ballots and you have touch screen and all this other stuff, right. Like, just the technology itself is such a barrier, and we have a really big chance to automate that, make it feel kind of lived in and comfortable, almost like consumer tech as opposed to civic tech, which I think is so fascinating and interesting. And that's a space I'd want to see more people kind of deal with at FWB. I think to the credit of like Dexter and Mike Bodge on our team, a lot of what we've built feels native to our system and our community and we've expanded it outwards as we collaborate with more.
00:43:33.890 - 00:44:26.736, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. I think the tooling is obviously Tally builds a lot of Dao tooling. So this is something we think about a you know, sometimes we wonder, know, DAOs such as FWB have the resources to build their own tooling and their own internal mechanisms. And then you have DAOs that don't and kind of need like a manual and they need help and how to get know, you started talking about the sort of governance forum and the writing and this is such a hard problem. Right. One of the things we use discord because it is such like a liquid idea layer, right? Like everything just flows but it also trains participants to kind of behave badly. Right.
00:44:26.736 - 00:45:11.656, Speaker A: And it really puts a lot more work on the contributor shoulders than is really fair. I think it would be reasonable to say please read the docs. But in environment like Discord, nobody reads the docs and they hold you responsible for somehow having not communicated all the information in the docs to them in some medium that they would have already had a chance to go through even when that's already there. Right. So there's this really weird thing where you can have something, you'll have an announcement channel or welcome channel. They'll say, hey, welcome here, be nice. Everyone just clicks.
00:45:11.656 - 00:45:57.550, Speaker A: Sure. Yeah, I'll be nice. And then they go and be mean and then please read the doc to understand what's happening here. And then they come in and the first question they say is like what's happening here? Right? So Discord is I feel like I'm ending up on this little campaign against Discord which is not what it is. But there's something about those platforms where if we didn't need the sort of like FOMO memetic liquid communication that Discord provides us participants might also have the opportunity to be more thoughtful, right? Like the ability to slowly peruse information. The idea that in Discord someone comes up with a great idea and then 8 hours later somebody else wakes up in their time zone and that idea is just like scrolled infinitely up. It's a bad experience.
00:45:57.550 - 00:46:40.120, Speaker A: We spend a lot of time trying to manage communities in essentially trying to control remember that game telephone that you play like in school where the children pass the message around and by the end the message is totally nonsense. That's discord, right? And in many ways a lot of the work of community managers is like trying to intercept every time that message gets passed from one user to another to clarify no that's not what was said. Hey, that's not what's happening. Be nice. Right. So I think we're still at a loss of what the sort of ideal tool is there. I personally am advocating things like office hours where you just turn it off and it's just not available.
00:46:40.120 - 00:47:39.288, Speaker A: But some sort of medium where you can have that liquid communication and that sense of community that brings it. Right? Because a lot of people are in that discord because the Dow brings them a sense of purpose. And being there is a community that they're a part of, but then also having an environment where you know that people are going to go and read and what it's about, you know that people are going to take the work and time to be a part of it. And frankly, some of this is just going to come down to resources long term. Like when some dows get large enough where they can have a conference, right, they'll say, okay let's go out to the desert and all the true participants will all come out here and we'll workshop what it is that we are about and we will all get it and everyone will know. Unfortunately, not all the dows can do that. But I think we're going to see that more and more creator cabins is doing dow camp really? Where it's just like, hey, you know what? We got to take people out of this environment, put it in some human forum and do the discussion.
00:47:39.288 - 00:47:46.560, Speaker A: But it's a very difficult problem, opportunity place to live your life in the metaverse.
00:47:47.060 - 00:49:00.600, Speaker B: Yeah, I wonder just like thinking about taking people offline into the real world and just like the impact of that in terms of building community especially kind of as the world starts to open up again. How important is it for or has it been in your own experiences to kind of feel within a community? Because it's been really interesting for me because I've kind of just been sitting in a room in New Zealand for the last year which is both geographically very far away and also very isolated because I kind of didn't really leave my room. And just to be able to see and share a meal with people, it's something so new. I know that there are lots of online communities that have been built for decades and it's not new to them. But for a lot of people coming into Web Three, coming into the Dow Space building like 99% of this relationship with others, with a community, with a mission completely online, what is your hope with in real life? And kind of just like other things outside of the metaverse.
00:49:04.140 - 00:50:05.836, Speaker A: It's a good bandwidth thing. Real life bandwidth is so different than online. Even right here we're still seeing each other's faces, voices and everything. But there's something really special about seeing someone in person and connecting. And I also think that even in the way that people have manners and talk on Zoom or Discord is so different than in think, you know, Alicia, between you and I, you would have cut me off like eight times by now and I would have done the same if we were in, right? Like it's so back and forth, right? And it's almost closer to jazz and freestyling than it is like something programmatic. And that's kind of how I think the culture gets built for a lot of orgs. I know in our case, so many people have joined FWB and kind of understood what we're about after they go to an event or a party in person and have experienced the community and what there is to offer.
00:50:05.836 - 00:50:38.640, Speaker A: It's not like job fair. It's closer to a rave, a dance, a really good lunch. And that's the kind of stuff that even creator cabins, for example, does extraordinarily well in terms of linking people up and saying, this is kind of what we're about and this is where we're going to go. Yeah, I really agree with that. And it's kind of interesting. You talk about how in real life we'll be interrupting one another and zoom. You're kind of like forced to take turns.
00:50:38.640 - 00:51:56.750, Speaker A: It's like kind of forced around Robin because otherwise nobody hears anything and all the social cues get mixed up and then discord is just like nobody waits for you to finish shit, right? Like whatever, you're in the middle of talking something GM, it's gone, right? I kind of remember in the late 90s, early 2000, there's like this T shirt and there was this kind of phrase that said for young sort of musicians, there's like this whole scene of early electronic indie music and they would get really popular in Japan. And so there's this kind of meme of like, yeah, I'm really big in Japan and I always liked that idea how it sort of applies to the you know, as you mentioned, you're like in New Zealand, you're in a room. What is it? And can people really wrap their mind around what it is to know, to be you be in your room and walk outside and go get a coffee and someone's just like, oh, hi. And you're like, oh. And they're like, what do you do? And you're like, I chat on the Internet. But really you're like, oh, I'm a leader of a transnational global organization that's revolutionizing the core way that humans interact with each other. But people are like, sure.
00:51:56.750 - 00:52:46.048, Speaker A: So it's sort of like that big in Japan thing. So it's like being in real life, it's very important to, on a subconscious level be like, no, you're not crazy. They really do love you in know, you really need to go there for your concert and really see like, oh wow, they really love me here, right? Like there's other people who are into what I'm doing. I'm not know. Actually, I'm going to see if I have the book right here. The guy who founded like, CMX, the Community Management Conference, and he talks about how he talks about how the first time they did a community Management conference, all these community managers came together and they're like, oh my God, it's real. I knew what I was doing was real and important.
00:52:46.048 - 00:52:51.730, Speaker A: I knew it. So it's kind of like that sort of see if I have it lying here.
00:52:52.500 - 00:53:29.260, Speaker B: Yeah, I think maybe this kind of flows on to just like the in real life stuff and almost it's kind of like just like taking a breath and playing the long game. I think especially in terms of the visions of the Dows and the communities that we're involved in. It's definitely a marathon, but I know that in web3 it can just feel like continuous sprinting. So especially kind of in the Dow space, what are the things that you do as individuals to just keep playing the infinite game? Essentially.
00:53:32.580 - 00:54:28.000, Speaker A: For me, it's logging off and being polite to people and saying, no, you'll create something. And people are like, no, you have to keep building it right now, always. And this is what you have to build and this is how you should do it. And everything you've done is wrong. You kind of have to just not internalize that and very politely be like, no, I'm going on vacation, or no, I'm going to sleep, or if you want that thing so much, please go build it. And then when people say, I don't know how to, it's like, well, ask other people in the community and gain support, right? Communities can turn toxic for contributors, especially builders. I've spoken to a lot of builders who join a community and start building something because they're just passionate about it and suddenly they feel this responsibility for owning it and they have to maintain it.
00:54:28.000 - 00:55:18.876, Speaker A: And people make demands of it and why doesn't it work as good as something else that somebody else built? And that really burns people out. And there's this kind of silent dismissal in communities where people who are really passionate contributors, I'm sure we've all seen this passionate contributor is always in there, always mediating things and then suddenly you just don't hear from them anymore, where they hit that burnout, where this is something that can be really intense. I think you have to tell yourself that you do care about this group of anonymous Internet people inside the discord, but you do care about yourself and your well being and that you need to be interested and up and excited at doing this thing again tomorrow. And you're just going to have to take space for yourself for that. Totally. I'm going to add on to that. It's almost like in some ways that a community is almost like a tornado.
00:55:18.876 - 00:55:55.720, Speaker A: You have the highest velocity on the outside, you have the most churn on the outside. You have people whipping around houses and cows and cars on the outside. And as you get closer to the center, it gets more calm. And it's like as someone who is managing and building, you have to be as still as you can and do what it takes to do that and also recognize the various tiers of the chaos and the stillness as it moves inwards. That for people on the most outside. Denison, to your point, it's like, all right, cool. That if you want to contribute to community, like here's our town hall.
00:55:55.720 - 00:56:25.456, Speaker A: Actually, no. If you want to contribute to product or software, here's the stage we're giving you to do that. Here's where we can triage good ideas versus bad for community, same thing. And I think some idea of functional units or squads within a dow are very helpful in that regard because then all of a sudden the stuff that we thought were blockers are less so. And of course, the way to do that is to take care of ourselves. Because if you don't, a dow is like always on web3, never sleeps.
00:56:25.488 - 00:56:32.212, Speaker B: As someone sleeps, enough screenshots of your sleep ads to know that you also literally never sleep.
00:56:32.356 - 00:56:34.010, Speaker A: Oh, yeah, you know.
00:56:36.940 - 00:57:17.770, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm too scared to get one of those. But I kind of think of it, this is like kind of parenting advice. I feel like so much parenting advice flows over into Tao advice, but something that's really basic is fill your own cup. It's like put your own oxygen mask on first before you help others. I think just really internalizing what it means for me personally to be at my best physically is a big one. I really take my whole being shifts based on kind of my physical activity. And it's really easy to sit in a chair for 18 hours a day in the space.
00:57:17.770 - 00:57:46.830, Speaker B: But yeah, I think also just like having people that will. I guess like you said, Denison, like, lead by example. And I think in terms of that culture setting, it's really important, but I know we are coming up on time. Thank you both so much. This has been so much fun and I hope that everyone watching learned a few things and found this valuable. And.
00:57:49.120 - 00:58:22.356, Speaker A: Dennison, thank you so much for being on the panel. And Alicia, thank you so much for moderating. I think it's really good to see the human side of this ecosystem kind of being brought to light. And there's a lot of parallels here on how you can not just contribute to Dows, but just also how you work overall in the space and really appreciate the amazing chat. Thank you, everyone. Thanks, everybody. And with that, we are ready for our second talk, which is going to cover everything that's happening with creation and administration of Dows.
00:58:22.356 - 00:58:49.730, Speaker A: This is a panel I'm particularly super excited about because there's so many things that are happening at so many different scales. So I won't spoil anything we're going to cover. But I want to welcome Imran from alliance Dao, stefan from Daoist, who's going to be moderating this. Moshe from Coordinate and Dr. Nick from factory Dao. So I'll let them introduce themselves. And the stage is hey, everyone.
00:58:49.730 - 00:59:19.980, Speaker A: So I guess I'll start quickly. My name is Stefan Delavo. I guess I'm involved in a lot of different areas in the space. I'm mainly running the President of the Caribbean Blockchain Alliance in the Dao Space. I am one of the stewards of the Daoist, also contributing to a number of other DAOs. Everyone else, I guess we could start with Amran. Oh, you muted.
00:59:19.980 - 00:59:40.740, Speaker A: Yeah, I can go. Yeah. So one of the co founders of alliance, which is a web3 accelerator program, we work with some of the best founders in industry all the way, ranging from NFT Marketplaces all the way to Dows and DFI. Yeah, so that's a quick background myself. Pass it over to Moshe. Hi. My name is Moshe.
00:59:40.740 - 01:00:46.440, Speaker A: I work with Coordinate, where I lead research studies under the Dao landscape and understanding the Daoverse and Coordinate is a tool for supporting decentralized compensation and culture at Dows. Everyone, it's down to me. My name is Nick. I've been building Dow tools in the space for the last 18 months or so alongside some prediction market and DFI stuff, and we are launching a Dow called Factory Dow, which is a Dow that makes Dows. And it's our goal to build a kind of decentralized home for Dao infrastructure. And we're aiming to specialize in decentralized decision making tools. We do a lot of quadratic voting and build sort of mechanisms for fair launching of tokens and doing decentralized governance in new and interesting ways with NFTs.
01:00:46.440 - 01:01:59.804, Speaker A: That's awesome. We'll just jump right into the questions. So this is always one of the favorite questions I have in the space. What does. Everyone think about Dows as a philosophy in terms of what do you think about the philosophy of DAOs and why are you even doing this in the first place? So for me personally, everyone talks about the core aspects of Dows, which are decentralization and autonomy, but even that means different things to different people, right? So how do you think about those words in particular and why we're even here in the first place? Dows. What Dows enable? You can always talk about organization or social coordination as a tool, but if you're thinking about the evolution of organizations generally, you have traditional organizations and all the other organizations that's brought out of it. But now what can you do with people all across the globe that are able to coordinate for a mission and vision together? Biology said this really well, which is what DAOs enable is the ultimate social coordination to it that could rival nation states, which I think is a very true statement.
01:01:59.804 - 01:03:08.660, Speaker A: And the reason for that is because right now, if you look at traditional organizations today, they're primarily predicated on jurisdictions and governments. And so for people, in fact, if you know about the history of corporations, you know that corporations, even in the United States, you couldn't actually do business outside of a state. And now thinking about doing business outside of United States is like something that's not laughed at anymore because we live in a truly globalized country. And what DAOs, I think, enables taking it a step further, which is allowing anyone to coordinate with anyone, doesn't matter where they reside, what the mission vision is, and they're able to do this holistically with other organizations. So I'll jump in here and I'll say that I have a little bit of a bias. Well, my perspective comes from having a PhD in organizational behavior and having spent decades reading literature on the history of organizations, corporations, nonprofits, and how they've evolved. So in many ways, I'll say there's not that much new about Dows.
01:03:08.660 - 01:04:29.970, Speaker A: There are groups of people trying to get together and coordinate towards shared goals, like Cavemen have done trying to hunt a woolly mammoth for a long time, right? And I say that as I watch the evolution of the space. I watch people come in with philosophical ideas around autonomy, empowerment, collaboration, flattening, hierarchies. And then when it starts to get hard, almost all of us have previous work experiences or we grew up in schools and hierarchies and bureaucracies, right? And we import those mental maps. And I can see this tendency to just replicate in a distributed, disseminated web3 student, anonymous space why I left the web two world, right? So what excites me about those at the same time is that we hold this ethos of wanting to create a sense of ownership, belonging, autonomy, empowerment, but also collaboration, coordination. And there's some heart and soul, and we don't give a fuckness. That's kind of like, really inspiring to me this iconoclasmic idealist. I won't call an idealism like this little edge to the space that keeps us from just defaulting from a previous model, particularly as we scale and have to develop and have ways of funding ourselves and things like that.
01:04:29.970 - 01:05:22.348, Speaker A: And then I guess the one other thing that excites me is you have groups that are truly more socially oriented around arts and social spaces that we've seen as a void in much of at least the western culture for decades now. Yeah, I really like the point that I think you're right. Dows aren't radically new in the sense that I was working on decentralized organizations before the Dow was around. And that notion of decentralized organization has been around for a long time. It's not a new paradigm in itself. But I do see Dows as the facilitator of these things. So they're difficult to scale without web3 tooling you can think of organizations, traditional organizations almost like pyramids of power and dows are almost like the opposite.
01:05:22.348 - 01:05:52.030, Speaker A: The goal is to decentralize power. The goal is to give power away. And I think that for me is like the philosophical shift that's happening. And Dows are almost like the inflection point between centralization and decentralization and they can collapse back to these centralized notions. In fact, they all kind of start fairly centralized. But the goal is to distribute power out to as many participants as possible. And that's for me is the kind of root of the Dow philosophy for me.
01:05:52.030 - 01:06:50.104, Speaker A: Yeah, I really like these points about this long history of decentralized governance, the fact that this isn't really anything new, it's just a slightly different form using different technology. I think that kind of goes into the next question, especially Moshe how you mentioned that a lot of times people start know, really being passionate about DAOs or really wanting to explore, and then they kind of revert back. To what they're already doing before in a more centralized so, especially when we talk about things like that. How do we make sure we actually build and contribute to the evolving of a healthy, dow culture, a healthy, dow ecosystem? Yeah, I think that's a great question. And I really liked Nick's point around power has a tendency. There's a tendency for power to coalesce and centralize. And I'll say even like the first Dow I worked at in 2018, which was a cooperative, was flat and had no titles and no hierarchies.
01:06:50.104 - 01:07:31.516, Speaker A: And what it meant was all the power informally got coalesced around the founder who had a really hard time giving it away. And that had a pretty direct correlation to the demise of that organization. And so I think there are a couple of ways you can support such a culture. Right. One is I've seen some really great admins who are not necessarily the founders with the vision, who people look to. There's like a disaggregation between the founder, the visionary who has all this tacit power and the admin who's really holding and sustaining the ethos, the values of the place and maintaining safety. Right? I think another way.
01:07:31.516 - 01:08:04.624, Speaker A: I've also seen culture be sustained, which is a little counterintuitive. Is yes. Taoists in theory are inclusive porous boundary. Have inclusive porous boundaries. But you got to know who you are, your essence. Is and so I think of it as like concentric circles of trust, intimacy and commitment and proven capability and contribution to the Dao. And so being clear about what those circles are and what we're at at our core and who's sustaining that, but also letting that be porous, more people can come in sustain hold the view of the Dow.
01:08:04.624 - 01:09:15.756, Speaker A: And that's different from the folks in Discord Channel who are saying we're trying to micro regulate the price of the token. Right? So also having that sense of here's our like we're working really hard to coordinate about our mission, our values, what we're about and we're defining that and we have a whole community that we engage with as well right, as part of that process. But there's delineations and the last thing I'd say is remembering that we're all about humans working with humans and because of web3 and no video and disaggregation like making time for the human relational conversation so we're connecting person to person. When we see bad actors arise in a coordinate circle it's often I ask my probe into it. It's like, well we haven't even heard each other's voices and we work together for months, right? So there's no feedback, there's no relationship building that are critical in any organization or any group of people. Those are the things I think about. The way we think about it within Alliance Dow is we actually don't open up our we think ourselves as a traditional company in the sense where we don't allow the community to be involved in what we do.
01:09:15.756 - 01:10:03.070, Speaker A: We actually go through an interview process for those that want to be a part of our community and we look for ways where they can support us in different types of areas of support. So there's like four, right? Like product engineering, marketing and then collaborations or partnerships and marketing. Once we interview these individuals we figure out how much time they can actually commit to the Dow and if they're committing to other Dows. The problem that we have today is that we have too many people that are involved in too many different Dows and then ultimately they don't have any time to actually do real work and so we look for time and how much they can support us because over time what you're doing is like part time work. As Moshe mentioned. Right. These are real organizations that are going to need actual support from the community.
01:10:03.070 - 01:11:28.870, Speaker A: So what we call them is like frontline contributors and relatively speaking they'll have about 20 hours of time that they can spend and that's kind of like the first foundation of what our Dow is. Then we have core contributors and we have work stream contributors and they actually spend full time working for the Dow. But that's kind of how we think about from a hierarchy perspective. It's just like how do we get real work done and how do we make sure that this organization moves its milestones so that it can continue to be around in the next five to ten years? Yeah, I think in terms of the next stage of Dow designs that build a sort of healthier community, I think I'm really interested in governance systems that arise from sort of non financial power. So we look at NFT governance and use a kind of combination of NFTs and quadratic voting to assign voting budgets or voting allowances to individual NFTs and then those individual NFTs can have elevated voting power that can be generated from contribution. So contribution driven governance power and influence in Dows is probably where I think the healthiest and strongest communities come from. And rather than just being disempowered people where there's four or five people that genuinely control the token supply and consequently all the decision making.
01:11:28.870 - 01:12:24.810, Speaker A: So I think that's probably where that direction is going to move to, I think. Yeah, when we look at these communities, all of you raise excellent points, especially in terms of how do we actually manage these communities, how do we make sure work is actually being done. People don't get overburdened, everyone falls for the same problem sometimes about oh this is cool, this is cool. And then you end up with a million servers on your discord and then you get caught up with a lot of people get caught up with jumping from thing to thing without being able to focus. And what I like about this is that all of you are kind of focused in different areas. Especially like for example, alliance is more DeFi focused. What do you all think of I guess, what do you all think no one is really talking about or is not talking about enough in the space in terms of potential issues or challenges or even just more of the good things.
01:12:24.810 - 01:13:32.940, Speaker A: I think token economics isn't discussed as much as potentially it could do. I think there's a huge amount of engineering to be done around a healthy token ecosystem around it where it just kind of all doesn't descend. So distribution of tokens on initial, on the spin up of a Dow, if all those tokens end up too centralized around early contributors, for example, then you're going to find it very difficult to find people coming late to the Dow and being properly incentivized with it, but also thinking in a sort of sustainable way. It's a really easy way to burn out a Dow very quickly by sort of either issuing tokens too quickly or not thinking long term enough with them. So I think that's a really interesting dynamic of better treasury management, better incentive alignment that lasts for longer terms. So I think that's a really interesting place that I don't think it's talked about quite as much as it should be. I agree with that.
01:13:32.940 - 01:14:32.608, Speaker A: Oh, sorry, go ahead. I want to build on that and say I think more broadly, it's like thinking long term and understanding a world of constraints and the mirror image of the ethos of which we're starting with Dows with. And it mirrors like the general lifecycle of startup, early stage startups, which are all about like, try a million things, spend money. Yes, come help us, we're desperate for anyone. And then with scaling, it's like, how do you really manage constraints, finite budgets, creating hierarchy and deciding we have five awesome people doing design, which of them kind of leads or initiates the group in some way because we need some coordination points as we move from 15 to 150 folks. And how do you do that without undermining and the treasury management without undermining the ethos of what we're here to do, which is decentralize and empower people, but it gets exponentially harder with scale. I completely agree.
01:14:32.608 - 01:15:54.012, Speaker A: Token economics has been one of the lacking focuses in crypto. In fact, if you look at token economics with the Ve standard that curve came out with, you've noticed, I would say, a portion of protocols that pivoted to that model that shows you kind of the naive space that we're in. I still think the Ve model hasn't been tested yet to this extent. But speaking about Dows and Tokenomics, that's also a very interesting topic, which is like, do we AirDrop everyone in the community of token? Do we distribute our tokens based on activity? I mean, those are types of conversations I'm hearing about. One area that I think could be super interesting is rewarding contributors based on the work that they've done for the Dao. So instead of opening up the raise to everyone in the community, find the people that are going to be most relevant for the Dao, get them to commit time to the Dao, give them the Token sale, and then have other options that reward based on KPIs of the Dao. Uma, protocol has a product, it's called the Dao KPI product and it essentially allows token sale investors to get an additional call option on the token sale if the Dow KPIs are hit.
01:15:54.012 - 01:16:59.116, Speaker A: Which I think is very relevant to how we push Dow progression forward with the community in mind. Yeah, totally agree as well. On the token economic side, it's interesting because now it's extremely easy to spin up a dow, very easy to create a new token, which obviously is a good thing, but also kind of takes away or has potential to. Take away a lot of the intentionality behind what you're trying to create, because people sometimes don't realize when you're creating a token, you're actually creating an actual economy, which means you also have to kind of manage or at the very least, facilitate this economy. So all these points are excellent, especially in terms of, all right, so we have this what do we do next? How do we make sure the right people are being paid or the right people are at least being incentivized? So that's extremely important. I do want to ask a fun question. What are you most excited about in terms of this dow ecosystem, especially in terms of what's coming next? So, for example, I'm really excited about more DAOs popping up from the global south.
01:16:59.116 - 01:17:36.576, Speaker A: Obviously, much of the space is still very much US. UK. Based. I really want to see what happens when more people in small communities and more diverse communities get a hold of these tools. And I think that's going to cause this space to look very different too, in terms of what other people are doing. So what are you guys most excited about? Okay, so I'll quickly go. So I think I'm really excited about the moment when the idea starts to captivate everyone.
01:17:36.576 - 01:18:54.864, Speaker A: I think there's going to be a moment where dows go the way of NFTs and then everyone's getting super excited about it, and then we just get a whole load of new people getting very excited about crypto, but via dows, I actually think they have a huge mass adoption potential. And I'm just really excited about that moment where we'll have something, some dow somewhere or something will captivate the public's memory, imagination. It sort of happened with constitution dow very fleetingly, but there's going to be some other events where dows start to hit mainstream culture, where collective creativity examples start to happen in full view of the public, and it's going to be very exciting. I think it's going to be too far ahead, but I'll throw it out there because I think it's pretty cool. The ability for dows to collaborate with other dows could be very interesting. So as long as there's shared incentives for both dows right. The question, and this is where I think a lot of hard work is going to go into, is aligning mission and vision and goals of both dows and being able to have KPIs that can solve the problems for both.
01:18:54.864 - 01:19:56.564, Speaker A: Kind of like a traditional JV. And the reason why I say this is important because if we're going to start to see more and more dows based on collective missions and visions and products, then you could also say that they're ultimately like money Lego similar to DeFi. Right? And if that's the case, then I think a lot of cool collaborations could take place where it didn't before, because today we're kind of constrained based on jurisdiction monopoly types, businesses and power given to certain types of individuals. Now being given that to the community and the people with the strongest nature of how they're building out those products, I think there could be some very interesting collaborations that could come out of it. Yeah. So I'm going to build on those points and say, I think there's a way in which DAOs are going from just DeFi to having an influence in more and more parts of the economy and eventually also can start to be used as governance structures and systems to display things that are even more based on harder, solid things. Right.
01:19:56.564 - 01:20:58.664, Speaker A: So eventually looking towards the toilet paper factory that has kind of a dow system overarching your management or the collective of people who have some, like I like friends with benefits, has some in real life and virtual components. Right. And so that's what excites me. And what also excites me about that vision is like, there are a lot of people to teach how to dow and I'm excited about the conversion process to be like, what are the mindsets, how do you kind of deprogram that old way of relating in an organizational system? Have it feel more like relating to family and friends and a more community oriented mindset than a transactional hierarchical mindset? And that conversion process of how do we take these structures from DFI and other parts of web Three into not even necessarily web Two? Right. Like the ecosystem of humans and teach people how to get there easily is super exciting to me. Yeah, that's awesome. Also, Emmanuel totally read my mind because I was going to ask next, what do you guys think about dow to dow and how the future of dow collaboration is going to evolve? But I mean, excellent point.
01:20:58.664 - 01:22:05.736, Speaker A: I think that's so important because even now we still see a lot of dows kind of acting in silos. But when we actually start to connect them together, it's going to blow everything up because we're going to see more and more just communities interacting with each other, growing together, d five protocols, working together, social communities, building with each other, creating new causes and all these things together. So that's going to be amazing to see, I guess. Is there anything else that you're excited about? What are you thinking about in terms of the future of how your own Dao or group of DAOs are going to operate or Moshe for example, how coordinate or how specific tools are going to evolve? What do you see as your specific futures? Yeah, absolutely. So we're still honing in on that. But I would say I'm here in Berkeley, California on an offsite with my team where we're working through all these questions. I will say when we're designing, we're looking within the Dao and thinking about members and members incentives and how do you create an amazing experience for them as individuals and how them add up to something for the Dao.
01:22:05.736 - 01:22:33.190, Speaker A: But we are thinking as much around the dow to dow ecosystem and the metaverse of dows and how they collaborate, share information. And also, we're thinking a lot about privacy versus transparency as an ethos. Right. But what should be transparent and what should be private. And learning a lot about that. But if I'm a member looking to join a Dao, there's a dating process. If you think of this whole ecosystem, there's a dating process.
01:22:33.190 - 01:23:30.372, Speaker A: Okay, cupid wise. Me and this dow want to get to know each other. Can you give me some signals around fit for the Dao? And what are the signals you're looking for? That can be also verified through various ways to get to know me, my experience, and my fit in the Dow. So that's one thing I'm thinking about. And then what are the data you want to collect? To understand culturally my contributions to the Dow? And then what's? The data I want to track to understand my experience across the eight dows I've been involved with in the past two years and how I learn and evolve and signal that to the world. So those different levels are definitely things we're thinking about. And how do you use those data to support everyone in the ecosystem? What we're thinking about a lot is hierarchy within the Dow.
01:23:30.372 - 01:24:22.840, Speaker A: Right? It's pretty hard because before we had a CEO and you have COO and all of the other hierarchies that kind of roll down from there. How do you build a community? First? Organization. Right? An organization that ultimately plugs into the community. And how do we do this? Right? Because you only have one shot at building a strong organization that's long lasting. And so we're taking a very tight knit approach, which is we'll start off as like a core team that looks very similar to a traditional company. And then slowly, over time, you slowly bring in the community in certain aspects where the community can help you scale. And you do that through vetting and understanding who are the types of community members that you can actually allow into your dow.
01:24:22.840 - 01:25:38.224, Speaker A: And so we've been thinking a lot about that and the way we scale out to the community. This idea of hierarchy is really interesting. It's actually one of the things that I think we mentioned it earlier. But if you presume a totally flat organization, it can descend into this kind of tyranny of structurelessness problem where they're just the most powerful people dominate. And actually, one of the things we're super excited about is what we call a metadao structure, which is subdaos, which can almost, like, build these kind of fractal organizational structures where you can use NFTs to create dynamic membership. Within a dow that's domain specific and possibly even build reputation systems out of who tracked contribution in those domains and then weight decision making based on who's performed in certain disciplines. I'm really excited about that dynamic of where governance tools are going and building out pseudo hierarchies where these different communities within a dow might become more important for some things more than others.
01:25:38.224 - 01:26:23.740, Speaker A: But they're kind of fluid and open. So. Yeah, I think that kind of new era of decentralized governance is about to begin. I think I'm also excited about new Dow tooling that's going to be coming out to help support all of what we're talking about. There's so much that's out there, but I think there are few that could be very important for how dows operate in the landscape today. So I'm pretty excited about that. And I'll just say that, yeah, everything you all just said, I'm just excited because that is the direction we're around hierarchies and all that is and nested parts of these organisms that kind of self replicate but stay in their own bubble is part of how we're envisioning coordinate.
01:26:23.740 - 01:27:01.660, Speaker A: And we're really clear that there's a bunch of things that dows need tooling around, and someone else is doing that super well. And so we will be figuring out how to integrate and collaborate with those tools as seamlessly as possible in support of that vision. And so it's really fun to be in our own side of Dow Tooling. And I'm like yes to everything you said and recognizing parts of what you shared will be addressed by other tools that we're watching and collaborating with, which is a very different ethos than at least when I was working in the prior web. Two world. Yeah, I like that a lot. I mean it kind of expands on the dow it out collaboration.
01:27:01.660 - 01:27:28.070, Speaker A: Dow tools collaboration, which is a whole other kettle of it. That's awesome. I think we're coming up on time. I think we have time for one more quick question. But actually, Nick, I wanted to expand on something you mentioned earlier in terms of Dows actually being where a lot of the mass adoption of crypto comes from. I was wondering if you and the other guys expand on that a little bit before we close. Yeah.
01:27:28.070 - 01:28:24.664, Speaker A: The reason why I think that might happen is because if you look at just the way that we've evolved into using the Internet, it's largely around the really striking things that have happened around community formation. So the things we're already doing we're in chat groups, we're in subreddits, we're in forums, we're in discords, we're already doing this kind of it's something that most people do on the Internet already. And I just feel like there's this potential hop out of those practices into dows that can happen, that really people will just experience one almost peripherally, see the power of it, and potentially do some wild stuff that wouldn't normally have happened if the dow idea wasn't there. And I think it could really captivate humanity of like, oh, wow. There's a whole new possibility space for how we can use these communities we're in. And everyone will look at that. WhatsApp? Group.
01:28:24.664 - 01:29:06.136, Speaker A: A little bit differently for a bit. And it'll be super exciting if I could share one more thing. Building On that, if I Talk To my teammates, they're like, this is the most awesome work experience I've ever had and we're making really cool shit. And I hear that pretty consistently from a lot of people in the space. And to me that is the proof not only we're doing interesting things, but people are the happiest they've ever been collaborating to make stuff happen in the world. And I think that's necessary for the vision that Nick and Imron have been articulating to come to fruition. Well, I want to thank yeah, this has been an amazing chat.
01:29:06.136 - 01:29:39.316, Speaker A: I'm particularly interested in maybe bringing you guys back in the future to kind of COVID more about the hierarchy. I think this is something that can I constantly go back and forth, whether it's culturally or just from an ideological standpoint. So a lot of interesting thoughts there. I personally agree with what you said, Imran, but I think these things also have to be variable based on the scale of the community too. So I'm curious to see if there's more thoughts that we can share and go into this topic specifically in the future. So I want to thank all of you again and Stefan, thank you so much for moderating and really appreciate the time. Thank you.
01:29:39.316 - 01:30:21.350, Speaker A: Thanks for having and with that, we are ready for our next talk. So next up is we want to cover the category of finance and payments. Of course, Dows are fundamentally managing payments in companies at scale, whether they're on chain or off. And there's so much room for not only just improvement, but automation, rethinking, and just coming up with brand new ways to understand and solve these problems. So to kind of bring on this behemoth of a topic, I want to invite Anubhav, Jason and Monsie on stage and Monty will be the one moderating this panel. So I'll let her kick this off and welcome everybody. Great to see all of you here again.
01:30:23.720 - 01:31:09.284, Speaker B: Thank you Karthik, for having us. Always excited to be at an ETH Global event. Hey everyone, I am right now in Miami at the Bitcoin Miami conference. But joining in just for this amazing panel, quick introduction on myself before I let both Jason and Anubhav introduce themselves. I've co founded Komarebi Dow, which is an investment dow focused on investing in female founders and non binary founders in the crypto space. Outside of that, my day job is at Spanit Labs where we are building the decentralized storage and application hosting layer for all of Web three. So I'm excited to dive into the finance and payments conversation today.
01:31:09.284 - 01:31:25.624, Speaker B: That's my background. Before crypto, I worked in the traditional finance industry. So exciting to see what we are doing in the Dao space with that. But without further ado, Jason, you want to go next? Just quick introduction and then Anupal love to hear your background too.
01:31:25.822 - 01:31:38.700, Speaker A: Absolutely. Thanks Monic. Hi everybody, I'm Jason. I'm the CTO of Utopia Labs. Utopia Labs started about. Seven months ago. We handle all the payroll and expense management for DAOs.
01:31:38.700 - 01:32:00.500, Speaker A: Pretty much we want to tackle the entire financial stack for DAOs and handle all the back office tasks and make sure that creating a Dao and operating Dao is just really simple. Yeah, and I think we'll dive into that today. I'm really, really excited to chat with both Manasi and Anubhav here. I think Parcel and Komorobi are fantastic companies. So thanks for having me on this panel.
01:32:02.280 - 01:32:03.860, Speaker B: Thank you, Anubhav.
01:32:04.360 - 01:32:35.760, Speaker A: Yeah, so I'm Anubhav, I founded Parcel about a year ago and as a background, I was working with a few web Three companies like Instadap and Biconomy before starting Parcel. And it grew out of a need that a previous company like Biconomy Faced. And yeah, it's been a year now and we've been working with a lot of Taos, including Bankless Index and Olympus to sort out their payments and we're kind of building the payment OS for Taos and contributors.
01:32:37.220 - 01:32:49.220, Speaker B: Thank you both. Before we dive in, I'm just very curious, what problem did you notice in the Dao space that made you start your respective company? What was the challenge that you set out to solve?
01:32:53.070 - 01:33:24.606, Speaker A: Yeah, I can go first. Yeah, it's funny. When we started Utopia Labs, so to give some context on our co founders, we're four co founders and we actually all met on Discord beforehand. So we never met in person when we started the company and we did a lot of random hackathons and we're trying to start something together. I never thought we would end up in Dow Tooling, for that matter. A lot of stuff we were doing in the beginning was stuff like NFT Marketplaces. So ending up such a niche like Dao Tooling at the time was pretty surprising.
01:33:24.606 - 01:33:53.482, Speaker A: And kind of how we arose to that was that we talked to a lot of Dows. We thought Dows was an interesting problem space to explore. And what we just found out was that the operations of these Dows are just so primitive. They're just on a bunch of Google sheets, a bunch of manual processes. Dows are supposed to be quite transparent, right? None of them had single sources of truth. Some contributors know what's going on, most contributors don't. And maybe a few set of operators know what's going on and they're spending like weeks on payroll.
01:33:53.482 - 01:34:45.546, Speaker A: When in the traditional world, payroll is supposed to be payroll is supposed to be something that's relatively easy. And when you think about crypto as a payments infrastructure, it's a clear 100,000 x improvement over the current state. So when you have a payment infrastructure that's just supposed to be leap years better than traditional, I guess, web two world, but the operations make it so you're spending more time on payroll just didn't really make sense to us. So that's when we decided, hey, maybe we should dive into this space and see what problems we can explore. That's kind of why Utopia is tackling payroll and expense management, but really we're just trying to see what interesting problem spaces there are and find the gaps that are stopping DAOs from being able to scale into huge organizations or just huge groups in general. Yeah, that's how we started Utopia.
01:34:45.738 - 01:34:59.586, Speaker B: Yeah, that makes sense. And you're bringing the autonomous part of the AO, which is interesting. Anuba is it kind of a similar story there with the challenges that you.
01:34:59.608 - 01:35:49.762, Speaker A: Saw kind of actually we actually started back in late 2020 and Dows are not a rage back then. Right. So we're working with Biconomy and fun fact, they're a Dow now, but we started because Biconomy was facing a problem and I was working at Biconomy as a blockchain developer. So yeah, we were a small team of eight people and even then doing the payments from Nosisafe, which is kind of the standard even back then, and then run your payroll and then do accounting, all of that stuff was a mess. So I built a small hack at a hackathon back then, and all started back then. But we quickly realized we were actually building for DAOs when Uniswap Grants launched. And you saw.com
01:35:49.762 - 01:36:11.162, Speaker A: Token launch with their LM program. And then you saw a bunch of dows explode. And we realized we're building a self custodial solution, which is not just for web3 companies, but it's actually building for dows. And since then the product has evolved to meet the needs of Dows. And that's how we started. Yeah.
01:36:11.296 - 01:36:35.860, Speaker B: And I guess to set context, what are some different models of compensation structures that you've seen across Dows? Is it looks pretty much similar to traditional models. There are new things, new and exciting things that DAOs are experimenting with. Of course there's the Fiat plus Token compensation model. I'm just curious, what have you seen so far?
01:36:37.830 - 01:37:28.370, Speaker A: Yeah, I can go first. Yeah, I think right now we're at that stage where we're trying to build the first layer, which is kind of get the salaries out first. Right, so do a fair compensation for all the contributors in a Dao. We've seen few ways to do that. Most of it is happening like a top down structure that usually a traditional company might follow. We've seen few tools like coordinate where it's actually extremely decentralized and that's kind of other way of achieving this. But largely in terms of compensation structure, we kind of lack the tools for incentives, something like bonuses, even bonuses and other benefits that traditional corporation might be able to provide.
01:37:28.370 - 01:38:11.082, Speaker A: So that's precisely, I think, what the Dao tooling is trying to do with Utopia and Barcelona, all the other Dao toolings. Yeah, absolutely. I think what Anubab said was very correct. Dao compensation models are very top down right now, very traditional. You have your core. Yeah, maybe a set of contractors. All the decisions kind of happen generally from the top, which is kind of counterintuitive when you think about governance in a Dow where you really want spread out decision making, especially something when it comes to compensation and yeah, I think it depends on kind of where you are as a Dow.
01:38:11.082 - 01:39:12.580, Speaker A: Right. Dows are a huge spectrum both from there's two spectrums really, that I think of. There's a regulatory spectrum, spectrum whether you're compliant or not compliant and you go along that path and then more Importantly, it's how decentralized you are. Right. There's lots of Dows that are very decentralized and I would say there's not too many Dows that are very decentralized and most Dows are kind of somewhere in the middle and that's why the structure is still very top down. So some of the problems is how can we build tools to one, allow more of these decentralization and autonomy, then coordinate is a fantastic tool for that, for payments that anubab brought up. But we're kind of thinking about these tools that we can help push DAOs into decentralizing more or operating their operations in a more autonomous way can kind of help us alleviate these problems and come to an end state of Dows that really we dreamed of when everyone wanted to create one.
01:39:12.580 - 01:39:18.390, Speaker A: Yeah, but I think it's pretty accurate representation of where we are right now as an industry.
01:39:18.890 - 01:39:54.900, Speaker B: Yeah, so what I'm hearing is most Dows, it's essentially not crowdsourced in terms of how to structure these compensation models, the benefits models. It's essentially core contributors deciding how to do it. Are they even putting out governance proposals to approve it? Or it's just like behind the scenes, this is the structure, this is what we can offer and then contributors have to kind of go around different us choose what works for them, what doesn't work for them. Is there some kind of feedback loop that you've seen or it's pretty much set and done?
01:39:56.870 - 01:41:05.670, Speaker A: Yeah, there's definitely feedback loop for sure. I mean, operators have been kind of very considerate of which structure they want to put in place. As Jason mentioned, there are a handful of mature Dows, right. So they're kind of doing more of the experimentation within how to allocate to different contributors and we see that some Dows actually do it better than the others because of their experimentation and the previous results that they've gotten out of it. And just on that front, there's not enough experimentation in terms of Dow tooling. So we kind of talk about there are more Dow tools than Dows, right. It's all over Twitter as we see it, but there's definitely not enough experimentation in this regard where you have the whole spectrum of allocating compensation, but it's either extremely decentralized, which might or might not work for All Dows, or it's top down hierarchical that you would see in a traditional corporation.
01:41:07.550 - 01:41:41.810, Speaker B: Yeah, hopefully that changes. I guess if someone in the audience is considering launching a Dow, what are some key considerations that they should think about when they are thinking about their payments, just even compensation structures, what are maybe to solidify the question, are there certain thresholds that you've seen for contributors to get compensated versus it's voluntary contribution? Just how should someone launching a Dow think about compensation?
01:41:47.770 - 01:43:03.710, Speaker A: The way I see it, when it comes to compensation for Dows, I think it depends kind of how you want to operate from the get go. So we have this thesis at Utopia that centralization in the beginning sometimes isn't a bad thing because it leads to operational efficiency. You can make decisions faster, especially if you're building something that is less ambiguous and you know exactly what you need to do and you kind of just need to get it done right. You don't really want to have that bottleneck of decentralized decision making and then you can decentralize later, right? There is a lot of products in the crypto space that have done this. For example, Uniswap was very much so that OpenSea seemed like it was supposed to do that, but it hasn't done that. But lots of products kind of start out in this way and decentralized later on and that's kind of the thesis that we're trying to do here at Utopia as well, which I think allows us to kind of build faster versus decentralized autonomous making. Well, on the flip side, when you're working on relatively new innovative products and protocols that you kind of want community involvement.
01:43:03.710 - 01:44:19.318, Speaker A: There's products like ohm, that starts fully decentralized right from the get go with individual contributions. I think you kind of have to weigh that trade off of what you're trying to build and kind of what works for you. Do you want to build a community that kind of allows that voluntary contribution? Both models have been proven out pretty well. I would say the fully decentralized from the get go model is a bit more ambiguous, though it is very closely aligned with the ethos of what your end state is going to be, what decentralized autonomous organizations are going to be, versus if you go the centralized route. Sure, you might be able to get more done if efficiency is your issue, but then you have that ambiguous overlooming question of how the heck do we decentralize later on? Right? Yeah. So I apologize for not giving a definitive answer, I wish it was that simple where you kind of like the slot but from what we've seen here with talking to the Dows, we know nothing just fits in a template in Dao land, right? Almost every Dow is different in some aspect with regards to each other. I think it's a question that as we mature as an industry we'll learn more about and be able to answer better.
01:44:19.318 - 01:45:16.626, Speaker A: But right now that's kind of where my head's at. Yeah, I would mostly agree to what Jason said, there is no template, right? So that's kind of the beauty also that you are free to experiment with what you feel like. But at the same time, I think first of all, I think a lot depends on what kind of a Dao you are. Investment DAOs are very different from a DeFi Dao versus an NFT Dao. And I think we'll start to see specific Dao tooling with kind of types attached to all of these DAOs as well. But yeah, largely I think I would be in the section where if there's a decision to be made around compensation and payments in a Dow, just aim for operational efficiency at the beginning. You don't want to compromise the product that you might have built for the sake of going decentralized at first.
01:45:16.626 - 01:45:19.610, Speaker A: There's always room for progressive decentralization.
01:45:21.230 - 01:45:53.170, Speaker B: Yeah, those are a valid point. And I think operational efficiency is so important given that's not necessarily the key focus of Ada, right? Like, you want to make sure those processes don't take much of your time and you can focus on the mission or the product that you're building. So in that way, what are the toolings that exist right now to make these things easy? What are you building specifically with Utopia and Parcel to make all of this seamless?
01:45:58.850 - 01:47:10.406, Speaker A: I guess I'll go first. Yeah, so at Utopia, kind of what we're building or what we have right now is primarily we're a payroll and expense managing tool. What that means is that any Dow or any Gnosisafe multisig really can sign up to our platform, manage contributor lists, and create recurring payouts that they set as a time frequency and send out a request link to their communities where their contributors can request for X amount of money from the Dow. So really just simplifying the payments layer for DAOs as much as possible to kind of allow them to execute. We also do some interesting things on the execution layer, mostly around we're trying to make it as easy as possible to execute in a way that's gasless, right? So you don't have to have gas in your wallet, which I think is a poor experience, though we're still experimenting with that and also just creating a signing page that just makes more intuitive sense. I think one issue is that signing is a big bottleneck in Dows right now, though it kind of makes sense for decentralization. Right.
01:47:10.406 - 01:48:20.970, Speaker A: You got to have multiple people sign off off stuff, though. It makes the experience better. So we're trying to build tools to kind of like, augment and abstract the experience of multisig complexities so that there's a smooth payroll. Over the short term, though, really, the areas that we're really trying to tackle are around the bookkeeping accounting and subdoub space. So really, how do you manage your Dow organizations? How do you tag your transactions and do proper accounting? And then from the accounting, how do you create budgets so that you can make sure that you're on track? You can offset autonomy to smaller groups, right? Like if you can have your marketing team have $100 budget and make a marketing decision for that $100 or $1,000 without having to sign off from the actual multisafe owner, you should be able to do that and assign autonomy and assign privileges or even create small subtows or team leads. So we're really trying to explore that space. Really what that means is that the core problem we're tackling is around the coordination layer.
01:48:20.970 - 01:49:01.606, Speaker A: Right. The big challenges is, like I said in the beginning, dows are supposed to be transparent. There needs to be a single source of truth for all the information of a Dow. And we're trying to kind of be that layer where as a source of truth, but also the more data that we're able to allow Dows to get and help Dows create, the better decisions you can make, especially around payroll and payments so that you're making the right payment decisions and coordination decisions for Dao operations. But that's kind of our short term roadmap is really around this coordination layer. Yeah, that's utopia.
01:49:01.718 - 01:49:41.880, Speaker B: And I think, you know, one thing at Comrade that we face as a challenge is expense management, especially because most Dows have treasuries in crypto versus your expenses are in fiat. And until we reach a world where crypto is accepted most places, I think that's still going to be a challenge. And each time you make that conversion, there's tax liability. So that's definitely been a big pain point just in terms of how do you interact with real world when your treasury is on chain. Yeah. Any thoughts there or yeah, Anupav could chime in.
01:49:42.990 - 01:50:15.890, Speaker A: Yeah, I think so. Just to answer what you said, I think there's definitely some friction or a lot of friction because Dows are unregulated. There's no playbook for registering a Dow right now. So that's kind of the biggest bottleneck while you're interacting with the other world. Yeah, I think it's something Eudopia is also trying to solve. So kudos to that. I think they're looking to solve for compliance.
01:50:15.890 - 01:50:52.970, Speaker A: I think so. On the other front, where we are working at Parcel is trying to build more native tooling, which is kind of primitive from here on. So we kind of build on top of Gnosisafe. It's been over nine months since our launch, and we're aiming to build the payment OS for the contributor economy. So it's not just dows. We're also kind of looking to empower DAOs right now sorry, contributors as well. So right now, you see Taos are the only ones who are kind of looking to scale their operations.
01:50:52.970 - 01:51:55.074, Speaker A: But on the other side, there are contributors who are kind of also struggling to contribute to multiple Dows and how they handle incoming payments from each one of them, how they are off ramp all of that payments if they wanted to. And we see the multiple struggles around you receive compensation in native tokens and then it's volatile. And we've heard stories of a huge drawdown in the native Token, like 80%. And you realize after six months of contributing to a dow that you just have 10% of what you were actually promised. And that's kind of a problem, right? You're not actually encouraging anybody from the outside to come and come and contribute in a dow, which is kind of not the promised land. So we want to build a more fair and equitable opportunity for all the contributors and decide on the product. So far that we have built is around that.
01:51:55.074 - 01:52:00.950, Speaker A: So we'll be building more primitive tooling to justify a fair and equitable compensation.
01:52:01.690 - 01:52:33.550, Speaker B: Yeah. And that's super interesting. We've seen a lot of tooling that has come around for dows. But thinking about the contributors that essentially make this dow, how can we better provide tooling for them? And I think it becomes a challenge when you are contributing, not when you're contributing to a single dow. That's still manageable? I think you can still figure out what your payments look like, what work you're doing. But the minute you start contributing to multiple dows, that's when it doesn't really scale. Managing all of that on your own with Spreadsheets.
01:52:33.550 - 01:53:18.240, Speaker B: And that's where tooling like this is super valuable, I think. One last question I want to ask before I don't know if you have any audience questions that we want to take, but I think, generally speaking, compensation in the traditional sense goes beyond just salary and payroll. There's a lot of other things that are considered when we talk about compensation benefits specifically to health, our retirement funds, 401, but also like equity and vesting of equity and investing of tokens in the crypto. Have you seen Tooling around these other benefits in the Dao space? Or we are still too early.
01:53:22.370 - 01:53:50.546, Speaker A: Go ahead, Anabov. Okay, Cool. Yeah. So we have not seen much. We have few primitive tooling that might have come out, but it's not really adopted. Like there's no incentive mechanisms right now for contributors. Largely like 99% of the Dows don't have any kind of incentive mechanisms for any contributors, be it core contributors.
01:53:50.546 - 01:54:48.566, Speaker A: And that's kind of a problem, right? What that does, essentially, is that you kind of discourage a lot of people coming from web two to contribute to web3, because it's not really desirable to not have all the benefits that you're usually very able to get very easily. Right. We at Parcel are very excited about building primitive tooling on chain as opposed to doing health benefits. And all of this building like X for Y in terms of health benefits that could be offered, I think there could be a lot more built in the primitive tooling. So vesting is just one of the primitive tooling, right? So there could be multiple types of vesting, in fact, that we could offer. Right. So there's a lot of chatters about what kind of vesting is kind of correct for contributors.
01:54:48.566 - 01:55:27.766, Speaker A: And that could only happen in web3. Right? So you can actually make different kind of autonomous trustless vesting, which can't be done in the traditional sense. So that's what we're excited about. Sorry. I think vesting is definitely a problem that can be solved much easier than the rest in the Web Three world and in a way that is much better than Web Two. It's interesting, I think. The way I think about it, benefits, 401, KS and whatnot, there's not many tools out there to help you do that right now.
01:55:27.766 - 01:56:06.066, Speaker A: It's a bit complicated depending on whether you're a compliant Dow or not. Like you have an LLC, right? And even then, there's not really any one provider that a tool like Utopia can integrate or we can even build. We've explored ways to kind of help DAOs potentially have benefits, but it's still very early on in that space and it's really just a problem space that everyone's really exploring right now. I think what Anabov said about incentive mechanism is quite interesting. The way I see it is that there's a demand for talent for a lot of crypto companies. Right. It's incredibly hard to hire people right now.
01:56:06.066 - 01:56:36.970, Speaker A: You're really trying to compete as each individual company to find the best talent. I don't see that kind of race when it comes to Dows. Dows don't seem like they're competing against each other for talent. Right. And maybe because it's still quite early in industry, maybe they're not having any problems at all. But benefits and 401 are an incentive for Dows to push to their contributors to get you to work for them, right. To work for this dow.
01:56:36.970 - 01:57:03.940, Speaker A: No one does it yet and doesn't seem like it's a competitive landscape. But really, once those incentive mechanisms are in place, I think we'll see a lot more innovation at that front and it will be tremendous value for any Dow to adopt it as it'll be a great way to get talent. But I think it's an interesting observation that I don't really know the reason why. So it might be worth digging into if you're looking for building your next company or looking into a problem.
01:57:04.550 - 01:57:52.840, Speaker B: Yeah, that's good advice. I think this is a hackathon where builders and hackers are listening. So I'm just curious one thing you mentioned, and we only have a couple of minutes here, is this concept that DAOs are not struggling to attract talent and a lot of people are kind of wanting to rather contribute to Dows regardless of these compensation structures being primitive. Yeah. Why do you think that is? Even if it's hypothesis, and I think there is a distinction here between contribution for like a couple of hours versus working even part time or full time. But yeah, curious if both of you have any thoughts on why this is.
01:57:57.050 - 01:58:24.286, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it's purely a hypothesis. I don't even know if that statement is true. Yeah, I think I've observed that it could be. And I think there's a couple of reasons. I think the novelty of working for a dow is I think not a lot of people, first of all, know what a dow is and know how to work for one. Right. So there's a huge education problem.
01:58:24.286 - 01:58:47.400, Speaker A: Like it's not easy to just put up something on angel list and say, work for Olympus, dao. Because how does that really make sense? Or work for Rari. It's a bit confusing. Generally, the people that are going to work for these dows already know that they want to work for them. Right. So they already have DAOs in mind. They kind of are deep in the crypto rabbit hole, and they already know kind of what companies they want to work for.
01:58:47.400 - 01:59:20.482, Speaker A: Then really, it's just about how cool is your product? Right. So I think dows are really good at attracting the people that they want to attract their niche. Right. And early on as they're building, it doesn't seem like there's competition between multiple Dows because they kind of get different subsets of their demographic. Right. They get the people that are really into their unique products. I think when we have a lot of competing dows dows that are very similar, then things will change.
01:59:20.482 - 01:59:38.082, Speaker A: Right. Because we have a lot of companies that are quite similar. And then you're competing for talent just broadly. Engineers want to work on lots of technical problems. So there's so many. When you're trying to hire engineers, it becomes a huge challenge. And shout out to Price, one of my co founders.
01:59:38.082 - 01:59:52.330, Speaker A: He deals with this challenge all the time. But DAOs, they're very unique across each other. And so without those similarities, competition isn't there. Yeah, that's how I see it. Sorry.
01:59:52.400 - 02:00:31.378, Speaker B: Yeah, maybe my two cent there one is with DAOs. We are really trying to find you're building these communities that are mission aligned. You really believe in what the dow is building and you want to contribute to it, regardless of whether how the compensation looks like. So that's one. And I think what I've seen across the Dow spectrum is they are really great onboarding tools for new people to crypto. To start getting your hands dirty by contributing to a dow is a thing. And I think that's why when we are seeing this huge wave of adoption and new folks coming into the space, we are seeing a lot of people excited to start contributing to Dows.
02:00:31.378 - 02:00:55.120, Speaker B: But I think it's beyond this initial onboarding stage. When we reach maturity. It's about how can we retain that talent? And how can we keep them further engaged? And what incentive structures can we build to really get the Dow to the next level? But yeah. Thank you, boys. I think that's a great note to end. And Karthik's here to let us know that our time is over today.
02:00:55.970 - 02:01:32.154, Speaker A: Well, I came here first to say this was an amazing chat, but it just happens to be that we're also at So well, thank you so much, Jason and above for those amazing answers and monsieur for Moderating. This was a really good discussion. I feel like we need to have another one where we just talk about all the complaints we get for working at Dows and how do we solve them from all the tools that all of us are building. So thanks again with that. We are ready for our next panel. So the next one is a talk I'm super excited about. We want to talk about everything that's happening with memberships and NFTs and how we can make working with dows or just make memberships more collaborative open and just rethink a lot of that.
02:01:32.154 - 02:01:54.194, Speaker A: So for this talk, we have Brian Flynn from Rabbit Hole, mike dudes from linkstao and Moderating. This will be Julian from Unlock Protocol, and I'll just welcome all of them here on stage. And without further ado, I'll let you all take it from here. Great to see all of you. Hello, friends. Hello, everyone. Hey, everyone.
02:01:54.194 - 02:02:10.694, Speaker A: Nice to meet you. My name is Julian. I'm the C founder at unlock protocol, a protocol for membership that uses NFT. So that panel is pretty much on topic for me. Maybe we'll start with a quick intro as well from Mike and Brian. Which one of you two guys want to take it first? Mike, you got it first. I'll go after.
02:02:10.694 - 02:02:41.700, Speaker A: All right. Hey, Mike. Dudas. So I do two things professionally right now. I'm an early stage web3 investor, but investing in play to earn gaming, metaverse companies, web3 networks, dows, and then tooling and infrastructure to support them. And in addition was a co founder and working on a project called linksdao, which is a membership created golf and leisure club that I'm sure we'll talk about on today's panel. So investing and building at the same time.
02:02:41.700 - 02:03:08.266, Speaker A: Brian, your turn. I'm Brian. I'm the CEO and founder of rabbit hole. We do web3 onboarding so help people learn across d Five, dowels and NFDS with applied learnings. And right now we're working on on chain credentials, which is kind of relevant to this conversation. So how can we actually use credential gating as opposed to token gating based off things that you've done on chain? So excited to kind of talk about this deeper in the panel. Absolutely.
02:03:08.266 - 02:03:34.594, Speaker A: Well, thank you guys for being here today. Maybe let's start with we all know what an NFT is, right? It's a profile picture on Twitter, correct? Usually a monkey. Yes. Yeah, usually a monkey. Right. So why are we using NFTs for something else? Why are you using NFTs for credential? Brian? Yeah, I think most of the way is that NFTs are sort of a standard across the space. Right.
02:03:34.594 - 02:04:09.294, Speaker A: So famously, NFTs first started as blockchain game assets versus the CryptoKitties use case. And then as it became more standardized across space, you start seeing. ENS themes becoming ERC 721 you started seeing tickets becoming Erson, of course, access keys as Ers 21s. So there's all these different use cases sort of emerging at the same time. And so because it's sort of interoperable in many different protocols, it's easy to become standardized as these different use cases emerge. So NFTs sort of represent these digital assets in a way that can be programmed in many different ways. That makes sense.
02:04:09.294 - 02:04:52.746, Speaker A: Yeah. And they can hold obviously richer data than a fungible token. And so obviously in the context of Dows and other web3 projects, an NFT gives you more flexibility and power in terms of how it can be used by the holders versus a fungible token. 100% one thing that I would add also is that the idea that an NFT is non fungible is actually more natural. Even a lot of the fungible things that we can think of, like currencies eventually turn to be sometimes non fungible like bitcoin tainted coins. The one that are used for Scams for example, are very much non fungible. You can try to bring them back on coinbase and you're going to see how fungible they are or how non fungible they are.
02:04:52.746 - 02:06:10.450, Speaker A: So I do think that in practice when we think about NFTs as just monkeys, we're seeing the tip of the iceberg or the tip of the monkey, I guess, which is not the best part of it, but anyway cool. So Mike, what's other examples? So you mentioned the links dao, obviously golf courses in Asia Club. Do you want to tell us a bit more about? Basically the preamble would be that the term or the acronym Dow by definition stands for Decentralized Autonomous organization. The reality of what including linkstao the majority of organizations that use the word Dow in their name or brand as such are not truly decentralized from the get go, nor are they autonomous. Not very organized either. Yeah, I would say probably more chaotically organized than a traditional organization. But I would argue that that's okay and that it's more about the air quotes.
02:06:10.450 - 02:07:35.034, Speaker A: I can't wait to actually debate this with Brian, but the air quotes Dao aspect of what so basically linksdow what linksdao is, and I'll use this as an example to describe what an air quote staO is. So basically we are a global community project where the promise is we are going to buy a golf course and that's the first objective and then it will be community governed. Anybody can join from anywhere in the world. We would love, by the way, for it to be community owned. But because we did a fundraise of NFTs without KYC, we cannot give folks ownership of the ultimate asset or it would be an unregistered security sale. So effectively what we've done via Linksdao is we were able to raise money from folks anywhere in the world for a common objective similar to Constitution Dao, which was an inspiration and then via ownership of the NFT, folks have the ability to govern. So in other words they can vote on proposals about what this Golf and Leisure cub should look like, membership rules, location architect, how the money in the treasury that we raise should be spent, things of that nature.
02:07:35.034 - 02:08:10.410, Speaker A: So they have some power now they don't have a legal right. However, they're basically an advisory board that a separate entity linkstow Corporation listens to. So it's effectively like having an advisory board. And by the way, if we don't listen to them and this is very similar to how Board Ape Yacht Club worked, the entire thing falls apart. Okay. Because they don't have trust in us as the team behind the project to deliver what they want. So there's sort of this symbiotic relationship between the two and the NFTs give people the ability to vote and then the ability to purchase a membership in this club.
02:08:10.410 - 02:08:48.034, Speaker A: So it's kind of halfway between web Two and Web Three. But it's not truly a dow. Is it basically one NFT, one vote? Is that what you're describing? Yeah, there's two classes of NFTs. One has one NFT four votes. And this is the beauty of NFTs they can hold metadata and they're basically more robust than a fungible token. The others have one vote per holder. So the goal of what we're doing is we're saying, hey, true dows are imperfect today and frankly not realistic for achieving very complex things that require great organization, particularly when there's a real world component.
02:08:48.034 - 02:09:26.654, Speaker A: We're going to sort of straddle the Web Two world and the Web Three world and there's valid criticisms of that. But that's kind of the approach we've taken to bring sort of new people into space, try to educate them and get them involved, vote on chain and do exciting stuff like that. Okay, that makes sense. Brian, I want to give it a little bit of description as well as what you call credentials as NFTs. Can you tell us more about that? Yeah, sure. So very simply there are kind of two types of on chain credentials. There's soul bound NFTs actually non transferable NFTs and there's verifiable credentials which are about using DIDs or decentralized identity to have cross chain credentials that can potentially be either off chain or on chain.
02:09:26.654 - 02:10:29.766, Speaker A: So in our specific case we're using Sole bound NFTs and really what that does is saying it takes a bunch of input data. So in our case, a bunch of on chain transactions saying hey, you've done these three different DeFi interactions, whether it's swap on uniswap lend on Ave and maybe create a urine strategy and say our output is this on chain Credential that represents that you have sufficient knowledge of DeFi. And so that DeFi Credential then gives you access to either different Treasury DAOs that are trying to train treasury managers or different smart contracts that are looking to see if you have an understanding of risk in some capacity. And so that's a lot of what we do is issuing these credentials from people getting into the space and then working with partners to find these integration parts. So let me ask you a question. If it's on chain, why even print? I mean create the NFT, right? I guess if it's on chain I could just verify that, you know, purchased the thing, swapped on uniswap or created a strategy. Why do you have to create another layer in that NFT format? I guess.
02:10:29.766 - 02:10:59.386, Speaker A: Yeah. So it's good for a standardization perspective, right? Saying this is the understanding context of what it means to be certified, that you have this understanding of knowledge that is then common throughout all the different web3 space. That makes a ton of sense and that also means that you could later easily add more criteria, whatever is like you've bored on compound and you add this. And so without actually changing certification process. Let's actually go one further. You said sold bound. In my mind that means that they're not transferable, is that correct? Yep.
02:10:59.386 - 02:11:52.370, Speaker A: So Mike, what's your take on the links dow membership transferable? What happens for credential? It makes pretty obvious that transferring it wouldn't make sense because there's no guarantee that the person on the other side actually did go through a certification. But for the links dow are these it's? So I love what Brian's doing. We're small investors in Rabbit Hole and very fortunate to be so. And to your mean it's obviously genius and people identify with the NFT and the Credential and the badge just easier. We need to be able to translate what's happening on chain into a form that people understand. And Rabbit Hole is doing that brilliantly with the NFTs that we have sold and that members own. The idea is that they have to be transferable because ultimately this is a club.
02:11:52.370 - 02:12:38.314, Speaker A: So we believe for the club and in sort of this anyone in the world can join concept, people may want to freely leave freely join if they're non transferable and there's no market or ability for people to leave and come and leave as they wish. It's extremely limiting. So I'll give you an example. We think this is an improvement on existing membership models. If you want to join a golf club in many places today, the initiation fees are literally in the $50,000 plus range, some into the hundreds of thousands of dollars not accessible to people and you lose the money. It's money out the door. We believe this is an improvement where hey, I may want to purchase the NFT, that's my initiation fee.
02:12:38.314 - 02:13:23.914, Speaker A: Then I join the club for a year or two. When I'm done, I can then sell that to somebody else. So there's enduring value and that's a novel model that really hasn't existed before. And so we believe that if you don't have those transfer rights, one, it makes it certainly a less attractive model to folks and frankly we think less valuable in the long run from Mike. I have a quick question for you on that. Is there a secondary market right now for memberships or how's liquidity look like? Yeah, so we don't encourage it. In other words, our goal here and people ask us, for example, the price of NFTs, like, you'll never see me talking about this publicly.
02:13:23.914 - 02:13:50.920, Speaker A: The goal here is not price appreciation through talking about it. So yes, there's a secondary market. We don't link to it from our Twitter, from our website. Our goal is not to have people resell these. And frankly, we have, I think, fewer than 200 out of 9090 listed and we're delighted and we have 5300 unique holders. We actually want that to raise. We want it to be as close to one to one as possible.
02:13:50.920 - 02:14:24.594, Speaker A: That's the mission. You know what I mean? This isn't like a PFP project where we want people flipping and make tons of money on secondary royalties. I think that's where the membership model moves. And as we start to get things like this pool suite club and these different membership clubs but the onus is on us to deliver value and our members don't they're on us every day. If we try to do things that are non core that don'tie to delivering a golf course, these people aren't here. This is what's cool about these membership and utility based NFTs. They're not here for the flashy stuff.
02:14:24.594 - 02:14:49.446, Speaker A: And if you're in our discord, they complain like heck if we're spending money that's not targeted on what they believe that they purchased. So what's interesting here, just to rephrase what you both said, is basically NFTs. As you said, if you think about the profile picture on Twitter, kind of pointless. But here you have two types of NFTs. One that are transferable, the one that Mike does for the Dao, for the linksdao, and then some that are not transferable, some that are purchasable. I assume the NFTs from the linksdao were purchasable, the credential. I hope they're not purchasable.
02:14:49.446 - 02:15:18.946, Speaker A: I cannot show up with a ton of money and say, hey, give me the credential, even though I've never done these things. So we already have a distinction here. There's another kind of interesting aspect. Some NFTs have expiration dates and that's specifically the case for unlock. Is that one of these two, the purpose here is obviously to say a certification might be just time limited. If you're thinking about a doctor, you need to get relicensed every two years or every five years, or even a driver license like it's a certification that I can drive the car you have to renew every five years. Is that something that you guys are doing, Brian? I'll go quick because I think Brian's answer will be longer.
02:15:18.946 - 02:15:47.758, Speaker A: So in our case, what we will offer to folks is a very low priced, highly accessible perks pass that will expire. I believe there's a new ethereum token standard that will allow for sort of expiring tokens on a certain time duration. So we'll offer those for sale, they'll expire after twelve months. You can then repurchase and that perks pass gives you those benefits for that period. Okay. Because the one though that you have in the next though are forever. It's like exactly.
02:15:47.758 - 02:16:05.730, Speaker A: They're the Genesis passes that give you membership. Golden key. Okay, cool. Brian time bound. Yeah. So in our case, similar to how a lawyer needs to upkeep their Credential every number of years. Another good example, we need to upkeep our DFI node dow credentials every few months.
02:16:05.730 - 02:16:42.846, Speaker A: Right. So the content underneath the credential is going to change periodically and that is then voted pawn by the community. So say a protocol gets upgrade from v two to v three, which just happened with Ave. Or say there's a new protocol that teaches some underlying skill better. There is a need to kind of rotate out the underlying content or on chain tasks that are associated with the credential. And so every so often you'll need to get a new credential represents that, you know, the latest knowledge is sort of what's happening. A new one? Can I lose my old one? Is it technically like is it taken from my wallets if I basically don't have the ave? It's a new one.
02:16:42.846 - 02:17:22.822, Speaker A: Okay, so basically I have the first certification and then okay, now you've got the v two certification that includes ave three. Okay, that's very good. Let's talk about blockchains. Obviously most NFTs are inside of the, let's say ethereum ecosystem, EVM ecosystem, even though most of them are on main net. Is that the case for both of your stuff or are you guys considering other blockchains, other EVM ecosystems? Yeah, ours is just ethereum because we believe that for credits to be valuable, they need to be on the most decentralized change. Ethereum. Okay, what about the links dow? Yeah, and so ours was much more of a capitalistic, hey, we need the funds to actually achieve what we're going after and the money is on Ethereum.
02:17:22.822 - 02:18:10.374, Speaker A: We didn't feel like we could raise the money necessary to accomplish our objective if we had done it on a different chain in January of this year, we didn't think the money was there on Salana and Avalanche and others to do a raise that was as successful as ours was. Okay, but I guess thinking about the future when you said you're going to have this kind of perks pass. Perks pass, is that something that you would consider at that point? Okay, cool. We would. So if the fees are in the rate so let's just say that the perks pass is $150 chain sorry, purchase and the consumer base who's purchasing it, perhaps they're not concerned. These aren't because you're doing on chain activities and things of that nature. If the pass, let's just say, is $150 and it would cost fifteen dollars to thirty dollars to mint it on ethereum.
02:18:10.374 - 02:18:29.242, Speaker A: That would be a difficult decision. We'd have to look at polygon. But other than that my preference would be to continue to keep all of these issues on ethereum. That makes sense. Cool. Maybe another question, which I think is a fun one around privacy. So I guess in the context of credentials, there's no such thing as privacy.
02:18:29.242 - 02:19:27.730, Speaker A: I want people to know that I'm certified. What are you thinking about this in the Dao? Like do I really want everyone to know that I'm a member of the yeah, it's a great the. It's pretty so one thing I actually joke tweeted about know the other day was I did the Michael Jordan meme where I was like, somebody voted against my dad proposal and I took it personally. But the point is you can basically see the addresses and how they're voting on different proposals. I don't think that's an ideal situation. So we're obviously going to have to move to ZK roll ups for how these votes are conducted so that people can't I don't think in the long run it's really good to see how individuals voted on very personal issues that relate to money and participation. So yeah, the other option is, hey, you look to an entirely different chain, something like Secret, that is privacy by default, NFTs.
02:19:27.730 - 02:20:05.306, Speaker A: But for now I think it's a problem that how people vote on every single thing is visible to everybody by default. Absolutely. That makes a ton of sense. Brian appointment privacy. Yeah, in our case it's definitely an issue that you can see holdings and assets of a user along with their credentials. In an ideal case you would just see credentials and not kind of shield wallet balances. So I think definitely in the future we're looking towards moving towards more of a zero knowledge system where you can just show attestations that you've done specific things on chain without revealing your address, your private key underneath.
02:20:05.306 - 02:20:35.686, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. So I think the technology is still sort of evolving on that front. It's sort of interesting how DIDs can solve something very similar where you could just have the did reveal certain private information around certain user without also reeling the addresses itself. So I guess there will be a few floatations, but we guess we'll have to see how that kind of evolves. That makes sense. Maybe another opening question, like thinking about the NFD space. So I don't know about you guys, but I still use MetaMask in my web browser.
02:20:35.686 - 02:21:29.340, Speaker A: I think 30 million of us do. MetaMask still doesn't have native support for NFDS on the extension. What are we missing in the space to make NFDS much easier to use by normals normies, as they say? One of you want to take that? Yeah, I think in terms of making NFTs easier to use, I don't think it comes down to the wall itself. I think it actually comes down to utility use cases themselves. I don't think it's up to the wallets to decide how these NFTs become used. I've seen some projects working on sort of being able to aggregate action items of NFTs. So if there's like eight different use cases of one specific NFT, whether it's nouns or board apes or something, because they're infinitely programmable, you're able to kind of aggregate those all in one place.
02:21:29.340 - 02:22:16.694, Speaker A: It sort of remains to be seen how easy it is to kind of curate and query the information to kind of create those different user experiences. But I think once we have something like that, it would be as simple as based off the NFTs you have in your wallet here's the 15 different things you can start doing with it. And it might take a while to get there, but I think that ends up being the end state. Two things that I would say. One would be sort of delegation to your own wallets of the capabilities of the NFTs that you don't want to have interacting with smart contracts on a regular basis. I don't want to have to, every time I do a links down vote, basically put my entire wallet at risk. So that makes it complex and you have to put your assets in different places.
02:22:16.694 - 02:23:08.614, Speaker A: We need to solve that. Just to clarify for people, you would technically own the NFT on a hardworky or something very highly secure and yet have delegated the rights associated with owning that NFT to some hot wallet that allows you to kind of vote or do things like exactly, exactly. I will have signed and delegated to that wallet that theoretically I own or if I want to delegate. Okay. And then another would be just getting it to a point where it's easy enough to get from centralized exchanges to MetaMask or other wallets in less than five days so people can actually purchase and interact with the so that the cryptocurrency is more than the NFT itself, like allow people to easily go on board. Okay, so one thing that we do at unlock, I'm going to shield unlock here a little bit, obviously is like we have credit card support, so we allow people to purchase NFT memberships with credit cards. We did this actually for ACC in Paris, the conference that's selling their tickets through unlock as tickets.
02:23:08.614 - 02:24:01.178, Speaker A: And one of the cool thing that we did also, which I think is actually a good question for you guys as well, is like there's been a bunch of people that are trying to buy tickets and resell them on secondary markets and we mentioned secondary markets earlier. We had to build in the contract to build in the concept of the capchat to make sure that bots are not able to buy tickets in scale and then resell them, which is kind of a painful thing in some of the stuff that we're pretty proud of. Cool. And then I think two other things would just be more easily readable signature messages and it's really even challenging for me. And then messaging, I love what other scans starting to do. Disclosure, it's a portfolio company, but with wallet to wallet messaging xmtp there's some interesting things happening in terms of wallet to wallet messaging that will make it easier and more fluid for people to use their NFTs and communicate with one another. Absolutely, that makes a ton of sense.
02:24:01.178 - 02:25:15.394, Speaker A: So these are all very good points about NFTs. What are memberships or is there any membership in the physical world, I'd say, or in the pre NFT world that shouldn't be an NFT? Is there one at least that you can think of? Like no, this would be a bad idea to be an NFT. Can you think of one or no, they should all be mean for membership specifically when it comes down to the individual's talent or ability, those are the things that shouldn't be NFTs because it doesn't matter about sort of their net worth as a case, but more so them as an individual. Mike, actually you might have some thoughts on this. I'd be curious how in some membership clubs they do a bunch of interviews to figure out what type of person you are if you kind of especially by the exclusive ones. Yeah, in linkstyle case, if you just buy a membership to be part of it, usually that kind of bypasses the interview process. I think we've punted down the road some of the complexity of what you're talking about with real world memberships in a utopian world and the way that we've presented it, anybody has access.
02:25:15.394 - 02:26:13.246, Speaker A: But clearly before you join a linkstao physical club, there has to be an element of doxing to some extent and safety is paramount. We can't have criminals walking around the golf course, so we definitely have some dicey things that we're going to be working through over the next nine months before the club opens. So yeah, I would think that things that involve, to your point, like background checks are essential, but couldn't these be NFTs as well in some way? I mean, I know there's a ton of companies oh, for sure, we're just not there yet. Yeah, I'd love the clean background check credential and that should be easily done and the great credit score credential that could be easily done, but yeah, it just hasn't happened yet. The benefit of this is now it becomes composable. You can actually easily say, hey, my links dow NFT is only working if I am wearing a tux. And wearing a tux is an NFT itself in some way.
02:26:13.246 - 02:26:44.958, Speaker A: Yeah. And so anyway, I would say there's no rush to the original question to turn traditional membership clubs into NFT clubs. Let's be honest, even like we haven't bought the golf course yet, nobody's actually delivered on the utility that we're promising. I feel like there's some really I mean, I would say FWB has they've been around longer. They've had great events. Yeah. If TC has mean tickets as NFTs as memberships, that's the thing, right? Like you at some point could unlock four.
02:26:44.958 - 02:27:02.520, Speaker A: They've been harder. Like some of these NFT tickets, I couldn't even figure out how to get into the damn thing. So a lot of this stuff doesn't work yet. Yeah, but I mean, it doesn't work for everyone, for sure. But it does work in practice that's been delivered when you say the golf course isn't bought. Yes, but the tickets to the conference, the conference did happen and was there. Right, right.
02:27:02.520 - 02:27:38.234, Speaker A: There have been bad executions. It's still tricky and not as clean as it could be, but yes, for sure. Some of them actually already exist and I mean, Brian's credentials are real. It's real, I guess. Can we touch on the token gating element of FWB? I think there's an interesting debate to be had whether the token gating aspect of fungible tokens versus NFT gating NFTs make more sense. Mike, you probably have our thoughts on this. Yeah, so, I mean, the token gating one is really so a couple of things.
02:27:38.234 - 02:28:24.218, Speaker A: One token governance is difficult because it separates the actual NFT holder from the token holder. Could you just be a trader or a whale? The challenge with fungible token gating to events is that the price is really volatile and rises. It's not perfect, you know what I mean? So there's a lot of problems that haven't been solved with event based and membership based fungible token gating. So that's why we chose not to do it at this point, frankly. And I mean, these problems actually existed in previous like if you go to a very popular concert, the tickets are all being sold in five minutes, whether they're NFT or not. You have the same problem with scalpers that are buying them and selling them at the door. These problems were not invented by NFTs.
02:28:24.218 - 02:29:09.134, Speaker A: I think one of the things that a lot of criticism that happened in the NFT space right now are problems that existed before that are just obvious with NFTs and maybe actually have a better way of being solved in that scenario. It feels like the scalpers issue on tickets is something that has existed for as long as tickets have existed at this point. And with NFTs, we actually have ways to say, hey, using linking credentials, like, hey, okay, you want to buy the ticket to whoever is the latest singer of the moment. You can only do that if you have their NFT to unlock their music over the last six months. And so that's a way to ensure that only fans are actually buying the tickets and not just Rendos, basically. So I think the big things that shouldn't exist, like a traditional fan club where I'm just putting a little bit so the problem with selling NFTs for memberships is that they're forever. Right.
02:29:09.134 - 02:29:56.394, Speaker A: And I just think you're going to see a lot of people in most cases today the promise is you're buying the thing, it's forever. You've paid X and someday somebody else it's transferable to. We talked about the fact that we'll have subscription based and perishable. But today I think there's a lot of people issuing NFTs for their metaverse world and they're this and that who do not realize the obligation of like, look, I'm going to have this fan base in this community put money in that's, going to just expect literal that they're owners and not just just customers, but like owners that expect delivery of some service forever. A lot of people are going to run into trouble with that in my mind over the next couple of years. 100%. I think that's one of the big challenges around NFDS is like a lot of the misconception and kind of the implicit lies I say of stuff that was hey, this is the way it works.
02:29:56.394 - 02:30:34.040, Speaker A: Like in practice, I mean I'm sure these things ten years from now most of them will actually not honor any of the thing that they said they would do or any of these roadmaps in that scenario. Yeah and I think it'll be interesting to see how do you basically delineate a rug from something that just sort of ran its course and people got the value and I don't think people's minds are aligned against the thing that these know. Maybe some of them are. Yes, absolutely. So we have a few minutes left brian maybe not even that. I see kartik, one of the kartik is coming. I think kartik wants hot takes mean I would have loved to get more hotter takes.
02:30:34.040 - 02:31:32.090, Speaker A: I guess my only question would just be obviously there's a couple of themes here which is I think this topic here itself is covering in a way the blend of web two and web3 side of experiences. Like we know how memberships work, we know what my credit card perks look like and I know I have different tiers based on what access I can get. So I guess what I'm curious about is from all anywhere from comments or feedback you've gotten from your members or just things that you see have the potential of kind of getting better. Is kind of the output here like a better way to think about memberships or is the output here that now we can just make it more free and open and make it more composable? Like I'd love to be able to say if you were part of these other memberships you can now get access to this or priority access to something else. Is that how you think about how you feel like memberships will evolve or hold you differently? I definitely agree with that. I think the free and openness and the programmability in some way, I think both of you. Alluded to this earlier is the idea that, hey, if I know that a membership exists, I can leverage it even if I have nothing to do with it, basically.
02:31:32.090 - 02:32:07.062, Speaker A: So, yes, I can give access to some content on my site because they are certified by rabbit hole without actually asking rabbit hole's permission to do that. Or I can give access to my ski club to the people of the Lynxdao without any agreement with the linksdao people. And so to me, that's actually a very powerful thing that we're going to be able to see more and more of that actually exists in the real world. Like, think of the AA membership. I recently learned that most restaurants that offer AAA discounts actually have nothing to do with version of that, where you get to transfer your miles with a massive hit on the actual output. But yes, absolutely. Yeah, exactly.
02:32:07.062 - 02:32:54.786, Speaker A: So it's kind of interesting that permissionless and that decentralization in that world enables a lot of different new patterns and use cases that I think we're going to see emerge. I mean, we've already started to see emerge, to Mike's point, in a rough way, I'd say, but that's coming and that's pretty exciting to see. Yeah, I would just say typical partnerships you work in, they're harder to execute in a Dow environment for us, because how do you coordinate all these people who approves this stuff? It's really freaking hard. And you're so focused on just reining in and managing and making decisions together. So I think right now we're not that composable phase. So I think to Julian's point, it's know, if somebody wants to AirDrop stuff to our holders or do partnerships and offer know, go do just we're not going to say no, but it's hard for us to get involved and do it practically. You can't say no.
02:32:54.786 - 02:33:13.786, Speaker A: That's actually the best part of it. Want to give a final little shout to all of these people here at the bottom of my my my members. I've got my own little membership. If you join my blog, it's $5 a year. Don't need to buy. You can just go on the blog and see how you can earn it. But I actually bring them with me on every single of my calls and so they were here.
02:33:13.786 - 02:33:24.074, Speaker A: These are all of the little icons that are there. I think one of you might be in there. I don't know. I don't want to tell you. All right, well, thank you. I really appreciate the time. Thanks for the invite cardex, Brian.
02:33:24.074 - 02:33:47.506, Speaker A: Thank you so much. Thanks, everyone. Bye bye. All right, with that, we are ready for our next talk. And this one is all about governance and participation. Of course, this is a whole event around how do we make it easy for us to contribute to and manage DAOs at different scales. There's a lot of people working on toolings for the hackathon, but there's a lot of other aspects to this thing, whether they're social or purely technical.
02:33:47.506 - 02:34:10.254, Speaker A: And we're going to have an amazing chat about all these things here. So with that, I want to welcome Ivan, Will, Kaido, and Dan to kind of take over here. And Dan will be the one moderating this thing. So I'll let Dan introduce himself and then get us started with the rest of our welcome. Hello. Welcome, welcome. All right, excited for the chat today.
02:34:10.254 - 02:34:37.170, Speaker A: Can everyone hear me? Mic check. Good. We're all good. So quick intros. We've got a great panel today. We've got Kaido, who researches incentive design at Llama. He does a bunch of things, I mean, Tokenomics with Vitadao and Labdao Redelegation at Interchange, which I actually don't know what that means, but it sounds interesting and just generally like a gigabrain writer.
02:34:37.170 - 02:34:46.890, Speaker A: So welcome, Kaido. We've got Ivan. Who's? He works at Gearbox. Protocol. Composable leverage protocol. Welcome, Ivan. Nice to have you.
02:34:46.890 - 02:35:03.466, Speaker A: And then Will, who's a founding member at Developer Dow. And I am Dan. I'm a product manager at Orca Protocol. So welcome, gents. Thank you. Awesome. So the conversation today is governance and participation.
02:35:03.466 - 02:35:28.358, Speaker A: We're going to chat about governance. We're going to chat about participation. I would love to just start off with defining governance super quick. So I'll actually start with Will, what does governance mean to you? And maybe a little more tactically and contextually, given your experience in Developer Dow? What does it mean? Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. I appreciate being here. Thanks for ETH Global and everything.
02:35:28.358 - 02:36:04.334, Speaker A: Everybody that's put this on. So, yeah, governance, man, what a topic, right? It's like, if you search, like, define governance, it says, like, the act of governing, and you're like, okay, cool, this is awesome. But no, the way I think about it is establishing and enforcing rules for protocols and or social groups to follow. And so really, at the end of the day, it's an attempt to coordinate whether it's efforts or financial assets or whatever it is. That's really how I think about governance. And you asked a question about Developer Dow. So little context.
02:36:04.334 - 02:37:08.214, Speaker A: Developer Dow is a social service dow where our goals, our mission is really to enable a new wave of web3 developers and to build public goods. And so really, for us right now, as we're beginning to build out public goods, so much of our activity is social activity. And so with that, the issues and governance we're having right now is how to enable activity from participation, get people involved, build reward mechanisms and incentive mechanisms that incentivize the correct behavior. And so really, kind of that's what we're focused on today, and I'm excited to talk more about that and then also talk more about governance of existing protocols and kind of the DeFi space and some of the other topics we have on the agenda today. Nice. I love that. So speaking of incentives, Kaido, I know you do a lot of research.
02:37:08.214 - 02:37:57.080, Speaker A: So, like, where do you even begin when you think about how to incentivize contributors within DAOs to kind of drive governance forward? What's a framework that folks can use to kind of think about how to incentivize, who to incentivize, what types of actions to incentivize? Where do you start with that? Kaido yeah, I think that's a great question. And first of know, hello everybody. Kaido and I'll give my honest answer. I don't think there's a framework. We're all, I think, crossing the river while trying to find where the next lending step is. But I think there are a few questions on incentive, which is we talk a lot about incentivizing contributors. I think just going on top of Will's point, I think it's also responsibility is also very important.
02:37:57.080 - 02:38:39.598, Speaker A: So that means if something goes wrong, someone has to answer for it. And I think this lack of responsibility is also a problem. I would say it's also sort of in the incentive design. You cannot just have positive incentive design. You also need some kind of like slashing mechanism per se. So I think generally you can start with those two buckets. I think when somebody does something good and that's based on the protocol you're thinking about, something happens that's on the positive incentive, a negative incentive, if something goes wrong, who's there to answer something about, no matter it's flashing it or do you resign these different mechanisms.
02:38:39.598 - 02:39:20.020, Speaker A: So I think once you start there, then you can optimize protocol by protocol. For example, for a DeFi protocol, then there's a lot of positive incentive. For example, like, you have to write proposals, you have to do risk parameter adjustments, you have to study the protocols that are being proposed, et cetera, et cetera. And on the negative side as well, I think that's currently not really thought of at this point. And for a social token project, right, it's completely different. Another dynamic, sometimes these people come and go. So do you want to incentivize long term behavior or do you want to incentivize short term behavior? How do you reflect in your payment or even messaging to the community? And those are also very different.
02:39:20.020 - 02:39:58.254, Speaker A: Just to give a quick example, there's a very interesting organizational design or incentive structure called the Orbit model. This is more on the open source side. It's not strictly to blockchain. I think basically it thinks community or community development in a linear fashion. But in this linear fashion, the size of community grew and drops and therefore your incentive shouldn't stay flat, right? So you should adjust accordingly to this kind of outside forces. And how do we think about that and implement that into the real world would be very interesting. I'll leave it there.
02:39:58.254 - 02:40:41.430, Speaker A: I can't go on for too long on this. No, we'll get more spicy takes. So, speaking of incentivizing people ivan I know. Gearbox protocol. You guys have just gone through a process of a whole claim and delegation process for, I guess, the Dow that you're starting. So could you talk a little bit about the stage of where Gearbox Protocol is and kind of why delegation, why now, and what kind of you hope to see from your delegates? Yeah, so the current delegation is just a thing that was actually from the past when the Dow basically started during Christmas and there were a few different stages. So the way we approached is with different user bases, essentially.
02:40:41.430 - 02:41:32.886, Speaker A: Some were testers, some were active participants back when there was nothing promised, of course, filtering for Bots and a few other stages and it simply happened that a couple of those while we were busy doing other actual protocol work, we didn't do it. So let's say this is just why it happened now is because we didn't do it then. So it's not part of the design per se. Part of the design was making a token non transferable that ribbon has done before, that element will have now and other protocols. So making token non transferable basically allows you to already give incentives to contributors and those who work without creating those early discussions which are sometimes damaging to a community. Whereas some of the when listing when other kind of chats, they are not wrong to ask. It's just that when you are starting out, you don't want to have that much pollution because the more noise you have, the more quality contributors will be kind of not willing to participate in that discourse.
02:41:32.886 - 02:42:03.690, Speaker A: Right. So you could call part of design that one we've been happy with so far. Nice. What do you hope to see from the delegates for Gearbox Protocol? And are there other roles that will kind of be active in your governance besides delegates? Good point. So our governance is for now just snapshots. So it's off chain, nothing too fancy. Let's say it's not governed alpha yet with a few groups or committees.
02:42:03.690 - 02:42:37.422, Speaker A: So it's very like mellowed down for now because protocol is early enough and that's what most protocols do. It's a fine thing. Seems to be nowadays, especially in DFI for now, the delegates are just that we have like a 2% total supply quorum, whereas of course the Dow usually has 50%, right? So if you're talking about circulating, that's like 25% or so, so the quorum is not too low. And in case you want to push some things, let's say apathy. And governance is a thing that probably will never go away anywhere. You can try to manage incentives, but it will always be like it won't go like this, right. It will likely stay like flat and go down.
02:42:37.422 - 02:43:43.430, Speaker A: So I don't consider it cool that if you push small proposals every week or so, it's just governance dilution. People constantly like, okay, what are we going to wear today? What are we going to eat for lunch? This kind of thing completely kills the attention of people. So delegates are there to just make pushing quorum easier and of course those delegates are the only ones working. And if we are talking about more broadly, about governance and inclusion and making everybody participate, once you really look at how many people in a given dow, whatever its sizes are working, you will always be like let's say a small dow within ten, right? A bigger dow, maybe 50 at best, right? The others are just discussing and talking. So it's not that you have to optimize towards really making those people vote, it's just that the system should be open for them to enter, for them to participate, there has to be accountability. But you shouldn't make the system, I think where you're cramped essentially for moving forward. So it still has to be pretty, say standard and movable basically instead of having too many complexities.
02:43:43.430 - 02:44:39.110, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm going to keep digging with you a little more because we'll get some spice here. So for your delegates, what sort of participation do you expect from them? Right? If they are supposed to represent the average token holder and kind of amplify the voices of individuals, how do you make sure that they're incentivized? How do you hold them accountable? What sort of participation do you expect? Because we've seen in the past that delegating in itself is not the solution. There's other mechanisms to kind of make delegation work. So curious how you think about making sure delegation works for you guys. Yeah, great point. So I always try to stick to a rule that in any community or let's say any workforce, there is always 90% of people just doing kind of jack shit, sorry for the word, just doing nothing and just saying blah blah. 9% are involved but they are not 24/7, right? They do things, they're cool, they're around, they want incentives, perfectly fine.
02:44:39.110 - 02:45:07.040, Speaker A: And the 1% are the devs and people who really work and don't sleep and work on weekends. It's a fine split if you try to change it. I don't think you will really change the numbers that much. But it is important that every group is felt, let's say their own place in a community, right? You don't want to alleviate alienate sorry, any one of them. So for the 90% they just have fun. Posting stickers means discussing something and just being general in the community that I think applies everywhere. In gearbox as well.
02:45:07.040 - 02:45:37.306, Speaker A: 9% and the 1%, that's where the split is. So that's where the difference is between actually a working contributor member and the one that jumps in and out sometimes. So I would say delegates in any community. In most communities I'm very much generalizing, so happy to hear some fighting back. But let's say the 9% are the ones who would perfect role for delegates because they don't do 24/7 work yet they are on top of things. So that's a great group. And the 1% are, let's say the devs and people who actually work.
02:45:37.306 - 02:46:36.062, Speaker A: So our delegation so far showed that because that 1% is the most active in communities and delivers the most, people actually delegate to them the most, right? In which case without even forcing some form of a committee being responsible, people delegated to a committee. So without putting boundaries in place, it ended up being centralized in that way which it would have been anyway if we made like synthetic style committees which are like rolling over element structure. It's more or less the same of course, broadly speaking, yes. So delegates, we thought of doing some incentives for them, and then we looked at how many possibly delegates there could be. And as soon as you announce some incentives for delegates, even if you make it as such, that they have to make some forum posts, what you're going to get? AirDrop hunters are going to make dummy posts saying I am all for the great future and things like that. So not a good idea if you say you have to participate in at least 80% of the votes. Well, people are just going to be dummy clicking on snapshot which doesn't really result in much.
02:46:36.062 - 02:47:33.262, Speaker A: So probably when incentivized in this social positive behavior, honestly, I think the best one I've seen work so far is where a core team or Dow or structure, they have good intentions and good faith essentially and it's a retroactive distribution after some time. So you can do periodic retroactive distribution like for example, optimism does and that way you are less likely to be gamed. At least that's the one I've seen work the most so far in other Dows as well. Again, very much generalized. Happy to hear what you guys disagree with. Well, yeah, I was going to say I don't think I'm going to disagree with much because like you said, you kind of described the power law distribution, right, of activities where most people aren't going to contribute. And so the thing I would say is especially for somebody who's listening that might be participating in the hackathon or something like that, is build tools that let us continue to experiment with these things because it gets back to the incentive problem.
02:47:33.262 - 02:48:42.206, Speaker A: Just like you said, it's difficult to incentivize exactly what we want, right? It's tough to say we want good delegates that act in good faith for the Dow. But then it's like if you get pressed to define that it gets harder to define it and so you can't put it in rules that lead to that action being incentivized in an objective way. And so at the end of the day, we've got to continue to experiment with different things. And one of the things too that I think about a lot is from a Dow standpoint, dow is such a generic term and I think it's the right term to be using right now. And I think all of the things we're doing in the ecosystem to kind of start at that base level, that's where the activity should be. But a conflict arises between an open standard that a dow could kind of tweak to their needs and turnkey solutions that are very rigid. And so I've just felt that as well where when we've been starting this social service dow we can't really copy and paste from a financial protocol dow right.
02:48:42.206 - 02:49:27.086, Speaker A: Because then we end up with these incentive mechanisms that don't make any sense for a social dow. And so I just am really excited about tool sets out there that let experimentation happen or vertical focus dow tooling that's either for this vertical or for that vertical. I think that's going to help the space a lot. Nice. Could I ask a question? Yeah, go for it. Speaking of the tooling, what are the things actually you would recommend? Feel free to shill if you invested in any, if that's allowed. I'm just curious like what tooling you guys since you've been in DAOs for a long time and you summoned a few, what tooling have you been comfortable with? I'm just personally not a fan of learning new platforms.
02:49:27.086 - 02:50:41.414, Speaker A: So even if it helps, let's say down the line, just feel like vendor locking into something is a very big thing but maybe I'm just being boomer about it. So curious what dow tooling you have found to be helpful apart from a discord board deleting GM messages? Somebody want to take that first? Yeah, I'll spice it up. So I think Dow tooling should start incremental stuff instead of thinking about grand things. I think you build incrementally and then you reach a point of inflection and then a lot of people start using it. Just a quick example, one of the most important tools right now I think in a lot of dows is funny enough, if we forget about discord, it's actually collab land. I would say that's the most important dow tooling thing out there, right? But it's such a small thing but if without it, all the token gated communities, all the things you want to essentially have membership is all out of the window. So I think for hackathons and also for founders thinking about it, I think is start incrementally and build these really seemingly basic ideas.
02:50:41.414 - 02:51:34.086, Speaker A: And the other thing I want to point out on Dow tooling, which I personally believe it's less of a technical challenge but more of a product challenge or design challenge because we use Twitter, Slack, Discord Telegram, Signal Messenger, Imessage to chat with crypto people, it's very cumbersome in this way. So our mental share of understanding new apps is probably already maxed out. So how do you build easy to understand designs to incorporate different people? And we would talk about the power out distribution. Is there a way in the future where you could build something as simple as a discord plugin even right, so that you can allow people to participate much easier and even understand the protocol much easier. Or even understand the proposals much easier. Understand the background of different delegates easier. Those are incremental steps.
02:51:34.086 - 02:52:35.102, Speaker A: I think it's really worth exploring in the tooling space. Yeah, I like that. Back to your question, just real quick. Coordinate is an obvious one but even then it goes to highlight the example of like you need to understand how a tool is designed to be used because one of the areas that developer Dow has messed up in the beginning is running the biggest two day coordinate circle that's ever existed. And that's not like an achievement that we're thrilled about because there's lots of issues with think. I think like we said, just really finding ways to solve those basic problems like Kaido was and without adding a ton of technical debt or user experience. Debt into your Dow is something that is where you're like okay, this is a win win.
02:52:35.102 - 02:53:19.694, Speaker A: Like Collab Land, easy to set up, easy to understand. Massive value delivered to your Dow members as they get access into this token gated community. Awesome. We are actually coming up on time, believe it or not. So I want to ask a question for the group and whoever has the spiciest take can go first. But what is the future of token voting within Dows and protocols? What is the future if there is one or not? Try since you go first if you don't mind. It could go away, but it depends on where the money will end up.
02:53:19.694 - 02:53:59.402, Speaker A: So the token voting is there. If you strip away token voting into some, I don't know, committee NFTs or some other thing, that means that people won't be buying the token since the value, if your token value mostly is governance, then it's essentially stripped away. And now token is also used as inflation to make the positive feedback loop right in many protocols, even within the T one. So you need to add back from the demand side so you can't really strip that away. If you find a way to make the value appear somewhere else. Well, if you go back to equity and then equity goes into NFTs, you go back to the old model but could be fine as well. So it depends on how the money will flow really.
02:53:59.402 - 02:54:42.566, Speaker A: For now. People complain a lot about the centralization of token voting rate but I don't think in any semi democratic systems it was ever really different. If you split it not into token voting or something else, there will be just other ways to essentially control larger groups of people. Even if you make it like more civil resistant somehow. So I don't see much need in it. It's more so that what is lacking is really quality participation in producing some good products, good tech and other things rather than splitting it away from the control there. Because so far I'd say at least the ethos we took maybe slightly cynical, I'm slightly cynical, you might have caught that a bit.
02:54:42.566 - 02:55:33.302, Speaker A: It's more so that I feel the system should be open and you can go to discord chats even, and you can make many of them, they should be open, but it doesn't mean you have to open the chats into everybody in the contributor chats. Right? But say developers are chatting in there, everybody can see what's happening, everybody can voice an opinion or say something is bad or something like that, but it doesn't mean they will be jumping into the same chat and sharing, I don't know, gifs in there to completely disrupt the workforce. The same way with governance, you can engage in token voting like that a bit more. And yeah, end of the day, even if you split the governance really well, it's based on the ethos of the X Corps members or the current core members, because if they don't mean well, they'll probably push for some proposals which are not even that good. Sorry. And that's another discussion where large treasuries are essentially being used for pain retainers. Right.
02:55:33.302 - 02:56:14.774, Speaker A: When the protocol gets to a stage, when it's large enough, what's the best incentive there? Nobody knows how to go to an X anymore after that, so they secure a nice X, one monthly payment. But that's another thing. Sorry for jumping into that. No, all good. Kaido, I want to hear from you on this. Yeah, I think one thing I thought a lot about, I think goes back to Evan's point, which is it's somewhat similar to the current system with token voting, but I think with one major issue. So the main major issue is, let's say if a protocol becomes big enough in the future, which we hope it will, that this becomes sort of like a public good kind of thing or like an infrastructure level stuff.
02:56:14.774 - 02:57:07.382, Speaker A: That means if someone has less money than another person, the person who has less money will never be able to voice his opinion. If they're on the other two sides of the same coin. And that's not the case in the traditional world per se, because right now I think we're trying to use the governance model for companies to use on these really infrastructure layered protocols such as Curve, Kampang, Ave, if you want to digitize the entire world. Those are very fundamental stuff. So I think that's the worry I have on that. And you can see that sort of playing out in the current landscape where just three projects can get together and kind of dictate a large chunk of base layer projects emission, going where and achieving their own agenda in some way. I think this is a kind of model.
02:57:07.382 - 02:57:50.514, Speaker A: I think when it's going good, it's going great. Right? But if some disagreement happens, or someone even maybe not trying to do malicious things just like their idea may not be really well thought off, and you can have a really catastrophic failure mode introduce the entire system. Yeah. So that's kind of my thinking on token gated, actually, on voting, I think probably the most thing I like the most is probably some sort of token voting. And also you have the optimistic approval. Just shout out to Dan's orca Design, like the different pods. And with veto power across, I think it's a lot more interesting where it goes back to Ivan's point.
02:57:50.514 - 02:58:13.050, Speaker A: Right. You don't let your token voters vote on a project every two days on proposals. That's just not possible. You do it in an optimistic way that you let it pass, but if there's some major disagreement, people can still shut it down. Thanks. Yeah, and thanks for the shell. I'll disclose Kaido is not an investor in Orca, but we appreciate that.
02:58:13.050 - 02:59:28.946, Speaker A: Will curious because I don't think developer Dao, you guys don't have a token, you have NFTs. So like we're working on how you're managing. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. We are working on a non financial governance token and so that's going to be coming out in the next kind of 60 days. And one of the things we always think about is how separating incentive from governing power and financial compensation, are we developing protocols that generate revenues that we can then distribute out to contributors in addition to governing power inside of the Dow? Is that something we can do? How can we closer sync the activity that's happening to the incentive reward? So like retroactive incentives are safe but basically it's like, hey, come and work with us. You don't have a boss and we have a plan to have 5000 people vote to reward you in 60 to 180 days isn't like the best pitch to get a ton of activity. And so how do we shorten that time period and better sync activity together? And so those are things that we're thinking about.
02:59:28.946 - 03:01:07.022, Speaker A: To your original question, I'm optimistic that we're going to continue to find ways to use things like the pods and smaller groups of decentralized smaller groups that build up into the larger Dow, whether it's subdows or whatever we want to call it. Pods. Pods, yes, we'll use pods. And so that's something that I am, like I said, super optimistic about it because I think the reality is the other side of that coin is a world in where we get centralized meta governance happening that instead of a centralized web two company controlling power, it's in the hands of pretty massive kind of meta governance plays. The last thing I'll say there is I always ask myself, and try to ask other people too, is what are my assumptions here as far as the questions I'm asking. So is that a bad thing on the financial protocols? And is total tokens used in governance proposals? Is that really the metric we should be shooting for? And so those are just questions that I hope other people continue to ask and. I'll probably jump in and have the spicy thing I really like BYC's governance roadmap, as in you start with NFT, you have more NFT and then you have a token.
03:01:07.022 - 03:01:37.546, Speaker A: I think thinking from a community dilution standpoint branding and also just retaining talent, I think that's something even more than just NFT projects could use. Yeah, if you tell me six months ago I will be liking the Aosd's governance. Yeah, I wasn't ready for that. I think that's more food for thought for everybody as well. Massively fat ed Rob, sir. Yeah, exactly. We're getting close on time.
03:01:37.546 - 03:02:16.280, Speaker A: So just to recap, we've talked about what is governance incentive design, dow tooling, token voting, kaido Shilling board apes to us and yeah, maybe we just end with everyone. What are you excited about with your specific kind of protocol or Dow or projects you're working on? Maybe start with Ivan finally raising the limits on the accounts and the TVO. That's probably how those went into voting now. Thanks delegates for pushing Quorum in like 2 hours or something. So it is working well, let's see how it works in a few weeks. And then after that probably looking forward to Eat Global actually in Amsterdam. So very much looking forward to it.
03:02:16.280 - 03:03:03.130, Speaker A: And after that, V two. So essentially a lot of things to do, a lot of products to build and hope you guys, if you use them, you won't be liquidated rec too soon. Sweet. Will? Yeah, excited for our governance token launch and pretty aggressively trying new things and sharing that with the community and kind of seeing what nice. Kaido? Yeah, I'm interested in decentralized science funding. So like Gitcoin, I think their governance model, how it relates into the entire Ethos and how do we spread that Ethos and incorporate into different other projects I think would be really interesting. Very sweet.
03:03:03.130 - 03:03:30.320, Speaker A: I'll do the honors and ask Dan. What about you, Dan? What are you looking forward to? Oh, thanks. I'm going to Shill so orca protocols in private beta and we are hoping to get to a public beta in the next two to three months. So basically opening up access to more Dows, get them onboarded and get the pods going. Subdows working groups. Amazing. Appreciate it.
03:03:30.320 - 03:04:17.034, Speaker A: By the way, this is an amazing discussion. I think the one thing I'm just sort of, as an observer, hearing all of you say is what I'm kind of understanding is that looks like we're in a position where we're basically saying that we want to just experiment with the same primitives that exist, or the abstractions, rather, which is proxy voting, delegation, doing things at scale and kind of hierarchy that sort of comes with it. But I think there's like a better solution with the technologies we have now to be able to do that faster or just more efficiently or measure that in a smaller feedback loop. So I don't know what the answers are. I think all of us are figuring this out in real time, but at least there's a lot of hope and excitement. That what I look forward to. So we'll get to see a version of all these things that we already understand just done more efficiently or openly.
03:04:17.034 - 03:04:27.426, Speaker A: So I'm excited for that and really appreciate all of you making time to be part of this panel. Thank you. Thanks, everyone. See ya. Thanks, Dan, for organizing. Amazing. Thank you.
03:04:27.426 - 03:04:53.990, Speaker A: Thank you. Bye bye. All right. And with that, we are ready for our last talk for the summit. So without further ado, I'd like to welcome Jonathan, Larry and Connor on stage to talk about all the fun stuff about doing compliance and legal, working with Dows. And for this chat, Connor will be the one moderating and great face, so I'll let you talk about all the fun things. Thanks, Karak.
03:04:53.990 - 03:05:33.518, Speaker A: Appreciate it, man. Yeah. I don't know about a legal and compliance being the end of the day situation because it can be very mind bending and painful, but we'll try to make it as exciting and engaging as possible to send people off into their weekend. So I'm Connor spellsy. I was formerly a lawyer and then got into crypto, helping crypto companies raise and do a number of things. About four and a half years ago, I started in the space, then realized we need some advocacy, so co founded the Blockchain Association. So over the last kind of four years, I've been working primarily on the advocacy side, but then also working directly with Dao teams and run an organization called the Dao Research Collective, which is funded by the Ethereum Foundation.
03:05:33.518 - 03:06:13.026, Speaker A: And others, which helps procure and then open source research related to foundational dow issues like legals and governance and a number of different things. And then we also have with us, we're very fortunate to have both Larry and Jonathan. So we're going to get the operator perspective here today from Larry, who has had to spend a ton of time with lawyers and is a pro himself, now essentially a lawyer, but then also Jonathan, who is literally a lawyer. So maybe actually Larry and then Jonathan, if you guys give a little intro, that'd be great. Yeah. I'm the only non lawyer on this panel, so everything I say should be discarded for sure. When it comes to legal, I'm the co founder of Reverie.
03:06:13.026 - 03:06:35.822, Speaker A: What we are is governance activists. So we work with Dows very closely and help them scale, help them grow, and help them operationalize a little bit in a little bit more of a mature way than they are used. And then prior to that, me and my co founder were both venture investors. I was a digital currency group. He was at Blockchain Capital. Cool. So.
03:06:35.822 - 03:07:18.042, Speaker A: I'm Jonathan IP. I am the founder of Iterative Law. So unlike Connor, I'm still a lawyer and I still practice and I am also probably mostly and almost completely degen as well. But I tend to work with a lot of crypto and blockchain companies in helping them figure out how to get to the market, get their projects running, and also doing things in a compliant manner. And part of fun in working in this space is just how quickly things change and how quickly you have to sort of think through issues and try to do things in the best way you can given the knowledge in front of you. So constantly changing landscape and lots of fun. Thanks guys.
03:07:18.042 - 03:08:34.260, Speaker A: And so of yeah, nothing here is legal advice, but starting with Jonathan and then moving to Larry, I would love to hear this is going to be a broad question, but what are the most pressing issues, legal issues facing DAOs today? I'd say from my perspective, the pressing legal issues just figure out how exactly is a Dao sort of put together, how does it work from a legal perspective and how does it interact with the meat space? Right? Because everyone talks about using governance tokens and providing community, the opportunity to vote and to provide direction for, say, the network of the project. But how does that exactly connect with the real world? How does it work with, say, banking? How does it work with hiring people and delegating authority to people? And so I think those are kind of questions that we're all sort of struggling with. We're trying to take existing frameworks and trying to mash them in. We've got some innovations around trying to build new frameworks, but sometimes the new frameworks just look like old frameworks. And so I think there's a lot that still needs to be done here and a lot that we can sort of think through. Larry, what do you think? I totally agree with what Jonathan has said. I guess I'll try to cover this from a perspective, but at a really high level.
03:08:34.260 - 03:09:35.080, Speaker A: The structure a lot of teams use is they put their whole treasury into this smart contract, which is controlled by the circulating supply and that smart contract has no legal wrapper around it. And so whenever you want to do stuff with the real world, with the meat space, like maybe sign a contract or hire someone or maybe acquire a company, you're not really able to do that because there is no legal entity to interface with against the Dow. And that really is a huge challenge. Now I think a lot of teams, technical teams, when they start the Dow stuff, they're like, we'll figure this out later. And then when the later comes, that's when shit hits the fan and things need to get operationalized and challenges and problems really begin. The other weird, thorny problem I would say is actually it's not sexy at all, but it's tax related. It's just figuring out how to manage the treasury in a way where you're clear on what taxes you're due or don't have to pay and a lot of teams do have a lot of trouble with that.
03:09:35.080 - 03:11:05.394, Speaker A: Yeah, those are interesting ones. And what I'm finding too is with teams that I chat with and I did a survey related to an event that we ran last summer with Bankless and with the help of Eve Global and Stanford and others where Larry spoke at too. But the idea of the event was focused around the issues that DAOs face on the governance and legal side and treasury management side as well. But afterwards did a survey, figured out that what hit Dows, I mean, legal was one of the biggest issues for DAOs generally, but almost the things that were not yet being addressed properly or at all in the ecosystem were the things that were like the real plumbing, the real background infrastructure, the structuring. That is often the most painful stuff to do. So Larry, you talked about taxes and I know that's a huge sticking point for a lot of DAOs and Dow Treasury is like when they're thinking about how they distribute funding, is that a taxable event? And if it's a taxable event, is their tax regulator to which they have to provide funding? And if they don't, are they going to be dinged for that, right, or are they going to kind of gain the ire of the regulators in a way that they really don't want to? I'd go even a step back on that. Is the token sales, right? So if the tokens are not securities and they're not sort of capital products, then they're commodities, they're products that should you be paying sales tax on that? Is there income tax involved? It depends on where you're selling it from and who you're selling it to.
03:11:05.394 - 03:12:35.482, Speaker A: And sometimes you don't even know who you're selling it to because it's all on chain, it can be anonymous. And so some of the challenges around that is how do you sort of structure or figure out a way to put the Dow into connected to the real world in a way that you can kind of confidently say, yes, we don't have to pay tax in this situation or we pay taxes in these situations only. So those are some of the challenges. And in thinking about what some jurisdictions are doing to address know, we're seeing some particularly smaller jurisdictions that are quickly providing clarification, right, like the bigger EUs and the US are doing their own thing, but they're not going to be providing the very detailed regulations that, for instance, maybe Cayman or other jurisdictions can provide. So with this question, I'd love to get Larry's thoughts first and then Jonathan. But Larry, from your perspective as an operator, what are some of the most common Dow legal structures that you're seeing founders tend towards and why do you think they're being favored? The first thing I will say is for any founders, listening is the InVogue structure that's recommended by lawyers often what's invoked today may not be invoked five years from now, ten years from now. You saw a lot of various structures used in in 2017, 2016 that today lawyers would tell you do not use, run away from it like the enemy.
03:12:35.482 - 03:13:22.538, Speaker A: And so it's good to generally have a state of mind approach the structure with a state of mind that, hey, this may change. This is just the thing that's invoked today. And it may or may not stick around in the long term because, frankly, no one really knows. And a lot of it is an emergent thing based on what the policymakers in the jurisdiction where you're structured. Think about the structure. But with that said, most of the structures we see, it's a lot of offshore entities. And I think a lot of people get scared whenever they hear offshore, like they have Panama Papers, that sort of stuff in their head, but a lot of it's stuff like Cayman entities.
03:13:22.538 - 03:13:54.090, Speaker A: PVI there's a new Guernsey Trust that we can chat about later that people are using, but there's generally tax friendly jurisdictions that people use that have really good counsel. So whenever you want to structure know you can rely on very competent lawyers to help you do that. And I'm sure Jonathan can speak way more about it than I can, but those are the entity types that we see most often. Yeah, that's basically the flavors that are pretty popular these days. So. AAP. Cayman BVI.
03:13:54.090 - 03:15:07.626, Speaker A: It's funny you mentioned Panama Papers. I think Panama foundations are also kind of looked at as a quickened sort of way of getting a structure in place and I think they all have interesting benefits. So the big one that you're talking about tax efficiencies or the fact that they're in zero tax jurisdictions is actually helpful with that tax question because if you don't have to pay capital gains tax or income tax or sales tax on anything you do, then you're good, right? Like assuming that you can actually kind of say you are actually operating in that jurisdiction and everything. But I think some of the benefits around and I think maybe the reason why some people also gravity towards particular structures like this is are they sort of conceptually philosophically aligned with what you think a Dow should be doing. So for example, some of these foundations structures, you don't have to have owners, right? You can have a board directors or counselors and then you've got who sort of function as maybe your multi stakeholders or as the people in the real world that operate for your entity. But because it's not owned by anybody, you don't have shareholders, you have members, it feels like it's owned by the community. It's not like some other company or person actually controls the Dow, it is the Dow token holders.
03:15:07.626 - 03:15:55.520, Speaker A: And so I think there's a philosophical bent towards some of these structures as well. But that is sort of where we look, I think the main one is trying to solve some of those tax issues and then providing some kind of entity or structure that can actually interact, like enter into contracts and do things like that. That's super helpful. And Larry, I know that you've done a lot of innovative work recently on the Guernsey Trust structure, which has become popular, and dYdX did something very impressive there. Mark Boyerin, their general counsel, wrote a great piece on it. I highly recommend people read and I know Tara did made some big moves there. I mean, you don't have to get too into the weeds and I don't mean to put you on the spot, but would love to hear what you've seen from that structure and what might draw founders into using it.
03:15:55.520 - 03:16:43.760, Speaker A: Yeah, so the first thing I say is credit really goes to Mark here. That structure is his brainchild and he can talk more about it than I can. But what I can share about it in particular is what we tried to do is we tried to create a grants program for dYdX and know, running a grants program for dYdX, and we had a problem, which is, how do we pay contributors that are in the United States? And then how do we sell dYdX without paying capital gains? Or if we have to pay capital gains, not making token holders pay capital gains. Right. Because there's a lot of lack of clarity on who pays taxes when it comes to Dows and over time we'll figure this out. But today it's a little bit of a murky area. And so those were the business problems we were dealing with.
03:16:43.760 - 03:17:23.110, Speaker A: And Mark created an awesome helped us create an awesome structure which is Guernsey, in Guernsey, and it's a Guernsey Trust. And for those who are listening, who've never heard of Guernsey, it's not New Jersey, it's not a state, it's a small island. It's like one of those financial islands but in Europe. So if you've heard of Cayman BVI, it's the equivalent for, I guess, Europeans. That's how I think of it. And it was very quick to set up. It had very favorable tax treatment for the dYdX that's contributed to it in terms of just the corporate policies, it's pretty well understood.
03:17:23.110 - 03:17:54.966, Speaker A: The trust structure is not this new thing that no one's ever operated before. And so when you actually hire counsel to help you form it and operate it, people are very clear on what you have to do to run that structure. And so that's why we went with it. And it's still very new. We've not been operating it for over a month yet and so we'll see how it sticks in the long term. But so far it's been an excellent structure for very quickly spinning up tax friendly entities for Dows to use. Great.
03:17:54.966 - 03:19:15.934, Speaker A: No, I think it's nice for you to demystify that and for Mark to have written that piece because a lot of founders come into this and just end up having to have calls with five different council from five different kind of obscure jurisdictions. And it's hard to wrap your mind around what it is you're actually doing. So kudos to you guys and to Mark, of course, for writing that piece and hopefully we see more from the community like it that can demystify and save people time. Jonathan, flipping to you. This is going to be one that I'm sure a lot of founders are interested in, but what are the biggest legal mistakes that Dow founders typically make? Like when someone comes to you as a client, what mistakes have they already made before they show up to start talking to you? I think one of the biggest mistakes that I've seen before is going off and basically doing your token offering before you even thought about the structure. So you're like, oh, I'll take that smart contract, I'll rework it and I'll raise some funds and away we go. And then coming back afterwards and saying, okay, so we did this, we have a community now, so now what do we do? Because the cat's out of the bag in that sense is that it's very difficult for you to sort of hive the risk off of doing token issuances, entering into contracts and things like that when you don't have a legal structure to begin with.
03:19:15.934 - 03:19:56.534, Speaker A: And so maybe taking a step further back from that is not talking to a lawyer first. Frankly, most lawyers are more than happy to have an initial conversation just to understand what you're doing and see if there's a way to help you. They're not going to charge you up front. I definitely don't. I love talking to projects to see what they're doing and if it works out and it sounds like they're sort of in the right place to start working together, then great, and if not, then that's okay. Maybe they still got some billing to do. But I think it's always important to just particularly in this space when there's so many complications, the biggest complication is that the technology is global in nature, but the laws are jurisdictional.
03:19:56.534 - 03:20:41.078, Speaker A: So you might think you're doing things perfectly fine in one country, but you might get in trouble in another country and you might be in a gray area in a third country. And so just being thoughtful about that or at least talking to someone who understands that you should think about some of these things. And the other part would probably be the tax part as well, that we talked about not realizing that what you've done may have actually caused you to create a massive tax bill for yourself or for your token holders. Yeah, no, that's great. And I think to making sure that when you talk to that lawyer that is a crypto native lawyer who has experience in the space and is not just some corporate lawyer who's like, yeah, I'll set up the C Corp. We'll do the thing. And you'll be good, because I've chatted with a bunch of founders and experienced with organizations that I've worked for previously that have been told to set up the wrong structure.
03:20:41.078 - 03:22:06.982, Speaker A: And then it's an insanely complicated process to go from maybe a US structure to an offshore structure, and it doesn't make a lot of sense. So I think we're going to have almost this founders who are doing their second crypto company, I think, who are going to do it better because they're going to appreciate that, oh, I need to do a lot up front to save myself an insane headache later on that might actually jeopardize my own company. But it's worth it because I've now laid the infrastructure that allows for me to make a great case, potentially from a tax perspective, liability perspective, a number of different places. I'd also add, Connor, the difference between, say, three years ago and now. There are a lot more lawyers that actually really understand this space, and maybe not all of them focus on it 100% of the time, but you should definitely, to your point, do talk to somebody that has understanding of crypto blockchain and just some of the issues around it and get that initial conversation right. Just so you don't accidentally walk into something that you can't dig yourself out of. Yeah, just to add on to that, I think a lot of founders, they almost treat law as some rocket science that they can't wrap their head around, and whatever advice they get from a lawyer, they'll just take it without actually questioning it and understanding it at a really high level.
03:22:06.982 - 03:22:58.466, Speaker A: And I think it's really important, even if you're a technical founder and if you have no background in law, you actually have to understand at a high level what advice you're getting. You don't have to understand all the legal documents point by point, but having a high level mental model of what you are doing, what risks you are taking versus not taking, is very important. And I feel like a lot of founders don't get as involved in the legal as they probably should. Yeah, I think that's a great point. And actually, I would highly recommend to founders that they're looking for a lawyer to listen to a podcast that Larry and Derek Sue, his partner, did. I pledge allegiance where they were talking to both Jake Trevinsky and Mark Boyerin, who are two of the leading lawyers in crypto, about almost in part, what to think about when you're finding a crypto lawyer. And it'll save you a lot of time and a lot of I would I'm shilling that here on Larry's behalf.
03:22:58.466 - 03:23:50.738, Speaker A: He won't do it himself, but I listen to the pod. It's incredible. Taking a slightly different direction and thinking about the interaction of law and some of the other issues we're dealing with with DAOs. Larry would love to get your thoughts on how you're seeing founders and operators in DAOs think about the interaction between issues related to things like governance and treasury management and then how they connect that with law or the extent to which they think about law when they're implementing decisions about those other features or critical components of Dows. I feel like if you try to do any sort of legal work in 2020 or 2021, you would get a lot of dirty looks. Like people would say, wait, we're doing this Dow thing. Why would you loop lawyers in? Right? That's the enemy.
03:23:50.738 - 03:24:57.614, Speaker A: Or any sort of off chain stuff, that's the enemy. And at this point, I think people are realizing that, hey, these are things that we actually have to do if we want to grow these Dows and scale these organizations in very big ways at a really high level. The biggest change, I would say between maybe late 2020s, early 2021 and today is the entity types are pretty clear. People know which entities to use, which outside counsel to engage in. Right. So who are the actual people who I can turn to to help me set this stuff up? In the past, to Jonathan's point, there were not really that many lawyers who were comfortable to take on the risk of a token project and say today there's just many more people who know what they're doing and are providing pretty good advice. As a result, what you have is many different types of legal structures that essentially hold tokens that were previously held in no legal structure, are now held in some sort of legal structure, and that really allows Dallas to do all this sort of stuff, things and activities they wanted to do previously that they couldn't do.
03:24:57.614 - 03:26:09.458, Speaker A: And so it opens up a world of opportunity that you just couldn't do in the past. And how do you think about given that there's so much nascent development? I mean, I think you're totally right. It's great that you have more lawyers who are having a better sense and are more comfortable. But given all of the changes that are happening so quickly on the governance and the treasury management side, how can you keep your lawyer? Or how do you see teams try to keep lawyers engaged such that they can also opine on the decisions being made about things that are quite technical or also very dynamic while also thinking about the legal side? Is that happening very much? I would say it's really difficult to be a lawyer on the cutting edge because not only do you have to follow policy developments in the world, but you also have to follow the technology and fundamental improvements in the technology. And for any one person to be able to follow these two very emergent industries is difficult. And so every now and then you do find people who are able to play in both categories. But it is hard and I think the technology is always going to move faster than the law.
03:26:09.458 - 03:27:44.926, Speaker A: And so if you're doing something that's pretty wonky on the technology side, you're always going to have some degree of legal risk and some uncertainty. And I think that is just the cost of doing business as a founder operating in a very emergent space and taking a little bit of a different direction here. This is something that I've personally become interested in and would love your guys'thoughts on and it's consistent with I mean, there are buckets of things that I think that those who found and run Dows now know they need to think about. Like they need to think about legal structure, for instance, that is pretty commonly known, right? But there are many other things like voting policies, for instance, which are new to Dow founders. Maybe that's something you think about if you're involved with public companies and you understand how that works or you work a law firm or whatever, but there are more nuanced parts of law that founders are starting to have a better appreciation for or maybe should have a better appreciation for. So have you guys seen anything as it relates to Dows starting to engage with conflicts policies as it relates to voting? Or the way that they delegate certain votes? Or the way that their investors delegate certain votes? I can sort of speak a little bit about this. I've seen projects that I've been working with starting to think about some of these things and I think it's probably because you learn from your own mistakes, but you also learn from other people's mistakes.
03:27:44.926 - 03:29:05.260, Speaker A: And so seeing how, say, some Dows have and their sort of management structure may have blown up because of interpersonal issues and personal interests over the interests of the collective and so on. Which is funny because as much as you sort of want to ignore the corporate space, in some ways the genesis of this industry was really an aversion to the centralized corporate world and the way things are operated. There's actually a lot you can learn from corporate governance and conflict management and things are encoded in corporate law, frankly. Right. You should not be voting on something that you have a personal interest in if you are part of a management committee or a subcommittee, right, that's actually entrenched in corporate law. And so those are small things that if we sort of take some of the learnings from that or at least some of the reasonings behind it, I think it'd be very interesting to kind of pull that back and put it back into the Dow sort of governance structures. And it's not to say we can't innovate on top of that, but let's learn from what we have and continue to build on that.
03:29:05.260 - 03:29:44.280, Speaker A: Great. No, I think that's a really fair answer. I mean, I think that's generally something that we need to think through more critically. Is, how can we look to existing Protestants like we can help build a new revolutionary system? But there are some truisms about the human condition and the way that people are incentivized that have not changed over the last 500 years. And we can look to research on that front to help inform us as to how we can build the right systems. Now, yeah, what's really cool actually I think is that the systems that we can build actually can provide more interaction, more direct control and power to people who are participating in Dows. Right.
03:29:44.280 - 03:30:35.590, Speaker A: So like the voting mechanisms like Snapshot is really cool. I would love to actually see that used in the corporate world because in the corporate world shareholder turnout for votes is like 30% whereas using something as sophisticated as it's really just technology to allow people more access so we can kind of take it from both sides and actually be better for it. My sensors for stuff like this while we're on that topic of conflicts of interest and more accountability is generally when there's a boom and bust cycle it's during the bus that a lot of the policy and the internal controls get created. Right. You look at pretty much any industry that's just how stuff works. But what you can do when you're in a boom period is just self policing and self regulation. And I'd say some Dows have this culture where they're not going to sue you if you have any sort of conflict of interest.
03:30:35.590 - 03:31:25.750, Speaker A: But there's this policy and it's almost like a cultural principle that hey, by default we will disclose conflicts. We don't have any responsibility to do so but it's important to us and so that's the honor code we're going to follow and that I think gets you 95% of the way there. The bad apples will still break the rules but for the most part I think stuff like that while we're still in a period of really high growth self accountability and enforcement is really important and it does get a lot of Dows to a good place pretty quickly. Yeah, it was a really good point. It's very hard in this space given that so many people work for so many projects. It presents a new challenge that hasn't usually existed in the corporate world or at least not to the same extent. Right, right.
03:31:25.750 - 03:31:58.834, Speaker A: But what's funny is that we have policies now about board members being on too many public boards because of that issue. You're a director on five or six or more companies, you cannot possibly be able to focus on all them at once. And so again, these are things that we can take from the corporate world and kind of go back and say, do we need to have a formal policy for this or should we just sort of put something in place for a particular Dao. Saying, look, we want you to be involved, but if you're involved in too many projects, maybe should step back from one or two of them. Totally. And when you have, like, I've been in a bunch of board meetings that have these formal policies, but the board members are asleep at the wheel. Right.
03:31:58.834 - 03:32:41.570, Speaker A: And so just because you have rules doesn't mean people actually follow them. Absolutely. You're right, that's absolutely true. And last question. Really appreciate the time guys, on the Friday afternoon, last question here, which could be legal or probably is not legal related, but what are some of the things you're most excited about in the Dow ecosystem? I think I alluded a little bit to this, but it's the technology, right? The ability to provide more access and more control to token holders. So right now I think most Dows still have multi SIG wallets that you need multisig holders to actually go and interact with the wallet. Once a snapshot has been taken, the proposal has been passed.
03:32:41.570 - 03:33:25.754, Speaker A: Love to see some of the more direct interactions with the systems, right, where you don't need that personal intermediary. Really cool to see it. I think as a token holder to see that my vote and passing of a proposal directly results in an action. Yeah. I would just add that unlike traditional companies, I think you can have a really effective Dow with very few people. They're very lean organizations if structured that way. And for you as one individual or five individuals to be able to move the needle on the product in such a way that you actually see that the stuff I did contributed to this level of growth.
03:33:25.754 - 03:33:46.134, Speaker A: That's a really fulfilling feeling that a lot of people have who work for DAOs. And having more of that is very exciting to me. And I know people who work for Dows feel very similarly amazing. Well, thank you so much for your time guys, and thanks to Ethg Global for putting this on. So I'll pass it back over to you. Kartik. I was going to say what else to make sure, Conor, you get a chance to answer the same question.
03:33:46.134 - 03:34:29.922, Speaker A: I'd love to hear your thoughts too. What am I most excited for? The dao ecosystem. What I'm most excited for, honestly, is the opportunity to collectively work on improving the Dao ecosystem. I think that crypto enables us to do much more cooperation and collaboration as it relates to building out the industry in a way that we would never see in traditional private companies. Obviously the tooling it enables, but also the spirit and the mission of the people who are working in crypto such that I'm excited to see this community scale at a faster rate than any other sort of similar organizational structure we've ever seen. This is awesome. I think this is a pretty good way to summarize kind of what 500 people are going to be hacking on in the next 48 hours.
03:34:29.922 - 03:34:47.130, Speaker A: So we'll keep you posted on everything that comes out. Connor, thank you so much for that amazing talk and looking forward to having you join us again in the future. Sounds great. Good luck in the hack, everyone. Peace. Take care, everyone. Good luck.
03:34:47.130 - 03:35:24.340, Speaker A: All right, well, that brings us to the end of our summit and I want to thank everybody who watched everything engaged with us, asked amazing questions and honestly is still participating in the hackathon and working on interesting projects. We're going to still resume a handful of workshops right after this, but in the meantime, I want to wish everybody happy hacking and we'll all see you on the discord and we'll see you all here again on the live stream this Sunday to showcase all the amazing projects that came out of it in about 48 hours. So with that, enjoy some lo fi beats and we'll see you all soon. Take care, everybody.
