00:00:00.400 - 00:00:27.710, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesarno, and today's the 16 September 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I hope you've all done your gitcoin donations by now on Gitcoin grants or are planning to. I did mine yesterday, donated to I think 44 grants that were part of my collection on, on Gitcoin. And I just wanted to make a comment about the checkout experience because on Gitcoin you have two options to check out.
00:00:27.710 - 00:01:02.876, Speaker A: You have layer one or L2. So obviously you can just use normal ethereum layer one or you can use a L2 called zksync. Now the really awesome thing about Zksync is that it works differently to a L2, kind of like arbitrary optimism where you don't have to change your network. You can just deposit funds into the Zksync L2 protocol and still use the same kind of like network, still use the Ethereum mainnet without having to change it in your metamask. So that makes the experience really, really seamless. And depositing funds is super easy. You can do it directly in the Gitcoin checkout page, which I did kind of last night.
00:01:02.876 - 00:01:40.888, Speaker A: Once it's deposited in, it waits for ten confirmation. So another ten Ethereum blocks, which is about a minute and a half. Two minutes? Yeah, I think it's about two minutes if you, if you're going to kind of like count it as that or no, two and a half minutes. I'm getting my math screwed up there. But regardless, it doesn't take very long. And once that happens, you can immediately just donate via Zksync and it goes to the ZK sync wallets of the various projects, which is super cool because it's, it's very cheap, of course, because it's a, it's, it's a ZK roll up and the, the fees are very cheap there for just simple kind of like payments and stuff like that. And yeah, the Gitcoin experience was just like magical, really.
00:01:40.888 - 00:02:15.922, Speaker A: At the end of the day it was, it was much better than it has been in the past. Not, maybe not last round, but previous rounds it had been a bit, a bit messy, but it's just so seamless. So if you haven't tried it out yet, I definitely, definitely recommend doing so because it's just another way that Ethereum kind of like you scaling and it's another showcase to this L2 stuff that we're building and it's showcasing something that I guess is different to what you experience with, like, arbitrary optimism. Yes. There's still kind of like technically a bridge because you have to deposit funds into the L2 system, but you don't have to change your network, which I think is really cool. And I'm pretty. I think the same is true for loop ring as well.
00:02:15.922 - 00:02:32.734, Speaker A: When I use Looper, I didn't have to do that. So that is obviously a massive benefit there, which I think is awesome. So, yeah, definitely go check out Gitcoin grants. Go donate to favorite projects. I told you guys I'd be reminding you every now and again. There's probably another week left, I think, of the, of the matching round. So definitely go check that out.
00:02:32.734 - 00:03:10.074, Speaker A: All right. So I had many, many people request me to kind of like, cover this today. And the reason I didn't cover it in yesterday's refuel is because it was still kind of like a rumor. There was proof that it happened, but it was kind of like a rumor. And maybe I should kind of go into what I'm actually talking about here. So it came to light that Opensea, head of product, he's called Nate, was doing some sort of insider trading with Opensea where he would essentially front run users by buying the nfts that were listed on the front page of Opensea before they were kind of like, put on the front page of Opensea. So he knew which ones are going to go on there.
00:03:10.074 - 00:03:35.178, Speaker A: He front ran them, he bought it, and then he kind of like, cycled the funds and, you know, sold it later, obviously, and made a. Made a nice profit off of that. And the reason why he was caught is because he cycled the funds back to one of his known addresses, which is obviously total amateur hour. Really, really kind of, um, weird that he would do that. But there's a lot of things that are weird about this. So you can see there's a blog post here from. From Opensea, from Devon Finza, who's the CEO and co founder of Opensea.
00:03:35.178 - 00:04:07.490, Speaker A: Just, I mean, it's a very small update, basically saying that they're aware of it. It's disappointing to see they haven't said kind of like, what's going to happen with, with Nate or anything like that. Um, but I think what I wanted to kind of talk about today was this concept of, like, insider trading within crypto. And I'm going to get a little bit deep with this. Uh, and I'm going to say some things that may make people uncomfortable uh, but I just. To start, um, insider trading in crypto is really, really bad. And I think about the worst insider trading information you probably know of and, like, times it by a hundred.
00:04:07.490 - 00:04:42.132, Speaker A: I'm telling you right now, there's a reason people on Twitter always joking about people dumping on you or insiders dumping on you, whatever, it happens all the time, and it happens more, and it happens with traders. Like, traders on Twitter will go and, like, pump up their own position. It may not be considered, like, insider trading when they do it, but they may be trading on insider information. You don't know. They may have caught and caught wind of an announcement coming for a certain coin. They may have a direct line into the team members and stuff like that. And there's, I mean, there's numerous other things that can kind of, kind of go into that.
00:04:42.132 - 00:05:17.134, Speaker A: So I think that's maybe something that I think a lot of people may not be aware of is just how bad it is. And it's bad for a few reasons. I think the number one reason is definitely because it's, like, totally unregulated, this industry. Right. There is no kind of like, I mean, the insider trading laws that exist for stocks and everything, I mean, they technically would cover, I think, crypto assets and stuff like that. But a lot of these assets aren't actually classed as anything like, the SEC hasn't officially classed many of these things as securities, so they technically don't have jurisdiction over them. They can, they can go after them and they can basically, I mean, sorry, they do have jurisdiction over it, but they don't.
00:05:17.134 - 00:05:44.906, Speaker A: They haven't classified it as a security. So in saying that, the insider trading laws may not cover that and no one's really policing it. I haven't really seen insider trading being policed for, for crypto. I mean, it's really hard to police as well. Like, how do you, how do you even begin to police that sort of stuff? I mean, personally, I'm privy to a lot of information just from being kind of like an investor. I. I don't trade on any of this information or anything like that, but just being an investor in projects, I get to have direct lines to the team.
00:05:44.906 - 00:06:08.996, Speaker A: I know what they're working on. Um, obviously, I'm told not to say anything, of course, because, like, you know, a lot of the times, teams don't want stuff kind of like leaking out. It's. It's like, it's like any company, when you're building something internally, you don't want it leaking out to the public. Before you're ready to kind of showcase it. Uh, and sometimes it does leak and things like that. But, um, you know, and there's obviously laws against that within publicly traded companies that you are not allowed to trade, uh, the stock because you're privy to this information.
00:06:08.996 - 00:06:41.242, Speaker A: Now, those laws, as far as I know, don't exist for crypto. If. If I was to trade based on that information or not just me, but anyone else was to trade based on this kind of, like, um, information that we're privy to, I don't think that we could be legally charged with anything, but I don't know for sure. And I'm sure that in some jurisdiction, we could, and maybe retroactively, if the SEC said, okay, well, this was a security the whole time it was trading, maybe retroactively, they could come after, uh, they could go after the people that were. That were doing this kind of, like, insider trading and stuff like that. Um, but just generally, it's just too hard to police. I mean, look at how many.
00:06:41.242 - 00:07:19.830, Speaker A: I mean, people have gotten away with this sort of stuff over the years, uh, whether they be, like, just outright scammers or people who just catch wind of something. You can see a play out in the prices of assets. Like, have you ever noticed that an asset will start going up in price, and then a major announcement will come out for that asset? Those aren't coincidences. That's literally people doing kind of, like, insider trading on these sorts of things. And the most obvious example of this was, I think, back in late 2017, before Coinbase listed bitcoin Cash. Bitcoin Cash's price, I think, skyrocketed, and it actually came to light that there was a bunch of insider trading happening there. And, you know, and think about how many employees at different exchanges have the information of what.
00:07:19.830 - 00:07:46.094, Speaker A: What's being listed and when it's being listed, they could, without their employer knowing, go and inside a trade on that, so their heart's content. All they have to do is set up a new wallet that's not known to this exchange and do it all from there. I mean, it's not hard to hide yourself if you want to. So from that perspective, I think it's near impossible to police this within crypto. It is already pretty hard to police this within the stock market or just in trading in general. And I think that when you. When you.
00:07:46.094 - 00:08:30.154, Speaker A: I kind of talk about insider trading, there's, like, a fine line, because there are lots of. There's lots of information out there that you have to go digging for, right like, if you want to know things and it's public information, but if you want to know things about a project and it's totally public, you can go digging for it. Maybe you go to the project's Discord channel and you talk to people in there, or you go to the GitHub page and you see that they're actually working on something, and then you buy the asset because you say, hey, okay, well, for example, you say, oh, my God, look, sushi swaps. Working on something really exciting right now. I'm going to go buy some sushi because I think this is bullish. Well, I mean, that's by definition not insider information, but that's, you know, you're still privy to information that other people may not be privy to. And then you kind of go down this weird rabbit hole where people are like, well, I didn't know how to do that.
00:08:30.154 - 00:09:21.356, Speaker A: So, you know, that's unfair that this person knew this. And I've seen people say this, believe it or not, it's really weird. But I guess, like, the definition of insider trading is like, you literally have access to this privileged information that is not public, right. It's insider information, which a lot of people in this industry have access to that, whether they be investors in projects, employees of projects, especially, as I said, the centralized exchanges when an assets being listed, very easy to trade based on that information, whether it be kind of like a short term trade or a long term kind of, kind of trade. And it's, it's rampant. And, you know, Nate here is just like, I mean, I, I'm not going to say that I'm, I kind of, like, feel sorry for him or anything because he brought it upon himself, but I kind of, like, feel sorry. I mean, I do kind of, like, feel sorry for him in a way because he's, he's done this and, you know, he's done it on purpose, right? And he's done something really bad here.
00:09:21.356 - 00:10:05.944, Speaker A: And obviously it's, it's shitty. But the thing is, is that he's just like the very tippy top of what the iceberg is like. If you look underneath, there are so many people have done so much worse than what he's done that he just, he's just become the poster boy for this, when in reality, there's tons of people out there, very well known people in the industry that do this all the time. And they get away with it because they just cover their tracks better. So it's kind of like that, you know, a lot like that with a lot of different crimes out there. As long as you cover your tracks or as long as you can convince people that what you're doing is fine, then for some reason, you, you know, people will love you for it. And it's hilarious because I see this play out all the time where there are literally tons of people within this industry that will dump their insider bags on you while pumping you something publicly.
00:10:05.944 - 00:10:41.300, Speaker A: Right. They'll be, like, publicly bullish on it, but then while they're publicly bullish on it, they'll be dumping it because they're, they're looking for exit liquidity. And, and this happens all the time. I mean, Degen Spartan talks about this a lot on Twitter and pretty freely about this, how he says that guys, like, don't fall for this. Like, these people are pumping these things up because they want exit liquidity, which basically means they want buyers for their bags. And you'll see this play out all the time, especially with the trader account. So that's why I generally never buy anything that a trader is kind of like Schilling because I know that, one, they're a trader, so why would they call the long term position in most of the things that they buy? And two, I know that they've already loaded up.
00:10:41.300 - 00:11:15.956, Speaker A: By the time the information hits Twitter, it's already too late for you to get in on the kind of like grant ground floor a lot of the time. And it means that, and, you know, and if you go look at the price of the asset, it may have already increased a lot because, you know, these people have kind of, I guess, shared the information among them, among their trader groups or whatever. And it's not just traders. It's just people that have this information in general. So, yeah, I mean, unfortunately, the crypto ecosystem is, is not as rosy when you, when you dig deeper. I mean, what we're doing, like, a lot of the work that we're doing to decentralize every thing and, and trying to build better systems is really cool. And, I mean, we're building more transparent systems.
00:11:15.956 - 00:11:38.984, Speaker A: Nate got caught because this is transparent. But as I said, it's very easy to, to hide your trail here. I mean, super easy. You know, you can just, like, create a new address, fund it with some ETH through tornado cash, and away you go. You don't have to do anything else. As long as you don't interact with anything else, like a centralized exchange or don't interact with other, other wallets, you're pretty much like, fine a lot of the time. I mean, there's other ways.
00:11:38.984 - 00:12:11.160, Speaker A: There are other ways you can be to tracked. Like if you connect your wallet to a website and then your ip gets tracked. I mean, it's unlikely I'm going down a little bit of rabbit hole there, but yeah, it's unlikely there. So hopefully that covers kind of like how I'm looking at thinking about insider trading more generally and how it's just rampant within this industry and it has been for a very long time. And I don't think it's going to slow down. I think that because crypto is global, because it's basically impossible to regulate insider trading within crypto, it's not something that the regulators are going to want to spend too much time on. It's.
00:12:11.160 - 00:12:47.362, Speaker A: It's. I mean, I don't think they actually think that they can police this enough to the extent that to even scare people away from doing this at the end of the day, because, you know, if there's a regulator in the US kind of going after these people, but you're in Asia, why would you care what the regulator in the US is doing? There's a low, low, low, low. Basically zero chance they're going to come after you if you're in. If you're in Asia. They probably can't even come after you, depending where you are in Asia, you know, especially if you're in China and stuff like that. But of course you have other regulators to worry about depending where you are. But I mean, in this case, with, with opensea, with Nate, this is shitty, but it's definitely not something that should be news to, to people.
00:12:47.362 - 00:13:29.016, Speaker A: If it is news to you, then as I just explained, this might, it might make it make you uncomfortable to know that insider trading is rampant within crypto. But I think it's pretty obvious when you really think about it. At the end of the day, it is not something that is kind of like people try to hide or anything like that. And if you pay just some, some kind of close attention to it, you can kind of spot this playing out a lot of the time. And, you know, this is why I always disclose things on the refuel. I know it gets really annoying that I disclose things all the time, that I'm an investor and advisor to things, but I do real, I do feel very responsible considering I'm a big name within the industry and I have a large audience, I feel extremely responsible that I disclose things and disclose these, these kind of investments and stuff like that. And as I said, I put it, I am still putting together like that little website that I have that.
00:13:29.016 - 00:13:51.456, Speaker A: Just got to get it done. That actually lists what assets that I hold, like, not just the private investments that I made, but what liquid assets I currently hold and stuff like that. And then. Yeah, I mean, it's funny because when I sold 25% of my git coin airdrop, I was, like, radically transparent about that in the Discord channel. And I even said, like, here's how much I made, here's how much I'm paying in tax. This is my net. And I don't know, I just feel a responsibility to do that.
00:13:51.456 - 00:14:14.788, Speaker A: But you won't get that from most people. Unfortunately, most people will not tell you when they're selling. They'll pump something up to you even after they've sold. Maybe they have more tokens left and they want to sell some more there, but they won't tell you when. When they've kind of, like, offloaded their positions, but they will tell you when they've bought because, I mean, you know, when they buy because they'll be shilling it. I mean, they would have already bought. I mean, there's a saying that goes, fill before shill.
00:14:14.788 - 00:14:48.380, Speaker A: So fill yourself, fill your buys, and then start shilling it to your audience. So if you ever see people talking about something on Twitter, an asset or whatever, it doesn't have to be an ERC 20 token. It can be like an NFT or whatever. I guarantee you that, you know, nine times out of ten, this person has already loaded their bags and they're showing it to you because they want their bags to go up, especially those with a larger audience, especially those that are kind of like, pseudonymous on Twitter. They have, like, a random profile picture that the real name isn't attached to it or anything like that. They're taking advantage of that. And I'm not saying it's everyone, but it's a lot of people, unfortunately.
00:14:48.380 - 00:15:12.044, Speaker A: So, yeah, hopefully that gives a bit of color there on that kind of topic. Don't know what's going to happen with Nate. I mean, the reason why I thought this was so weird that Nate would do this is Opensea is a rocket ship company. They have growth that makes all kinds of investors eyes water. It's just ridiculous. And apparently they're looking to not do a token. They're looking for an equity exit, which means going public.
00:15:12.044 - 00:15:45.084, Speaker A: And, you know, it's safe to say that they. That Opensea is going to be worth tens of billions of dollars if it was to go public. Now, Nate, being the head of product at this company, would have equity in it. And his equity stake is potentially worth, you know, probably tens of millions of dollars, if not more, depending on how high the valuation goes. And he apparently only made, I think, 19 ETH from this insider trading. It just seems really weird that he would do this, especially knowing that, you know, if he got caught, he would probably lose his equity stake in open sea and he would get fired and all that sort of stuff. So it's just.
00:15:45.084 - 00:16:01.384, Speaker A: It's super weird. I don't get it. It feels like. I don't know. I'd love to hear his explanation for this, but I don't know if we'd actually get that. But yeah, it's just. It's just super weird and it's a shitty thing to happened, but I think we'll see what happens with him in the, in the days going forward, maybe.
00:16:01.384 - 00:16:40.218, Speaker A: And yeah, generally, just keep in mind that this stuff kind of stuff is rampant within the industry. It is not unique to open seas, not unique to Nate, not unique at all. It is everywhere, unfortunately. Anyway, I'm going to move on from that topic for today to something else that I wanted to talk about, something more positive, which was this tweet from April here. Hopefully I said your name right there. He works at smart contracts development at Zappify here, but he basically put a tweet out where he said iPhone prices in ETH at their launch. And you can see here the iPhone Six S, which was released on the 25 September 2015, had a price of 690.41
00:16:40.218 - 00:16:55.418, Speaker A: ETH. And at the time, I think ETH was trading around $0.94 back then. If I'm kind of like doing my math correctly in my head, $0.94 for ETH. God. And then you can kind of go down the list here and see iPhone seven was 57 ETH and then iPhone eleven was 3.7
00:16:55.418 - 00:18:03.444, Speaker A: and then iPhone 13, the one that was just announced 0.24 ETH. Now, the reason I wanted to talk about this is this is something that I wrote a newsletter about today in the Daily Gray newsletter, and I titled it low Time Preference, which essentially is a concept of that bitcoin has kind of like been, I guess, championing for quite a while, where they basically say that if you have a low time preference, you're putting more emphasis on the long term than you are on the short term and vice versa. If you have a high time preference, you're putting more emphasis on the short term over the long term. Now, I always try to kind of like bestow upon refuel watchers and listeners, the advantages of thinking long term, especially in an industry that feels like it takes an eternity to do anything because this industry is so incredibly fast paced. But if you zoom out and kind of look at where we've come from, especially on, I guess, like the investment side of things, it's quite crazy because 20, September 25, 2015 was what, six years ago, and you could buy, I mean, I think the original iPhone six s was $649 for the base model. So you could buy 690 ETH with that instead of buying the iPhone six s.
00:18:03.444 - 00:18:34.026, Speaker A: And then two years later you would have, sorry, six years later you would have 2.4, I think, million dollars from that investment. Now, don't get me wrong, this is like not a one to one equivalent thing here, because like, back in the day, I mean, at that time, ETH was incredibly risky as an investment. I mean, anyone who held since then has, like their diamond hands have diamond hands. Like, it's, it's very unlikely that most people held since then. And also an iPhone offered you much more utility than ETH did back then. The Ethereum network back then was nothing, essentially.
00:18:34.026 - 00:19:03.528, Speaker A: There was hardly anything you could do on it. I mean, it was super early. The network had been live for like three or four months and you could, you couldn't really do anything with your ETH. So. Yeah, but I mean, the utility kind of like, argument doesn't fall into this at all. But then you can see over the years that as ether has gone up in value and as more iPhones have come out, I mean, really, you would have been, just been better off buying ETH pretty much any of these years. I mean, obviously during the bear market, it might, may have been better off buying an iPhone instead of ETH, just briefly, but then it just keeps going down.
00:19:03.528 - 00:19:48.260, Speaker A: You can see that's, that's the kind of trend here. But I guess on the topic of low time preference, the reason why I try to kind of like push this on everyone, I'm not push it on everyone, but kind of like try to advise people to take a more long term look, is because there are countless examples out there of people with a short time preference or, sorry, a high time preference, short term outlook that have gotten themselves blown up and have kind of like exited the industry, only to come back later and regret it. So, for example, if you're a trader and you're trying to trade things, especially on leverage, you can blow yourself up really, really easily. And then what happens when you blow yourself up? But one or two things happen. You try to, one, you may, you may take it in stride and be like, okay, well, I'm going to build my position back up. This is fine. Or two, you kind of like, say, oh, screw this, I'm wrecked.
00:19:48.260 - 00:20:14.664, Speaker A: I'm just going to exit this industry altogether. And then you might come back later and be like, wow, why did I do that? Like, I should have stuck around, you know, and I've experienced this myself from earlier on when I kind of, I didn't blow myself up in 2014 when bitcoin kind of, like, crashed from its all time high back then. But I did sell what BTC I had, and I missed ETH until early 2017, and I regret that. I really do. And I've been trying to make up for that ever since. And I think I have made up for it at this point. But still, it's definitely a big regret on my end.
00:20:14.664 - 00:21:15.580, Speaker A: And that's why, you know, and if I had just taken the longer term approach, if I had just stuck around in this industry, I would have, you know, from back then and from 2014, I would have had both incredible, you know, growth on the investment side, but also on the social side as well, which I have now because I stuck around since, since the, you know, the kind of like, bear market in 2018 and 2019. But, like, I think the perfect example of something that may feel like it, you know, it takes forever and kind of like, and then once it actually happens, it feels like it's always been with us is AIP 1559. So, you know, you guys know that 1559 took, what, two plus years to come to the theorem Mainnet from, I think, May 2019 to like, July 20, sorry, August 2021. So over two years. And during that time, we had a brutal bear market, right? 2019 was really brutal. 2020 was still pretty shitty until like, mid 2020. And all throughout that time, we, yeah, we had the weak ETH price action.
00:21:15.580 - 00:21:49.336, Speaker A: We had lots of misinformation about Ethereum. We had constant fud. We had doubts about 1559 even ever getting to Mainnet. But now that it went live, six weeks later, we've burned over 300,000 ETH, which is over a billion dollars worth of ethanol. So see how that kind of thing happens where it may have felt like an eternity for those two and a bit years, but now that it's live, it, no one really talks about 1559 too much anymore because it's live, it's doing what it's supposed to do. And it's obviously still very bullish because it's just burning Ethan in perpetuity. But it kind of, like, feels like, okay, well, we did that.
00:21:49.336 - 00:22:33.410, Speaker A: What's next sort of thing. So if you take the longer term outlook and kind of like have that low time preference, you benefit from this. Because if you had done that in 2019, if you had bought ETH back then, anywhere from one to $200, which is what it traded at for most of 2019, sometimes it traded at as high as like 360, but only briefly during, I think, like mid year. So if you had bought kind of like during 2019, even 2020, up until like mid 2020, between one to $300, let's say. I mean, you're sitting on at least over a ten x at this point, even if you bought at $300, which is an incredible return for what, like two years, one to two years or something, depending where you bought two and a half years maybe at most there. And that's just because you took the longer term outlook, you took the longer term view. And not only did you benefit from that as well, I mean, you were part of the ecosystem.
00:22:33.410 - 00:23:21.890, Speaker A: You got to benefit from everything. If you played it right, benefit from being early to defy, being early to nfts and of course, obviously being early to eat and stuff like that and everything else within this ecosystem. And if you, you know, chose to grow your own personal brand during that time, then, you know, you, you had like a really great job, really great way of doing that as well. And it's just funny because we've been talking about proof of stake for a long time as well, even longer than 1559 that went live in December, and now we're just talking about the merge, and everyone's really hyped about that. It feels like it's taking kind of like forever. But once it happens, you know, we will have all been, like very much better off by having a low time preference because the merge, in my mind, is like 100 times more bullish than 1559 is for the price of ETH. But not only that, it also, it also takes Ethereum off proof of work, which has a number of benefits in my eyes.
00:23:21.890 - 00:23:54.726, Speaker A: And it basically de risks ethereum absolutely massively. For a lot of institutional investors who may be viewing this as like a major upgrade, that could, that could go very wrong, which, you know, I mean, to be fair, it could go very wrong. There is always that possibility. But once that happens, I think that the, the execution risk and just like risk around Ethereum in general goes way, way down. And then after that we focus on getting sharding out the door and other kind of like such upgrades. So, yeah, always pays to have a low time preference within crypto, of course, and thinking more about the long term. Anyway, I'm going to move on from that for today.
00:23:54.726 - 00:24:18.590, Speaker A: So Bartek here put together a really great thread about kind of like arbitrum and what their sequencer going down meant for people. Kind of like for that hour that it was kind of like down. And this thread, I mean, I'll link it in the YouTube description. You can go check it out. But he basically says here the arbitrum chain effectively reduced itself to l one ethereum with regards to cost and speed, but it never stopped working. Right. And I mentioned this on a refill the other day.
00:24:18.590 - 00:24:53.044, Speaker A: So he goes, how is this possible? And why does the L two B website claim that users should propose blocks when the operator is down? Well, the operator. So, I mean, like the sequencer being down didn't, doesn't mean that the validators were down. So you were still able to kind of like get your transactions in on layer one. Yes, the costs were obviously higher and everything like that, but because the validators were still online, it was all well and good, right, which are basically like the, the kind of like things that validate the transactions. Of course, the sequencer kind of puts together the transactions and stuff like that. But this thread does a really great job of breaking it down on the technical level here. So I recommend reading this.
00:24:53.044 - 00:25:26.176, Speaker A: But this just again speaks to the fact that L2s on Ethereum are the correct way to scale Ethereum. It means that we can keep layer one as decentralized and secure as possible, so that we have like a basically 0% chance of layer one going offline. And then if the L2s go offline, the users are still safe. So they get to enjoy the benefits of scale and they get to enjoy the benefits of Ethereum security and decentralization, which I go on about a lot, of course, but definitely read this thread from Bartek. It was a really great overview of what happened with arbitrum the other day. A little bit of a teaser here from. Oh, I gotta put that down there.
00:25:26.176 - 00:26:36.222, Speaker A: A little bit of a teaser here from Jasper, who basically put together a social interface for the Internet of value, which is like a mock up of Twitter. You can see on the video here where he's basically just created a mockup wallet within, within Twitter, and kind of like, it looks very similar to like the Rainbow Wallet, which I think is what inspired him on this. And he's got videos of like different NFTs kind of being able to be displayed on Twitter through an integrated wallet it does look very similar to Rainbow, but he does mention here that, you know, the concept borrows from, from what Rainbow is doing, which is a mobile wallet app. But this is really cool and unfortunately I don't think this is going to ever happen because Jack does, is a bitcoin maximalist. So unfortunately I don't think this is going to happen. But I mean, this is just another reason why we need more web thing, three native tools, because don't like the fact that there's someone at the helm and it's, you know, of Twitter, it's totally centralized and, you know, there's a very low chance that they would integrate something like this, but this is solely needed and this would be really cool for people to kind of like integrate with their Twitter profiles because we're all sitting on Twitter all the time, you know, why not have your wallet there? Like how amazing would that be? And have your NFT collection there so people can come and look at your wallet, look at your NFT collection or within the Twitter app. I think that would be really awesome, but, you know, not holding my breath for that.
00:26:36.222 - 00:27:06.076, Speaker A: But still, really cool mock ups here, I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go watch the full videos if you'd like. All right, so Oasis has announced that their new feature called Oasis multiply is now live. So you can now increase your exposure up to four times in a single click on Maker. So for those who don't know, Oasis is an interface into the Makerdao smart contracts. We, I use this all the time when I'm interacting with Maker. But essentially what this allows you to do is, you know, obviously put ethers, collateral within maker, borrow, die against it.
00:27:06.076 - 00:27:44.638, Speaker A: But with their new multiply feature basically allows you to, you know, redeposit your collateral deposit, your collateral and get, and get kind of like four times leverage on your ETH automatically for like leverage trading. And, you know, it maintains the security of the Maker protocol as well. So you can see here, there's, there's details about like how, how Oasis multiply functions and how it all works and everything like that and how kind of like it all handles it for you in the background here and how it all works under the hood. So definitely go check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. I'm going to get through the rest of this stuff quickly because I'm coming up on time here. Sanket from, from Polygon announced that the Polygon PoS bridge widget is now live.
00:27:44.638 - 00:28:38.744, Speaker A: So any dapps that can use this bridge wizard widget and integrate this directly into their app so that they can allow users to bridge between ETH and the Polygon Pos chain via the widgets. You can see here that if you're, I guess, like an app, like say, this is uniswap, if, for example, you're uniswap front end, you can integrate this bridge right into your app and then allow users to kind of like bridge in or out of the network without having to go to somewhere else. Like, obviously right now you would have to go to the bridge itself on a different kind of like, web page. But this kind of like allows developers to integrate this directly into the app, which I think is great because this is the kind of seamless Ux and user experience that we want to see when it comes to these bridges. We don't want to have to send people to different websites and different kind of like, places in order to bridge. We want them to be able to bridge from directly within the apps that they're trying to use on these different networks. So I think that was a really cool release here from Polygon.
00:28:38.744 - 00:29:21.766, Speaker A: And then finally the block put out this kind of like, piece today saying that binance is abandoning the concept of a decentralized headquarters after some regulators think it's dodgy. This is just continuing the kind of like reckoning that binance is facing from regulators. And it's funny because I always kind of like, thought whenever Binance said this and saying, oh, we're a decentralized headquarter, we're not actually based anywhere physically. I was kind of like, well, that's total bullshit because, I mean, if this is true, you're going to get absolutely wrecked by regulators. And it turns out it's not true. Regulators think it's dodgy that binance is actually just like trying to perpetuate this narrative as kind of like some kind of marketing, of course. And, you know, as I said, this just continues the, the kind of high regulatory pressure that seems to, that binance seems to be under right now.
00:29:21.766 - 00:29:40.918, Speaker A: And it's really been like a fall from grace. I mean, even at the start of the year, everyone was kind of like talking about binance. They were loving CZ, they were talking about binance smart chain. And, and it felt like, you know, he was, he could do anything. And I remember saying to friends at the time, like, I think Cz is flying too close to the sun right now and he's getting too cocky. And it seems he did. The regulators came for him.
00:29:40.918 - 00:30:00.024, Speaker A: Like, he's not doing Defi, he's doing c five. Of course they're going to go after him. And I actually think there's a few other people in this industry right now that are doing this and I'll name one of them. I think SPF is doing this with, with, with, with FTX and stuff like that. He's not, I mean he plays it smarter. He doesn't do kind of like these sorts of things. But I definitely think he's playing, he's flying too close to the sign.
00:30:00.024 - 00:30:34.430, Speaker A: He's definitely going to already have the attention of regulators given how big FTX is and how big it's getting and how many, kind of like how visible he's making the exchange through kind of like, I guess sports partnerships and stuff like that and very heavy advertising. But maybe nothing comes of it. Who knows? Maybe he's already kind of like dot his eyes and crossed his tears and he's learned from, from CZ here. But generally, if the regulators are going to go after anything, they're going to go after the easier targets. And for them, there's no easier target than exchanges. And you know, I don't think FTX is based in the US. They do have a US subsidiary, but I don't think it really matters.
00:30:34.430 - 00:31:05.816, Speaker A: At the end of the day, I think regulators, no matter where they are in the US or otherwise, are going to go after decentralized ports of entry first and then they'll try and go after Defi and they'll discover they really can't if it's actually defi, if it's actually decentralized finance. And then they'll just revert back to going after the more centralized things like exchanges and stable coins, even some of these centralized stable coins. But anyway, I think it's just like funny to see that this continues. And I'm going to keep an eye on the regulations, of course, because that's a big deal in crypto always. But I think I'm going to end it there for today. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:31:05.816 - 00:31:11.424, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
