00:00:00.160 - 00:00:40.360, Speaker A: Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of the deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 1 February 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So there seems to be a bit of confusion still, well, maybe a lot of confusion still around how beacon chain withdrawals are actually going to work. Now I explained this I think last week or the week before about how there are two different types of withdrawals. There are going to be partial withdrawals and full withdrawals. Now without going into all the details again, the, the TRDR is that partial withdrawals happen automatically and cycle through all validators, which basically all validators from index zero to the current index being cycled through every week on average right now.
00:00:40.360 - 00:01:19.978, Speaker A: Now obviously as more validators are added, that time will get, get longer and longer. But what that does is it basically automatically withdraws, automatically pays out all of your accrued consensus layer rewards to your withdrawal address. So if you're a staker today, let's just say you're a solo staker and you have withdrawal address set. You currently have access to the execution layer rewards because they go directly, they get paid directly to every time you propose a block. And obviously the MEV rewards are part of that as well. Now with the consensus layer rewards, they have been locked since the beacon chain launched. And that is what is, that is part of what is unlocking when withdrawals are enabled.
00:01:19.978 - 00:02:04.120, Speaker A: And that, as I said, that partial withdrawals is going to happen automatically. There's nothing that you need to do and if you're with an LSD, everything happens automatically anyway. So there was nothing you need to do there either. Now when it comes to full withdrawals, this is the withdrawals that I think people think apply to partial withdrawals as well. It's when the user basically initiates the withdrawal themselves and withdraws everything, not just the consensus layer rewards, but also the 32 ETH that he staked. So basically let's say you have 32 ETH stake and you have two ETH worth of consensus layer rewards at time of issuing that withdrawal, which I mean will rarely happen actually. It won't actually happen like that post withdrawals because everything will just continuously be partially withdrawn and you'll never get to the two ETH again.
00:02:04.120 - 00:03:03.460, Speaker A: But just, I'm going off on a tangent here just on the, for the, for the sake of the argument, let's say you have 34 ETH and then 32 ETH is your principal and then the two ETH is your consensus layer rewards and you initiate a withdrawal, it will withdraw all of that once it's gone through, obviously, the withdrawal queue. Right? So those are the two different things. They're partial withdrawals and full withdrawals. Now, there are discussions obviously still around what, how much ETH is going to be withdrawn post withdrawals? Well, we can safely say, and I mean, we can certainly say it's not even safely say that. You don't even have to assume here that 1 million, around 1,000,008th worth of consensus layer rewards will be automatically swept and paid out within the first week because those are the rewards that have accrued since the beacon chain went live. And as I said, it takes about a week to run through all validators. So once that happens, that 1 million ETH will be able to be either restaked or sold or, you know, people just want to hold it, whatever they want to do with it, that is free to roam.
00:03:03.460 - 00:03:47.086, Speaker A: Now, the big question mark of something that we can't say with any real certainty, and I've discussed this on the refill before with a bunch of different factors that go into this, is the full withdrawals, like how many people are actually going to withdraw that 32 ETH from the beacon chain and how much of that is going to get sold. Now, we know that there is a percentage of solo stakers. Obviously they will initiate their own withdrawals and we don't know how many of those are going to be selling their ETH. I don't think there's actually going to be many of those that sell, but it remains to be seen. Right. And then with the LSD's, it really just depends on which kind of, like users initiate withdrawals and how that's actually set up. Like, for example, Lido will have their own way to do it, Rocketball will have it has its own way to do it, Coinbase has its own way to do it and all that stuff there.
00:03:47.086 - 00:04:32.942, Speaker A: But really the times where withdrawals will actually spike will be when the secondary market is trading out of lockstep with its fair value, so to speak. So when you can basically arbitrage between the beacon chain and the secondary market and vice versa there. So it really is, as I've discussed plenty of times on the refill before, extremely difficult to know what that's going to look like. I personally think that it's really going to be a nothing burger. There's not going to be that much stake or that much eat steak withdrawn from the beacon chain and, and the de risking event that's coming with withdrawals being enabled will probably lead to a net inflow very, very quickly. I actually don't expect us to see a net outflow, you know, maybe, maybe past the first few weeks of withdrawals being live. And even then I struggle to really see if there's going to be a net outflow there.
00:04:32.942 - 00:04:55.446, Speaker A: But that is just the ETH at stake. That is not the reward. So I'm only talking about the 32 ETH. That's part of all the validators as stake. I'm not talking about their accrued rewards because as I said, because of the way partial withdrawals works, their accrued rewards are automatically paid out. This isn't the users withdrawing them. They are automatically swept off every validator, you know, each, every week.
00:04:55.446 - 00:05:16.644, Speaker A: Right? Every kind of like seven days. Yeah. Rough, rough estimate there. So because of that, it may look like people are quote unquote, withdrawing from the beacon chain, but that's not actually what is happening in terms of the classical, I guess, definition of withdrawals. What's happening is that they're just getting their rewards right. And that's, that's totally fine. I guess like an analogy here would be to use proof of work.
00:05:16.644 - 00:05:55.016, Speaker A: It would be like the proof of work. Miners, they get their rewards, right? They get the fees and the block reward paid out to them. But for them to fully withdraw from the, from mining, they would sell their asics, for example. Right? That's the analogy here. Whereas to fully withdraw from ETH staking, you would withdraw your ETH. I mean, you don't have to sell it, but I mean, a lot of the times people will probably sell it if they're withdrawing it because don't know what else they're really going to be doing with it, especially with LSD's, because what if you're not going to withdraw and then restake it to get an LSD and then go use that LSD within Defi, then most likely you're just withdrawing it to sell it. I don't really see many other reasons to not be staking your, your ETH, right.
00:05:55.016 - 00:06:41.674, Speaker A: If you're already kind of like staking it there. So there's that as well. Now, the reason why I'm talking about this again is because Tim Bico put out a tweet where he said, where he basically asked phineomatics to make a video on beacon chain withdrawals. And I think this was prompted by me messaging Tim and being like, hey man, it'd be really cool if we had a better explainer of how withdrawals worked maybe an official blog post from the Ethereum foundation because there's a lot of confusion out there. And then he, you know, he tweeted this and he also put together a nice little set of criteria that he would like to see in the video, which I'll link in the YouTube description below as well for you to, to read. This goes into the details of how both those types of withdrawals works there. But, but yeah, this is something that I think is, is going to be confused and even used as part of some sort of FUD campaigns post withdrawals.
00:06:41.674 - 00:07:27.370, Speaker A: Especially because it isn't necessarily easy to understand because there are intricacies to these sorts of things. It's not like you can immediately get what's happening. And also if you don't understand how Ethereum proof of stake works to begin with, it's definitely going to be very hard to understand it. And usually, as we've seen over the years in Ethereum, if something is more difficult to understand than say, I guess like a very basic thing that people are used to in the crypto space, it gets twisted and turned and people, you know, use it to push their own narratives in their own I guess, Fud, so to speak. But regardless of that, I'm pretty confident that everyone that listens and watches the refuels should be aware by now that as I said, there are two types of withdrawals. One is automated, one is user initiated. And the automated one is only for the rewards the user initiated.
00:07:27.370 - 00:08:02.758, Speaker A: One is for that 32 ETH that you need to stake plus any rewards that are there obviously when the withdrawal is, is processed there. But yeah, that's, that's, that's the way it is there. So I'm going to move on from that one. I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out. All right, so speaking of withdrawals, the jejung testnet is now live and there is a block explorer from beacon chain that is live as well. So you can go to Jejang Beacon chain I guess like dot beacon, Cha dot in and check it out for yourself and check out how everything's going here. Now this isn't, I guess like hit Genesis yet.
00:08:02.758 - 00:08:42.622, Speaker A: So it's live in the fact that it's, it's out there, the software is out there, everyone can I guess, set up, validates and participate or whatever, but it's not currently live and that's happening in just under 3 hours from now where Genesis happens. And then the testnet will be, will be going ahead there. So basically this is just an explorer to monitor that. So if you are watching this when you know some of you are probably watching this or listening to this when it's already gone live, you can go visit this big, this block Explorer website to check how everything's gone. We're not really expecting to see any turbulence here. As I said, it's a testnet, right? It's obviously not main or anything like that, but we're not expecting to see any turbulence on this testnet. But still cool to see how things are going here.
00:08:42.622 - 00:09:33.690, Speaker A: And if there are errors that pop up, they'll be able to be traced and we'll be able to fix them as time goes on. All right, so Lodestar version one 4.0 is now live and with this release, Lodestar is set to become the fifth official consensus client on the Ethereum foundation staking launchpad. What this means is basically we now have five production ready official consensus layer clients for Ethereum, which brings us up from four that we've had in the past. So now we have five and we have four on the execution layer side of things. There are more than that. There are some other clients on the execution and consensus layer side, but they aren't quote unquote officially supported and they aren't I guess like on the Ethereum foundation staking Launchpad because they're not considered up to scratch with the other validator clients out there or with the other consensus layer clients, I should say.
00:09:33.690 - 00:10:17.136, Speaker A: So I guess that they aren't put on that website. But now Lodestar is on that website and if you were interested in basically trying out the most minority client you can on the consensus layer side of things, load star is the go here. Now just disclosure or disclaimer? I should say I haven't tried out Lodestar before myself, but I am definitely keen to do so. I have new, a bunch of new validators I need to spin up and a bunch of new mini pools that I'd like to spin up as well. So I'll decide what I do there. But I'm definitely going to give Lodestar a go and I definitely want to switch back to Nethermind and one of my staking setups as well now that they've fixed a lot of their memory issues. As I said, as I've said before, I did have to go back to geth because of those particular memory issues there.
00:10:17.136 - 00:11:13.502, Speaker A: But yeah, I'm excited to play around with this stuff and excited to play around with clients, especially when I get my Proteus device, which is being made by Joe from the rocker pool community. You may have seen a bunch of these devices on Twitter. I know superfizz already has his and a couple of other community members have theirs, but I'll be hopefully getting mine relatively soon as well. And it's basically a rock five b board in a 3d printed case, a bit of customization to it built by, by Joe. So I'm hoping to set that up as potentially another rocket pool, I guess set of validators there, or maybe just a set of solo validators because for, I guess, meet space reasons I can say I have to set up a secondary solo staking pc, which is actually really annoying. But then I thought, oh wow, I can actually do that with the Proteus, which is very cool because I wasn't entirely sure how I would have my Proteus set up, but now I know I'm going to be having it set up with solo validators and potentially some rocker pool. Mini pools are there as well.
00:11:13.502 - 00:12:20.998, Speaker A: But anyway, enough on the tangent there, if you want to try out Lodestar version 1.4 for yourself, it's now live. I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out the blog post and learn more about this. All right, so speaking of superfizz and staking, generally superfizz put out a tweet today where he said how to decentralize LSD staking and he put bring up two points, develop five plus trustless, decentralized, permissionless open source fractional staking platforms like Rocketpool and Stakewise V three, and include the best solutions in an index token that can be used in defi iterating on index co ops ds ETH. So I obviously fully agree with this. I don't know if we're going to get five or more of these decentralized staking pool platforms or fractional staking platforms, because when you go past a certain number within, with a lot of these things within crypto, it becomes a lot harder to gain adoption. I mean, when you look at the way the decentralized LSD's are today, because of the fact that they're trying to be decentralized, they're a lot less, I guess, capital efficient, at least for the time being then their centralized counterparts.
00:12:20.998 - 00:12:43.254, Speaker A: And they have to, they can't really take the shortcuts that their centralized counterparts can take. So I, and it's actually much harder to build these things. Right. And there, there are different kind of intricacies that you have to consider and all that sorts of stuff. So I'm not sure if we're going to get five or more of these things. I would be very surprised if we got five of them that were actively used. Maybe we get five that are built out.
00:12:43.254 - 00:13:37.680, Speaker A: But in terms of the, which ones have the majority market share, I would say you would probably have two, three maximum in terms of the most market share here. Just by virtue of the fact that network effect and liquidity begetting liquidity, I just don't think we're going to get that many now in saying that you can actually build other platforms on top of these things which allow them to get even more adoption, allow them to grow even more than their centralized counterparts. So. And I believe this is definitely going to happen, especially post withdrawals. But yeah, as much as we would love to live in the world where we have five or more of these things, maybe we will over the long, long term. But just if you look at how long it took rocker pool to get to where it is, if you look at how difficult it is for, it's been traditionally for rocker pool to scale and to compete, even though they have like everything going for them and obviously they're improving all the time and they have a really great community. Can you replicate that four more times is kind of what I'm saying.
00:13:37.680 - 00:14:07.240, Speaker A: Right. Can you have a rocker pool like solution and community four more times? I don't think you can do that. Just like I don't think you, you can have Ethereum's, I guess, like community and Ethereum's network effect and values and everything around it more than maybe two or three times. Right. We've seen what happens with a lot of the l ones or pretty much all of them. They all pretty much fade to irrelevance because they don't have those missionaries over mercenaries, as I've discussed before. But yeah, I'm willing to and open to being, I guess, proven wrong here.
00:14:07.240 - 00:14:49.526, Speaker A: But just based on what I've seen and extrapolating out some things, I just don't think we're going to have like five or more that are completely dominant. I, I don't think that was what Superfizz was saying here either. He obviously just would love to see it happen, but it's not like he's giving a comment on whether he thinks it's going to happen or not happen. But I thought I'd add my comment there because I believe that we should generally, I guess like aim for this, for the stars, so to speak, but settle with them for the moon. I think that's a good analogy, I aim for the stars. If you can't get to the stars, okay, and we got to the moon, that's enough, right? Because the higher you aim, right, the hopefully the closer you can get to that target. But if you were only aiming for the moon, maybe you'd only get to like the stratosphere, for example.
00:14:49.526 - 00:15:30.346, Speaker A: But if you aim for the stars, you aim for the sun, maybe you get to the moon. And it's a crude analogy, but I think it works. Now, moving on to the second point about these other products, like what index cop has done with DSE, which I discussed the other day, how they're basically incentivizing. Sorry, have a, have an index that has the liquid staking tokens in it and waiting it based on a bunch of different criteria, I think that's great. And I think there's going to be other products that are built on top of this as well. I hope that the institutional grade ETH staking products don't just go the easy way, or I guess like the comfortable way of going with Coinbase alone, or going with binance or Kraken alone, or going with lido alone. I hope that they will spread out their stake.
00:15:30.346 - 00:16:13.570, Speaker A: I hope that they'll take advantage of technologies like DVT. I hope that they'll actually be clued in enough to know that by going with the minority solutions helps, I guess, like the decentralization of Ethereum helps the health of Ethereum and in turn will also help the value of both their e stake and also the rewards that they're going to get, because Ethereum remains a credibly neutral active network. And that should lead to an increased yield from the fear of when you're right, from more stuff being built on Ethereum. So, I mean, I don't have like that much faith in institutional players are going to be able to be clued into that. We have to educate them. But if they think more longer term, I think that'll be better overall for everyone there. But yeah, just, just something I want to talk about there from super fears.
00:16:13.570 - 00:16:51.244, Speaker A: It prompted me. And last thing about staking was that Hill Dobby has reworked his ETH staking dune analytics dashboard from the ground up. So the TLDR is that it's been migrated to Dune V two, it's open sourced tables on spellbook, added more entities that Hill Dobby uncovered, and added some charts. So you guys remember this dashboard, the v one of this dashboard that I have talked about a bunch of times on the refuel, covered it a bunch here. Well, with v two it's even better. So of course I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to go check out. But I think this is going to be a dashboard that I'm going to be very, very glued to, especially post withdrawals, because I really want to see how things evolve.
00:16:51.244 - 00:17:45.394, Speaker A: And as I said before, I think we're going to have to give it probably at least twelve months to see how things shake out after withdrawals. So I'm going to be monitoring it not, not every day, not every week, maybe month to month, but then I'm going to be doing a full review at the twelve month period to see if things actually shake down as I think they are. My two biggest, I guess, or most confident thesis is, is that we're going to have much more eats staked post withdrawals. And I've explained my reasoning behind that before. And then I think that bigger players like Lido are going to lose dominance post withdrawals to, to other players and we're going to, and because, and because of a bunch of different reasons. But those are my two kind of like strongly held beliefs. Now we'll see if I'm wrong or not in just over a year's time, right? I hope I'm not open to being wrong, of course, but I don't think they're actually too outlandish predictions there to say that more ETH is going to be staked and that we're going to have a more distributed beacon chain.
00:17:45.394 - 00:18:35.384, Speaker A: I actually think those two things are very realistic. I have more confidence in one than I do two, even though I'm fully confident in both of them. One is just an easier bet to make, I think, than two because like that doesn't, it wouldn't make any sense to me. We would have to be in a really, really deep like depression slash bear market in I guess like the global environment, not just crypto for there not to be more ETH staked, especially at the yields that Eat is currently has at five and a half pushing 6% sometimes yearly yield, ETH denominated yield. And if the demand comes back in the and the bull market comes back, that yield is just going to go even higher. I find it extremely hard to believe that we're not going to have more ethics staked in a year's time or over a little bit over a year's time than we do today. Whereas number two, I also find it very hard to believe that the beacon chain won't be more distributed post withdrawals.
00:18:35.384 - 00:19:06.116, Speaker A: But I don't have like as much confidence in that as I do in my number one kind of point that I brought up there, but still obviously very confident in that prediction as well. But anyway, we'll revisit in the going to move on from this. Now there's some news out of scroll. So scroll has developed an instance of Uniswap V three for users and developers to play around with on their pre alpha test net. Now I played around with this just before, actually it didn't take very long to spin up. It was about five minutes. And this was my first time playing around with the pre alpha test net.
00:19:06.116 - 00:19:31.330, Speaker A: I hadn't done so I mean I've been meaning to do so. I just kept putting it off. But it was very seamless, very smooth experience. Felt like I was on an l two with obviously those low fees and, and those fast transactions. This is a test net so obviously fees are going to be low. Anyway. Um, but just, just relative to, I guess, um, uh, uh, mainnet in general and relative to l one because what I did was I essentially connected to the scroll l one.
00:19:31.330 - 00:20:08.486, Speaker A: And then I, I got a four sets to give me some funds. Then I bridged those funds over to l two. Then I swapped some of the ETH that I got, the testnet ETH that I got for testnet USDC and it all worked really, really smoothly. So just great to see that this is a fully, I guess, like working uniswap v three on a scroll zkvm here in I guess like their pre alpha test net, which is the earliest of testnets. I mean, pre alpha and then alpha and then beta. You know, it's funny because they might just launch their main net as a beta, like a lot of the l two s have been doing or pretty much all of them have been doing. So I guess pre alpha seems to be in a very good state for what it is.
00:20:08.486 - 00:20:29.540, Speaker A: Then they'll move on to alpha later on. But anyway, enough babbling about that. You can go check this out for yourself. It's linked here at scroll IO slash pre alpha. I'll link it in the YouTube description as well for you to check out. All right, so a pretty big announcement out of immutable today. So they've introduced something called immutable passport, which they're calling your passport to the future of gaming.
00:20:29.540 - 00:21:29.762, Speaker A: They say. Here we are developing immutable passport, the instant non custodial wallet onboarding solution for web3 games designed to onboard the next billion users into web3. Now the TRDR of what passport is, is, and they say it here. Passport is a non custodial wallet and authentication tool designed for games that streamlines onboarding for gamers through passwordless sign on and automated wallet creation. It's the solution for making mainstream adoption possible. Now, the main features of this immutable passport product here is seamless player onboarding, secure non custodial wallet marketplace distribution, frictionless purchases, plug and play, scalability and access to gamers. So I think the reason, or at least the major reason why they're developing something like this is because a lot of the wallets leave a lot to be desired when it comes to just general usability, right? I mean, I was having this discussion with, with a team the other day about kind of wallets generally, and they were asking me, like, why do I still use metamask? Or why do my friends still use metamask? It's not for the user interface.
00:21:29.762 - 00:21:50.990, Speaker A: Like, not at all. I have never looked at metamask and be like, oh, I like how they do that. I like that interface. No, not once. Right? And I don't really use mobile wallet, so I don't really have an opinion on those other than what people have told me, because I'm definitely just a desktop user, but with metamask, I don't use vanilla metamask. I obviously do it through hardware wallets, but even then, it still uses the same interface. And like, I'm getting a different interface.
00:21:50.990 - 00:22:38.160, Speaker A: I'm just using the hardware wallet to sign the transactions, right. But yeah, I never looked at metamask and being like, I love the UI and I love the UX, but the reason I still use it and it's so sticky is because it's been around for so long. It's very reliable, it's very secure because it's been around for so long. It has been through so much over the years, and I'm just so used to using it and all my, I guess, like, wallets are there, and I have some kind of like, wallets there that I created yonks ago that still have some funds on them because trying to preserve privacy and all that sorts of stuff, and then to migrate everything over, it's a risky proposition because obviously you can use your seed phrase and migrate everything across if you want to and restore your wallet somewhere else. But I don't want to do that. Like, I hate doing that. Honestly, I hate doing anything with a seed phrase on a computer.
00:22:38.160 - 00:23:10.530, Speaker A: I always try to do everything offline, right? Or even at like an air gap station or something like that, um. So, yeah, and then because of this conversation, I basically said, like, it's right for the picking. Like, the wallet ecosystem is so right for disruption on the UI Ux front. And I think immutable has seen this too, especially when it comes to gaming and nfts, stuff like that. People don't want any friction there. They want to just be able to seamlessly onboard and seamlessly use any of the stuff that they are getting entertainment out of, whether that be the, I guess, crypto games or nfts or anything like that. So I think this is pretty cool.
00:23:10.530 - 00:24:04.437, Speaker A: What immutable is building here now. It definitely feels like we're getting to a point where there's just so many wallets and so many of these, I guess, the interfaces to interact with the chain that it becomes a diminishing returns kind of thing. But if there was one team, or I guess like one of the teams I would bet on to execute this correctly, it would be immutable. Because they are definitely trying to build for the mainstream with everything that they're doing, because they're doing things like crypto games and nfts, trying to onboard all these web two companies, all these traditional gaming companies into web3. And I think they have a very good read on what those companies want, what the users want, and hopefully they can succeed in bringing that to market with immutable passport here. But yeah, you can learn more about the immutable passport in this blog post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. All right, so Connext has put out a thread slash blog post today talking about how to provide liquidity to.
00:24:04.437 - 00:24:40.870, Speaker A: To help bootstrap the Connex network upgrade before the official launch on Thursday. Now this, I believe is the Amarok upgrade, which I spoke about a little while ago, but then was put on pause. So now they're saying that Connex is Amarok upgrade is in its final phase before full launch this Thursday. So very, very close to launching. So which is tomorrow, actually. So you can now help bootstrap liquidity on Ethereum, polygon, arbitrum, optimism, gnosis chain and BNB chain and this guide and this blog post and tweet thread, it tells you how to do that and how to get started with that. So if you are interested in being an LP here, this is definitely something that you should check out.
00:24:40.870 - 00:25:09.340, Speaker A: Now, two things here. One, Connects has already announced that they're doing a token called the next token. I don't know what the distribution of that is going to look like. I don't know if they're going to be airdropping it to people who provide liquidity, and I don't know what kind of liquidity rewards that they're going to be paying out here, but safe to say both of those things are probably going to happen. So maybe that's that piques your interest there about becoming an LP in Connext here. And for those of you who don't know, Connect is a cross chain kind of protocol, cross chain bridge protocol. And I've talked about them a bunch before.
00:25:09.340 - 00:26:06.396, Speaker A: And the second thing is that I'm an investor in Connext as well, and I should have said that I'm an investor in both immutable and scroll as well. I'm actually putting the finishing touches on that website that I've been talking about where I disclose all of these sorts of stuff so I don't have to mention it on the refill every time, but just wanted to disclose that for you guys as well, in case you weren't aware of that. But anyway, we'll link this connects thread and blog post in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, finally here an update out of Lyra, which again, I am an investor in, but just put it, just putting that out there as a disclosure. But what, what I wanted to talk about was what they announced today, and that is that they are now live on Arbitrum and have integrated with GMX, which is a very popular perpetual exchange that has been live on arbitram for quite a while now. So Lyra started life on optimism and they, and they were, they were only on optimism. They actually were never deployed to Ethereum Mainnet, and now they seem to be going, I guess, multi chain, but with multi l two s not on Mainnet.
00:26:06.396 - 00:26:42.706, Speaker A: I don't actually think Lyra will deploy to the theorem Mainnet. It doesn't seem like their product would actually even work there because of the higher fees and obviously the, the longer transaction confirmation because of the longer block times. So they're going cross l two here. So very, very cool to see them live on, on Arbitrum. Now, for those of you who don't know what Lyra is, it is a options protocol and it is part of the Synthetix network and part of the synthetics ecosystem on optimism. But now on arbitrum, I don't believe synthetix is live there. But because of that, I mean, that's why Lyra has partnered up with GMX, because synthetix isn't live there.
00:26:42.706 - 00:27:16.884, Speaker A: So they needed to partner up with another perpetual exchange here or another synthetic exchange in order to make their kind of product work. And it's great that they've teamed up with GMX because as I said, GMX is already extremely popular on arbitrary. It's probably the most popular thing on Arbitrum, if not one of the most popular things there. Apps, I should say app instead of thing. But yeah, if you are a Lyra user on optimism, maybe you want to try them out on arbitrum. If you are an arbitrary user and not an optimism user, well there you can try out Lyra for the first time now, which would be very cool to do. So you can go check that out.
00:27:16.884 - 00:27:30.404, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But yeah, I think that's it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Video a thumbs up, subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
