00:00:02.650 - 00:00:59.482, Speaker A: While everyone was busy arranging dates for the fight in Dubai and investigating who scammed who with Pokemon cards, Metallic Butrin was on Ethereum Research forum quietly publishing an entry titled EVM Optimistic Roll up using Truebit. Those who were early to spot the post grabbed some true tokens, but once it hit people's radars, well, you know, buy the rumor, sell the news, but here we talk the news. So what is true? Truebit is a blockchain enhancement which enables smart contracts to securely perform complex computations in standard programming languages at reduce gas costs. But what does that mean? You see, gas limits were introduced to Ethereum to incentivize transaction verification and prevent the verifier's dilemma. The current problem with gas limits is that it makes it impossible to perform huge computational tasks, as most ERC 721 based game mechanics demand on the blockchain. This is where Truebit steps in and takes the load and only submits the final transaction outcome to the blockchain. So essentially, Truebit offers a technology that helps Ethereum conduct heavy computation off chain.
00:00:59.482 - 00:01:48.462, Speaker A: On the forum, Vitalik proposes that an optimistic rollup of Ethereum two layer expansion scheme could be built on Truebit to solve the problem of repeated verification. He goes on to provide a basic protocol description, which is rather technical. Although Truebit's been in development for about four years, it's recently launched on the Ethereum mainnet. Vitalik has also been a collaborator on the trubit white paper and has discussed Trubit as a potential scaling solution for years now. But something doesn't feel right about the soft launch to be this groundbreaking of a project and have no official telegram or discord, and publish the launch through a medium article on Twitter after three months of inactivity just doesn't feel right. On top of this, their contract is running with a simple unmodified openzeppelin template, which is Openzeppelin's proxy contract template, and that allows that functionality to be changed. At the moment's noticed there's a whole r cryptocurrency post that goes in deeper to the sketchiness of it.
00:01:48.462 - 00:01:59.180, Speaker A: So if you're interested in that, you can find a link in the description below. You know how it goes. Stairs up, elevator down. This was Alp and that's it for today. Follow us on Telegram to keep up with the latest defi news and I'll see you next week.
