00:00:00.650 - 00:00:28.722, Speaker A: So now we know what a Bitcoin transaction looks like. We know its ingredients. So there's a sender, there's a receiver, both specified by their public keys. There's an amount to be transferred that's in Bitcoins. There's a pointer to the previous transaction that actually gave those coins to the sender to make sure that it really has those to send. And then there's a transaction fee as well, which we're sort of ignoring for now. And to be valid, the sender should actually own the coins that are being transferred.
00:00:28.722 - 00:01:17.074, Speaker A: And also it should be cryptographically signed by the sender so that nobody else can possibly forge that transaction. Only someone who knew the secret key of the sender could have generated a digital signature attached to that transaction. That's what it means for a transaction to be valid. And now all of the computers, all of the nodes participating in Bitcoin's peer to peer network, they literally keep track of every single Bitcoin transaction that has ever happened. They have a record of everything since the beginning of time, where time here is the beginning of 2009. And the word for this, the word for kind of all the valid transactions that have ever happened, that's known as the ledger, right? So you can think of it as conceptually. It's just like a binder where someone's written down every transaction that ever happened line by line.
00:01:17.074 - 00:02:08.700, Speaker A: So it's a digital version of a binder of that type. So various questions come to mind. So, like, one question would be, okay, so if the ledger is all of the authorized transactions, who gets to decide which transactions are authorized? Who's the authorizer? Normally, in the real world, that would be done by a centralized authority, like, say, a bank. Question number two, which seems very different, is, where do Bitcoins come from anyways? So who prints bitcoins? Right? So again, in the real world, this would be done by a central bank, by a government. Again, a centralized authority. So, amazingly, Bitcoin does both of those two things with no centralized authority. And even more amazingly, it covers both of those bases in one fell swoop with a common idea.
00:02:08.700 - 00:02:38.370, Speaker A: Now, transactions are not added to the ledger one at a time. Rather, they're added in groups known as blocks. So let me tell you about the ingredients of a block in Bitcoin's ledger. So the first ingredient of the block, the main contents, are its transactions. So it's going to be a bunch of transactions, at least one. A typical amount would be, say, one to 2000 transactions appearing in a block. There's a hard cap of 1 block size.
00:02:38.370 - 00:03:22.738, Speaker A: And so that's what results in the 1000 transactions. If you have some free time and you dig around, you can see that a lot of blood and ink has been spilled over exactly what the block size in Bitcoin should be. But for the dominant strain of Bitcoin, it's a 1 MB cap, the second ingredient of a block is it specifies a different block, which it deems its predecessor. So a block says, here are my transactions. And it also says, by the way, here is this other block which I want to immediately follow in the ledger. And then the final ingredient of a block that we're going to have to worry about is something known as a nonce nonce. That stands for number used once.
00:03:22.738 - 00:03:57.738, Speaker A: And so that's just going to be a bunch of extra gobbledygook we can stick in the block if we want. Why would we ever do that? You'll see in a second when we get to mining on the next slide. And so now already at this point, knowing this much about bitcoin, you can see why it's called a blockchain. What are the blocks? Those are these groups of transactions that are added to the ledger one group at a time. Those are the blocks. Why the chain? Well, it's because each block specifies the block that comes before it. So from a block you can keep going backwards, say, oh, what's the preceding block? What's the preceding block? Et cetera.
00:03:57.738 - 00:04:22.594, Speaker A: And that gives you a chain of blocks. So for example, in this cartoon, this is a blockchain with three blocks. We have the most recent block, b three. It claims that its preceding block is b two. B two claims that its preceding block is b one. You might wonder how this process gets ever gets ever stops. Well, part of the description of the bitcoin protocol is what's known as the Genesis blocks.
00:04:22.594 - 00:05:21.922, Speaker A: That would be like the block b one in this cartoon. So all roads go back to the Genesis block, so that's the blockchain blocks, groups of transactions, chain. That's sort of how these blocks get sequenced by the protocol, by tracing back these references to preceding blocks. All right, so now you're probably wondering, so where did these blocks come from? Like, who gets to decide what b four is going to be and also who gets to decide what are the contents of b four? So which transactions get included in a block and who adds that block to the blockchain? Who actually authorizes those transactions? Well, the key idea is simple but brilliant. The first part of the idea is to use an economic incentive. So there's going to be parties known as miners and they're going to be working hard to add these blocks to the blockchain. So they're going to be monitoring all of the transactions.
00:05:21.922 - 00:05:56.760, Speaker A: They're going to be collecting those transactions into a block. And as we'll see, they'll have to do a lot of work on top of that. But in any case, these miners will eventually add a block to the blockchain. And whenever they do that, they will be rewarded by the protocol. Rewarded how? Rewarded using bitcoins. At the same time, we're really going to make the miners sing for their supper. They're really going to have to work to add one of these blocks to the blockchain.
00:05:56.760 - 00:06:53.384, Speaker A: And the second part of this idea will be implemented through what's known as a proof of work, which basically says a miner has to solve a hard cryptographic puzzle in order to get the privilege of adding one of these blocks to the blockchain and then collecting its bitcoin reward. And if cryptographic puzzle, if that doesn't mean anything to you, just think of it as like a super hard sudoku puzzle or something like that. So a computer has to figure that out. A participant, a miner has to figure out a super hard sudoku puzzle before it's allowed to add a block to the blockchain. We talked about how peer to peer networks, while being very trendy maybe 1520 years ago, arguably cryptocurrencies might be one of their biggest killer applications. And in fact, the same is actually true for this proof of work concept. So that was not invented just for cryptocurrencies.
00:06:53.384 - 00:07:36.010, Speaker A: That dates back to the early ninety s. It was actually proposed as a method for fighting spam, like email spam. And this was before spam really even existed. But cryptographers came up with this notion of a proof of work and then certainly the killer app for proof of work, there's no question, is cryptocurrencies and bitcoin specifically. And I have to say this is one of the reasons why I think so many computer scientists, including myself, just kind of fall in love with this technology pretty quickly, because it just ties on all these sort of familiar ideas in computer science, but in different areas that normally didn't have anything to do with each other. So all these things sort of come together under a common roof and then produce this completely innovative piece of technology. It's really amazing.
00:07:36.010 - 00:08:13.380, Speaker A: And just to tie this back to the two questions we started with, remember the questions were who gets to authorize blocks? So I've sort of sketched who that is. These miners, when they solve a hard crypto puzzle, they're going to be authorized to authorize transactions, add a block of transactions to the blockchain. But remember, we also had the second question, which is like, where does the money come from? Who prints bitcoins? And actually this is exactly where it happens. So again, both of those questions get answered at the same time. Every time a miner adds a block to a blockchain, the protocol prints money. It creates new bitcoins. Specifically, as of this moment, it creates 6.25
00:08:13.380 - 00:08:44.610, Speaker A: new bitcoins and that is transferred to the miner. That's transferred to whoever solved this hard cryptographic puzzle and added a block to the blockchain. And that is the only way that new bitcoins get created. It is exactly whenever a new block is added to the blockchain. So that's the major high level idea about what's going on in bitcoin. But this is a super important part of the protocol. So in the next slide, let's drill down a little bit and understand how this works in a little more detail.
