00:00:08.250 - 00:00:42.454, Speaker A: Hi everyone. My name is Jas. I'm the CEO and co founder of Unori. Unori is a decentralized insurance and a reinsurance protocol. Our main goal is basically to make insurance more accessible in the DeFi space. So if you have assets that are staked in, let's say, Avi, or that are staked in curve, you can basically head to Unori and you can scan your wallet, and we'll show all your lp positions that are there, and you can insure basically any asset that's there in your wallet. If you don't find the asset, you can hide to our cover portal and search for the protocol.
00:00:42.454 - 00:01:58.894, Speaker A: We've already underwritten more than 100 protocols right now, and we'll be adding more to the list. Chainlink fits into a lot of pieces in the protocol, right? The first one, and the simpler one being that we use the Chainlink price feeds whenever an asset is staked on our risk investment portal. The major use case where we're using Chainlink and trying to benefit from its security is the protocols. When we audit a protocol or when we underwrite a protocol, what underwriting means is assigning a premium to ensuring a protocol, right? When we do that in that particular process, especially if it's a complex deFi protocol such as a borrowing and lending protocol, we would make sure to advise the protocol to use Chainlink price feeds. And if they actually use them, they would get a significantly lower premium than a protocol which would not be using Chainlink price feeds. So that's where we value chainlink security in terms of the offering, the decentralization, and also the method of price aggregation. The fact that the validator set is extremely decentralized as much as possible, given it's an oracle protocol, the asset listing procedure.
00:01:58.894 - 00:02:48.980, Speaker A: So if Chainlink is giving a price feed for a particular asset, there's a lot of checks and balances that they put in. There needs to be a certain amount of volume, and you also are immune to a certain extent to all the front running attacks that can occur if you're using a chain link price feed, because that's like the price aggregation method that is used is from multiple sources, not a single source. So if somebody wants to, I would say, manipulate the price feed, they have to do it on multiple avenues, which makes it near impossible. That's why we've never seen any event till now where the price feed is manipulated since our launch in about April 2021. That's when we did our Ido. We launched the V two of our app in April this year. We have given insurance to the avail of about $10 million.
00:02:48.980 - 00:03:23.578, Speaker A: At the height, we got a TVL of about four to $5 million. So Chainlink has helped a lot because pricing accurately is really important for a protocol to scale. And that's what chain link gave us. We want to basically ensure more protocols. We have launched our ETH 2.0 validator slashing cover. So if you basically, let's say you use leader finance and you put your ETH and you're earning 4% API, right, those rewards can basically be slashed if the validator is not working properly, or if there's a tech malfunction, et cetera.
00:03:23.578 - 00:04:18.300, Speaker A: Or if your rewards are slashed because the validator validated a transaction that was not supposed to be validated. That's when the validator slashing insurance comes into place. So if you hold the staked ETH from Lido or any other protocol, you'll soon be able to head to Onori and insure against your rewards being slashed. Absolutely. I would recommend, and I would just want to narrate like, I would say a small incident that happened so recently, one of our partner protocols were hacked, and we tried to help the protocol during that particular night. And we also recommended them that you should go for Chainlink because this incident would have been easily avoided if you would have used Chainlink, which is obviously a much better their price feed aggregator. Right? And the next day, they just announced it on their social media that they'll be switching to chain link.
