00:00:00.200 - 00:00:26.982, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Dano, and today's the 15 May 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So, an eventful weekend yet again in the world of Ethereum, obviously. Well, obviously to anyone who was really paying attention over the weekend, the finality issues actually ended up coming back, I believe, 24 hours after the first event that happened. And honestly, this wasn't a surprise to me.
00:00:26.982 - 00:01:17.536, Speaker A: I mean, I woke up to this again, it happened overnight for me and I woke up to it and I wasn't surprised because there hadn't been a fix implemented. Right. The, it was kind of the network killed itself. But then everyone was like, you know, why did this actually happen? And then the root cause was actually identified, I believe an hour after I recorded Friday's refuel, and then a fix was put out, I believe, on, on Sunday or yesterday or Saturday to address these issues. But the root cause of the issue was actually, I mean, it was prism and, and tecu, I believe, is like the, the two culprits here, but it had to do with the fact that Prism basically was using up too much resources and eventually death spiraling, which caused the client to crash. And I believe Teku was doing this as well. And that's why we saw such a huge drop off in participation on the network, simply because the client was overloading.
00:01:17.536 - 00:01:39.410, Speaker A: It wasn't, it doesn't seem to be malicious, it doesn't seem to be an attack, doesn't seem like anyone was triggering this. It was just an unfortunate kind of, I guess, event that happened. And there were a few things that had to go wrong for this to happen, and it did. And. But since then, as I said, there's been fixes put out by both. I've got the tweet here, actually, by, by both Prism and tech. So if you run those clients, definitely update.
00:01:39.410 - 00:02:28.270, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, I think most people have updated because we haven't seen these issues come back since then. But if you want a full breakdown of it, Terrence has a thread here explaining exactly what happened and how there was cpu spikes and memory spikes that led to basically this death spiral. And I believe there's going to be a more detailed post mortem published this week. Now, of course, this is like the probably perfect and best example we have so far about why client diversity is so incredibly important on Ethereum. If we only had one client, this would have been catastrophic for the network. The network would have gone offline and we would have been in a much, much worse position than what we are in now. And this speaks to, I guess, Ethereum's core value prop, Ethereum network itself, like layer one, its core value prop is to be a global settlement layer.
00:02:28.270 - 00:02:46.012, Speaker A: And a global settlement layer has to have redundancy built in. Right? It can't go offline. It has to be redundant against both attacks and, and bugs. That can happen because obviously bugs are always going to happen. There is no way, 100% foolproof way to avoid bugs and attacks. Same thing. You can protect against attacks, you can set up defenses.
00:02:46.012 - 00:03:27.780, Speaker A: But if there was like, for example, a critical bug that gets exploited on the protocol layer, well, that that could happen. There is always a chance that that could happen. Right? So building in redundancy in the form of things like client diversity is incredibly important to not only the future of Ethereum, but Ethereum's main value prop of being a global settlement layer. Now, of course, I've showed this website to you guys a bunch of times before, client Diversity.org, that shows the different, the different percentage share that each client has. I do want to say that if you are running a prism or tecu and you want to switch to another client for whatever reason, right, maybe you think to yourself, well, you know, Prism and Tecu had this bug in it. I want to go to another client that didn't.
00:03:27.780 - 00:04:09.486, Speaker A: Lighthouse seemed to perform best. But the problem is, is that Lighthouse is already the, like the majority client here. It already has 38% network share. So if you're thinking of changing clients from, from Prism or tecu, maybe from prism to tech, you or one of the other clients out there, definitely consider one of the minority clients, either that being tech, Nimbus or especially Lodestar, don't change to Lighthouse just because it performed best, because you're going to give more market share to Lighthouse and they don't need it right now. I think, as I said, uh, previously, the consensus client distribution right now looks pretty good, but that can very quickly change. You know, Lighthouse could just rock it up to 50% because everyone saw that Lighthouse performed well, and maybe they were running prism. That wouldn't be an ideal thing.
00:04:09.486 - 00:04:52.134, Speaker A: You know, we don't want the consensus layer looking like what the execution layer looks like right now in terms of, in terms of market share with Geth being 61% and the next closest being at about 18%. But yeah, if you are considering switching, do keep in mind that Lodestar is actually running an incentive program right now. I've covered this incentive program before. Uh, so if you're interested in participating in this, the, there's a blog post here with here with full details on what this entails. But yeah, if you are, if you are a solo staker that wants to change, uh, basically who you're staking with or, sorry, which client you're using, I should say, then definitely consider the load star incentive program. But if that's not of interest to you, you know, Nimbus or Tecu awaiting for you there, don't go with Lighthouse. I mean, Lighthouse is an amazing client.
00:04:52.134 - 00:05:34.972, Speaker A: I'm running Lighthouse right now. I'm also running nimbus, but I've been considering switching away from from Lighthouse to something else just to help with client diversity here. So yeah, just wanted to give that shout out there on that front. There was also a thread here from POTUS who breaks down the loss of finality that happened over the weekend and on Friday. And there's also Ben Edgington here who pointed out that the Ethereum mainnet experienced its first ever inactivity leak that happened the second time that we lost finality. Now, if you're unsure what this means, Ben has a link to his upgrading Ethereum book which basically explains this here. But essentially the TL doctor is that when the beacon chain is not finalizing, it enters a special inactivity leak mode.
00:05:34.972 - 00:06:05.426, Speaker A: Attesters receive no rewards and non participating validators receive increasingly large penalties based on their track records. This is designed to restore finality in the event of the permanent failure of a large number of validators. So it is an inbuilt mechanism. It is a really important mechanism. And it kicked in here, obviously, because too many validators were offline for too long the second time around. And Ben also describes here about basically what actually happened in terms of rewards. He said lots of people asking how much ETH was burned by yesterday's inactivity leak.
00:06:05.426 - 00:06:34.138, Speaker A: Back of the envelope map math. Assuming eight epoch leak, 65% of validators offline about 28 ETH were burnt because zero point triple zero six Ethan offline validator. However, attestation rewards was zero for the duration. So that's 50 ETH not issued as well. So I guess it ended up being very slightly bullish for ETH because we burned more. Ethan. We didn't issue as much ETH as we otherwise would have, but generally this doesn't exist for that purpose.
00:06:34.138 - 00:07:16.984, Speaker A: Obviously it doesn't exist to pump ETH. It exists for the reason that Ben notes in his book is that it, the theorem network wants to restore finality as fast as possible, and this is one way that it does it. Now, there were some questions around what this would mean in a single slot finality world. As far as I know, the results of like if something like this happened in a single slot finality world would be the same. You know, we would have a loss of finality for the period until we had at least 66% of the validators, uh, testing to blocks. But we would restore finality within a single slot or 12 seconds or a single ethereum block rather than uh, waiting uh, two epochs to restore finality. So it would just get restored a lot quicker than, than otherwise would have, which is really cool.
00:07:16.984 - 00:08:07.486, Speaker A: But obviously we want to avoid having a loss of finality at all costs. Finality is crucial to Ethereum proof of stake and that's why there are kind of mechanisms involved to get finality restored here. But glad to know that it wasn't anything more malicious than just, you know, a couple of clients basically having issues where they death spiral. Death spiral due to too much resource usage here. And as I said, there are hot fixes out for this with proper client releases I believe coming as well, probably get released this week that fixes this stuff. So if you are still running the old versions, definitely consider upgrading now. On that note as well, if you weren't on a resource constrained system, like if you had a lot of resources, say you have like 128 gig of ram and you had a really high end processor or cpu, you probably saw a spike in usage, but it probably didn't kill your, your client.
00:08:07.486 - 00:08:39.947, Speaker A: It was more the resource constrained devices that suffered here in saying that, like my device, my ROK five B that runs Nimbus validators didn't go offline. I think it ended up the second time around missing like four attestations when the second thing happened. But it wasn't because it was going offline or anything. And it doesn't seem like Nimbus was affected by this, it was tecu and prism by the looks of things here. But yeah, it just happened. On resource constrained systems. If you had a lot of resources, you probably didn't see that happening there.
00:08:39.947 - 00:09:02.723, Speaker A: But yeah, that's, that's basically what happened. And those are all the fixes and different threads, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to check out. And to also check out Ben Edgington's absolutely amazing explanation of the inactivity leak. I only read the TLDr at the top. There is a whole page here with lots of information about what actually happens under the hood when this inactivity leak kicks in. So you can go check that out for yourself. I'm gonna.
00:09:02.723 - 00:09:26.596, Speaker A: Yeah. Last thing here about, about eat staking was a tweet that I put out basically saying about almost 50,000 validators in, are in the ETH staking entry queue right now. Three validators in the exit queue. And then I said much death spiral, such mass withdrawal. Obviously there has been no validator withdrawal. You know, mass exit, mass withdrawal, there's been no death spiral. It's really just been up only.
00:09:26.596 - 00:10:16.314, Speaker A: And based on the fact that there is almost 50,000 pending validators, there's actually, if I bring up beacon chain here for you guys to see, there is currently 49,343 pending validators waiting to get in and 64 exiting validators. And obviously my numbers were based on a different time period, but like that's almost a month, guys, of an entry queue to get into staking. That's crazy to me, the fact that like the entry queue is now almost a month. And I remember I warned about this a long time ago that I believed, I think I said post merge, but it's kind of happened post withdrawals that we would see a really long entry queue. So get in before that happened. And I think a lot of people did, but a lot of people are still stuck in the queue. My mini pools, converting them from 16th to eight, er, minipools and spinning up new, new validators there.
00:10:16.314 - 00:11:07.178, Speaker A: I went into the queue and I think it took like two weeks or something like that. And I was like wow, I'd never been in a queue this long before to get into staking. But yeah, it's almost a month now, which is, which is pretty crazy there. But also on this front there has been, because of the fact that there are so many validities being added to the network right now, there has been renewed talks about the validator cap or I guess like the, the active validator cap that I've spoken about on the refill before. And if you've been seeing those discussions and want to know exactly what that entails, Vitalik's hack MD or notes post, I should say here from about seven months ago, talks about this in the context of single slot finality. So the, the title of the post is paths towards single slot finality. And this covers all the different ways that basically the researchers are thinking about doing both single slot finality and also capping the active validator sets.
00:11:07.178 - 00:11:58.434, Speaker A: Because there will probably need to be a cap eventually for a number of different reasons. It's not that the beacon chain can't handle a large number of validators. It's more about like what is the actual security benefit of, you know, more validators being active on the chain versus what is the risk of the chain becoming unstable or insecure for whatever reason. And there are different, and there are different kind of like trade offs of each of these approaches, which you can read in this post here. Now, this post, I don't know if there has been an updated version of this, but I would wager that pretty soon we're going to see a lot more talk about this from researchers, from developers. It might even be something that makes it into the upgrade after Cancun, like single slot finality and a validator cap. Because if you do napkin math on this and you, you say, I mean, this is extrapolating out the things here, but let's just say that there's, there's going to be constant 50,000 validators in the queue.
00:11:58.434 - 00:12:29.914, Speaker A: I don't think that's going to be the case, but let's just say it was and we want to cap the active ETH stake at 30 million ETH. Well, that's not too far away. We're at an, I believe almost 20 million ETH, the staked ETH. But beacon chain has here is just the effective balances. So that's basically all, that's not including the pending validators, it's just including active validators. So believe if you include pending validators as well, there is almost 20 million staked ETH. I believe I've seen those kind of numbers floated around there.
00:12:29.914 - 00:13:05.622, Speaker A: So 30 million, not that far away. Right. And if we continue this pace here, we'll reach that in under a year. So if we want to cap it at 30 million, it's probably going to be a lot better to do it before we reach that number. And it's probably going to feel like less of a rug for stakers if you do that before you reach that number. Because there is going to be debates around the staking APR because there are, as I said, there are multiple different ways that researchers are thinking about doing a validator cap, but depending on how they do it, it could impact staking APR. And let's say that you're a staker and then the staking APR is cut by like one third.
00:13:05.622 - 00:13:46.794, Speaker A: And I'm talking consensus layer rewards. It wouldn't affect the execution layer rewards, but let's say on the consensus layer side, all of a sudden you've got one third less rewards than you signed up for. We may see a kind of mass exodus then, right? From, from staking? I don't think so. I think there's a lot of different considerations when thinking through the, the implications of that. But I would rather see just even a draft of an EIP go live sometime this year that discusses capping validators in the context of single slot finality. Because I believe it is, it is critically important for us to get that ironed out now. Also, I think that there is a bad narrative forming around that as well, where people think that the validator cap would mean that no more ETH could be staked.
00:13:46.794 - 00:14:24.104, Speaker A: That's not how it would work. It would be a soft cap when that, what that means is that let's just say the cap is set at 30 million ETH staked. Now, the cap would actually be set at the number of validators, but for ease of the argument, let's just say 30 million ethaked is the cap. Now that is a soft cap, which means more ETH can be staked. It just means that only 30 million ETH stake or 30 million ETH worth of validators would be active and actively attesting and producing blocks at any given time. So there could still be like 60 million each staked, but only half of that would be actively validating and earning rewards. And in an ideal scenario, the reward curve would still be the same where everyone is still earning the same consensus layer rewards.
00:14:24.104 - 00:15:03.616, Speaker A: But then obviously it becomes a bit different with execution layer rewards. But again, a lot of the execution layer rewards are luck based. Like, you know, if you propose a block that has a high payout, a lot of the time it's just luck, right? And that's why you look at these things over the long term and kind of like average out the APR instead of just taking the APR from like a week and extrapolating that out, because that's not going to give you the full picture because maybe you get really lucky one week and you propose like a really high reward block. Maybe you get like one ETH worth of rewards and then the next week you get like 0.18 doesn't. You know, that's not a good way to look at it. So you need to average it out across like a long time period, such as a year, to get an accurate view of execution layer rewards.
00:15:03.616 - 00:15:42.866, Speaker A: But contentious layer rewards are easier to, to calculate because it's just based on the issuance curve. But at the same time, there are other things that impact that as well, such as what we saw at the finality issues, right. The inactivity leak such as potential slashing sluts such as you going offline, right? If you are, if you're offline for like a week, you have to, you, you'll net out to zero if you are online for a week after that. But that's a week worth of rewards that you kind of missed out on, right? You have to make up for over time, but, but you never really make up for it. You know, you're kind of always chasing it. So, and then obviously a tester or validator effectiveness affects the rewards you get as well. So there are different things that play into it.
00:15:42.866 - 00:16:45.858, Speaker A: But just generally consensus layer rewards are a lot more stable and a lot easier to kind of map out because, you know, the issuance curve then execution layer rewards are, because execution layer rewards are highly dependent on the Ethereum fee market, not just because of the tis but also mev. If the fee market is at like five to ten way, then mev opportunities are going to be a lot less than what they are at 50 way because there's, you know, that's obviously a sign of network demand being lower than at 50 gray, and then your rewards are going to be lower because of that there. So yeah, that, that's the rewards thing in a nutshell. But as I said, if there is a cap put in place, which I think there will be eventually it'll be a soft cap. It won't mean that no one can stake ETH anymore. It just means that the APR will, will definitely be lower because as I mean at 60 million ETH stake, the consensus layer APR is pretty low. And then obviously the more validators there are, the more the execution layer rewards get spread out because the less chance you have of proposing a block per validator and then it takes longer and longer.
00:16:45.858 - 00:17:23.818, Speaker A: So you know, with the current amount of validators on the network, I think it's like every three to four months you have a pretty good chance or a pretty high chance of proposing a block per validator. If you double that, then that doubles the thing, right. That's at six to eight months now proposing a block. So your execution layer rewards also go down. Overall the APR goes down the more ETH he staked. But in saying that the whole logic behind it is that, okay, more eat that he staked and locked up and not, not doing anything and he's actually, you know, he's actually been bought to be staked. The more demand on eat the asset, the more people view it as a store of value, the better the ETH USD price is, the more valuable ETH becomes.
00:17:23.818 - 00:17:47.570, Speaker A: And then it just kind of works it out like that. But you know, it depends. We're going obviously plateau at one point where people are going to be like it's not worth to stake it at this certain APR. But then you throw other things into the mix like restake and other incentives that can be layered on top of Ethereum staking. It gets crazy from there. So there are a lot of unknowns in terms of what exactly it's going to look like. But we can assume things based on economic incentives.
00:17:47.570 - 00:18:41.538, Speaker A: We can see things as they, as they might play out in the future and make some educated guesses around it. But do know that it's almost certain that there will be a cap implemented at some point. I think it will be sooner rather than later, just because I think the researchers and the devs and the community are really at large wants to do it before we get to the point where we would have capped it anyway to avoid any unnecessary drama or controversy around this, because we don't want to cause controversy in the Ethereum governance process. That's something that we want to avoid because even a small amount of controversy around something can stop something from going forward. And for example, if there is an EIP that's really popular, but like say, I don't know, off top my head, 80% of people want it and 20% of people don't, that 20% of people have a really loud voice and it means that it's more likely to not go in than going. And that's why we say we need a supermajority. We need like 95 plus percent.
00:18:41.538 - 00:19:17.622, Speaker A: We need almost everyone to want this upgrade to go through, and I think we have a better chance of that happening if we do it sooner rather than later. So as I said, keep it. We're going to keep an eye on this. I'm going to keep you guys updated on this as I see more stuff coming out about it. But if you want to see one of the best summaries or still the best summary of the thinking around this, you can check out Vitalik's post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. All right, so superfuse had a great tweet that I think is very relevant in the context of client diversity and the finality issues that I was talking about. He said it's cool to know about client diversity, but it's really a 2022 threat.
00:19:17.622 - 00:19:58.630, Speaker A: The real threats in 2023 are any entity who controls more than 22% of validators. And be careful, they'll play games to hide this and block builder centralization for mev rewards. So I fully agree with super fierce here, is that client diversity, it's not a solved thing. I don't think you could ever consider it solved, but it's in a much, much better place than it was last year, and it's not something of a critical threat anymore. I believe, obviously, the execution layer, client diversity needs to get better, but I think it will over time. And I think that we're not at that critical level because Geth doesn't have over 66% of the network right now. So it's actually, you know, not at that not critical level, but in terms of entities controlling more than 22% of validators.
00:19:58.630 - 00:20:51.480, Speaker A: Well, right now there is one kind of, I guess, like, group of entities that do that called Lido. Now, I think what Superfiz is referencing here with someone like Lido trying to play games to hide this, is that Lido, and I guess myself as well, and a few others out there will say that, yes, Lido has, what is it, 33% or almost 33% of validators on the network, but they distribute it out to 30 different entities. While that is true, and that is better than just like one single monolithic entity, like. Like a centralized exchange having that percentage. Lido as an ecosystem is still a monolith because, Steve, the staking token, the stake, the LST, the liquid staking token that you get is still just lighter, right? There's not. It's not like you get an individually different LST depending on the entity that you're staked with. So it is a monolith.
00:20:51.480 - 00:21:31.390, Speaker A: It is a cohesive kind of hive mind ecosystem, even though it distributes the stake out to different entities, and even if. Even though it does distribute it out to different entities, it still shouldn't have as high of market share as it has now. Lido withdrawals are going live, I believe, today, actually, the 15 May. Yeah, they said they'd be going live today, so it's going to be interesting to see what that looks like. I'm not expecting a mass exodus or anything from Lido. I have said it before, and I'll say it again, I think Lido's market share is going to be taken away by other staking providers just offering better services over time, rather than people mass unstaking from Lido and going some, you know, to an existing service or going somewhere else. I think it's going to be a slow burn.
00:21:31.390 - 00:22:17.674, Speaker A: It's going to be a slow moving ship. But I don't think that Lido is going to maintain such high market share given that the opportunity for creating staking products and especially getting whales involved and getting those, that massive amounts of capital into your own products is so large, especially because there's going to be whales that are currently staking with Lido that would probably prefer to stake with more of a white glove tailored solution that I don't think Lido is going to be able to offer if they want to be a decentralized staking provider. Right. If they want to go towards a more community owned provider. So there's going to be a bit of stuff happening there. But I fully agree with super fears that, you know, no entity should control over, I mean, 22%. I think I know how he got to this number, but I think that the number itself isn't the critical portion here.
00:22:17.674 - 00:22:58.198, Speaker A: I think what, what, what's most critical is that we don't just have one validator that has so much more market share than others. So, for example, if there was also, I should say, entities, not validator. So, for example, if there were two entities that had, you know, 22% market share each, that to me, is a lot better than one entity having, you know, 33%. Even though those two entities equal 44% just together, I still think it's better than just one entity having that. In saying that it depends on what the entities are, if the entities are known to collaborate with each other. Well, there is obviously a risk of collusion there if the entities are known not to collaborate with each other and like, they're totally separate. So, for example, Lido and Rockapool, right.
00:22:58.198 - 00:23:45.274, Speaker A: I don't think that the lido validators and the rockabull validators would decide to collude. So there is a lot of social differences here. You have to consider as well in saying that I don't like, ideally, I don't want to see any provider above even 20% because I think that's quite high. And I think that we can eventually get them all below that. But it's going to require competition, it's going to require patience, and it's going to require a lot of work on the other staking service parts to take that market share away. The second point here about block builder centralization for MEV rewards, I think this is less of a threat just because there are a lot of solutions already in the works for this. Obviously, we have in protocol PBS, there is things like MeV Burn.
00:23:45.274 - 00:24:13.932, Speaker A: There is a lot of research around MeV already, and there are a lot of. There's a lot of work being done on it. But the current state of MeV with having, like, that sidecar software with MeV, Bruce, obviously isn't ideal, but I think that blockbuilder centralization generally has. I mean, I think it has been solved at the research level. I think that we just need to implement it and see how it plays out. But generally, I don't consider it as big of a risk as I do these entities controlling large amounts of validators. So.
00:24:13.932 - 00:24:37.378, Speaker A: So, yeah, but anyway, good of super fierce to bring these up. Very important points. So thank you to him for that. All right, so the ethereum.org website has a new section and page dedicated to user research and user experience in web3. Well, and Jacob here says, while this is just one page, the hope is to improve and grow over time, and also you can contribute. So this is pretty cool.
00:24:37.378 - 00:25:04.752, Speaker A: I think the focus on just design and UI and Ux in crypto generally is not great. I think that there isn't. That there should be a lot more focus on it. We should be building products that are much easier to use than what they are right now. It is getting better over time, obviously. It's a lot better than what it was even a couple years ago. But still, I still think the user experience generally is not user friendly at all for anyone new to the ecosystem.
00:25:04.752 - 00:25:52.138, Speaker A: They have to learn all these complicated jargon, all these complicated things. A lot of them use metamask, which is one of the least friendly interfaces for new people. So, yeah, we can do better there. Not just with wallets, of course, but also with just the various different interfaces for interacting with the DeFi apps, for example, and things like that. So, yeah, you can go check out this page for yourself if you're interested in that, and you can also contribute to make the page better. All right, so Brian Armstrong has announced, or Coinbase has announced, the formation of Coinbase's global advisory council with a bunch of different people in it, such as Pat Toomey here, who is a former us senator. There is Tim Ryan here, who I don't know if all of these people are politicians, but they are definitely involved in politics.
00:25:52.138 - 00:26:35.614, Speaker A: You got John as alone here. You've got Sean Patrick Maloney here, and also Chris Lehane. So I believe that all these people are involved in the regulatory and just politics side of things in the US. So they've joined Coinbase's global advisory council, obviously, to help Coinbase with all things policy and regulation. I'm very happy to see this. I think that it's about time that the Empire strikes back at the SEC, so to speak, even though the SEC is technically the empire in that analogy. Right? But like you get, you get the kind of like, analogy that it's about time we strike back against this big evil that has just been towering over crypto for so long now and just been very unfriendly to us.
00:26:35.614 - 00:27:10.960, Speaker A: And I think Coinbase is really the one leading that charge right now. And Brian is definitely the, I guess, like, best person to be the face of it because he obviously is the CEO of Coinbase and he is obviously an american citizen. Coinbase is us company and he's the co founder and CEO. So I think he's doing a lot of great work on that front, not just with this global advisory council, but everything that he's been doing, especially over the last year or so. But you can go check this out for yourself. There's a blog post here, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, finally here, ETH Global has announced the ten ETH global Lisbon finalists.
00:27:10.960 - 00:28:09.912, Speaker A: So there are a, there are a bunch of amazing projects here that you can check out from something called credential corgi to crypto bureau to change all of these different projects use kind of, I guess, different primitives like zero knowledge proofs, for example, AI tools like chat, GPT and other such tools like that. So you can check out the full thread here for a breakdown of each of these projects, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But it's great to see all the energy actually coming out of our van. ETH Lisbon here ETH global Lisbon. I mean, seeing it on Twitter seems to be a great kind of builder focused conference. It would have been awesome if I was able to go, but traveling to Europe is, is definitely not, not an easy travel for me from, from Australia here. But it's been great to just see everyone come together and build and basically, essentially create new products for the Ethereum ecosystem and things that we may not have seen before.
00:28:09.912 - 00:28:28.974, Speaker A: So yeah, if you're interested in checking out all the projects here, all the finalists, I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
