00:00:01.130 - 00:01:13.250, Speaker A: Hi, I'm Sarah from Flashbots, and today I'm here to introduce FRP at the FRP on conference. The FRP on conference is an event that we're hosting to celebrate the success of our grants program and the cool research that has come out of this program within the last year. Flashbots research proposals, also called FRP, is a grants program that we use to fund community research. It's a way that Flashbots works with collab operators, and we try to use it as a force multiplier to illuminate the dark forest. There are more mev problems and more interesting research questions than our small team has time to get to, and so we want to be sure that the interested community has both access to funding and also our time to tackle those problems. SRP is administered through this GitHub repo, and in order to submit a proposal, you would copy this template and give us background on your area of interest, the background for the problem, and also the research problem statement, the plan for how you want to tackle it, and the deliverables that you'll produce, and then references to past work in the area. We'll consider the proposal, and our team will get back to you within a couple of weeks with either questions, comments, or a funding decision.
00:01:13.250 - 00:02:32.570, Speaker A: If accepted, then the proposal is put in this active folder here where you can see all of our current projects, and once completed, then the outcome is added to the proposal and it's moved to this completed folder. Work funded through FRP is open by default, and so you can go through these completed projects and see all sorts of cool outcomes like papers, blog posts, open source code, and those are also posted to this area on the Flashbots forum that's specifically for FRP. So when a proposal is accepted, the authors will sometimes post here. Also, they'll post the outcome of like a blog post or links to a paper once they finish their frps. Also, if you're interested in getting community feedback for an idea that you have, but haven't yet submitted through FRP, or you're looking for collaborators with whom to submit a proposal, this is a great place to post. So FRP one was submitted early in 2021, and we recently accepted FRP 42. There are 39 total contributors to the MEV research repo, and that includes the program administrators over the years, as well as the proposal submitters who have had their proposal successfully accepted.
00:02:32.570 - 00:03:20.206, Speaker A: Once the proposal is successfully accepted, we call them Flashbot Fellows. We've given 26 grants through FRP and research. Areas of focus for funding with FRP are auction design privacy either cryptoeconomic or cryptographic. MEV and Ethereum and L two S MEV taxonomy search optimization protocol design Flashbots's critical infrastructure, crypto and AI, and more interesting research that's submitted that doesn't neatly fit within these buckets, but that we think is important and that our team is interested in. When we accept a proposal, we offer to those flashbots fellows our time. So for each accepted proposal, there's an internal monitor who provides resources, collaboration, and work reviews for that project. This is the biggest bottleneck to us.
00:03:20.206 - 00:04:08.266, Speaker A: Accepting projects is our internal time, but we think it's important that rather than just providing funding, we also provide work support funding. We provide $10,000 in either crypto or USD upon acceptance, and then we'll sometimes provide an additional $5,000 at successful completion of a project. Provide access to our team and ecosystem throughout the project. We promote the fellow and their work once it's completed, and sometimes we'll give the fellow the opportunity to keep working with us. We fund projects based on interest, so if a technically sound proposal that interests an available member of our team is submitted by the community, then we'll accept it, and that member of our team will monitor the projects. We'll also invite existing collaborators to submit specific work that we've scoped in advance with them for support through FRP. And we'll sometimes use FRP for recruitment.
00:04:08.266 - 00:05:08.050, Speaker A: So if we find a research project of mutual interest with someone who we're considering hiring, we'll use it as an extended way to work with that person. So what comes next for FRP? We're continuing to fund exciting MeV research and reconsidering and updating our topics of interest, just to be sure that they stay relevant. We're considering moving to acceptance waves, so we've had more activity through FRP in the last year than we have in the past, and we think that waves would help us to better monitor and support projects. We're considering different grant sizes, so it's always been standard, but we may, over time, roll out different grant amounts for different types of work. And at a higher level, we're considering how the needs of the MEV research community are changing over time, and how we can best provide support for those. We featured a selection of really cool projects at today's unconference, and so you can see them here. You can see them in the completed section, and some still in the active section of the GitHub repo that I mentioned earlier.
00:05:08.050 - 00:06:00.226, Speaker A: And you can also see them in either the YouTube playlist of the talks for the FRP on conference if you're watching this after the fact, or you can find them in the Gathertown space to watch as they premiere during the unconference. And I'll just point out the range of different intellectual disciplines and type of work that's included in this list. So we have things ranging from game theory to sociology to defi design empirical studies. We try to keep the work funded through FRP as broad as there is interest in MEV related topics. So thanks for your time and interest. You can find more about FRP in the GitHub repo that I mentioned earlier, and also the forum section. You can also find urine review posts that I wrote for FRP on our writings website, or you can find out more about FRP through the Flashbots website.
00:06:00.226 - 00:06:04.720, Speaker A: And feel free to contact me at sarahallen@flashbots.net if you have FRP related questions.
