00:00:01.680 - 00:00:27.674, Speaker A: Hello, breakpoint. Thank you so much for braving the storm to be here. I know it has been a long day, a long week, but I appreciate you all taking the time. You may have seen. Last week we launched the Solana incubator out of Solana Labs. You may have asked yourself, what is that? What is the Solana incubator? I'm here to tell you all about it. But to start things off, I want to acknowledge that building in web3 is hard.
00:00:27.674 - 00:01:10.778, Speaker A: What all of us are trying to do has its own very unique difficulties, difficulties that are much different than just building your normal web two business. And the obvious one that everyone starts off with is blockchain integration. We all know the perils and the difficulty of starting to integrate into a new chain, learning a new programming language, learning the intricacies of that. That, I think, is the first easy, obvious one. I think there's a lot of additional difficulties from there. Building a user friendly interface. I think all of us in this room know that it is much more challenging to build a user experience that feels web two native, that feels clear, that feels easy, streamlined.
00:01:10.778 - 00:01:48.892, Speaker A: It's one that we run into all the time within Solana Labs as well. Community immersion. Say you come into the Solana ecosystem for the first time, you come to breakpoint. It seems like everyone knows each other, everyone knows who's who, and it can be hard to break in, build those relationships that are so critical to getting your product off the ground. It's hard to know kind of where to start sometimes. Modernization in web3 is also totally different from web two. There are so many different unique types of products, and you have to think through, hey, given where I am in the industry, given where the ecosystem is as a whole, what is the best way to monetize my product? And then finally, operational hurdles.
00:01:48.892 - 00:02:24.564, Speaker A: How do you launch a token? What is the right entity structure? How do you deal with the legal difficulties inherent in web3? These are another one that we come across all the time. And so this is a good moment to pause and say, what is Solana Labs? Maybe you saw Tolly's talk earlier today. CEO of Solana Labs. Solana Labs has been an entity within the Solana ecosystem, building some of the core products and protocols to help get the network off the ground. So you might have seen that we built the initial validator client for Solana. We've built the initial version of Metaplex. You might know Realms SPL governance.
00:02:24.564 - 00:03:05.568, Speaker A: You might have heard about token 2022. Maybe you've used some of our Defi reference implementations. We've built a ton of the products in the ecosystem. And in reflecting on the experience that we've had, the knowledge that we've built, we realized that there were a number of resources inherent within labs that could be beneficial within the ecosystem as a whole. So one, a deep technical expertise when it comes to the blockchain, when it comes to some of the intricacies of developing on the blockchain, we've been there, we've slogged through the process, and we've kind of built up this amazing technical expertise. The second is product design. Go to market for each of these products, whether it's realms, whether it's metaplex.
00:03:05.568 - 00:03:53.262, Speaker A: We've had to be on the ground to bring them to market, to get adoption, to get them usage. We've had to think through what is the right way to design these things in a way that's usable, that's user friendly. We have an amazing bench of designers of product marketers there who have kind of been through this slog. As I mentioned, I think connections across the ecosystem, both within web two and web3. We thankfully were lucky enough to know a lot of you and know a lot of the key players in the ecosystem and be able to build bridges where needed to sort of make things easier. We have an amazing audience and marketing channel by virtue of being Solana Labs, whether it's through Twitter, LinkedIn, through some of our other channels. And then when it comes to funding sources, we know all of the VC's in the ecosystem.
00:03:53.262 - 00:05:07.734, Speaker A: We're close with Solana foundation grants, we have the network, the operational hurdles around legal, around tokenomics we've been through, and then the Solana brand itself, obviously that carries some cache and weight as well. So the question we asked ourselves is, what if we actually leverage these resources to support companies on Solana? What might that look like? Is there some sort of a program or some sort of opportunity we could create? So rather than just using these internally for ourselves, to actually scale them across the ecosystem, to help propel teams forward, to help bring more sustainable businesses to Solana, and that's kind of what's taken shape as the Solana incubator. And I think there's probably five key tenants of this incubator program that I want to walk all of you through, and if they are beneficial, would obviously love to hear from you. So the first is hands on engineering. So what this is, is essentially leveraging the amazing blockchain developers within Solana Labs to help you build your product. Maybe you're thinking about writing a new smart contract on Solana, and our developers can be there to build alongside of. You can potentially even take on some portions of that contract themselves to help make that a lot more quick and a lot faster.
00:05:07.734 - 00:05:57.710, Speaker A: Web three integrations. We've gotten demand from a lot of web two startups who are building, who know that they want to incorporate blockchain into their product, us, and say, hey, Solana Labs, can you actually help us do this? Can you help us make this integration for us? And we're obviously happy to help that help them. And then cross chain conversions. Maybe there's a few EVM developers in this room who have realized, you know, Solana as a whole, it has lower fees, it has faster throughput when it comes to the product I'm building, I actually want to be in that ecosystem. Maybe. I don't know, Russ, maybe I'm not familiar with the dynamics of Solana, and we can help bridge that gap for them and bring them over to Solana. So hands on engineering, I think, is at the forefront of this program, and it's what we really point to and mean when we say build alongside Solana Labs.
00:05:57.710 - 00:07:09.504, Speaker A: We actually want to be there on the ground building alongside these ecosystem teams, design and go to market. So you've heard me speak about this one, but how do you actually go out and build attraction for your product, get those initial users? We would love to have our designers on the ground actually helping you build that user experience design. We would love to have our product marketing manager in the room with you, building your marketing strategy or go to market. And then we would love to help you iterate to find product market fit. You know, the initial product you release into the world, it's always going to take some cycles to get there and find the right users. And one of the things I think is especially hard in the product market fit iteration, at least in the web3 world, is you spend so much time upfront building your smart contract, integrating with the blockchain, that once you release it, if you're not getting usage, you kind of have this sunk cost fallacy where you've invested so much, how much can you really iterate? And so we want to be there to help you in that process to make it easier to sort of grease the wheels and find what works and find the sources to build traction, fundraising, support, and introductions. I think we all know that capital and having the necessary funding is crucial to building a successful business.
00:07:09.504 - 00:08:01.504, Speaker A: And so whether it's through Solana Ventures, which sits within Solana Labs, whether it's through all the VC's we know in the ecosystem, whether it's through the Solana foundation grants program. We want to make sure that the teams who are in this program both have the funding that they need to succeed, but also other sorts of capital as well. Maybe you are looking for liquidity providers, market makers for a DeFi protocol. We obviously have a long bench of market makers as well that we have connections into really working with you to alleviate those capital needs and make sure you have the funding to succeed. But we don't want to just stop at sort of giving you the foundational elements to build a great company. We actually want to help amplify your voice as well. And so, as I mentioned upfront, we have a large built in audience that we would love to promote and distribute your product, your company to.
00:08:01.504 - 00:08:23.998, Speaker A: We want to be posting on our Twitter channels. We want to be working with the Solana foundation as well to amplify. Amplify you. And then we also want to build a lot of cache around the brand of companies in this program. Right. We've been working hard behind the scenes with VC's who are in our ecosystem to let them know, hey, Solana Labs is launching this incubator program. We have a very, very high quality bar for teams in this program.
00:08:23.998 - 00:08:45.509, Speaker A: We're only taking a small handful of teams and it's a pretty rigorous application process. And as a result, they know that, hey, I should actually pay attention to these teams. I should be on the ground. I should be there. If they have a demo day or I'm getting an intro to one of these teams, I should take them seriously. We want to bring that cache to each of the teams in our program. And then finally the network of connections.
00:08:45.509 - 00:09:42.332, Speaker A: So whether it's Raj and tolle, whether it's Solana Labs as a whole, whether it's Solana foundation, we thankfully have this incredible web of folks that we're connected to. And every business needs a different introduction to sort of make it for the company. And really one introduction can make or break or make all the difference for the company. And so whether it's getting you introduced to the right folks within the Solana ecosystem who maybe you haven't met yet, whether it's those potential initial customers to help you build that initial traction, or whether it's actually enterprise partners, you've seen Google Cloud here this week, you've seen Shopify here, you've seen visa here. Whether it's getting the right enterprise folks in the room to help your businesses succeed, we want to be there, greasing the wheels, making those connections as well. It's these five components taken together that I think make the meat of the incubator. But I think there's also a lot of other components that are sort of ad hoc and dependent on the needs of the business.
00:09:42.332 - 00:10:23.426, Speaker A: Like I mentioned, whether it's advice around tokenomics, whether it's getting your first legal entity set up, the key with this program is it's not one size fits all. It's very customized and ad hoc to the needs of the teams that we're working with. So see these as mainly like guide rails for how you could leverage Solana Labs. But really, we want to work with top technical teams on the challenges they're facing and work to unblock you and accelerate your progress. At the end of the day, this program really comes down to having the weight and muscle of Solana labs behind your company. And these are kind of the key tenants that we think about around why we're doing this, around how we're doing this. The big one here is building sustainable businesses.
00:10:23.426 - 00:11:08.564, Speaker A: It's not enough to just launch a cool project in the ecosystem. Maybe it gets usage for a month and then it fizzles away. We really want to focus on building the next tensorflows, the next magic Edens, the next companies that are going to drive our ecosystem forward, that are going to stand up on their own and propel the rest of us together. I think one of the things we often see in the crypto landscape is teams might launch a product that does really well in a bull market. But because it's so crypto focused, as soon as a bear market hits, it becomes hard to survive. It becomes hard to find those revenue sources to build a sustainable business around. And so for us, it's building these resilient, antifragile businesses that can survive in spite of whatever the broader market dynamics are.
00:11:08.564 - 00:11:58.004, Speaker A: You heard me talk about this as well, tailored to specific needs. So not a one size fits all program, but working with each of you around what the individual needs of your team is, and also supporting a very small number of team. The number we have just roughly in our head is four to six. I think we're willing to trend slightly higher or slightly lower, but it really just comes down to, hey, who is the best of the best that we can work with? And not only who's the best of the best that we can work with, but who's the best of the best. That, as a part of this program, is also helping amplify the other companies in the program. Right. Who are the founders? Who, when they work with other founders as a part of this program, can help lift everyone together and create kind of that intensity and that camaraderie that you see in some of these amazing incubator and accelerator programs to make sure everyone is working toward a shared success.
00:11:58.004 - 00:12:26.086, Speaker A: This other dynamic optimized for our own unique skill sets. There's a ton of accelerators out there. There's a ton of incubators out there. If someone is just looking for capital, then maybe this isn't the best program for you. For us, the way we're thinking about this is how can we really use our own unique skill sets, whether it's blockchain expertise, whether it's go to market, whether it's something else to amplify teams. We don't want to just be doing what everyone else is doing. At the end of the day, cash is fungible.
00:12:26.086 - 00:13:36.570, Speaker A: You can get cash from a number of different sources, but we actually want to be there on the ground working on the elements that we feel like we can create value around to help accelerate these teams. And then really, you saw that list of web3 obstacles that I mentioned at the beginning of this presentation. At the ethos of this program, we really want to be removing those obstacles for each of you to make it as easy as possible to build web two experiences in web3 and get to those sustainable businesses. For us, we're supporting top technical teams, but regardless of stage, and when I say regardless of stage, what I mean by that is we launched the incubator and the application for the incubator last week. We've probably received about 100 applications to date so far. And those range everywhere from super, super small companies or even just two developers who are just getting started and would love our support all the way to extremely notable names that you all would know in the ecosystem who see this and say, hey, I would love to have the product team, the engineering team at Solana Labs, they're behind my business, helping push me forward. So we're not really as concerned with stage here.
00:13:36.570 - 00:14:06.330, Speaker A: We want to make sure the folks that we're working with are extremely technically competent, but that technical competency doesn't have to be blockchain specific. So you see kind of these three buckets that we have up here. One is existing teams within the Solana ecosystem. Maybe they have experience with rust already. Maybe they have experience with Solana already. But the second is web3 teams considering Solana. I know I mentioned the example of maybe there's an EVM team out there that realizes Solana is better suited for their needs.
00:14:06.330 - 00:14:38.864, Speaker A: We would love to be working with those teams to bring them here, as well as incredible web two founders, really technically competent, but maybe haven't gotten into the weeds of blockchain engineering yet. That's why we have our blockchain engineers there to help make that process easier and potentially help write some of the code to make that process easier. The application deadline November 30, so it's about a month away. Would definitely recommend getting an application in. If this can be interesting at all. You can check out our website, salonincubator.com or this longer URL here.
00:14:38.864 - 00:14:54.968, Speaker A: The QR code is here too. Feel free to ping me on Twitter. My handle's out there. Or we have the email address as well. I think in essence, we really want to build alongside teams. We want to work closely. We want to use the full weight and muscle of Solana labs to push these folks forward.
00:14:54.968 - 00:15:20.008, Speaker A: And it's a very customizable program. So if you're sitting there saying, hey, we have a great team, there are some blockers we're experiencing. We're not really sure if the labs team this program is exactly right for us. I would recommend still submitting an application. We want to be flexible to address your needs to make it as customizable as possible. At the end of the day, we would love to work with you to build the future of web3. So that's the Solana incubator.
00:15:20.008 - 00:15:23.064, Speaker A: I'm very excited about it. Feel free to reach out. And thank you very much.
