00:00:00.480 - 00:00:37.094, Speaker A: John Hopkins geometric on the title is geometric rigidity and harmonic banks. Great. Okay, so, first of all, thank you so much for the invitation. I've never been to the Fields institute, so it's really nice to be here for the first time. Am I talking loudly enough? Okay, thanks. All right, so I'll talk about rigidity in harmonic maps. And so let me start with just doing an introduction regarding harmonic maps and just geometric rigidity in general.
00:00:37.094 - 00:01:27.610, Speaker A: So my first item that I'll talk about is just introduction to harmonic maps. So, we encounter harmonic maps perhaps in your first time in your complex analysis, undergraduate course, when you look at the real or imagined part of holomorphic functions. So those are harmonic functions. So that's your maybe your first encounter with harmonic maps. So that's the case where the target dimension is r1 dimension one. But then if I have a holomorphic map between Kalyr manifold, that's also an example of harmonic maps. And then in riemannian geometry class, you encounter geodesic curves, and you have the geodesic equations, and that also is a harmonic map.
00:01:27.610 - 00:02:23.594, Speaker A: In this case, the dimension of the domain is one. And then maybe a few weeks into your riemannian geometry class, you might encounter totally geodesic maps. So these are maps that takes between riemannian manifolds. And so that's another example of a harmonic map. But generally speaking, a smooth harmonic map between two riemannian manifolds satisfy this nonlinear PDE called the harmonic map equation. So, if you look at this equation, this equation, the harmonic math equation, first of all, if the target space is zero, in which case the Christopher symbols, or zero in the target, then you just get the harmonic map, the usual Laplacian of u equals zero. That's the harmonic function equation.
00:02:23.594 - 00:03:12.676, Speaker A: Also, if dimension, the domain dimension is one, instead of this Laplacian. Whoops, sorry. Instead of this Laplacian, you just get second derivatives of u, and you get the geodesic equation. Okay? So harmonic map equation are the Euler Lagrange equation of the energy function. So those are the stationary points of this energy functional. And because of this understanding of harmonic map as the stationary point of the energy function, harmonic maps make sense in a much more general setting. So, for example, if I take a map into cat zero spaces, I could look at this difference quotient, this difference quotient, and take a limit of that.
00:03:12.676 - 00:04:21.134, Speaker A: So this difference quotient defines. So it measures the stretch at each point, and that defines the sort of the epsilon approximate energy density function. And integrating that gives you sort of the epsilon approximate energy. But so there's a theorem of corvar Schene that says you could take this limit of the sort of epsilon approximate energy density function as a measure, and that converges to another measure, and which, when you integrate it, gives you the energy of a map into, say, a metric space, but more specifically a cat zero space. And so we could still talk about harmonic maps in the context of maps into metric spaces. Right? So then we say that a continuous map is lipschit continuous map from an ellipsis domain. Riemannian domain is harmonic if it's locally minimizing, meaning that if I take at any point in omega and look at, there's a small neighborhood, so that you compare u with other maps with the same boundary condition, then that U has less energy than any other competitor.
00:04:21.134 - 00:05:08.288, Speaker A: So I can ask, is it just defined as the limit of measures, or does it have some other definition? Yeah, so there's a lot of work to show that the limit converges as measure into something absolutely continuous with the Lebeg measure. But, yeah, after a lot of work, you could just understand that there's a limit of the. Then your yield says to define plagiarized. Yeah, this. So this for, if you restrict this to the riemannian manifold target case is exactly. You get the gradient normal of the gradient squared, so it generalizes normal gradient squared. Okay, so now I want to talk about a little.
00:05:08.288 - 00:05:55.410, Speaker A: Oh, so there's the sort of the harmonic map theory sort of properly started with the theorem by Eos and Samson, existence of these harmonic maps in the case where the target space has non positive sectional curvature. So, harmonic map theory works really well when the target space has an upper curvature bound of zero. So, in that case, if I have two compact harmonic manifolds with a target having non positive sectional curvature, then you could always take any continuous map and then deform it to a harmonic map. So in the original theorem, the proof, you just eosin. Samson used the heat flow to deform any harmonic map. So you use the gradient flow of the energy function, so that's the heat flow, and deform it to a harmonic map. Okay.
00:05:55.410 - 00:06:38.772, Speaker A: And a few years later, Hartmann proved that harmonic maps are unique in its homotopic classes, very special maps. Okay, so now I want to talk about a little bit about rigidity, and I'm going to present so a couple of very famous rigidity theorems by card, masto and Margulis rigidity. So let me start with two semi simple lead groups with no compact factors, and I have a lattice in G. So these are discrete subgroups of of the lead group. And then I look at a homomorphism of the lattice g prime. So there's a typo here, sorry. This lattice is in g prime.
00:06:38.772 - 00:07:30.674, Speaker A: So there's a homomorphism from the lattice in G prime into G. And the statement is that that information is good enough to know everything about the homomorphism in G prime in G. So if I masto prove that if I have a faithful representation, which means this is an injective homomorphism, then this homomorphism extends to a homomorphism in the whole group. And then Margulis proved this under a much milder assumption, that if the image is juriski dense, then rho extends to a homomorphism. So this rigidity property holds for a very large class of regroups. So strong rigidity is satisfied by any lattice with exception of those in Psl two r. So these are ones related to hyperbolic two manifolds.
00:07:30.674 - 00:08:38.212, Speaker A: So this was proven in 1968 by Masto, and then so extended to sort of a non compact case to Marsden by Marsden and Prasad. Super rigidity is satisfied by all the rank two or greater lead groups and a couple of the rank one cases, namely the Quaternary hyperbolic space and the ones related to the hyperbolic Kaley plane. So Margulius original theorem only stated this for rank of at least two, and then it was later extended by Corlette and Gromov to the rank one cases. So actually a far more general statement holds that you don't have to consider just league groups over R or C. It also holds for when the group, the lead group is a p adic algebraic group. So there's always a corresponding sort of geometric statements to these rigidity theorems. And so the original master rigidity was for hyperbolic manifolds.
00:08:38.212 - 00:09:32.780, Speaker A: So he stated that if you have two compact hyperbolic manifolds of dimension greater than two that are homotopic, then there completely isometric, they were the same manifold as a riemannian manifold. So because these hyperbolic manifolds are k PI one spaces, actually the only important information here is the fundamental group. So equivalent, the geometry of a compact hyperbolic manifold of dimension greater than two is uniquely determined by the fundamental group. Okay, so this brings us to this notion of geometric rigidity. So here's the setup. So you start with a riemannian manifold M, and then you look at a fundamental group of M. So let's say gamma is the fundamental group.
00:09:32.780 - 00:10:48.220, Speaker A: This is a discrete group subgroup of the isometry group of M, and then you consider a non positively curve metric space and look at a homomorphism of the discrete subgroup of the isometric gamma into the isometry group of this non positively curved metric space. And then we say the setup is geometrically rigid, or that row is geometrically rigid if there exists a rho equivariant totally genetes like map view. So again, rho equivariant means that it honors the action of the group defined by Rho. Now, this is usually attributed to Yao, but the idea, once Ewells and Samson proved their existence theorem and Hartman proved the uniqueness of that harmonic map, that since totally genetic map between riemannian manifold is harmonic, then it suggests the uniqueness. Part of that statement suggests the following. To find a totally genetic map, you just start with finding a harmonic map and then sort of do further analysis to prove that harmonic map is actually totally geodesic. There's only one harmonic map.
00:10:48.220 - 00:12:00.638, Speaker A: And if you know that, I mean, if you think that you should have a totally geodesic map, then that harmonic map that you have is actually totally geodesic. Okay, so the sort of, the first breakthrough in this idea was Sue's result in 1980. So it took quite a bit of time before the first sort of application of harmonic mapping, rigidity, came into fruition. He proved that if I have two compact manifolds, and if I assume that the manifold M is Taylor and the second manifold, there's a more general statement to this, but specifically in this case, I could assume that M is Kaylor, and the second manifold, m, is a, its universal cover is an irreducible, bounded, symmetric domain other than the unit disk. Um, then if I have, if those two manifolds are homotopic, then actually they're biholomorphic. So that's, um, Sue's rigidity theorem. So this actually strain threatens Maestel, because only one of those two manifolds, m or n, is assumed to be locally symmetric.
00:12:00.638 - 00:12:38.404, Speaker A: So the target manifold is assumed to be locally symmetric. And then at first glance, the conclusion maybe seem weaker. It's biholomorphic rather than isometric. But if m is locally symmetric, it's also locally symmetric. Then biholomorphic maps actually are isometric with respect to their natural metric or their natural symmetric space metric. Okay? And then there's another theorem in 1993, which is very general. So if I have.
00:12:38.404 - 00:13:54.050, Speaker A: So this is the statement is that if I have a co compact, if gamma is a co compact discrete subgroup, or Dyson group acting freely. So this assumption is not a very strong one, because you could always take a subgroup of finite index and make sure that it's acting freely on your space. And this is one of the following irreducible Riemannia manifold of non compact type of rank at least two or the two rank one cases that you see in my google. And the target space is a riemannian manifold that has non positive curvature if the rank of x is at least two or non positive complex effects sectional curvature if it's of rank one, then any homomorphism is a given any homomorphism in a row equivalent harmonic map. That harmonic map has to be totally geodesic, it has to be totally jurassic embedding up to a normalization. So this is a very general geometric rigidity result. So in particular it implies that Margulis result for uniform lattices.
00:13:54.050 - 00:14:47.798, Speaker A: Actually it's a generalization of that, because the target space is assumed to be any pneumonia manifold with certain curvature assumptions. So the uniform lattice is when it's associated with a compact manifold. So if I mod out by the action, I get a compact manifold. And the non uniform case is when you get a manifold that's complete but not necessarily compact, it at least has finite volume and is not compact. And one of the serious defects of geometric rigidity is that it doesn't handle the non uniform lattices very well. So when the domain space is not compact, then it's a much harder problem to apply harmonic map theory to prove rigidity theorems. So that's one of the things we've been interested in.
00:14:47.798 - 00:16:05.648, Speaker A: Still attack this, for example, the previous theorem by Max Su Yang, which assumes that the domain is compact and try to prove something like this for the non compact case. And that seems to be a rather hard problem which we're trying to figure out how to handle for today. In this talk I would like to discuss the some very specific case of this non uniform lattice problem. Okay, so everything I say here from now on will be joint work with George Daskalopoulos and we're going to assume that the domain manifold is a quasi projective variety. So this is like a good case to consider because it includes the locally hermitian symmetric space case. So if I have a M. Tilde is irreducible hermitian symmetric space of non compact type, and if I have a non uniform lattice, then the associated coefficient space is a quasi projective variety.
00:16:05.648 - 00:17:24.374, Speaker A: So the way to see this is you use an embedding theorem. So you embed the the irreducible hermitian symmetric space as a realize it as a bounded symmetric domain and complex vector space, and then you could take a compactification of that and then as a projected variety and then the, and take some kind of finite singular free covering to look at this manifold which is quasi projective. So this idea sort of originates with paper of yoast and Yao in 1987, where they assumed, they looked at a harmonic map and quasi projected variety, but they assumed the existence of a harmonic map, sort of existence of a finite energy map to start with. And then Jost and Zuo later on tried to extend this to, to consider to remove the assumption of finite energy maps. But really the breakthrough was by Mochizuki when he considered this. He studied Nana biling Hodge theory and looked at existence of harmonic metrics paper in 2006. So we're very indebted to that paper.
00:17:24.374 - 00:18:06.490, Speaker A: So here's. So let me just state the theorem that I want to talk about. So x is one of the following cat zero spaces. So these are sort of nice spaces, examples of very representative examples of cat zero spaces, a symmetric space of non compact type A euclidean building, a hyperbolic building, or the vay Peterson completion of Titan space. So all those are, are cat zero spaces. So curvature bounded from above in the Alexandra sense. So we saw a definition of that in the previous talk.
00:18:06.490 - 00:19:34.534, Speaker A: So I won't write down the definition, but the theorem is that if I assume that m is a quasi projective variety and you have a homomorphism, so the existence is a little bit harder for one because we're dealing with non compact and domain, but so we can't assume Yosemite Samson. But you have to make some assumption that the homomorphism does not fix a pointed infinity. Okay, then the statement is there exists a rho equivariant pluriharmonic map homotopic to the sorry ICD raised at home, there exists a rho equivalent, purely harmonic map u, and if I have the rank of f rank of u, I should say greater than three, then the map u is holomorphic. So the assumption that the homomorphism doesn't fix a point infinity is important because in many cases, what happens if you fix a point in infinity and you take an energy minimizing sequence, it escapes off to infinity and then you don't have existence. Okay, so I haven't explained what a pluriharmonic map is, but it's a very, it's a very, a map that satisfies a certain PDE, namely here. I wrote down the PDE here, but it's a very hard condition to satisfy. So it's an overdetermined system of PDE's.
00:19:34.534 - 00:20:28.134, Speaker A: It's hard to find plural harmonic map. So only in special cases, you find them. So once you find them, you have a very restrictive conditions. And so the easier way to see, without looking at the PDE, is that if I take a plural harmonic map, is a harmonic map such that any restrictions to a complex curve is also a harmonic map. Okay, so here's the sort of idea of the proof, just idea of a proof of rigidity, geometric rigidity in general, is that you start out with some kind of bachelor formula. So here is the famous Samson's Bachmar formula. So if I have a harmonic map from a Kaler manifold to a Rumania manifold, then u satisfies this equality here.
00:20:28.134 - 00:21:27.004, Speaker A: And it's really just these sort of Bauchner formulas are very computational. You take the harmonic map equation and you start taking derivatives of it, and then you switch the order of differentiation. Every time you switch the order of differentiation, you get a curvature term. And then you write. So if you do it the right way, you get some nice formula like this, where here in this formula, this q naught is a curvature term. So if the manifold m is compact, what you would do is you would take this equation and you integrate both sides over the manifold m. And then, since it's now compact, you could actually use Stokes theorem on the left hand side to prove that's equal to zero.
00:21:27.004 - 00:21:57.184, Speaker A: So you have zero equal to the right hand side. And then the right hand side, you have this. This sort of. This term, which is this norm squared. So that's a non negative term. And then you assume that there's some kind of curvature condition on the target. So a target space has non negative complexified curvature, which is equivalent to saying that this q naught that I wrote down is non positive, non negative, I should say.
00:21:57.184 - 00:22:32.994, Speaker A: And then, so therefore, you have zero equal to some integral, which the integrand is always greater or equal to zero, then, which means that each of these terms on the right hand side has to be equal to zero. Okay, sorry. Could you explain the notation on the left hand side? Yeah. So you have on the left hand side. Oh, this bracket. So that combines the. So the wedge product on the domain, and then the sort of the inner product on the target space.
00:22:32.994 - 00:23:03.894, Speaker A: So this means you have del bar u. So you take this first derivative in the del bar derivative of u, and that's one form. So then you have two one forms, and you're taking the wedge product of those, and then you're taking the inner product in the target space. Yeah. So then you multiply against the Kaylar form omega, n minus two. And that's like n form. So you integrate over that.
00:23:03.894 - 00:24:00.712, Speaker A: Any other questions? Okay, right. So now, so I assume this m was compact, and this is how the sort of Bockner type argument is done for compact manifolds. But I want to sort of generalize this to non compact domains. There's a couple of things you have to worry about, and these are the two things you worry about is, first of all, again, eel Sampson's formula, or Eal Sampson, existence theorem is really for compact manifolds. And there were some variations of that. But existence, you have to sort of redo. The other thing that I did that you should worry about is I use Stokes theorem, and Stokes theorem only works for a compact manifold.
00:24:00.712 - 00:24:28.674, Speaker A: So this step of taking the integral and saying the left hand side is equal to zero has to be done very carefully. So these are the really two things that I'm really worried about here. So let me, I'm going to explain that in a little bit more detail. Okay, so, first of all, the existence part, there's two problems to worry about. The first one is existence. So the existence part. So recall that the original proof of Yale Samson, I said they used a heat flow method.
00:24:28.674 - 00:25:08.496, Speaker A: So you start with this finite energy map, and you flow it along the direction of steepest descent with respect to the energy function, people's heat flow. And then through a lot of analysis, they show this converges. And that limit map is a harmonic map. So there's a more diff, the second type of proof that one can use that's often used for existence of harmonic map into metric spaces. Because when you look at harmonic maps in the metric spaces, we don't have PDE. So it's hard to do like a gradient flow. So the easier thing to do is to use a direct method in calculus of variation.
00:25:08.496 - 00:25:42.194, Speaker A: So you start with a, you have some kind of prescribed condition, like a homotopy problem. So you look at a map, f, and you look at all the maps of homotopic to f. So you start with this collection of finite energy maps, say homotopic to a given map, and then you show this collection is non empty. And then you show that in this collection, you could find a minimizing element. So that's another, there's a direct methods of calculus and variation. So both these, if you notice both of these methods, you have to start with a finite energy map. Or.
00:25:42.194 - 00:26:21.908, Speaker A: So in the second case, you have to show that some collection is not empty. So a collection of finite energy map could be possibly empty. So that's really one of the biggest problems that you have for non compact domains. So to tell you, to show you that you really do have to worry about the possibility that you only have, you don't have any finite energy map. You ought to look at a very simple example of harmonic maps from a puncture disk. So you have a, I'm thinking of the puncture as causing the non compactness here. Let's say you have a puncture disk and you're mapping to a riemannian manifold of nums positive sectional curvature.
00:26:21.908 - 00:27:46.716, Speaker A: And so you have this, you have this puncture disc, and then, so you look at any sort of circle, right? So some fixed r, less than one, greater than zero. And you look at, so that, look at the image of that in your compact manifold and say this maps to this orange white. And then let's say this, this loop, this is a non trivial loop because zero is missing here. So that maps to say a loop like that and that can't be contracted to a point. So gamma is going to be, the gamma is going to be the geodesic, homotopic to the image of this image of this curve. Okay, so for any, so if I take this, or if I take this, right, so this is, oh, here it is. So this is the energy of this genetic curve.
00:27:46.716 - 00:28:09.604, Speaker A: And since it's nontrivial, it's not equal to zero. And also it's. So it's less than the energy along a circle. Like restricted to a circle is less than the energy of the u restricted to a circle. Right. This is a geodesic. So it has the least amount of energy on a circle.
00:28:09.604 - 00:28:54.600, Speaker A: Okay, now, so, so that's just for this curve. Now, now I put all those curves together. So if I look at the, now in polar coordinates, I look at the riemannian metric. In polar coordinates, that's the riemannian, the flat metric on the disk. In polar coordinates, it looks like this here's the co metric and that's the volume form. So when I look at the energy of u on the annulus, from so annulus, this annulus, I have to at least integrate what's happening in the theta direction. So I.
00:28:54.600 - 00:29:24.806, Speaker A: Oops. So energy in the theta direction times this collector, okay, but that's equal to. Right, so this, but this energy, this energy is bounded by the energy of the geodesic. And then I end up integrating one over r squared. R, doctor? So that's integral is log. It's log of one over r naught. So as you see that this energy of, um, has logarithmic.
00:29:24.806 - 00:30:12.614, Speaker A: Logarithmic growth as r naught goes to zero, right? So the energy of that map, it's a very simple map, is infinite. We can't do any better than this. Okay? So that's to convince you that you have to worry about infinite energy map. So this was already sort of understood by locomp and Wolf in the 1990s in particular. Wolf studied harmonic map between Riemann surfaces to study tight Mueller space. And so if I. If I take what he like, low camp and wolf, they could construct harmonic maps, infinite energy harmonic maps from a punctured Riemann surface.
00:30:12.614 - 00:30:58.106, Speaker A: So in this case, I take a compact Riemann surface, gamma bar, and then remove some points and look at a puncture, Riemann surface. And then you look at, I said, here, pick the target space to be n, whose universal cover is a cad zero space. So just let's say compact rumanium manifold with non positive sectional curvature. In order to construct that, you take, you construct what's called a prototype map. So this is a map which has sort of the best possible energy growth going towards your puncture, going towards infinity. So in this case, right, in dimension one, we saw that you can't do better than what the geodesic does. So you define this prototype b, so that in each.
00:30:58.106 - 00:31:28.714, Speaker A: So around each puncture. So around each puncture. So here's the Riemann surface. We have some punctures. Let's say I'll draw three punctures, and you put a disk around each of these puncture. And then along around this, you define v to be just a map, which maps circles as geodesics. And then you sort of construct a.
00:31:28.714 - 00:32:03.780, Speaker A: So, and then you could. So you do this for all discs, and then you put in other maps just any map inside. And you use that as a prototype map. So you have a map, v, which has a nice growth towards infinity, nice energy growth towards infinity. And then you use that to do a sort of a delicate problem in which you throw away smaller disk around the puncture, use the boundary condition around these circles, and then define a harmonic map with those boundary conditions. So that's ur. So that.
00:32:03.780 - 00:32:44.362, Speaker A: So you are saying, let's say the radius of this small disk is or the orange disk is r, and then you construct this map, and then you let the map inside here just be v. Okay. And then you look at the sequence ur of maps that are harmonic away from the puncture. And then you look at the energy bound of that. So, in fact, just by comparing. So this is just a little proof of the energy bound. But by comparing the energy of ur to the energy of v.
00:32:44.362 - 00:33:35.224, Speaker A: Right. So v has really good energy towards the puncture, but u is harmonic, so it has good energy away from the puncture. So the combination of that tells you that you could bound, you could bound the energy of, you are in any compact subset of the Riemann's punctured Riemann surface by that of the energy in v. So v controls the energy of ur. So any questions? Sort of skipped all the details, but. All right, so, and then the local, you have a local uniform, uniform local bound of the energy of these sequence of maps, ur, which tells you that there's a local Lipschitz bound. So you usually in harmonic map theory, you see that the Lipschitz estimate of a harmonic map is controlled by the energy of the map.
00:33:35.224 - 00:34:15.724, Speaker A: So, so you could apply Arzela Scoli then, because you have a uniform Lipschitz bound, to construct a map u. So these ur converges on every compact set. Do a diagonalization argument that you do neural analysis, and then you construct this harmonic map with logarithmic energy growth. Okay, so this is dimension complex dimension one. So we proved that also that there's a uniqueness statement associated with this. If I have a harmonic map with logarithmic energy, if I find one, that's the only one. There are no other ones in this homotopic class.
00:34:15.724 - 00:35:20.266, Speaker A: So the Hartman uniqueness for harmonic map with logarithmic energy growth. Okay. Okay, so now if you go on to proof in complex dimension two, so we have the existence of a harmonic map in complex dimension one for Riemann surfaces in complex dimension two, what you would do is you could take, by a resolution of singularities, you could assume that m is a projected manifold. The compactification of m is a projected manifold, and the difference of m bar m is a divisor with normal crossing. So these are sub, so these sigmas are a collection of sub varieties, union of sub varieties. Use sigma, the boundary terms. Boundary components are sigma, which is a union of sigma j's.
00:35:20.266 - 00:36:20.924, Speaker A: These are smooth one dimensional sub manifolds. And so that the intersection of these sub manifolds are just points. So they intersect nicely. So they, so the intersection looks like just if I have, if I think of this as c cross c, the, in fact, these Sigmund J's sigma I intersect exactly the same way in some coordinates, exactly the same way where the coordinate planes c and c intersecting c two. So these are actually very nice boundary components. And then from there, you could see, show that the tubular neighborhood of the boundary is just a disk boundary. So in here, you could put in disks by using the appropriate coordinates.
00:36:20.924 - 00:37:42.264, Speaker A: So, in this part of the proof, I'm really using the fact that the domain space is a nice non compact manifold. Okay, so there's this old theorem by Cornabla and Griffiths, a construction by cornabal and Griffiths in algebraic geometry, where you could actually put in a metric, a Caylar metric, where each of these discs look like, essentially look like hyperbolic, hyperbolic metrics on a puncture, Riemann surface. This looks like just like a hyperbolic pus metric. So you could construct this metric, and then with that, because the boundary term, boundary neighborhood looks like a whole bunch of disks, what you could do is you could construct a prototype map just like you did in the Riemann surface case. So you start with some Lipschitz map, f, right? And then if I restrict this to the circle bundle. So these are disks. So each one of them looks like a disk.
00:37:42.264 - 00:38:23.790, Speaker A: So you can restrict f to the circle on each disk. And then just solve the dilucier problem that I solved earlier. So you have a harmonic map on the disk, and that map has a very nice energy growth towards the. Towards the puncture. So we define this prototype map by just looking at the one dimensional problem, just finding the harmonic map for a disk punctured disc. Okay. And then there's some very careful construction of handling the crossing.
00:38:23.790 - 00:38:59.674, Speaker A: But because it looks pretty nice, one can do that because it's a little complicated. Okay. So this builds a prototype map. So this gives you a map which has very nice energy growth towards the boundary. And then with that, we could construct a harmonic map using, like the dilasey problem, like we did for the. For the Riemann surface case, where you remove neighborhood of the boundary, and then you look at a harmonic map with a. Given, the delicate problem given by the prototype map, b.
00:38:59.674 - 00:39:47.774, Speaker A: Okay, so, so therefore. And so, after some analysis, you can see that this harmonic map we construct has, at most, logarithmic energy rows, just because v does in the same way. Okay, so the. So that solves the first problem of finding the harmonic map. Now, the second problem is the Bauchner method, where we integrate the Bauchner formula and then apply Stokes theorem. So how do we do that? So, since the energy is infinite and we have to be very careful about that. So, in fact, when we first did this computation of integrating the bachelor formula, we came up with these terms that look like the curvature term of the.
00:39:47.774 - 00:40:46.774, Speaker A: Of the boundary. So this is one of the reasons we had to come up with this sort of new version of a Bauchner formula. So again, we took the Samson Bauchner formula and did a little bit more careful analysis. And here's an equality that needed change. And this is very similar to Mochizuki's Bauchner formula when he constructed harmonic matrix. So now if we integrate this bachelor formula against, let's say you multiply this by a cutoff function, right? So these are functions that are a sequence of functions, which are one mostly, but then it goes off to zero towards the infinity, and then you integrate over m. Then once you have something that has, with compact support, you could apply Stokes theorem.
00:40:46.774 - 00:41:34.354, Speaker A: And then we have to show that the boundary term is equal to zero. So then that's the version of the Stokes theorem, and then the right hand side of that equality. So the right hand side of this equality is equal to equal to zero. And then we get these two terms being zero. So namely the second one, the second inequality, or the first one, I should say. This tells you that the map is pluriharmonic. Okay? And so, in sort of a case by case analysis, you have to show that the map u has rank greater or equal to three, in which case then implies that the map u is, in fact, holomorphic.
00:41:34.354 - 00:42:26.434, Speaker A: Okay, so this is for proof for dimension two. So now to proceed with a higher dimension, you just induct on a dimension of m. Okay? Okay, so you take, so given a, let's say for simplicity, let's say dimension of m is equal to complex dimension three. Then we take a collection of two dimensional sub varieties so that the union is the whole thing, and make sure that these are nice sub varieties so that the intersection with the boundary component sigma is a normal crossing. So again, the intersection is just a point in this case. So, right, the sigma is co dimension two. So in this case, sigma is dimension one and y bar is dimension two.
00:42:26.434 - 00:43:25.554, Speaker A: So then, so for each. So you could choose these very carefully, actually, using some kind of LefChs hyperplane theorem. So that, namely, I have to make sure that this, the sort of the restriction of rho, the original homomorphism to the sub manifold y is surjective into the isometry group. So you could use that using hard theorem in complex geometry, and then use the inductive hypothesis to show that there exists a harmonic map along the sub variety. So for each y, there's a unique plurioharmonic map. This is by the inductive hypothesis. So if you're in dimension three, you use the the theorem in dimension two.
00:43:25.554 - 00:44:49.334, Speaker A: Okay. And then you got to piece together these harmonic maps in the sub variety to define a harmonic map in the whole space. So when we do this, one thing you have to make sure, you have to check is that if you have one sub variety, let's say y one, and then you have another. So you have a inductive hypothesis says there's a harmonic map from this sub variety, and then you have another y two, you have a harmonic map from that sub variety, right? So in order to make this be well defined, you have to make sure that in the intersection here, the map agrees. But so you show that the restriction map, you go back two, step back in induction and use the uniqueness of a harmonic map to show that that's, that the restriction of both the harmonic map here and the harmonic map there is well defined agrees by the uniqueness. Okay? And so you could induct on this to prove the harmonic map. Okay, so before I end, so I'm almost done here, but before I end, I want to talk about few application of the theorem that we proved.
00:44:49.334 - 00:45:30.526, Speaker A: So one is in tight Muller theory. So here is the statement. I have a oriented compact surface gene is greater or equal to three, and you have a tight maillar space of that surface s, tight mirror space with respect to that surface s. And then we have the mapping class group of s. Sort of analogy with symmetric spaces. Tight mirror space is like the universal cover of a locally symmetric space. And so that's the, it's like the symmetric space of non compact type.
00:45:30.526 - 00:46:14.714, Speaker A: It's a simply connected space. And then the quotient is the modulized space of pneumon surfaces. So you should think about the analogy of this as the m being the compact surface or compact manifold. And then you have that universal cover of that, like a locally symmetric space, which is a typical space. And then the mapping class group is like the lattice, like the fundamental group, the modules space. So that's the analogy. So the mapping class acts on a contractible, some contractible manifold, Kalyr manifold.
00:46:14.714 - 00:47:27.524, Speaker A: And then you always take this finite index subgroup to make sure that you have a smooth, quasi projected variety. That's a finite cover of the space, the downstairs space, m. And the statement is that, right, so m and the script m, which is like the finite cover of the marginalized space, or a properly homotopy equivalent, that in fact they are equivalently biholomorphic or conjugate biholomorphic. So this is a statement that says the mapping class group sort of determines the tight Muller space as a complex manifold. So there's really up to proper homotopy equivalent. There are no other Kaler manifold, which the mapping class group acts on. So we had this theorem earlier, but we had to make some assumption about the existence of finite energy map, but now we're able to get rid of that statement.
00:47:27.524 - 00:48:03.360, Speaker A: So that's one application of that, then a couple of other applications. So we worked with people. So actually, before I do that, I should just indicate the proof of this tag Mueller theorem, holomorphic rigidity. So I should say that the tag Mueller space has a like various metrics are defined on tight Miller space. But one that's useful for harmonic math theory is this v. Peterson metric. And because it actually makes the technical space a smooth Taylor manifold of non positive sectional and complexified sectional curvature.
00:48:03.360 - 00:48:44.154, Speaker A: And the only problem with doing harmonic map theory on tagmiller space is that it's an incomplete space. So you could reach the boundary in finite time, creates a problem. So one thing to do is to take a metric completion, or Babe Peterson completion of the type Miller space. And that turns out to be a casual space. It's no longer a manifold, but it's a cas zero space. So with that information, we could apply harmonic map theory into cas zero spaces. So the core of our chain harmonic map theory and our theorem then tells us that possibly infinite energy pluri harmonic map exists.
00:48:44.154 - 00:50:13.464, Speaker A: And then the last ingredients is like a regularity theory for harmonic maps into type in your space. We have this theorem that we proved is that if I have a harmonic map from a sort of riemannian domain into the metric completion, right? So this is a singular space, a cad zero space, then the points where it's mapping into sort of the singular part of the tag mirror space is co dimension two. So most of the big open set, and then that singular set is also closed big open set of the map of the domain maps as like a regular smooth harmonic map. So with that, you could argue that with that information, you could argue, as we did it for the Stokes part and the Buckner method part, to do the integration by parts, use Stokes theorem and such. Okay, so then also there's a couple of application in sort of algebraic geometry. There's a, we can use this theorem to prove what's like, give us sort of a partial result of the Simpsons integra duality conjecture, which says a rigid linear representation of fundamental group of a smooth projective manifolds integral. And this was proof by Klingler in 2013 for projected manifolds without symmetric differential forms.
00:50:13.464 - 00:51:04.660, Speaker A: And now we could say the same statement for quasi projective manifolds. So this is sort of an important theorem in algebraic geometry. And then there's another statement that we could also say as null conjecture, that every smooth, complex projected variety with infinite fundamental group has non zero symmetric differential. So when, again, when it's a compact Kaler Manifold. This was proved by brunette, Barb, Klinger and Tataro in 2013. And we were able to give the logarithmic version of these conjectures. So these conjectures are related to the study of this question, algebraic geometry, about what is a kayla group? So what is a kayla group of a fundamental, the fundamental group of the compact Kalar manifolds.
00:51:04.660 - 00:51:22.904, Speaker A: And the related question to that is, what is a fundamental group of a quasi projected variety? So these sort of results answer give partial answers to these kind of questions. Okay, so I'm on a time, so I'll stop here.
