00:00:04.600 - 00:00:06.730, Speaker A: Tristan, welcome to Validated.
00:00:07.390 - 00:00:08.622, Speaker B: Good to be back here.
00:00:08.766 - 00:00:49.710, Speaker A: Yeah. Excited to have you back on. So we got a ton to talk about today. We should set the stage that we are talking at the beginning of the market, apocalypse today. And I think I want to just call that out for audience members, that if our tone seems a little off, based on the future of where you're watching this, this is the moment in which we are recording today. But I actually love doing episodes in these of moments of potential change, or at least a bit of uncertainty, because it kind of strips away all of the crap of whatever is happening in the day and lets us kind of focus in on the stuff that will be true today and true tomorrow and sort of true in the future. So, with that, let's get into it.
00:00:49.710 - 00:00:54.790, Speaker A: Tell us a little bit about Zeta, just to kick it off for those who may have not used it before.
00:00:55.530 - 00:01:33.566, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. So, to kick it off, I'm Tristan, and I'm one of the founders of Zeta. Zeta started in early 2021, I would say. We got introduced to Anatoly in the very early days of Solana. We're fortunate enough to kind of see the benefits of Solana and what could be built in Defi. And very much in those early days, it stuck with me when Tolly said that we want to bring Nasdaq on chain, that always kind of stuck in my mind, and that was kind of driving me through building this startup, essentially. And so we're trying to bring derivatives and Defi on chain, and that's like our big value prop.
00:01:33.566 - 00:01:47.878, Speaker B: So we are basically a perps exchange. Perps are one of the most ubiquitous products out there for trading. It gives you leverage. It gives you really good price. Discovery and capital efficiency. It's what everyone loves to trade. You can go long and short.
00:01:47.878 - 00:02:23.348, Speaker B: It's just kind of like a no brainer for any kind of entry into crypto. And so we've seen these big platforms like Binance and Bybit, Nokx, which are massive for purpose trading, but we haven't quite yet seen that proliferate, I guess, on the decentralized side, which is what we all want to see. We want to see self custody. We want to see transparency. We want to see things being done in code on chain. We are one of the first teams to bring the central limit order book on chain, building off the backs of what happened with serum in the very early days. We took a bunch of those ideas and decided to apply it to purpose trading.
00:02:23.348 - 00:02:50.164, Speaker B: So we built that out fully. Central limit order book, purpose exchange with leverage and a full margin system. And that's what we've kind of built over the last couple of years. And now we've got to a place where we've done, I think, over $10 billion worth of trading volume. We've catered to over 100,000 users, and we're continuing to scale and build that into the next version of our exchange, which will actually be built on Solana L two, which is currently in development. And we can talk more about that.
00:02:50.272 - 00:03:56.656, Speaker A: I definitely want to get into that side of things, but to just start at the beginning here, for folks who maybe missed it, there's an episode with Tarun from a few episodes ago where we go into the history of markets and derivatives and why those things are interesting. So highly recommend going back and checking that out if you need a little bit more background in what these things are. But I want to start out with why we haven't seen more derivatives and perps on chain yet. Because we go back to the early days of crypto, and we get bitcoin with no smart contracts. And so you need, if not a centralized exchange, at least an off chain exchange in order to actually facilitate things like price discovery and order matching. Defi Summer, the original DeFi summer brings a lot of these things online with very basic AmM functions, like the version one of Uniswap, where suddenly there's a function that governs what price should be based on supply and demand of two assets on chain. So what's taken so long in the history of the crypto arc to actually get perps and derivatives fully on chain? And why was that a challenging proposition?
00:03:56.848 - 00:04:48.718, Speaker B: Thats a really good question. So ive definitely noticed this gradual evolution of, I guess, the technology behind blockchains, and that kind of enables more and more complex use cases on chain. So, like you said, weve kind of gone through this early defi wave years ago where we have Ethereum, which people like to like into, I guess, the kind of dial up Internet you have, very low bandwidth, things are kind of slow, and you can kind of only do these, I guess, fairly simple primitives like amms, which worked great, I guess, in that kind of scenario. But when you compare it to what's happening in traditional finance, amms are taking like a few seconds or, you know, kind of minutes to rebalance things like that. And then you look at traditional finance, things are done on like nanosecond, microsecond levels, people setting up specialized high frequency trading infrastructure. You know, it's orders of magnitude different. And that's obviously because we're very early in that lifecycle.
00:04:48.718 - 00:05:09.644, Speaker B: So, like I was saying, in, in the defi side of things, we've, we've seen this very, I guess, basic primitive use cases coming out. A lot of spot trading stuff. Amms, which are very simple. We've seen stuff like lending do really well because it works on slower timeframes. Uh, it's a bit more kind of reliable. But then I guess we haven't seen, like, the very complex and sophisticated edge of things happen. So a bit of context.
00:05:09.644 - 00:05:33.818, Speaker B: We actually started as an options platform. That's when we first got started on Solana. And that is very complicated. You've got to basically do modeling in terms of the margin system. It's all these kind of like non linear maths, very complicated stuff. I actually built the first black Scholes formula for options margin and wrote it on Solana in like, basically all the kind of Solana smart contract code. I had to do a lot of re engineering.
00:05:33.818 - 00:06:06.372, Speaker B: You can't even do floating point math, really on Solana. You have to kind of go and think around the box because the compute constraints just make it too difficult. And Solana was already kind of like a ten or 100 x improvement over Ethereum. And that's kind of why we ended up moving from ethereum very quickly to Solana. But even then, there were kind of limitations. And so I think those kind of limitations continue in terms of what you can build. Thankfully, Solana in its present state and over the last couple of years, I think, has been really good in that it has enabled a bunch of these fully on chain exchanges, which is what we've managed to build out.
00:06:06.372 - 00:07:06.270, Speaker B: People thought it was impossible to have a central limit order book on chain until Solana came along and there were some kind of hiccups and things. But generally the runtime has improved so much over the last couple of years that, yeah, us and a bunch of the other kind of major protocols out there have literally facilitated billions of dollars of trading volume, all on chain, all done on smart contract technology, which to me still kind of blows my mind. That's incredible. And then to answer your question, how do we go from here, and how do we compete with, I guess, the centralized exchanges and take market share away from them? So I think there's still a bit of a void in terms of the technology that we need to bridge the gap on. I think when you're looking at a binance, what do they have? They have extremely fast place order latency. It's on the order of milliseconds, they don't have any kind of throughput constraints because it's obviously just centralized Amazon box or something like that. And so it's very hard in a decentralized exchange setup and a fully decentralized network to be able to compete with that.
00:07:06.270 - 00:07:50.666, Speaker B: So with Solana, even the block times 400 milliseconds, they're great, but you're not getting quite the same level as the centralized exchange, which means that for traders, it's noticeably slower. For market makers, this is actually a big deal. I would say for regular traders, 400 milliseconds or 20 milliseconds, you don't know the difference pretty much. But for a market maker, that is all the time in the world, essentially, yeah. And what they're doing, these market makers are going, they're taking millions of dollars, they're putting on an order book, and they're saying, I think Solana is, you know, $200 plus or minus, essentially like some small spread that they clip. And if they're wrong about that, someone comes in there and they do this toxic order flow, they take this thing and they're like, boom, I just made, you know, $10,000 or something other off that. And obviously, you're just going to bleed money if you're, you know, too slow.
00:07:50.666 - 00:08:41.964, Speaker B: And that's something we found with our market makers, is if they're too slow to replace or they hit chain congestion, they basically can't quote super tight, which means that when you look at us for centralized exchange, it's pretty competitive now, but it's very hard to get one to one with them because some of these speed considerations, we realized Solana is really good, and it's got us this far. We want to take the best properties of Solana in terms of speed and scalability, and tailor it to the defi and perps use cases. If we can build something that is more customized in terms of the infrastructure, but still secured by Solana, we can bring down the latencies, the speed. We can do stuff with the gas to onboard users better, and not have this kind of having to sign every transaction. And then hopefully that will bring derivatives on chain and we won't have to get shoehorned into centralized exchanges anymore.
00:08:42.092 - 00:09:10.424, Speaker A: Yeah, I hear you pushing into the l two narrative, and I want to get there. But before we move on to that next architectural phase, walk me through how people are using zeta today. There's this whole idea of the capital triangle, and there's these three pillars that hold up a lot of traditional tradfi market structures. How is that being built the same or differently? When you look at Defi own Solana, and where does zeta fit into that stack?
00:09:10.592 - 00:10:09.174, Speaker B: I guess if I'm trying to understand your question is comparing it to the traditional stack in terms of how we built our exchange. The traditional stack is actually very complicated. If you look at a traditional bank or an exchange, you have so many components, you have a clearing house, you have the exchange itself, you have the broker say you just have all these different people, the custodian, there's so many different counterparties and people that you have to work with. And that introduces this middleman problem, I guess, where everyone is taking their own fees, and then there's just a lot of parties that have to work with one another. If you've ever used banking, for example, today I off ramped a bunch of stuff, having to worry about ach, Aba bank numbers, swift numbers, and kind of moving it. I mean, they kind of unified a lot of traditional banking under stuff like swift. But if you look at it under the hood, all this kind of stuff is very, I think, old technology that is very slow and very kind of error prone potentially.
00:10:09.174 - 00:10:54.240, Speaker B: It's not built for, I would say, this Internet age. So the beauty of blockchains and specifically Solana is we can take all that complexity of traditional exchange and we can just compress it into a smart contract, which is less than ten megabytes of code that we've just uploaded to the blockchain, which that's pretty mind blowing innovation to me. And so that's basically how Zeta works is we've taken everything from the custody is all self custody, smart contract custody. Essentially we use this concept of PDA's in Solana. People own their own funds. Its not a centralized exchange where its like, hey, trust me bro, give me your keys and give me your coins, and I can do whatever. And if you have a malicious actor from a centralized exchange, they can just rug pull you.
00:10:54.240 - 00:11:23.260, Speaker B: That doesnt happen with defi. You can put your money in the smart contract, its basically held by you. You can withdraw any time. We also handle stuff like the margining is all done on chain. We pull prices from pith, which is one of the oracle providers. They basically aggregate prices from, call it like ten or 20 different providers, so it's reasonably decentralized. And then we do all the kind of margining, we make sure that hey, you want to buy the Solana contract, you have enough actual USDC in your wallet to support that.
00:11:23.260 - 00:11:54.360, Speaker B: Other functions like liquidations are done permissionlessly, so anyone can run a bot sometimes, like us or investors or other parties that we work with run their own. So it's completely open, and anyone can kind of run those. And then you're basically just placing a message on chain. You're signing this thing, you're sending it off. It's on the blockchain on the order book there that's resting in an on chain account, and someone on the other side of the world can go and they can place an opposing order and say, hey, I want to sell that Solana to you. And they sell that. That gets matched.
00:11:54.360 - 00:12:21.522, Speaker B: Essentially, validators around the world run that piece of logic and all agree that it's matched. A trade happens, and funds are basically exchanged. And, yeah, it all kind of happens in this one piece of code that's run on the thousand Solana validators that are there. So I would say a drastically simpler model. And it's also really nice because the whole thing's transparent. You can just go, you can look at the notification, you can jump onto an explorer, and you can verify that it's happened.
00:12:21.706 - 00:13:20.386, Speaker A: Yeah. One of the things that always surprises me about how complex defi protocols and Zeta definitely falls into that category have gotten built out is that they've kept a lot of this idea of permissionless actions, which, if you go back again to the basic amm function of something like v one uniswap, there's really no role for Uniswap, the corporate entity besides as a software publisher, right. In that model, you have liquidity providers providing liquidity. You have sellers, you have buyers, and the whole system is very self contained. And there's no sort of, like, there's no cranks that are necessary, there's no additional outside tools necessary to make that work. But you get to something like data today, and you're talking about permissionless liquidations. Now, liquidations, I would say, are probably one of the least important functions that an external capital provider can provide.
00:13:20.386 - 00:14:05.466, Speaker A: Right. Like liquidations are not really doing. I would call them productive work, the same way that providing liquidity or providing order flow or something like that is. And so there's a world where you guys could have just said, look, we're going to take all the liquidation profit, right? This is something that we're going to sell access to be a liquidator on the system. And I think in a traditional exchange structure, no one would blink at that at all. And even in a decentralized exchange, you probably could have gotten away with it to some extent. So walk me through a little bit of the philosophy of, like, building this stuff fully in the open and in a situation where you are actively giving up profit making opportunities to keep the protocol open and access like, this stuff.
00:14:05.466 - 00:14:16.450, Speaker A: To me, a lot of it feels like it's competitive to tradfi because it's just trying to play in such a completely different philosophical way than you see the traditional systems built. Would you agree with that?
00:14:16.490 - 00:14:33.004, Speaker B: Yes. Yeah, it's a pretty good observation. I mean, we definitely started this thing as trying to make it as kind of open as possible. You know, building the open. And for us, I guess, in terms of liquidation specifically, we see it as. Yes, it's not like a. I mean, it is a critical feature, but it's.
00:14:33.004 - 00:15:02.992, Speaker B: It's more like a security mechanism. Essentially, the reason you have liquidations for people who don't know is because there's leverage that's allowed on the platform, so people can actually take on more risk than they have capital to basically cover. And so if a position ends up going, going underwater, you don't want it to go over, bankrupt. You don't want the person to lose more money than they have in their account, essentially, because that gets reflected essentially on the exchanges balance sheet. Yeah, it's contagion. It dips into the insurance fund. We got to kind of COVID it.
00:15:02.992 - 00:15:42.282, Speaker B: So essentially, and thankfully, because Solana is so fast, we haven't really had too many issues because things are able to kind of liquidate quickly. But, yeah, we've just kind of opened it up because we figured, like, there's a lot of people out there, there's a lot of interest. I mean, definitely in the early days, I think, when Solana was not as hot as it's been this last year, it was very hard to get people to come in and liquidate. So we would just come in and just, like, run an internal thing. But the really cool thing that happened was we would run this internal one. We found probably, like a year ago, when things started heating up and people started getting really interested, we were just getting absolute fleeced, you know, like, people were just beating us out to every liquidation, and we hadn't put much kind of thought into improving this script. It was just kind of like a legacy thing.
00:15:42.282 - 00:16:17.920, Speaker B: And now people are just kind of jumping in there, and they're just kind of beating us to the punch on all those kind of things. And there's profit there. So there's kind of like a motive, motivation for people to do that. But, yeah, people just simply coded much better scripts, probably used some kind of funky technology to do mev stuff and just get really competitive. And now it's actually quite a competitive market. People get in there and it's a race to bring these things down. But that's actually a good thing for us because it means more people coming in, stepping in, providing capital, and getting those liquidations off faster, which protects the exchange and all the people using it from bankruptcy situations.
00:16:18.020 - 00:17:08.140, Speaker A: Yeah. So what do you see over the long term as zetas, let's call it economic driver function for the protocol itself, there's a lot of the times, I think, very famously, Uniswap still has basically no fee structure involved, and the liquidity is held up by the good graces of a 16 z. There's not a lot of incentives to be an LP on something like Uniswap. And projects that have obviously launched tokens, they create token incentives for that. But we have seen that some of the Defi tokens that get launched launched have trouble maintaining their place in the market, in part because they don't really have sound economics underneath the hood. And some people have done a very good job building sustainable Defi token models, but a lot of them haven't at this point. How do you sort of see that evolving for Zeta into the future?
00:17:08.260 - 00:17:48.144, Speaker B: It's a really good question. I mean, this is something that's in active development. And obviously tokenomics are a hard and I guess somewhat unsolved thing across the board, but we're definitely trying to put a lot of thought into it. So you raise a bunch of really good questions. I mean, in terms of the kind of business model, its very standard exchange business model, where its based on trading fees, and in terms of how we incentivize liquidity, some of those participants, it is an active liquidity protocol, so we need professional market makers. And its a bit harder than the average person just putting stuff into a vault. So we do work with professional firms such as Wintermoot, for example, and we do give them rewards and stuff for market making.
00:17:48.144 - 00:18:24.490, Speaker B: We actually have a pretty sophisticated market making program. It was actually modeled a little bit of DYDX. Who are the pioneers of this. We have a whole complicated formula and the tidyou quote, with the better uptime and kind of smaller spreads, we basically figure out over an epoch or a month by month basis essentially how much we should reward in terms of tokens. So it's good that these kind of participants are long term aligned with the protocol. We want to build up a bag of the zeta token, and that increases our stake and our buy in for the protocol. And we put some capital at risk and we provide liquidity on the exchange within reason.
00:18:24.490 - 00:18:34.646, Speaker B: So it's been good to bootstrap that initial liquidity now is a bit for, I guess, the retail people. How do we buy them in and how do we kind of complete, I guess, the liquidity flywheel.
00:18:34.758 - 00:19:18.356, Speaker A: Yeah. So this is something I've always been kind of curious about in traditional market structures. It's not like the New York Stock Exchange is going out and paying market makers to provide liquidity on the stock exchange. It's also not like Apple is going out and paying market makers to provide liquidity for apple stock. So walk me through how this stuff works in the long term, because protocol subsidies are something that is very common in crypto. It's very common in any sort of startup environment that the assumption is you have to pay to get things kick started. But at some point, you hit a steady state where that isn't the case or the foundation of Zeta has run out of tokens, and so it can't provide these things anymore.
00:19:18.356 - 00:19:34.836, Speaker A: So what's the sort of graduation phase look like? Because most protocols today still have, need to have some direct relationship that is monetary with market makers. The market makers, for whatever reason, don't yet have the incentives to just purely do this on their own.
00:19:35.028 - 00:20:07.922, Speaker B: Yeah, that's correct. So I guess when you talk about traditional finance, the way that traditional market makers, um, make their money is from the, the spreads of what they're quoting. So a maker will come in there, they place limit orders, and they'll say, hey, I want to quote Solana, you know, between 99 and $101. Essentially, I'm willing to buy at 99 and willing to sell it, uh, 101. And so they kind of captured that, say, $2 spread. In that case, if someone wants to come in there and do a taker order, they will go and theyll kind of make whatever that difference is there. Typically, it tends to be much smaller than that.
00:20:07.922 - 00:20:31.362, Speaker B: $2 is huge. Its typically very small. But that is essentially what they do. And they do it over and over and over again. You can imagine if youre quoting us treasury bonds or something or other, its just an absolute fraction of a cent, but theyre doing it on the order of probably billions of dollars. That actually ends up becoming a significant amount. And so all your jumps and Jane streets and optivas, this is like their business model, essentially.
00:20:31.362 - 00:20:54.914, Speaker B: And that's why they're like massive multi billion dollar companies that kind of print money every year. Unfortunately, with like crypto and especially defi stuff, I guess it is still in this kind of cold start problem, or, you know, liquidity is kind of king at the moment, and trying to bootstrap that is definitely difficult. I mean, things are less liquid and more risky, I guess, than traditional finance and centralized crypto finance. So usually things are always.
00:20:55.042 - 00:21:52.404, Speaker A: Is that really true, though? Like, the only reason I'm challenging on this is we are speaking on a day of high degrees of market tumult. I think the thing I, at least anecdotally have noticed in the last ten years is markets in the traditional space have devolved into markets in the crypto space. When I think a lot of us felt that in 2017, oh, crypto is going to graduate into being something more like the traditional equities market. But we've seen just between the COVID pandemic market panics into the oil going negative, we can look back over the last four years and pick out so many market events where it felt like equally crazy stuff was going on in the traditional markets as the crypto markets. And so I get this kind of answer sometimes from folks around like, oh, market makers. There's not there yet on crypto where they haven't quite. There's something safer about the tradfi system.
00:21:52.404 - 00:22:15.680, Speaker A: And I guess I'm just wondering, is that safety coming from traditional insurance pools and backstops and gentlemen's agreements, or is it actually a market structure and dynamics issue? Is the volume in crypto just too low for market makers to be as profitable? And that's actually the thing we're going after. There's something there that I'm just missing, and I think a lot of other people might be, too.
00:22:16.210 - 00:22:46.580, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a good question. I can't comment absolutely here, given that I'm not a traditional equities market maker and not even a crypto market maker, but from my observations, obviously, the guys in the traditional space have been around for decades. They have very robust infrastructure there. They're also dealing with stuff that is highly, highly liquid. For example, like I mentioned, treasury bonds are really going nowhere. This thing is very insured in case anything kind of bad happens. But also, there's just an insane amount of liquidity.
00:22:46.580 - 00:23:17.080, Speaker B: Like, you could sell billions of dollars and not move the price at all. Whereas imagine if you tried to do that on your typical altcoin token, it would just send the price to zero, essentially even bitcoin. I think. I mean, look at the events of what's happening the last couple of days. There's some big eth sellers in the market, and that's just basically tanking the hell out of the price. And so the markets are struggling to kind of deal with this massive sell pressure. And so my comment, I guess, was not on the security necessarily of the asset.
00:23:17.080 - 00:23:40.904, Speaker B: I mean, yes, there is less liquidity, definitely. Then it's also like, I think market makers are a bit more sheepish when it comes to defi. At least that's been our interaction. They're like, hey, we got to worry about counterparty risk, at least binance. Even though I guess there are still some question marks with them. They've been around for enough years and it's almost like a darwinian thing. Yeah, they've just kind of survived long enough that we kind of trust them, I guess.
00:23:40.904 - 00:23:59.220, Speaker B: I mean, people thought that about FTX as well. They're like, oh, these guys seem really legit. And then look what happened with Defi. I mean, I agree with you. It's like these things are permissionless, these things. Once you audit, I guess, the smart contract, you should be really safe with it. But still, there have been countless hacks, and I think people have kind of PTSD from that.
00:23:59.220 - 00:24:53.630, Speaker B: And then, like I mentioned before, just the performance aspect of it. If the chain goes down, touch wood, or like this congestion or certain things happen, it's definitely happened to us. Unfortunately, in the early days, Solana did have its share of downtime, which was quite difficult for us because we had, call it millions of dollars of open derivatives positions. The liveness would basically go down on the main chain. And then we were like, oh crap, what do we do for a couple of hours? But people on the exchange are pinging us and they're like, are you going to settle positions? Or how's it going to happen when trading resumes and the price usually moves a couple of percent? And I saw it with some of these amm dexs, I think it was like orca or something other, I remember would resume and then suddenly just everyone would get liquidated or the price would just have to recalibrate to where it had moved, like 10% or something other. And just this massive kind of chaos, I guess, when it reopened.
00:24:54.220 - 00:25:42.270, Speaker A: So I want to get into a little bit of what you brought up before around zeta building an l two. We've started to see. I think l two is probably not the right term for what a lot of this stuff is, because l two carries a whole bunch of baggage about how l two s are fully centralized, l two s are fully ruggable. All of these things that we have critiques of, the l two architectures as most of them currently exist today. But you're effectively talking about building some form of a subset scaling infrastructure that is related or based on the Solana mainnet that enables you to do different types of things. So walk me through, in your own terminology, without borrowing too much from the Ethereum terminology, what are you guys building and why?
00:25:43.170 - 00:26:13.486, Speaker B: Yeah, I'll maybe start with the why. So we kind of have been building for the last couple of years. We've got an exchange that works pretty damn well. Like I said, it's done billions of dollars of volume traded on the exchange and zillow kind of running through a Solana smart contract. And so we're pretty competitive, I would say, on the DeFi plane. But we're trying to go above and beyond and we're trying to think, what is the future that I want in ten years? I want people to control their own funds. I don't want things to be able to be rugged.
00:26:13.486 - 00:27:13.660, Speaker B: I want a crypto exchange that actually runs on crypto. It isn't just basically an unregulated exchange that deals with digital currencies, which it basically currently is. And so we thought about all those kind of principles and what people care about, and we tried to engineer that into our plans for this. And so that's why it required a bit more, I guess, mucking around on the infrastructure layer, figuring out, hey, how can we tune some of the knobs to make it a bit more specific to, I guess, the perps use case and other kind of defi use cases that we really care about. So, Solana amazing general smart contract layer. It does nfts, it does spot, it does lending, it does perps, it does gaming, it does kind of a bit of everything. Then when we want to really specialize, we figured it was a good time to be able to invest in that infrastructure and be able to tweak things like block times, like latencies, like how people actually interact with the blockchain to make some of the kind of trading experience a bit easier.
00:27:13.660 - 00:27:40.794, Speaker B: And so that's how we came up with this idea of the kind of zeta, Zeta X and this kind of scaling layer. Yeah. So not to borrow the kind of l two terminology, but I'll try and explain in my own words. Essentially, what we're going to be doing is running a virtual machine. It won't be SVM, at least for now. It would just be kind of like a general purpose, like rust virtual machine, to be more specific. It's a zero knowledge or Zk VM.
00:27:40.794 - 00:28:35.392, Speaker B: Yep. Basically what that means is we can just run arbitrary rust matching engine order book code, which we've basically already written, and that will be basically the foundation of our matching engine, our margin system, all the stuff that we need from exchange. And the beauty there is with a. Some of the advancements that have happened in zero knowledge technology, working with folks like risk zero is a really good example. They basically built this verifiable virtual machine, which we'll be using so we can run arbitrary computation. So, for example, someone places the limit order or trades or does whatever, we can verify that, essentially, and create this 16 proof, the zero knowledge proof. And people can go and they can go and make sure that this sequencer or this exchange matching engine has actually acted truthfully.
00:28:35.392 - 00:29:31.798, Speaker B: It's nice in that we can centralize some of the computation and not have to run it over bajillion nodes and have to worry about the latency around the world. I know you guys are trying to solve it in a way. I know, totally trying to do these multiple leaders and how to do funky stuff like that. But ultimately, there still has to be network communication and consensus around the world, and that just makes it very hard, I guess, for a high frequency exchange to be able to compete with the centralized guys. In this case, we can bring things more down to a central sequencer, but we can still have the properties that we want in that it's verifiable, and people can trust that the computation has been done there properly. The nice thing as well is if this sequencer or this central virtual machine, essentially, that's running all these audible computations, if that starts acting up, it starts censoring people. It can't do malicious stuff like steal money from people.
00:29:31.798 - 00:29:59.290, Speaker B: So purely the sequencer and this roll up sense, all it does is just order transactions. That's what Solana does on the l one, but we need it on the l two. The good thing is it can't commit fraud. Essentially, it just can misorder things and do a bit of Mev. But if people spot that this thing has been playing up, you can actually kind of just circumvent and there's an escape hatch, and you can go back to the l one. You can start, you can be like, hey, I want to withdraw my money from this, this l two. You can always drop back to the l one.
00:29:59.290 - 00:30:22.700, Speaker B: So why don't you do that all the time? You know, obviously, it just brings you back to the l one. Things are a little bit slower. It kind of loses all the benefits of the l two. But there is that escape hatch. And so what's the beautiful thing about the l two? We get stuff like pre conformation, so you can actually talk directly to the sequencer. And even though it's not 100% guaranteed, it's probably 99.99% that this thing's not going to roll back.
00:30:22.700 - 00:31:07.184, Speaker B: You can talk directly to this thing, to the order book, you can place the order and within, let's call it five milliseconds, you'll know if that's gone through and that's been matched. That starts just accelerating us 100 times in terms of the performance and throughput that we can get. That's really nice that our computation is now offloaded from Solana, so we don't have to use, uh, the SVM for all the kind of computation is pretty damn fast. But for our specific exchange use case, you know, we need to bring it, you know, ten to 100 times faster to be really competitive with those guys. Uh, but then the beautiful thing is we're not just running, you know, a centralized exchange at that point. The thing is verifiable and it's secured by Solana, essentially, because all that data is getting posted back to Solana. Anyone can read that data that can be like, this is the state that I saw at my time.
00:31:07.184 - 00:31:35.976, Speaker B: They can kind of dispute other people on the roll up. And Solana, essentially, the Solana consensus nodes are all going and voting on those kind of da blocks that are going through Solana. So you get the security of Solana, you take the computation, and you make it a ton faster and you can verify it. And for us, this is like the model that we've come up with that we think will get us the best performance, lowest latencies, best user experience, and still have the security and hopefully the easily bridge liquidity of Solana.
00:31:36.088 - 00:31:46.016, Speaker A: Cool. So I want to go through some of the typical l two roll up y questions as we go through this. So where does the compute come from?
00:31:46.168 - 00:32:25.552, Speaker B: So basically, there would just be kind of a sequencer that runs this order book code. Like I mentioned, it can just be any kind of arbitrary rust code, and we've basically coded up a full matching engine. This thing will just run on like a bare metal box or whatever it might be. And people can kind of talk to that just over standard APIs. We don't have to deal with kind of JSON RPC and all these kind of complicated stuff that actually really helps us with market makers. For example, they used to rest protocols with all these other centralized exchanges. So we can basically build something that looks and feels like a centralized exchange, people can post to that, this thing will sequence them and place those orders off chain, and then people can go verify it.
00:32:25.552 - 00:32:46.066, Speaker B: They would run similarly their own risk, zero vm, and be able to do fraud proofs and challenge certain stuff. But yeah, everything is essentially running on whatever node hardware that you would potentially want. But yeah, it should be able to be pretty scalable. But essentially that doesn't have to be run by Solana validators. We can run it separate from that.
00:32:46.218 - 00:33:07.128, Speaker A: Then. Walk me through, you mentioned five millisecond pre conformations. What does the timing look like for pre conformation? Full confirmation to use again, the classic terminal settlement back to the Solana l one. If you're trying to exit, what are those exit times look like? Yeah. What's that timing for various levels of security achievement.
00:33:07.264 - 00:33:39.238, Speaker B: So the pre confirmation, essentially you will be firing off that API request and you'll be like, hey, I want to buy Solana this price that will go, it'll hit the sequencer. So that's basically just going to be latency over the network. So we're expecting if you're co located, say if you were to professional trading firm, you're co located in same AWS zone or whatever, five milliseconds, I think very reasonable. So you can get this thing very, very fast. That's basically what you see with binance. I think it's like 20 milliseconds or something like that. Yeah, so it's a very, very, very fast.
00:33:39.238 - 00:34:35.862, Speaker B: And this kind of state machine, I guess, of the order book that's running in this sequencer is running a bit ahead of what all the kind of, I guess like the full nodes or the validators of the l two would be kind of running basically what will happen. I guess the transaction lifecycle will go into that sequencer. The sequencer will essentially sequence everything, and then things will get posted back down to the l one onto the data availability layer, and then people can go read the data availability layer when it becomes available. And they'd be able to run those transactions through themselves, verify everything. As you can imagine, Solana block times 400 milliseconds sometimes. If we're posting a batch of quite a lot of transactions, we will most likely have to chunk that up over multiple instructions, multiple transactions. So I'm estimating things will probably take a couple of seconds to get posted down to the Solana layer and then read back up.
00:34:35.862 - 00:35:10.820, Speaker B: That's, I think, how long it will take. I don't imagine it would take more than five or 10 seconds to get data available on that layer, which is pretty fast, I would say. And then in terms of the actual withdrawal time. So yeah, that's, that's one thing is you've got to synchronize the, the base layer and what's happening there with the kind of l two and make sure that there's not race conditions. So, I mean, I chatted to Toli a bunch about that. He's pretty confident that you could get it to like 30 or 40 milliseconds in the kind of design that he had, which kind of doesn't deal with a lot. Some of the roll up complexity that we wanted to get to.
00:35:10.820 - 00:35:43.990, Speaker B: That's maybe like the end state of what we can get to. I think we're a bit further off that because we're doing essentially an optimistic roll up. Unfortunately, there is some element of. Because it's optimistic, you kind of let the chain run. You have to rely on, I guess, good behavior and fraud proof so people to actually kind of challenge that. So our kind of withdrawal time is probably, I think optimism is seven days, I think ours because a lot of block times are kind of a lot faster. Obviously, we can probably bring that down a bunch to within a day, probably a bit less than a day.
00:35:43.990 - 00:36:31.000, Speaker B: And then the nice thing is, one of the teams we're working with is developing more on the ZK proving side. So we can potentially do a bit of a hybrid where instead of dealing with purely optimistic for withdrawals, we can actually submit a proof for that and do some of this kind of ZK magic. And that should bring it down to, I guess, probably like an hour or however long it takes to do these proofs. Usually 15 minutes at least. So I think we can get pretty good end goal there. So for the end user, what does that actually mean? If you're posting stuff onto Zeta and you want to place a trade, you should basically click the thing and you will get an acknowledgement within five milliseconds. And there's a very, very basically zero chance of that rolling back unless something catastrophic happens.
00:36:31.000 - 00:37:08.020, Speaker B: And then in the background, obviously this will become available to nodes, people can verify and prove stuff, and that data will be available. And then if you want to withdraw off the chain, we imagine it will probably in the early days take a couple of hours. And we can probably bring that down to 15 to 30 minutes, which we think is not crazy. It's reasonable. The thing that we're trying to solve more for is how do we get deposits really fast? Because I think that's the painful thing. Whenever I've used arbitrum and other ones like this, put my money in there, I'm just sitting there waiting for this ethereum to do all its confirmations. It usually takes 15 minutes at least.
00:37:08.020 - 00:37:20.152, Speaker B: I think our deposit should be very fast. We're probably going to run in a trust, minimize setup to start, and we can get it pretty quick. Then hopefully we can make it more trustless over time.
00:37:20.336 - 00:37:57.460, Speaker A: Walk me through a little bit of the security model around proving. So this is one of those pieces where you hear a lot from the zero knowledge community saying things like, oh, well, once the data is posted, anyone can challenge the data. They can run the proof themselves. And if there's something that's found to be wrong, there's a big bounty and big payout to happen. The critique of that is that assumes that those bounties and payouts actually exist. And right now, the actual act of proving this stuff is not cheap, right. There are real computational and infrastructure costs to proving it out.
00:37:57.460 - 00:38:43.610, Speaker A: And so far, I don't believe there's ever been a bounty claimed on a zero knowledge challenge that wasn't intentionally planted there to test the network. And so I think you could look at one of these systems and say, look, there's basically no incentive to provide security for it because it's sort of like a. Is like trying to crowdfund, like, a nuclear missile warning system. Like, it's so unlikely there's ever going to be a nuclear missile headed for your city that, like, if you just leave it up to people to, like, crowdfund that system, no one's going to build it because it's a, you know, or an asteroid defense system for the planet. These are. These are once in a blue moon type situations, but if you don't have them, the entire security assumption breaks down. So how are you guys thinking about that type of a problem?
00:38:44.600 - 00:39:20.970, Speaker B: Yeah, really, really good question, to be honest. This is, like, probably one of the things that's a bit later or, like, towards the end of our roadmap thinking about the kind of economics on that. So I don't have a definitive answer at the moment. I mean, definitely acknowledge your observation that proving costs are pretty significant. It's why you see stuff like stockware, I think, actually has massive proving costs, and they have to kind of batch and amortize stuff over. That's why things tend to be a bit slower on this kind of ZK side. For stuff like stockware, things take hours because they have to batch all these proofs together and solve them.
00:39:20.970 - 00:39:36.490, Speaker B: A lot of it just has to be subsidized, I guess, through the native token. That's just how things go at the moment. We're probably going to do something similar. To be honest, I don't have a silver bullet on how to solve this specific security thing, but it's definitely a cost.
00:39:36.590 - 00:40:34.790, Speaker A: Yeah, it's always struck me that we've kind of reinvented bitcoin, but without the block rewards, with all this stuff where we're like, oh, just run all this massive computational load to secure a network, and someday you could potentially maybe get paid. It feels like an interesting application for something like embedding some sort of reward token mining into the proof generation at some point could be an interesting way to sort of solve this, because there's a strange thing in this next gen deFi, and you guys are very much not alone in this category, but we've built really cool, impressive systems that in some way rely on goodwill and treating people as good actors in order to maintain a lot of their security functions, which feels like it is the way that systems in high trust social settings work, but is sort of different than the sort of first generation of DeFi was built out to be.
00:40:35.210 - 00:40:36.858, Speaker B: Mm hmm. Yeah, that's correct.
00:40:36.914 - 00:40:37.266, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:40:37.338 - 00:41:09.322, Speaker B: Yeah. The only caveat I will make is, like, we will probably be starting in more kind of an optimistic setup, and that's pretty cheap to run, obviously, because you don't have to do a little CK proving. But like everyone says in the roll up space, ZK seems to be the end goal. The holy grail of a lot of this stuff, and I think something that will be good is like, Solana also scales with hardware. I think a lot of the ZK circuits continually just getting better. There's massive breakthroughs, I guess, both on the circuit software side as well as hardware side, that people are making in leaps and bounds. And the technology is very new.
00:41:09.322 - 00:41:44.918, Speaker B: It's only really been around for a couple of years. So I imagine over the lifecycle of how this thing goes, not only is Solana going to get way cheaper with stuff like fire dancer, but I think you're also going to see ZK stuff in general just advance a lot. And I think there's already been just massive improvements and ZK support on the Solana side as well, which is why I'm very excited, because we get to benefit from base chain scalability and then the absolute legends that light protocol and Helios are doing all this groundbreaking work as well, just bringing a bunch of that onto Solana from the ZK side. So it's nice to be able to tap into both of those.
00:41:44.974 - 00:42:41.070, Speaker A: I've wanted to do an episode for a while on why ZK hardware acceleration is still so far away. And my understanding is that basically everyone's using custom algorithms, and there's no standardization in how you're actually going about the proof. And because of that, the ZK prize should have succeeded, and instead, it kind of failed as a project, but topic for another episode. But it's something I've been thinking a lot about, is where is all this ZK hardware acceleration we were promised in 2018? But it is really cool that is still, even with all of the proven costs and limitations associated with it, it's still practical enough for something like you guys to build a whole system around this technology and say, we can actually still produce faster block times than you would expect on a mainnet. What's the status of this l two system now? Where are you guys in the development process?
00:42:42.020 - 00:43:10.034, Speaker B: Yes, good question. We're pretty advanced, or I say making pretty good progress on this. I'm actually hoping to get a demo out by breakpoint, ideally a live demo, but if things don't quite hit those deadlines, we'll at least have a screen recording or something. Very excited for that. So if people are going to breakpoint, please do come to my talk. Yeah, we're making good progress on that. We hired a few more back end engineers who are making progress on the business logic.
00:43:10.034 - 00:43:37.954, Speaker B: There is a lot of exchange redesign stuff that we wanted to do. We've had probably, like, two years of smart contract tech debt that we're now just, like, wiping this clean. It's like, now we want to support stuff like multi collateral, which we haven't had for a long time. We've always been USDC margin. So we were like, hey, let's redesign our margin system entirely. People want to use Sol, they want to use GTO soul, they want to use all these different things to kind of margin. So that requires a bit more advanced functionality, things to be kind of rethought.
00:43:37.954 - 00:43:59.914, Speaker B: Um, but, yeah, doing a kind of ground up rebuild of the exchange with the three to four years of knowledge of exchange building that we have now, I think, is. Has been pretty helpful. Uh, pulling ourselves away from the old terrible CRM code base is like a. Is an absolute blessing. Um, so we're very happy to just be able to write things in rust and not have to deal with the, uh, kind of constraints that we had there.
00:44:00.042 - 00:44:00.282, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:44:00.306 - 00:44:28.176, Speaker B: So that's tracking pretty, pretty well. And then on the actual roll up side, which is maybe a bit more interesting. So we have some of the basics there where we're working with an infrastructure partner on this really smart bunch of guys called Sovereign Labs team. They're building a bunch of software tools for that. We really like them. They're just genius. Guys just know infinitely more about roll ups than most people we've met and just really serious about it.
00:44:28.176 - 00:45:05.870, Speaker B: They've helped us with a bunch of custom stuff, and we're working very closely. So we already have something that's essentially just running very simple order book operations. We're able to take all those different transactions, batch them up, aggregate them, and post them down onto a DA layer. So we've got to working with a mock DA layer, which is just like a database right at the moment. We're in the interim just trying to get it to work with Celestia because that's just exists already. We can kind of put DA on there. So we already got a few DA blocks that's somewhere on the Celestia testnet that's been working, which is good.
00:45:05.870 - 00:45:38.286, Speaker B: We're also in the progress of building out a Solana da adapter. There's just some thought around how we chunk things up, how we work around Solana's transaction submission model and how we pull stuff out through geyser and stuff like that just to make it very fast. No one's built this DA adapter, and that's new grounds. And we'll be pushing probably a lot of data through solar and saturating the block space a little bit. We're trying to think about nice, how to do it in an efficient way, how to do it. So it's kind of like parallel. And we're not just kind of like blocking ourselves.
00:45:38.286 - 00:45:41.790, Speaker B: I don't know, there's just like, a lot of engineering things and it's very new grounds.
00:45:41.870 - 00:45:45.230, Speaker A: Yeah. Talk to me a little bit about Solana as da.
00:45:45.390 - 00:46:24.014, Speaker B: Yeah. So I think a lot of people have talked about it, which is, which is pretty cool. People are like, why doesn't it make sense? Solana has very or fairly abundant bandwidth and quite a lot, like cheap storage, and you're getting all this kind of state compression stuff coming out. So it kind of makes a lot more sense that Solana can be actually kind of a juggernaut for Da stuff. And you have already specialized blockchains like Celestia who are trying to tackle this problem. What if you could do it with an existing Solana blockchain? And so that's kind of what we wanted to tackle. We were like, oh, I don't want to become just like another sovereign roll up on celestial.
00:46:24.014 - 00:46:59.484, Speaker B: Let's actually do it with Solana. And what's the advantage of doing it on Solana? We get native deposits, essentially, from the l one. So it's going to make it very fast. And you don't have to muck around going into this random app chain then. Furthermore, the nice thing is, down the road in the future, for what we understand, if you have a bunch of different roll ups who share the same da layer, you actually get this really nice composability benefits between them. We figured more people can actually start using that once we've built it. We can get this ecosystem of roll ups and start building out more people building on this kind of l two.
00:46:59.484 - 00:47:36.542, Speaker B: So we think there's some good advantages there in terms of the actual technical stuff. I mean, it's pretty simple. All you need to do is take the transaction data that you would have normally done, instead of basically putting that through the Solana virtual machine, which will run it and format it, I guess, and save it in its own way that it can natively understand. Basically, the stuff you read in a block explorer is all formatted and parsed. You have all the information there you can kind of understand with this blob data that you're getting from the l two. That's kind of the distinction, is the l one actually has no idea what the hell that is. It doesn't validate it, it doesn't run it through.
00:47:36.542 - 00:48:24.444, Speaker B: It's like, oh, yeah, for example, these signers are valid or dis drained, or it took out more balance than existed in this kind of account. The runtime checks that Solana does. But this, you're just taking a binary blob, you're just chucking it on there, and it's just going to be in the call data, essentially, of your transaction. And it's up to the roll up and the full nodes of the roll up to go and verify that. They basically go. And it's like if you were to ever kind of pull data off the Solana blockchain, you do like the get transaction method or whatever, you grab it from the RPC, and you would just kind of take that kind of bytes and be able to pull out, I guess, the roll up data and be able to verify that. But the l one itself, and if you were to look at it on block explorers, would be kind of completely blind, I guess, to the fact of what's on there.
00:48:24.492 - 00:48:38.640, Speaker A: I mean, blobs and inscriptions share a lot more similarities than differences. It's very interesting. Well, Tristan, if folks are interested in learning more about Zeta and following the progress on this l two system you're building, where can they find out more?
00:48:39.380 - 00:49:21.052, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the best place is Twitter. So zetamarkets is our kind of protocol page. I'm also on Twitter. Tristan Zero x post a lot about Solana over the, over the years, and always good to just kind of like, at me on certain stuff if you're interested or kind of dm me always happy to have a conversation and otherwise, like, telegram's a good place to get us. We have a public telegram chat that anyone can kind of get in and check up on progress and ask questions. So we'd love people to give feedback and ask questions and be involved in the conversation because I think the next couple of months at least going to be very exciting. And if anyone's at breakpoint, obviously come by, say hi, and looking forward to discussing things.
00:49:21.196 - 00:49:23.800, Speaker A: All right, well, thanks for joining us today.
00:49:24.500 - 00:49:25.980, Speaker B: Thanks for having me, Austin. Appreciate it.
