00:00:04.520 - 00:00:43.441, Speaker A: First, if some of you haven't heard about Redstone, okay, first I would say a few words about myself. So what was my journey? I graduated Warsaw School of Economics in Warsaw, Quantitative methods and economics. So I was always very interested in economics, statistics and these kind of number games in economy. Got interested in ethereum in late 2017. Wrote my bachelor thesis about blockchain use cases in 2018. And in 2018, interestingly enough, I somehow coordinated creation of a tool allowing to track ransomware bitcoin transactions. One of the use cases was Polis in Poland.
00:00:43.441 - 00:02:03.545, Speaker A: So in 2018, imagine someone is doing a ransomware attack on your laptop, is, you know, blocking all your data and is sending you a bitcoin address, send saying you send me 10 bitcoins over there and I'm going to unlock your laptop. You're doing so you go to the police and then the police says, what can I do with this magic Internet money? I have no idea how to track this criminalist. So we're trying to create a solution that nowadays there are plenty like elliptic chain analysis and so on, where policemen could track each transaction from the address and usually it ended up on an exchange to go to a fiat, which was very interesting stuff to do at the time. Then I worked as a PM in software dev shop and joined Google Cloud in 2020 to in 2021 join the technical founder of Redstone Jacob on a journey of building another Oracle on Arweave. So straight before my presentation there was a video about Arweave and IO. We've started an incubation program of Arweave which was very good to kick things off and get the initial fuel for the beginning. Recently we raised our series a $50 million led by Arrington Capital that is founded by the founder of TechCrunch and Crunchbase, some of the reputable technological platforms.
00:02:03.545 - 00:03:10.091, Speaker A: Altogether we raised to date over 22 million. Also have notable angels that not necessarily always angel like Alex Glukhovsky or Emin from Avalanche, which kind of also confirms that there are people in the space that believe in what we are doing. We always love to do research and reports because when there is like a new narrative, for example restaking or Oracle extractable value or whatsoever, first thing we do is try to strip it down, learn as much as possible and create a report or some educational piece because we learn on the way and we can also share our knowledge around. And we are a team of 30 right now, usually cool folks, mainly in Warsaw, in Poland, and we constantly grow as the team itself. Last slide about Redstone Right now we are the fastest growing Oracle in the market and top three on the on the charts. We have over 100 clients supporting over 60 chains and secure $4 billion. And Oracle is a service that delivers data feeds on chain.
00:03:10.091 - 00:03:51.537, Speaker A: The biggest one is Chainlink, the second biggest is PIF and by many metrics we are the number three. For example by number of clients. Some of our notable clients Morpho that recently raised like $50 million. Again Venus Protocol leverage protocols like Gearbox Delta prime staking protocols and restaking protocols. For example Lombard is an interesting one like Bitcoin liquid bitcoin staking that is coming into tranches right now. Yesterday they launched private beta and in one hour they collected $250 million of TVL like just like this because of bitcoin wealth and yield protocols like Pendle, which has been a pretty interesting one in the past months. There's also Vida and many, many others.
00:03:51.537 - 00:04:30.277, Speaker A: And here a big shout out to all Redstone developers because Oracles like the first thing that has to do is to be reliable and deliver accurate data that is not manipulated. And our developers are working around the clock to make sure that we don't have any problem and knocking the wood. We are the only biggest player that has never had a single manipulation or mispricing that affected any of the client. So glad to also be able to say so. All right, let's go to the meat of the presentation. Right? So lessons learned. I try to divide them into three, let's say categories because I don't know who exactly is at the audience.
00:04:30.277 - 00:05:17.237, Speaker A: So some of them will be for founders, majority of them actually because I'm one of the co founders. So it's the easiest for me GTM folks. So go to market folks like people doing marketing, BD community and so on and engineers. So I also try to target the group that I pretend I understand, right? Because I'm not an engineer myself. But I believe me, I do all my efforts to understand architecture and be as close to engineering and the product and the tech as possible. The first lesson, and it's mainly for the ones that are not really into trenches with defi yet, is study defi. Understand key mechanism of defi well, because the moment you start working in this space and you have thousands of tasks to do, it's very hard to find a proper time to understand some primitives.
00:05:17.237 - 00:06:00.923, Speaker A: And the 10 that I would very much recommend to study is seed phrase and wallets. So how to manage your seed phrases? What is the hot and cold wallet? What kind of wallets out there. It's not only MetaMask, there are way more. And actually MetaMask I do use Metamask daily, I can tell you. But definitely I don't keep my majority of my assets on MetaMask. Right like it's useful, it's convenient, but it's not the end game for wallets in my opinion. How Ethereum works so you can argue hey there's Solana, there's Avalanche, there are many other chains but without any question Ethereum is the most mature one with the most of developer tooling the most of people that are excited about stuff that is going on within the ecosystem.
00:06:00.923 - 00:07:10.759, Speaker A: So understand how smart contracts work. Mempool blocks Ethereum, virtual machine compatibility and so on and so forth. Layer ones and L2s. So what a sequencer is what's the difference between Optimistic and ZK Rollup what is Rollup as a service, which right now is a pretty hot topic as well. Stablecoins so read about Tether also maybe a bit of a history like how it came into existence why Tether is mainly used on centralized exchanges whereas USDC from Circle is mainly used on decentralized exchanges and Defi itself how dexs work which is like I would say probably the most important like primitive in defi so exchanging assets what slippage, impairment, loss LP use Uniswap get burned with Uniswap pay 50% slippage on a shitcoin that you're trying to buy. Whatever like do those those mistakes. You can do it on testnet or you can do it with small amount of money right? Like 50% if you're doing a transaction of $5 is not that costly and then you're going to feel it and it's better to do it that way than when you're doing a swap of like $2,000 or something more meaningful lending which is another like backbone of Defi.
00:07:10.759 - 00:08:26.629, Speaker A: So what's collateral liquidation dynamics? Use AAVE more for creating position make sure that you're liquidated with the position so you understand how it works in practice when you're hitting the liquidation threshold like honestly for example, this is a rule I have no time myself to set up. I I've never set up a lending POS like land position that was liquidated because I was always afraid and actually I would like to see how it works right to feel getting liquidated in a small position I control rather than, you know, 1/3 of my value CDP stablecoins so play with MakerDAO now it's called sky and die Liquidy there's also a very interesting cdp one that you can use only if against to mint stablecoins. What staking is okay, now super important thing for people who are not familiar with staking and liquid staking. My claim is that staking and liquid staking has will become one of the most important primitives in crypto. The reason is in traditional finance, to my knowledge at least, there is no popular product where you can buy a stock and then earn yield on that stock. So you buy Tesla stock and as you hold that Tesla stock you get more of this Tesla stock. And this is essentially what liquid staking is doing, right? So doing rwa.
00:08:26.629 - 00:10:13.215, Speaker A: So basically tokenizing bonds. Okay, that's cool, we should keep doing that. But this is like bringing a primitive from traditional finance on chain and here we have a primitive that is let's say new something that can be truly groundbreaking as the whole ecosystem grows Bridges and Oracles so understand what the difference between Bridge and Oracle is and in my words I would say Bridge is just transferring assets between chains and Oracle is responsible for delivering data to on chain environments or DApps directly use layer 0 Axelr wormhole study chain link Redstone and other protocols and understand the difference between okay, this one is not defi but I'm getting asked so many times but let's say new people that are coming into the space hey what's this market cap and fully do the valuation like is actually I think World Coin is one of these coins that has tremendous FDV but market cap relatively let's say still within reasonable range. There is a website I don't remember exactly but if you. If you type into Google fully deleted valuation crypto ranking and then you just approx that with CoinMarketCap you're going to see because CoinMarketCap what it's doing is ordering all the coins with market capitalization which means how many coins are out there in circulation multiplied by price of one coin Fully diluted valuation is when for example I sell I create a new coin, let's call it Mars Coin that has a supply of 1 million and I sell one coin to my fiance for I don't know, $1 million. I can create crazy FDV even though the market cap is going to be fairly small. So understand these dynamics to know how to also value the projects themselves.
00:10:13.215 - 00:11:24.915, Speaker A: Second lesson, join a dev session early. So if you are not within the space again understand that developers of Web3 not necessarily code smart contracts. Actually I can tell you in Redstone we don't have that much smart contract work because we created our smart contracts and right now mainly it's like backend job or integrations with the other Dapps and environments. So to materialize that you can come for example tomorrow at 4pm to a workshop by one of our integrations engineer who has been in the crypto space for free or four years and is also like a very cool dude. Charek so tomorrow at 4 if you'd like to get into beginning of the ecosystem join over, keep learning and I think this is very cliche but it's very many times omitted and find a system for that. It's not the learning that you realize hey I don't understand something that's going to help you very much. It's more like if you build a system during busy days to keep educating yourself and being in front of all the news that is out there it is very very helpful.
00:11:24.915 - 00:13:00.159, Speaker A: For example find a dude that is a researcher or that is very interested in crypto and from time to time go on a coffee with him or like basically come over on the party that you know people want to just hang out and ask him about what's new in defi, what's happening with restaking, what's the difference between Carac Eigenlayer and symbiotic and so on. So like a crypto research dude is always nice. A specific tool I've started to using recently is called Kaito AI and though the platform itself is paid there is like a public group on telegram that is called overheard over Twitter where they summarize with AI all the major metas that are happening on Twitter on Crypto once every 24 hours and to me it's fantastic. I'm just using that for to understand what's majority people talking on Twitter and helps a ton and find a podcast or like some of form of a news that you're following regularly. For me because I started like way earlier I found one day defy that and I really enjoy like the way he's approaching episodes and stuff. It can be banclass, it can be some other producer but just find something and consistently look at that. And the reason I put it as top free lesson is I remember the first moment and here shout out to Matt head of BD at Redstone when there was a call like approximately two years ago, one and a half years ago when I was so occupied with day to day work that when we were hopping on calls with clients he was more educated than me.
00:13:00.159 - 00:13:30.001, Speaker A: Like he's telling words that I don't understand. I was like what The I cannot allow that. I just need to find a system in my everyday amount of work to keep being on top of things. Because once you get obsolete, you know this industry doesn't allow you to do so. This is for founders early on, build a super strong fundament for the team. Not like a team, that team. This has to be like your truly stronghold as you progress within the company.
00:13:30.001 - 00:14:19.517, Speaker A: Rock solid team that enjoys working together. To give you some examples, one of our fellows like Philip, when he went to Dubai, he's so dedicated to wearing Redstone merch when it was 40 degrees outside, he was still wearing a vest that is designed to wear probably when it's zero degrees, not like 40. So he was truly like within the trenches. In our brand ourselves, we have an office in Warsaw which we found extremely valuable because people can grab coffee, interact in person, which is amazing. And basically even something as simple as gathering people once a year for Christmas party. It is very cool and it helps a lot to mingle with people and create something more meaningful over longer term. Especially that crypto is known for turnover.
00:14:19.517 - 00:14:46.639, Speaker A: And here I can tell you an interesting statistics. There was never a person in Redstone team that willingly left the team. Like said, hey, I exit to a competition or whoever. Like we did tear apart like with some team members, but not because they wanted to go somewhere else. And with Redstone we are recruiting right now mainly backend engineers. So this is our bread and butter. We need good backend engineers to make sure that the system holds, as I said in the beginning.
00:14:46.639 - 00:15:33.205, Speaker A: But we also recruit people that are very hungry in terms of marketing and BD areas, especially young ones that are willing to make their hands dirty and want to work hard and go on a journey together with us. So if you're looking for a maybe new journey, you can reach out to our team, come over to our booth that is outside and chat with the team. Poland rules and I already you can experience that. And the reason I'm telling it is mainly for polls because when I go to international conferences over these three years I felt more and more interest in Poland. The reason is we are growing as a country. There is more and more deaf talent, but also BD marketing and whatever other position talent. And basically as a country we are expanding, we are not shrinking.
00:15:33.205 - 00:16:07.985, Speaker A: So if Warsaw is a very good example. So we are also maturing as the conference itself and Poles are hungry for success. So even yesterday I was talking with a random French guy and he said, dude, in Poland everyone is working so hard. In France everyone is just looking for taking days off or fighting for additional three hours. And here people strive for success. These are not my words, but I would say in general, here is a very good environment to create a team. And this is also one of the reasons with Redstone right now, almost 90% probably of the team are Poles and mainly located here in Poland itself.
00:16:07.985 - 00:16:45.115, Speaker A: These are words of Sam Altman, I think from last year. I don't know what Poland does as a culture and a system to create such engineering and research talent. Sam Altman founder of a CEO of OpenAI and co founder of WordCoin so it shows internationally we are also more and more recognized and we should be proud of that. There is a really cool video for foreigners and also polish people in YouTube. If you type Rise of Poland, that shows some economic justification for what I'm saying right now. Work hard. And this is mainly probably for founders, but I also added GTM engineers over here.
00:16:45.115 - 00:17:35.161, Speaker A: And if you're willing to go the founder road, be ready to dedicate yourself to the company and probably you're familiar with work life balance. So this is basically me playing Uno in 2021 when I decided to join Redstone, I drew the 25 cards of recruitment, legal, taxes, BD marketing, doing whatever, right? So it's like founder journey is very, very hard and there is no work life balance. There is 24 hour a day and this is your decision how you're going to dedicate that and juggle, let's say personal life and the founder responsibilities. It is hard, but it's also very, very rewarding. And you can, I can tell you this is a real picture from my apartment that my fiance took when I hopped off after 10 calls in a row going for a lunch. So. And she, she asked, everything is okay.
00:17:35.161 - 00:18:07.549, Speaker A: I was like, yeah, of course. Like, it's an easy day, right? So you have to be ready for that. But the big plus is at least myself. Maybe it's just my kind of character, but I'm very at peace with myself. Even if we fail as Redstone, that I'm doing all I can do to make sure we are achieving the success we are in a good position to get. But if we fail, I will be like, okay, I've done all the measures I could have done to get over there. And I also hear from our team that they respect that.
00:18:07.549 - 00:18:16.311, Speaker A: I mean, they respect that. They see that I'm working hard. It's not like I'm just going on conferences. And of course they do as well. And it's nice. But when I'm on a conference. It's not like I'm just giving a speech.
00:18:16.311 - 00:18:48.369, Speaker A: I'm giving a speech. I'm finding a quiet place to work and then respond all the messages and try to push things forward. Right, so this is part of the founder's journey and this is a classic crypto in general. Like if you're entering crypto as whatever, like GTM or engineering forks, be ready that people will be like, oh, you look very good, you don't look stressed at all. Right here, a very related topic, partner app. Find a partner that supports you. And here I'm talking about your co founder.
00:18:48.369 - 00:19:29.249, Speaker A: So someone that you're spending many time every day with, struggling with any obstacle that you see on the road. But I'm also talking about the partner for your life. So a person that will understand it's not 9 to 5 job that you sometimes have to manage the stuff that is happening. Crypto doesn't sleep. And here is like a recent tweet that sparked quite a lot of attention about a girl that found her boyfriend on Friday night preparing for Y Combinator presentation. And she made sure he's fed, do his laundry, cut his hair and basically kind of like babysit him. And I'm not saying this is like too crazy to me already, but this is a standard one.
00:19:29.249 - 00:20:14.637, Speaker A: This is a picture again with my fiance when we go on a vacation, whenever I say no work, emails at holidays, and then I take out my phone and start working on telegram, discord, Twitter, HubSpot or whatever other tool that is available out there just to be plugged and know what's happening. Right? Because crypto never sleeps. So a partner that is supporting you on the way, both in terms of, let's say the co founder, but also the partner for your life, is tremendously important. If you would like to go the founder journey, if you're a founder and you go the race or whatever, manage your burn. I mean, throughout three years, crypto is crazy. With some of the raises like ourselves, like 15 mil, I'm pretty happy. It's quite substantial amount of money.
00:20:14.637 - 00:20:44.045, Speaker A: But I've seen bigger, like, I'm not going to name startups, but they were like $80 million seed rounds or even bigger ones. And I saw these founders throwing parties for millions of dollars in like, I don't know, Dubai or Singapore or other expensive cities. And they started to burn as hell. 90% of startups fail. It's not my statistics, it's something that Y Combinator published as well. And in my opinion in crypto especially is because they don't understand a very simple equation. Business model equals revenue minus cost.
00:20:44.045 - 00:21:06.779, Speaker A: Like you need to make revenue and you need to make sure that your costs do not like explode when you start scaling. Right. And keep thinking about that if you're a founder. Because as I go to conferences I realize that many people talk about the coin. Like launch a coin, you're going to get infinite Runway whatsoever. Fine, it can work for like shorter period of time. But then eventually, like everyone should have a business model.
00:21:06.779 - 00:21:34.179, Speaker A: Maybe not everyone, but majority of the companies should have a business model out there. So don't burn cash like crazy before you find product market feed or generate already revenue. So once you've hit the product market fit, then you can start burning money to make sure that the revenue start growing. Right. But before you do so, spending like crazy on marketing or other stuff is not necessarily the way to go. At least in my opinion. Conferences are really good for testing interests.
00:21:34.179 - 00:22:08.305, Speaker A: Like cost of sending a person to a conference like Eforso is fairly affordable. And over there it's like a perfect ground for testing the go to market the product. Just getting feedback from people, hey, it doesn't make sense. For example, with Redstone, I remember my first conference like internationally was if Lisbon 2021 after Covid. Because before you remember, there was this crazy illness Covid that kept everyone at house like people. I believe some forgot already. And over there, when I tested the first version of Redstone, no one cared.
00:22:08.305 - 00:22:50.327, Speaker A: Why are you building this? So we did a lot of iterations based on feedback that we got from clients in the very, very, very early days. Be creative to leverage your network and unfair advantage. And I think to a founder that raised or is already having a sort of a product, it's one of the advices I would very much emphasize. Because if you're building a bridge or you're building a dex or building whatever, first thing you do, you look at competition and you think, okay, they're doing this very well. They're doing this very well. You're not thinking, turn the table around. Like, think, okay, what kind of unfair advantage I have, what kind of people I know I can use for my distribution, I can use for my promotion.
00:22:50.327 - 00:23:38.539, Speaker A: Maybe I met two years ago a guy that right now is like, I don't know, a high person in Binance, Maybe I can message that person. So kind of like be creative, find a calm moment and think about the leverages you as a person or you as a team have to use in your go to market. Which for example, in our Case is being in Poland. I mean we could have like we had really good engineers or other people that wanted to work for us from all over the world, but we strategically took decision. Hey, Poland is amazing and this is a hub where we want to create a very solid team that has culture, that has values and you know, like works together strongly. Another one for engineers build solid web two engineering fundamentals. So this is something empiric that we see when people apply to red.
00:23:38.539 - 00:24:22.151, Speaker A: Sometimes they just believe they're going to become good web free engineer without knowing good web 2 stack or like having some experience. Web 3 I would say maybe it's. Yeah, I would say it's probably a bit another level of complexity because you are using all the tooling usually from web two and then you're adding some sort of communication with the Web3 products, functions or whatsoever. And in Web3 actually we're not doing that much solidity. As I told you. It's more about understanding communication and edge cases that can happen when creating this kind of application. And for that it's very good to have a first job in an environment that helps you do these first steps.
00:24:22.151 - 00:25:21.425, Speaker A: So if you're an ambitious dev or an ambitious engineer and you join a team with whom you can meet also go for a lunch, ask like no startup questions that you wouldn't ask on public meetings. It is very helpful for an onboarding process because if you join a remote startup and you are just lost alone one person in one city, then it's very hard to just DM someone on Discord, hop on a call. It's a bit of a different interaction. And with Redstone again as I said, we are recruiting. So if you would like to embrace the web free ecosystem industry, we so far okay at Redstone at least. My idea and Jacob, who's the technical founder is that we are kind of like a football teaching club. So we take a lot of younger, very hungry and ambitious developers and people who would like to do their career and then we try to grow alongside with them.
00:25:21.425 - 00:26:06.187, Speaker A: Like the company grows together with the people rather than just skimming the most experienced folks out there. It's pretty hot in here, right? Isn't it? Wow, I still feeling like a bit dizzy. But anyway, last but not least because it's like a decalogue, right? So there has to be 10 get to know people. And I think this is a single one thing I really don't like to brag but I nailed in 2020 and 2021. When I started I was like when I didn't have that much stuff to do ongoingly. I created a vast network of people. I was approached by people at conferences, I was approaching people at conferences, getting their contacts and right now it's paying off.
00:26:06.187 - 00:26:34.797, Speaker A: Just to give you some tangible examples, last week we had a call with guy from Jito, like one of the biggest staking provider on Solana and he's like, hey, I remember I met you two years ago, still very early with Redstone. But you seem very passionate about. Yeah, like, and that's the reason I remember about you. Right. You never know what a person you are going to randomly meet at E4. So he's going to do in two years, maybe he's going to do a unicorn and is going to be your perfect client or whatsoever. The web free space has a very interesting dynamic.
00:26:34.797 - 00:27:34.665, Speaker A: It's small, it is small and it's still very, very early. So probably there is like, I don't know, 500, maybe a thousand people working web free in Poland right now, like full time being dedicated and working web free. I'm rather talking about, let's say the DAPPS and technology rather than meme, coin trading or whatsoever because here I focus more on that front. So make sure you nurture your network in that space, both in Poland, globally, because the world is very small and the moment people start recognizing you, these people talk and you create a graph of your network that then starts to spread knowledge about you or your company within this network. So people start passing and doing intros and whatsoever and it's definitely not too late for that. If I were to enter the AI space or I don't know, SaaS space, that's probably a bit too late because it's so big and there are so many new things popping out. But web3 in my opinion is still small enough to do that kind of strategy.
00:27:34.665 - 00:28:27.435, Speaker A: Yeah, and then these were like the lessons for people who are not willing to jump into, let's say Web3 as Redstone. We are running right now, Redstone expedition that will be gearing us toward like a big launch that is going to happen at some point. You can become a miner. So Redstone, what's the origin story of the name of Redstone? So Redstone is one of the resources in Minecraft that you need to create cool stuff. And Jacob was playing with his son Minecraft and he was like, hey, you need Redstone to build cool stuff in Minecraft, so you need redstone in web3 to also build cool defi protocols and whatsoever. So we have miners as our ambassadors and we have a lot of interactions with top defi protocols such as Pandel Venus globally all the time. I'm not sure if I will be able to.
00:28:27.435 - 00:29:00.533, Speaker A: Okay, nevermind. I just wanted to show the website as well but it's not like so crucial. Yeah and these were like the major lessons. If you would like to ask me anything more private as well throughout the journey that we've done feel free to grab me later after the talk. We also have a booth at Redstone. We have also a photo booth that you can take a picture over there and yeah I think we have still a moment for questions. Do we? Minus 5 minutes.
00:29:00.533 - 00:29:16.385, Speaker A: I see 1 minute 20 minutes 20 seconds. Here, wrap it. Okay. Okay so I'm wrapping it up so if you would like to ask any questions you can catch me after the talk. Thank you very much and I hope you found at least something over here useful. Thanks.
