00:00:02.010 - 00:00:45.382, Speaker A: Okay, let's dive into a little walkthrough of how to get started building a project with RiSC Zero. So we're at risk zero and pop over to the docs and head straight to the getting started page. And it says, to harness the power of ZK you'll need to first write an application for the risk zero ZKBM. Second, generate proofs for your zkvm application and third, integrate your proofs into on chain applications. So this diagram is maybe a little bit small. Here's a slightly bigger version of this diagram. At the top we can see these three steps.
00:00:45.382 - 00:01:52.990, Speaker A: We need to build a ZKVM application, we need to generate proofs and we need to integrate those proofs into blockchain applications. And then in the middle layer here we can see those three steps sort of split out on the left we have zkvm application development, which we suggest starting with ZKVM Quickstart. Or there's a hello world tutorial that's also a good option for learning about zkvm application development. And then in the middle we recognize that once you've built a zkvm application, you're going to want to generate proofs for that. So while you're building, you probably want to use dev mode, which skips the proving enabling really fast prototyping. If your application involves privacy, you may want to use local proving. So the ZKVM is available either in a mode where you run it locally on your own hardware, or in a remote proving context where you ask our proving service bonsai to generate proofs.
00:01:52.990 - 00:03:07.640, Speaker A: So the remote proving is going to offer substantially faster proving because we parallelize the proof generation on Bonsai. But you should be aware if you're sending your proofs off to Bonsai for proving that whoever is generating the proofs can see all of the internal information about the program, including any private inputs. So if you want to generate a proof about private inputs, you maybe want to generate your first proofs locally to manage those inputs. And then the third step on the right here is about blockchain integration. Once we've generated proofs, we need to post those proofs on chain and then we need to have those proofs verified on chain and we provide an onchain verifier in order to facilitate that process. So for the blockchain side we offer a foundry template that makes it really easy to get started with a sort of co cohesive project involving the zkvm application side. And then also the solidity contracts involved, so let's pause there.
00:03:07.640 - 00:03:11.620, Speaker A: I hope this is a useful orientation and we'll follow up with more.
