00:00:03.570 - 00:00:18.358, Speaker A: Okay. I think you should see the presentation already and also me, myself. Right. Okay. So good to go. Hello. Thanks for joining me here today.
00:00:18.358 - 00:01:03.954, Speaker A: Welcome to my presentation introduction to Defi. My name is Bartek. I'm blockchain developer for over three years now. And I'm going to tell you what the DeFi is, and I'm going to talk you through some examples of DeFi products. And instead of telling you why DeFi is cool, just in general, I'm going to point you out like the exact examples of cool things that you can find here and why it all matters. I'm not going to lie, it's going to be very simple. Take even if there are some DeFi experts here, they might find some statements made by me as oversimplifications.
00:01:03.954 - 00:01:40.500, Speaker A: But this is, as I say, introduction. So before we actually start, I'm going to do a super short blockchain recap. So, blockchain is a peer to peer network, as we all know, which is responsible for maintaining a ledger. This ledger is of course not centralized, as here is shown, but it's distributed amongst all the actors of the network. Everyone has voice, but no one can change the past or influence anything that happened in the past or is already written in the database. It's just no go zone. You cannot change anything.
00:01:40.500 - 00:02:45.426, Speaker A: And thing like that is also a base layer of infrastructure for cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, which works well for a lot of years already. And there are of course better things than bitcoin. For example, ethereum, which I'm going to mostly going to talk about. And what is the basic differentiation between Ethereum and bitcoin? Of course there are many, but the main one that we are probably the most excited about is the presence of smart contracts. Smart contracts are like pieces of code that live online on top of the blockchain infrastructure that allow you to program the transactions in a fancy way, so you don't need to worry about some automation level outside of the blockchain space. But you can program various different things directly on the blockchain within the transactions. As you can see here, there is like a super simple smart contract called splitter.
00:02:45.426 - 00:03:54.026, Speaker A: And this splitter does only one thing. Whenever you send ether calling the split function, it will send this ether to two other users that were predefined and therefore introduce some extra complexity to the simple cryptocurrency transactions that we normally have on the blockchains that do not have smart contracts. And these transactions can be as complex as you can imagine, I would say, because they can be almost as complex. There is almost no limit to that when it comes to your imagination. Of course, there is some limit to data processing, but it's still a fair limit to explore. And the key concept of the smart contracts, let's say the most interesting and the most important smart contract type of all that we have is the token. So a token is like a cryptocurrency living on top of the other cryptocurrency.
00:03:54.026 - 00:05:28.494, Speaker A: I'm sorry, let's see. And this sort of smart contract is like another cryptocurrency that doesn't have all the nodes, all the mining, all the different kind of stuff that you normally need to run a cryptocurrency, but instead it utilizes the infrastructure of the Ethereum blockchain and runs directly on it, but implements its own logic. It can be like some other, just cryptocurrency that does some stuff, or it can be like a token that represents us dollars, other cryptocurrencies that live on other blockchains, like imagination, is the only limit. What can a token be? Okay, so after this short recap and short introduction, what the defi is. So the DeFi stands for decentralized finance. And basically DeFi is the ecosystem of all different sorts of products, project protocols that are implemented on blockchain with smart contracts, and that give people opportunity to use different financial services without any trust, without contact with banks, just directly in the web browser. When I'm going to be talking about DeFi, I'm going to mostly refer to the DeFi that we have on Ethereum blockchain, because it's probably like the most.
00:05:28.494 - 00:06:05.986, Speaker A: Personally, to me it's the most interesting one. But the DeFi is not limited to Ethereum blockchain. DeFi can also be on other blockchains. DeFi, like the term deFi, can also refer to the ecosystem of all blockchains and all the projects on top of other blockchains with other cryptocurrencies connected and so on. So this is like a very, let's say, broad term, but I'm going to stick to Ethereum blockchain and ethereum ecosystem for now. Right. And I have this one old screenshot of the Defi pulse.
00:06:05.986 - 00:07:09.310, Speaker A: DeFi pulse is the portal that kind of benchmarks all the most used and most popular DeFi protocols and measures their total value, locked their traffic, and ranks them in a way. And this is like a screenshot that I had an opportunity to take like one and a half years ago when DeFi on Ethereum blockchain was actually really young. There were only a couple of projects, and at the time being, there was like a half billion of dollars value locked in the DeFi protocol. So it was like more of a sandbox, right? Like a playground for geeks rather than a real financial market. But today, the very same website tells us that we have over $85 billion locked in d five. So it's developing extremely quickly. It's gaining a lot of traction.
00:07:09.310 - 00:08:06.490, Speaker A: A lot of people are working on that, a lot of people is using that. And actually it's gaining even more attention from the media and from generally all places, all over the world. So I would say that the work of blockchain developers, blockchain enthusiasts, and cryptocurrency, crypto anarchists pays off. And we are getting somewhere, right? This is the place where you want to be. So DeFi is like an ecosystem of all the products. And now why they really matter, like what they can, for example, do. And to kind of imagine the simplest thing that we can do within an fi ecosystem.
00:08:06.490 - 00:09:08.386, Speaker A: Let's start with some super simple banking and some super simple example. So what the banking indeed is, from the user perspective, like me and you bank is a place where you just put your money, like you earn some cash, like not cryptocurrency cash, just regular cash, and put it into the bank. And sometime before, in a distant past, you were paying bank to do that, because the bank was securing your hard earned money and you used the service of protection and you paid for that with your money and a little bit of your money. The rest was just secured there. But then it changed a little bit, and banks realized that they can do something with that money. So they do not necessarily need to get paid for that, because they can just use this money to generate some interest, to generate some profit. And then that's like enough value for them.
00:09:08.386 - 00:10:08.194, Speaker A: So they just take this cash for free, generate profit, and that's how they make a living. And even the other way around, what we are actually used to and what we expect from our bank to do, is that the bank is going to take our money, generate some simple profit, and actually return us more, share this profit with us. That's what we expect from some saving accounts or things like that. And while banks are today extremely good at this part, they're not necessarily that good at this part. And we can try to fix that with smart contracts, because why not? So let's explore compound. Compound is smart contract based protocol that basically gives you an interface that allows you to put your now cryptocurrency cash. In this case, dai.
00:10:08.194 - 00:10:58.738, Speaker A: Dai is a token, as I said before. So cryptocurrency living on top of other cryptocurrency that represents US dollars in this ecosystem of ethereum blockchain and compound, lets you deposit. Dai then prints you some CDAI, which is another token. This CDI token basically says, okay, so this guy has some die inside of the compound and some receipts, some ticket that allows you, that enables the withdrawal in the future. So simple exchange and you put your die into the compound pool. And on the other kind of side of this machine, someone puts collateral of other cryptocurrency. For the sake of the example, let it be ether.
00:10:58.738 - 00:11:22.026, Speaker A: Ether, the native currency of ethereum blockchain. And this person that put collateral. I see I have connection problems. I don't know if that still occurs. Okay, that should be better now. Okay, yeah. So the person that puts the collateral can now borrow our funds.
00:11:22.026 - 00:12:16.330, Speaker A: Why collateral? Because we need to make sure that the debt that's created is going to be ever repaid. And basically let's stick to that explanation for now. We can imagine that in a traditional finance that would be kind of like a piece of real estate locked in the banking system. So we can take a loan, complete the purchase, and then when we repay our mortgage, slowly buy the real estate from the hands of the bank. Right? So there is a collateral, there is some person that borrows these funds, and then after some time the funds are returned with some interest. And this interest goes. I would really like to say that all the interest goes to the lender.
00:12:16.330 - 00:13:18.962, Speaker A: Not all, but most of it. Why not all? Because the compound protocol needs to accrue some reserve fund in case of emergency. But basically the drill is that most of the profit actually go to depositors, to the depositors, to the people that want to earn some interest. And that's an extremely efficient mechanism, as it turns out, because you don't need thousands of physical places and thousands of workers that are going to take your deposits and process all that stuff manually. This is like extremely automatic and strict secured by the ethereum infrastructure. And now you only need a couple of developers that just going to create it and then maybe add some new features. But then it's done, it's complete and it's ready to use.
00:13:18.962 - 00:14:43.214, Speaker A: And there are no these kind of leaking pieces of the machine that kind of take your profit instead of you. And it apparently is extremely simple, extremely pure, but extremely effective. And this can even be even more simpler, even more simple, even simpler, because there is actually no difference between this pool and the collateral part. What I'm talking about, when you add the die into the pool, then you get CDAI, right? And then actually on the other end, when somebody puts eth like ether also needs to get some token that will say that there is collateral put in there and does it will be withdrawable at some point of time. So on the other end, the second person also gets c token, which is c in this case. And apparently not only this person can borrow our die, but we using our pool funds. When we pull these funds, we also gain borrowing power.
00:14:43.214 - 00:15:26.826, Speaker A: And we can also borrow stuff that's gathered in this pool. But not the stuff that we deposit, but the other thing. So we can put something, gain borrowing power and borrow whatever is in the pool and whatever is interesting for us. Yeah. Now you may ask a question how it happens that these funds are even withdrawable. Because now we can see that this guy, this girl on the left has some sea die, poor sea die. But there's only one die inside of the pool because the rest is sent out.
00:15:26.826 - 00:16:15.722, Speaker A: And on the other end, there's still more ether than there's ether inside. So how it happens that we are able to withdraw anything? And apparently first thing, there are lots of people that do this. So whenever somebody wants to withdraw something, there is a great chance that there are funds for that person available in the pool. So there are no problems with kind of like exit liquidity of the system. But then there is also this other mechanism. Because the situation on the right, we can imagine that if instead of this like one depositor, there will be like four. There's still more ether than one fourth of the c ether that was issued in total.
00:16:15.722 - 00:16:56.950, Speaker A: So it shouldn't be a problem to withdraw ether. But this dye, it looks pretty dangerous. Because there's very small supply of dye in the pool and very big supply of sea dye. So kind of like a very big supply of demand, of potential demand for withdrawal. And this is also like a beauty of simplicity of this mechanism. Because a system automatically adjusts interest rates. And then if there is like a big demand for an asset and there is like a low supply of this asset in the pool.
00:16:56.950 - 00:17:52.374, Speaker A: Then on one hand, the loan taken in Dai in this example becomes extremely expensive. So the borrower needs to pay a lot of interest into the pool. So he's strongly incentivized to return it back. And on the other hand, if the interest rates are high, then it's a strong incentive for new depositors to deposit the pool. Because then they can make a good buck out of it because there's like high demand for their funds. And the other way around for ether right now, there's not that big of a demand for loans in ether, so the interest rates are probably pretty low and people don't need to deposit more because that's just enough. And this loan in ether is just cheap.
00:17:52.374 - 00:18:36.974, Speaker A: And this is also extremely automatic. I'm not sure if I can say that this is extremely automatic. It's just automatic and works well left alone. And no one needs to interact with it and intervene in any way. And now I want to bring to your attention the fact of the collateral. So why this collateral is actually needed? Because I said that this is because we need to make sure that the funds will be repaid. That's why you need to put some collateral, because the system needs to somehow make sure that you are incentivized to return the loan.
00:18:36.974 - 00:19:52.580, Speaker A: And actually, I don't know if that was the exact reasoning and the exact kind of way of thinking of the creators of the next mechanism I'm going to describe, but there is a project called Ave, and these guys probably thought something like this. Why do we need collateral? To ensure that the funds will be repaid. What is the other way that we can make sure that the funds will be repaid? Well, there is other way because what's also 100% sure in the blockchain world, the fact that transactions are atomic. So you can always take a loan, and if you are going to return it in the same one transaction, so take a loan and return it back in one transaction, then you don't need any collateral, right? So you can just take this loan and return it very quickly. And this is going to be just fine without collateral. Of course, you cannot do this like performing like a simple transaction. You're going to need a special smart contract for that.
00:19:52.580 - 00:20:50.786, Speaker A: That's going to do all this stuff. So take a loan, do something useful, and then return it in the same very transaction. And you can pose a question, very valid one, what is it for? Because what's the purpose of taking a loan for the time of one transaction, which is actually like zero time, because you take this loan and return it in the same very moment. Actually, I can give you an example of usage, and this is something that's extremely interesting in my humble opinion. Let's bring back the compound thing that we had a couple of minutes ago. And then there is the setup when somebody puts collateral. Now let's stick to this differentiation between pool and collateral.
00:20:50.786 - 00:21:46.502, Speaker A: Somebody puts collateral, borrows some funds from the pool. But then it's possible that this person that took the loan just spent it, like bought a lambo or whatever else, and the dice are just gone. And this person is not able to repay the debt, but there's still this collateral. And this person thinks that, okay, maybe there is this debt, but my collateral is worth more than my debt, so I want it out. I want to take this collateral out and repay that debt. And this is not that simple to do in, let's say, straightforward way, because these funds are locked. And there is like a simple statement that's kind of defending them that you need to repair your debt in order to take this out.
00:21:46.502 - 00:23:14.660, Speaker A: So what you can do, you can take loan from Ave, of course, with special smart contract, but there are probably some new tues from that. I'm not sure whether you need to be a developer to do that. There are products that do that for you. You can take a loan from Ave, repay your debt, then as your debt is repaid, take out your collateral, cut it into proper pieces, sell this one half for dai, repay dai to Ave, and just keep the rest of the collateral. And all this needs to be performed in one single blockchain transaction. We are getting far, far away from this simple concept of transacting one bitcoin or something like that. Because now this state transition that happens within one blockchain transaction is not only even not only depositing tokens or calling some function, but now it's engaging a lot of different protocols, a lot of different products that cooperate and have some sort of synergy that allow you to achieve kind of effects that wouldn't be possible without that in place.
00:23:14.660 - 00:24:09.586, Speaker A: So that's like just the tip of the iceberg. And since, because returning back to the previous setup, we talked about some, there is ether, right? We know what ether is. That's the most obvious thing here, because it's just the native currency of Ethereum blockchain. And then we have c ether, which is also kind of like explained because these are like the tokens that are created when you deposit and they are burned when you withdraw. This is just this receipt that allows you to operate within the system. But there is like one question. What does actually die? Because this is some token that's worth one dollars.
00:24:09.586 - 00:25:02.338, Speaker A: Why? Who creates it? How does it work? And why is it actually worth one dollars? What does this die? And in order to answer that question, we need to introduce the idea of synthetic asset synth. And what a synth is. The simplest possible synth is wrapped ether. So you can imagine that there was a problematic thing when the DFI ecosystem started booming, flourishing that most of these protocols were created for ERC 20 tokens. So ERC 20 is a standard of a token. So die for example CDAI C, ether rubbed bitcoin, many other. And why? Because most of the assets that live on top of Ethereum blockchain are ERC 20 contracts.
00:25:02.338 - 00:26:32.750, Speaker A: So you need to implement your interface to work with ERC 20 contract with ERC 20 standard token, but then still putting these tokens aside, the most popular asset on. Okay, I'm not sure if that's true, but that's very possible. And for sure it's one of the most popular assets on the Ethereum blockchain, which is just ether, and ether is not ERC 20 contract. So how do we kind of implement all that to work with Ethereum? Of course we can duplicate every function in every product and just put this if statement done. That will kind of distinguish these two different scenarios. When you have ERC 20 token and other token or ether and token and just add extra complexity to every protocol, which is not that cool because it makes code far more complex. And instead, apparently what we can do is we can wrap this ether, like this native ether with kind of ERC 20 interface.
00:26:32.750 - 00:28:00.494, Speaker A: So we will create a smart contract that will take a deposit of ether, and when the deposit is made, then it just gives you the balance of the token equal to the amount of ether that you just deposited or the other way around. If you want your ether back like the real ether, then you can just call a function, say how much wrapped ether do you want to burn? And then it's going to be just removed from the supply and you will get the real ether back. And this mechanism on one hand simplifies all the ether interactions. When the ether is not used as a fuel to pay the transaction as asset to pay for gas, but when it's used as a thing that you want to put in some protocol exchange or whatever else, and on the other hand it creates this new thing that's always worth one ether. Because this mechanism ensures that this token is always worth one ether. Because whenever you would buy it for less, then you can always exchange it for one ether and you will have profit or the other way around. It doesn't make any sense to buy it for more because it won't ever be more than e.
00:28:00.494 - 00:29:27.900, Speaker A: So this kind of concept, this is like the purest, I'd say hard pegged stablecoin because there are like hard pegged stables or sins and soft pegged and this is like an example of hard pegged one and probably like it's the hardest pegged one because it's ensured by smart contracts that it's going to work that way. But then you have others, for example, wrapped bitcoin USD coin, true USD. And these are like just tokens that have some entity outside of the Ethereum blockchain that says whenever you send me a bitcoin, I will give you one WBTC token. Whenever you send me one WBTC token, I will send you r1 BTC, or the same with us dollars, for example. And that mechanism kind of help onboard all sorts of different assets onto the Ethereum world so they can be used in the defi ecosystem. Yeah, but still, it doesn't answer the question what is Dai? Because Dai is a completely different animal. It behaves differently, it does different kind of things.
00:29:27.900 - 00:30:10.854, Speaker A: And what it does Dai is the soft pegged stable coin. So it's not actually enforced. There's no programmatic, very hard programmatic way to enforce the value of die. But still, value of die floats somewhere around one dollars. And this floating, let's say limits are very tight. So it's not like between half dollar and $2. It's like between ninety nine cents and one point one cent output like this and how it works.
00:30:10.854 - 00:31:27.674, Speaker A: So the maker foundation came up with an idea that you can have some eth, put it in the vault and then when this ether is locked in that vault, you can mint token against that. Like for example, you have some amount of eth locked in this vault and then you can mint four dies. And what the system says in this very moment is more or less the statement that there is at least four in case there is at least $4 worth of ETH in that vault. So there is at least that amount of value within that vault. There are of course all different sorts of mechanisms that push this price up or down depending on the needs. But what's like the most intrinsic value of dai is the fact that it's backed by at least that amount of if that dai is worth itself. Right? So for die, you would have probably at least or at least $6 of if locked in the vaults.
00:31:27.674 - 00:32:24.610, Speaker A: And that gives dai real value. And you can do with this dai whatever you want, like really whatever you want. Put it in sandify or spend it, sell it, keep it, whatever is your dream about your dai. And at the end of the day, what you need to do is to repay your debt with some interest. And now, because in compound, for example, you had to repay your debt in the token that you were borrowing. But here it's impossible, obviously, because you mint this dai out of thin air. So you won't be able to repay your debt with dai, because you can repay the debt, but you cannot repay the interest with dai because you cannot just get more dai, because you would need to mint more.
00:32:24.610 - 00:33:46.790, Speaker A: And then in order to mint more, you would need to mint more. This is how the fiat money works, but this is not how Dai works. So you need to repay your debt with MKR token, which is like an internal token of the maker foundation issued by them. You can buy this token from them and just put it as the payment. And then we need to think about a scenario like what would happen if your debt would be bigger than the amount of eth that's actually in the vault, or what would happen if the amount of your debt and plus the interest is actually worth more than the value of eth locks inside the vault. And actually, this is probably a similar problem to the one that we had in compound, but we didn't mention that before. What would happen in such a situation, because that definitely breaks this equilibrium that we're talking about, breaks this kind of agreement that there is at least some value accrued in a contract, and it's bigger than the amount of debt that we are creating.
00:33:46.790 - 00:35:02.950, Speaker A: So there is this kind of red line that is drawn somewhere between value of e that's inside the vault and the amount of die that you can mint, which is called collateralization ratio. And this line here, it's oversimplified, but this is some proportion that says that, for example, you need to have a at least 35% more value inside the vault than you have the debt. And if not, then what? If this collateralization ratio is met, then the system says, okay, it's getting dangerous, your debt is pretty high, this value of the vault is dropping. We don't want to risk the scenario of eth going down even more and we just cancel your debt. We sell this eth, we take this eth out of the vault, sell it, repay your debt, you can keep your die, we don't care. The deal is over, right? So the deal is over. Your debt is repaid.
00:35:02.950 - 00:36:04.022, Speaker A: We will sell most of your eth. You will get to keep this one small amount that's on top, but generally, most of it is sold. And your debt is not a problem for you anymore because it's just repaid. And the same situation would happen in case of just you not paying your interest, right? Because then they can say at some point that, okay, you are clearly not interested in keeping the agreement. So we just close this vault, take this e, sell it, repay your debt, and you can keep your die and you can never repay your interest. It's just that and the value of die holds. But what happens in a scenario of value of eth dropping so heavily that there is like no time to react? Because all that stuff takes time, right.
00:36:04.022 - 00:37:23.374, Speaker A: There needs to be a system that says, okay, it's getting dangerous now we need to take this e out of the vault, we need to sell it on some sort of auction, and then we need to sell it on some sort of auction to get some dive from the free market, repay that debt and close everything. That takes time. And you need to also remember about the rhythm of life within the blockchain space, which is the mining time of one block. And it's possible that within these 15 seconds the price will drop so heavily that we won't be able to maintain this status quo. Or even we don't need this rapid because we can just have the Ethereum price drop by half within a couple of hours. And that will be enough because the network will be so cluttered with all the people doing all sorts of stuff in order to react that we won't be able to close all these vaults, sell all these. That would just kind of prevent the system from working properly just because there's not enough block space to transact.
00:37:23.374 - 00:38:52.638, Speaker A: And that actually happened once, at least once. So what will happen in such a situation? The maker foundation, which is responsible for maintaining this system, says that if we are not able to maintain and kind of enforce the rules that we all agreed on, then we are going to mint new maker tokens and then we're going to sell them to cover this bad debt that cannot be repaid. And that's actually something that is an extremely good property of defi, because here this is a problem, right? So when the price of the currency drops, there is like a complete market crash. It's like nosediving, plummeting. It's just a completely disastrous scenario. Then our central bank of Defi, which I think we can call maker, our central bank of Defi, is not saying that we are now, okay, so now the daI is going to be under collateralized, or now we're going to just take some e from other vaults and put it from the over collateralized vaults and put it in under collateralized vaults. So everything is even.
00:38:52.638 - 00:39:44.670, Speaker A: No, they're not saying that. They're not breaking the promises and they are not making the losses public. They are just taking the losses themselves, and they are diluting their own currency to maintain the trust between the, let's say, foundation, the dao, and the people that are using it. And we are not forced to use maker. So if they were not to preserve their own values and virtues, then we would just abandon maker in the DeFi world. It's possible. So here we have this extremely strong mechanism that forces daos and these products to behave in a way that people would want them to behave.
00:39:44.670 - 00:40:52.146, Speaker A: And this is not behavior that you would see in the real world, like the non blockchain world. So basically, you need to maintain this collateralization ratio, keep your debt below the collateralization ratio, below the value of the vault, and you're just fine. And what's cool about this mechanism is that you can actually replace this eth with anything else. I would say anything else. Of course, the Dow decentralized organization that's in charge of the maker protocol is not letting any collateral to be put inside the vaults, but there are plenty of them. And if you just want to use the value of your crypto, but you're not eager to sell it, then you can just use that. And that will work well and hopefully in some future.
00:40:52.146 - 00:41:33.246, Speaker A: This is like now, not about the present, it's just about the future that I would really love to see. Maybe in some future you will be able to put a piece of real estate inside the vault and then mint die against that. And I think it's closer than you think. And we will see this happening soon. Trademark. And now we can ask a question, what can we all use that for? Right? Because we can borrow, basically. That's the outcome.
00:41:33.246 - 00:42:23.754, Speaker A: We had these two examples which are more or less like the same. You can put one cryptocurrency and then borrow. Of course, there was this depositing and earning interest when it comes to compound, but basically that the purpose is just borrowing. So what is it for? And yeah, you can build all sorts of things on top of this very basic primitive, which is borrowing. And for example, you probably know what the leverage is. If not, then I'm going to tell you. So leverage is kind of a mechanism that allows you to create artificial exposure to an asset.
00:42:23.754 - 00:43:29.366, Speaker A: So you actually kind of like borrow the asset. You borrow something to buy the asset, to artificially expose yourself to the price changes of that asset, more than just spot holding that asset. And that's extremely simple with smart contracts, because what you can do is to, of course, now it's overcomplicated a little bit but I'm going to simplify this in a moment. So you can create a vault, put eth inside of the vault, then mint some die, convert that die to eth, create new vault, create new vault, put that eth into the vault, mint new die, and so on. And you just create this kind of stairs, like here. And then, of course, this is not worth more because this value is not magically created in any way. It's basically all the same.
00:43:29.366 - 00:44:42.874, Speaker A: But when the price changes, then let's dig into the details, maybe for a second. Because, for example, you have 200 warhov and $100 debt, and then you have 100 warho and it goes straight away. But then if the price changes, then the value of your debt is the same, but the value of the eth that you are holding, instead of having these die changes, and it can change really heavily. And now, instead of earning, like earning, if you weren't to realize your profits, then you didn't earn anything. But on paper, you now earned instead of $100, almost $200, just because of this structure. Of course, this is like a dangerous, because the opposite way, you can lose more than you would normally lose. But you are probably aware of that, and you need to be careful with these sorts of mechanism.
00:44:42.874 - 00:46:00.886, Speaker A: And here, I would also like to simplify this a little bit, because I here created free vaults and made tons of transactions. You can do all that stuff with one transaction thanks to flash loan, right? Because you can create an Excel spreadsheet or take a piece of paper and calculate how much dye you would be able to mint in total with all these vaults, how much if you get in total. And then when you have all these calculations, you can just take a flash loan, buy all this e, create just one vault, mint that die, and then use the newly minted die to repay the flash loan. And you would have all this kind of squashed into one vault thanks to a flashlook. Yeah, something like that. You can use that to create short. And this is something that's normally very unnatural because shorting is like profiting from the price going down.
00:46:00.886 - 00:46:48.118, Speaker A: And how you can do that, fairly simple. You can just put your die into the pool, take a loan in ether. So borrow e, sell this eth to die, wait for the price of eth to drop. So now your debt is worth more because you need to still repay one if which you don't have. So we will need to rebuy it, but now it's worth more. So you rebuy this like one if for a smaller price, you have some die left, and that's just your profit, obviously, the other way around, if the price of e goes up, then oh boy, oh boy. I wouldn't want to be you in that case.
00:46:48.118 - 00:48:03.514, Speaker A: But that's a game for big boys, and you need to always take care. But it's possible, and you can build even more stuff on top of that anyway. You can actually use all these mechanisms to actually buy stuff. And maybe that for some people that might be extremely obvious, for other people that might be unexpected, but you can actually, instead of just selling your cryptocurrency, you can just lock this cryptocurrency, create some debt of dice, and then use this die debt to fund your life, basically. And then there are like three ways of handling the situation because you kind of live on a loan. So one scenario you can probably expect the value of ETH to appreciate much faster than your debt is rising, right? Because this die debt is not that expensive, actually. And it will rise slowly.
00:48:03.514 - 00:49:55.666, Speaker A: And there is like a high probability that the value of eth will just go up much faster and you will be able in the future to even take more debt because you won't ever need to repay it, because of course the value of debt will rise, but the value of collateral will go up even faster. The other scenario is just to repay the debt from your income, right? Because maybe it's not the thing that you want to live off your cryptocurrency, but you just want to take a loan, but you don't like banks, you just don't want to explain what you're doing in your life. You just don't want to kind of interact with this sort of boomer services. Some people would say, bold statement, but some people would say, and you just want to be kind of free, then it's possible it's even not more expensive or more dangerous or anything. You just put your cryptocurrency and then pay this off with your income. And probably the third scenario is that you can always use a pass loan to just sell the part of your cryptocurrency portfolio later when you think that, okay, it's time now to sell the portion of Eve and to repay the debt and just be debt free again. And we are always talking about this selling and buying stuff.
00:49:55.666 - 00:51:11.590, Speaker A: And that's actually really problematic, because in order to execute these scenarios that we were discussing, we need to, for example, sell something within one transaction. So we kind of need to sandwich this process of trade, because we need to, for example, take a flash loan, perform multiple scenarios that we already know that they're possible, but then also trade something like exchange token for token and then repay the platform. And that's actually a thing that we didn't introduce yet. How do we trade on the blockchain? And there are all sorts of options for us. Generally, the exchange points of tokens that live on top of blockchain are called dexes, which stands for decentralized exchange. And there are, as I say, plenty of them. And interestingly, some of them are, I would say, skyomorphic.
00:51:11.590 - 00:52:12.618, Speaker A: Right? So they kind of try to mimic the way of thinking about exchanges that we have off chain that we have in a traditional finance. But then we can actually free ourselves from these limitations, from these kind of ideas about how exchange should look like and we can come up with. I see that. I have connection problem again. Yeah. So you can create something new, something pure, and not necessarily think about how it was before and just create something new. And example of something new that's extremely pure, again, extremely simple and extremely powerful is the uniswap exchange.
00:52:12.618 - 00:53:16.382, Speaker A: So this is like the exchange that allows you to exchange any tokens, right? Like you give one token, you get another token. And how is it performed? You can think about the uniswap exchange as about the scales, right? So this is like some weight on one side, some weight on the other side, and then the ratio between them determines kind of the price. And when you want to execute the trade, you just have, let's say one die here I came up with super simple example of exchange of die and USDC. These coins are both worth around like one dollars. So we should see the equal amount of these tokens inside the pair. The ratio is one. There's like equal amount of die and equal amount of USDC inside of the pair.
00:53:16.382 - 00:54:02.702, Speaker A: And now someone wants to buy some USDC with dai. So what happens? This person just puts Dai on top of the pile of dies and then takes like a proportional amount from the other side. This is oversimplified yet, but I'm going to fix that sometime soon. And now this sort of trade breaks the balance, right? So changes the balance. Maybe in term of stable coins, we can consider it breaking the balance. But if they were like some different coins, like for example, ether and dai, then maybe it won't be like breaking the balance. It will be just discovering the new price of Eve.
00:54:02.702 - 00:54:58.130, Speaker A: But for the time being, let's stick to the breaking the balance idea. So somebody broke the balance, and now the ratio is one and a half in that particular scenario. So in such a case, someone with one USDC can put one USDC and take one and a half die from this other pile because that was the ratio. And now what was oversimplified, the problem is that this ratio is not frozen in the moment of executing the trade. So it doesn't work in a way that, okay, there is this ratio and this is like a fixed price. So I just put n amount of token and take n amount of token. No, the ratio changes kind of dynamically within the trade.
00:54:58.130 - 00:56:24.800, Speaker A: So the ratio is actually changed during the time of the trade. So for example, if you are putting a meaningful amount of one cryptocurrency on top of first piles, then you are making this headier and you are changing the ratio. And you can take smaller and smaller amounts from the other side. So here, the person that was kind of breaking the balance paid one die to receive slightly less than one USDC and person on the other side when the balance was broken a little bit, paid one USDC to get slightly more than one die. And this extremely simple mechanisms of scales drives most of the trade in defi and in blockchain. Of course, with different assets, these proportions would be different, right? So you would, for example, have like two e, two ethers on one side and like 8000 dies on the other. And they will be seen as equilibrium by the market because people will just see that, that there's like two ethers and 8000 die and they will just say, okay, that's in balance, that's fair.
00:56:24.800 - 00:57:34.642, Speaker A: I would say that's it for amms because these sort of exchange designs called amm, which stands for automated market maker, and it's extremely powerful now. It evolves, it changes. But this is kind of the purest design that we had and that we've seen so far, in my humble opinion. Now I'm going to talk about something completely else, something new, the governance, because we are talking about defi. So it's definitely Phi because there's tons of financial stuff. It's maybe decentralized a little bit because it lives on top of blockchain. But still, we have developers, we have these companies that create these products, that create these protocols.
00:57:34.642 - 00:58:44.410, Speaker A: And aren't they like the central points of failures, and aren't they like masters of the situation and aren't they holding too much power? Well, I would use a meme, so. Well, yes, but actually, no. So some of them indeed hold a lot of power, but they decentralized over time. And some of these organizations achieved a decent level of decentralization already. And they did that with the mechanism of governances. So what is this all about? I'm going to take an example of compound. So whenever you use compound, so for example like deposit stuff, and then you are not only earning interest, you're not only earning interest in the currency that you deposited, but also you accrue a small amount of comp token.
00:58:44.410 - 00:59:44.510, Speaker A: There are different ways of distributing governance tokens of projects, but let's say that's an idea for that. So if you are a user, then you are getting a small amount of comp token. This comp token is just a token that says this person uses compound and it's made by using compound. It's brought to life by using compound. You can of course keep this comp token or you can sell it, you can do whatever you want, but then over time you accrue more value in this comp token. And then there are people that accumulate lots of these tokens and they make real decisions. So then somebody with like a voting power of comp tokens can, for example, say that we want to change some parameter, add new feature, add new type of collateral, do anything.
00:59:44.510 - 01:00:40.226, Speaker A: And people that have this comp token can actually vote and decide in a decentralized way. So the protocol, the smart contracts are not governed by the company itself like the company that just came up with the idea, but the users are actually in charge. Of course there are like users. This is like one kind of side of the coin. There are like investors. I'm not sure there are different ways of distributing tokens, but generally the concentration of power is not as dangerous as it is in a trade phi kind of word. And yeah, we are kind of reaching the end.
01:00:40.226 - 01:02:14.510, Speaker A: And I'm posing a question, is there more? And the answer is obviously yes. What I hear presented to you is just like a tip of the iceberg. It's just the beginning and the introduction. So there are lots of different things that you can find within the defi ecosystem, like starting with NFTs that you are probably already heard of, which are pieces of art that live on top of Ethereum blockchain and can be exchanged like all the collectibles or artworks or different things. So this is like a culture coming to DeFi, and it's also like bringing real value. There are options and all other more exotic and complicated derivative products. I use the simple loan to create leverage, but then using that and other DeFi primitives, you can build really complicated things that are not necessarily always used by maybe casual users, but also by traders and kind of semi professional or professional investors, you can go as complex as you can imagine.
01:02:14.510 - 01:03:24.900, Speaker A: They're indexes, so you can create new tokens that they're not copying the behavior of other tokens, but they are like tokens composed of many other tokens under the hood. So for example, the example would be a DPI DeFi policy index. And this index consists of governance tokens of different, the most, let's say, prominent DeFi protocols. There are insurance funds, so you can buy an insurance that will pay you in case of bug happening in the smart contract, so you can kind of buy some safety in this world. And yeah, this is all becoming this sort of Internet of money. People are saying that blockchains are not that useful outside of the space when they ask, so what is the blockchain for? And then the most obvious answer is money. Of course it's money.
01:03:24.900 - 01:05:05.080, Speaker A: Cryptocurrencies too, but just the regular money also. And then they are saying, yeah, okay, like money and what else? And this is kind of, in my opinion, they're really underestimating this power. Maybe Ethereum doesn't like, you know, maybe it doesn't cure cancer or do any other thing that doesn't fix the urgent needs of the world, but there is this thing which Ethereum and blockchains are extremely good at, and that's managing money, that's handling value, that's storing value, that's creating like a sandbox for startups, for fintechs, for just talented people to create and build all sorts of things that serve the people and that are just useful and that they just bring freedom and help you accumulate value and maybe will help you help other people in the future. Yeah. So that would be it. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for hearing me.
01:05:05.080 - 01:06:01.846, Speaker A: If you have any questions, if you have any questions, then, okay, I see there are some. So I think I'm going to pick them and answer them. If you have any more questions, then don't hesitate to answer. So the first one that I'm going to answer, what is the ratio between the collateral and the amount borrowed? Is it fixed percent? So it depends on the protocol. It's generally not fixed percent as a whole, let's say. But this is like, in most cases it's a fixed percent for a collateral type. So for example, in compulsold you have some sort of collateral type.
01:06:01.846 - 01:06:58.570, Speaker A: And the governance says that, okay, this is like a very volatile, and the collateralization ratio needs to be high and it's going to be fixed for the time being until the governance changes in mind. But there are different models. And for example in Makerdao you can create free types, as far as I remember. I'm not sure at this moment, but I think there are three types of eth vaults. So you can for example, create eth with very high collateralization ratio. And it's going to be like the required collateralization ratio is going to be pretty high, but the debt is going to be pretty cheap, so you're not going to pay a lot for that. But then there are more aggressive vaults with smaller collateralization ratios, but then your debt costs more.
01:06:58.570 - 01:08:00.640, Speaker A: So for example, you can have like okay, so now I'm just guessing, you can check this out at Makerdao's web app. But for example, you can have like a vault with 150% collateralization ratio and you will pay three and a half percent interest annually. But then you can for example have vault with 120% of collateralization ratio and you will pay 9% of annually. So they're less and more risky scenarios and then different interest models. This is not fixed within the defi space. Definitely these are not fixed within the protocols themselves, but they are not changing any minute. These are the decisions made by the governance, for example.
01:08:00.640 - 01:08:44.380, Speaker A: I hope that answers the question. Yeah, I'm not very familiar with forum in deFi. Can we get more detailed example with real numbers? Yeah, so I think I can do that. Okay, so I'm going to maybe return to that question in a moment, but actually this is something that you can probably check. Okay. I think because that would require me entering probably a web app of Ave or compound. So I can then show the example.
01:08:44.380 - 01:09:59.010, Speaker A: I won't come up with an example just from the top of my head. So that in a minute can I use die for liquidity mining? Another question. Yes, definitely yes. It of course depends. There are multiple ways of earning interest on DAi, but there are several liquidity mining programs that include DAi as one of the tokens in a pair. I'm not sure if I should recommend any concrete, but I can say that definitely there are ways to provide liquidity, for example on some amm exchange on the pair of dai and other tokens, and then mine some liquidity. The Makerdao Foundation, Makerdao, as far as I know they do not have any liquidity mining programs.
01:09:59.010 - 01:10:57.750, Speaker A: The demand for DAi is high enough, but generally yes. How would you suggest a financial organization shall adapt to deFi? Yes, so that's a tough question. And here I'm going to be completely honest with you. I'm not a lawyer and there are of course like for example, different jurisdictions, and mine is probably pretty niche. It's not the US. So the things that I'm going to say are not going to be that relatable to people somewhere else. This is generally, I think it's not difficult from the technical perspective, it's more complicated from the perspective of regulations.
01:10:57.750 - 01:11:51.160, Speaker A: And this is not something that I'm too familiar with. So I don't want to make any bold statements. Maybe I will just add that I know that there are some sandboxes, that some of the protocols are cooperating with more institutional customers and they're trying to bring DeFi to institutions and to bring institutions to deFi. But this is not like, it won't happen within like a snap of a finger. It's a process and takes time and it's mostly the work around the regulations. Yeah. And when it comes returning to the first questions, to the second one.
01:11:51.160 - 01:12:49.398, Speaker A: So I think, I think that's, yeah, so I'm not sure if I have enough time now to make live presentation of, for example, Ave. Okay. But I'm going to share the screen maybe for. I cannot do that. Yeah. So I can say that for example, right now on Ave, which is up ave.com markets, like the main market of DAI right now, the market size is like 884 millions of dollars, of which 700 million are borrowed.
01:12:49.398 - 01:13:40.378, Speaker A: And that makes a deposit API for the depositors. So depositors earn 12% annually on that and the borrowers pay 16% of that annually. So that's more or less the thing on die when it comes to other stable coins like USDC coin. Like for example, the market size of USDC is on Ave right now, 3,000,000,002.7 billion are borrowed. So that makes the deposit API to be 6.7 annually and the borrow API 8.1.
01:13:40.378 - 01:14:56.050, Speaker A: So this changes. Like from my experience, I can say that the deposit APIs very rarely drop and deposit ones and the borrow are adequate to that. Right now there is a lot of movement and there is a lot of movement in the cryptocurrency world, so, so they are higher. But I've been here through entire bear market of all these previous years, like 2018 and so, and still the 5% is maybe not the floor value, but you rarely see these interest rates drop below that. Yeah. And I recommend checking out Ave, checking out compound, checking out some maker dashboards. Actually, if you want more details and if you're still online, you can ping me on Twitter, you can ping me on Discord.
01:14:56.050 - 01:15:34.254, Speaker A: I actually recommend following me on Twitter. There is the Twitter handle visible on the screen. I'm open to dms. If anyone wants to chat a little more, then I'm eager to do so. Yeah, I'm just going to check out the chat once more. Maybe there are some questions there. Oh yeah, there was a question about the, about the, the watts stands for W.
01:15:34.254 - 01:15:51.222, Speaker A: About Raptiv. Yes. Yeah, definitely. That was, that was right. Yeah. Okay then. Okay.
01:15:51.222 - 01:16:47.074, Speaker A: I see that there is one question, I think what's the better way to get started in the DeFi space for someone coming from CFI, joining an effort or trying to build some ideas of own, asking from point of view of ease of technical and regulatory implementations. Yeah. So honestly, at the very beginning, I think that joining Sabadis effort is easier. If you are asking from the point of view of ease of the process as a whole. This is like a very dynamic ecosystem. I really recommend joining DeFi projects, DeFi startups and even defi Dao teams. They are operating very rapidly.
01:16:47.074 - 01:17:27.134, Speaker A: They are releasing very often. The technology is always like cutting edge. So think like a new person joining the space can learn a lot really fast by joining one of the organizations. Because I think from the regulatory perspective. Okay, when it comes to the regulatory perspective, I'm not an expert. When it comes to the technical perspective, I know that it's pretty easy. It's relatively easy to start coding in solidity.
01:17:27.134 - 01:18:30.710, Speaker A: It's relatively easy to kind of grasp a little bit. So you feel confident already. But then this call is like working of money. So there are audits, there are a lot of security things that you need to keep in mind when you are developing such protocols. And I would say I would rather advise at the beginning to join somebody for some even short period of time to learn a little bit, see what are the problems, what are the challenges, what are the efforts, and then probably start from scratch with something. Actually, yeah. I think that it's not different from other kind of sectors.
01:18:30.710 - 01:19:15.830, Speaker A: Maybe here you just earn this experience slightly faster because everything is operating extremely fast and extremely rapid. Some people love it, for others that might be too fast, but personally I love it. Yeah. Okay. I think that would be it for questions. I'll wait a minute more. Okay.
01:19:15.830 - 01:19:53.086, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think I'm going to be wrapping this up. Seriously guys, if you have any questions, if you want to chat, if you want to talk, then ping me on Twitter, ping me on discord, ping me on GitHub, ping me wherever else. I always have the same handle, which is Barutco, which just appeared, but you have plenty of time to see it. Yeah. Thank you for today. We're going to meet sometime in the future because I'm also going to be helping on a hackathon, so. Yeah.
01:19:53.086 - 01:19:56.010, Speaker A: See you around. And have a good one. Bye.
