00:00:00.330 - 00:00:00.880, Speaker A: You.
00:00:03.810 - 00:00:25.874, Speaker B: Hi, everyone. Welcome to unconfirmed. The podcast that reveals how the market names in crypto are reacting to the week's top headlines gets the inside scoop on what they see on the horizon. I'm your host, Laura Shin. Etoro is one of the largest trading platforms in the world. With over $1 trillion in trading volume on the platform per year, us. Customers can trade the most popular crypto assets with trans parent fees.
00:00:25.874 - 00:00:33.122, Speaker B: Create an account today@etoro.com that's eToro.com CipherTrace.
00:00:33.186 - 00:00:50.486, Speaker C: Cutting edge cryptocurrency intelligence powers anti money laundering, blockchain analytics, and threat intel leading exchanges. Virtual currency businesses, banks and regulators themselves use CipherTrace to comply with regulation and to monitor compliance.
00:00:50.678 - 00:01:10.094, Speaker B: Crypto.com get their app and buy crypto at true cost with no fees or markup. Get a metal MCO visa card with up to 5% back on all your spending. Want more? Download the crypto.com app today. Today's guest is Stephen Becker, president and chief operating officer of the maker foundation. Welcome, Stephen.
00:01:10.222 - 00:01:14.610, Speaker A: Hi, Laura. Thank you very much for having me today. This is quite exciting.
00:01:15.030 - 00:01:20.390, Speaker B: This week, MakerDAO launched multi collateral dai. What is multi collateral dai?
00:01:21.130 - 00:02:03.620, Speaker A: In short, multi collateral dai is digital cash. That's it. And what is so exciting about this launch is that multicolateral dai really manifests the total vision of what the protocol can actually do beforehand. We had single collateral dai, and really what that meant was dai that could be generated would be generated off one collateral type. But now, as the name shows, multicolateral dye really expands the possibility to any collateral type that can be put into an ERC 20 form.
00:02:03.990 - 00:02:09.030, Speaker B: And what are the benefits that the MakerDAO system gets from having multiple collateral types?
00:02:09.690 - 00:03:18.518, Speaker A: So when we have a look at single collateral die, when you have to take a step back and have a look at it, it becomes very interesting because you see primarily a stable coin being die, and that stablecoin is generated from a single collateral type. So in essence, what this protocol was creating was really just a stable coin. Multicolateral die really brings the full spectrum of potential of the protocol to the blockchain. And what is that full spectrum? Well, here's the interesting part about it. Dai as a stable coin really is a byproduct. What is really important to understand about the maker protocol is that it is two tenets of an economic engine that being collateralization and credit generation. So what the multicolateral element brings is the ability to collateralize with anything that you can possibly turn into an ERC 20 token.
00:03:18.518 - 00:03:42.980, Speaker A: But also more importantly, you have recourse to in terms of claiming against it. So what it brings to the system is the full view of creating this economic engine that facilitates this blockchain economy that could possibly start augmenting with the traditional analog world. That's really the potential that's been released right now.
00:03:43.510 - 00:04:05.450, Speaker B: And at the moment, the system just takes one additional token as collateral, which is brave's bat token and I noticed as of Wednesday afternoon, only about 3% of Dai had been created from Bat. How does maker Dow decide which new collateral types to add? Is part of it based on demand? Or why was Bat the first selection?
00:04:06.430 - 00:05:01.662, Speaker A: So this is really interesting. It comes down to governance and how governance works. And what Bat really showcased was how governance brought a collateral type into the system. The potential for further collateral types is really in the hands of maker Governance and there is a long list that the folks are considering. But essentially what has happened is a list was compiled and curated by the community, by maker Governance and by the internal risk team. The discussion was had over a number of weeks, if not a number of months. Once that list was curated and put into a votable form, then everybody ranked the list and the top token that was selected was Bat.
00:05:01.662 - 00:05:39.980, Speaker A: So consequently, Bat was then put into a governance proposal which is just yet another step in the governance process which allows you to reduce contention and focus on what you really want to include in the system. And when it passed the governance proposal, it was included into the system with the deployment of multilateral Dai. So Bat isn't just the one collateral type that was considered, it was really the showcase of how any collateral type could be considered and brought into the system.
00:05:40.670 - 00:06:02.080, Speaker B: Well, another piece I want to dive into is how you make a transition like this. Single collateral die has been the system for years now and obviously you guys reached a big milestone. I think there was like $100 million worth of ether locked up in single collateral die. So how do you move everybody over to this new system?
00:06:03.090 - 00:06:41.354, Speaker A: So that's actually the exciting point as well because releasing multicolateral die brought really two new features. The first one, as I mentioned beforehand, is the introduction of multiple collateral types. The second part is something called the DSO. The Dai savings Rate. And this new feature is pretty much an important point to consider with respect to the migration. In single collateral Dai, you could generate your Dai and obviously use it as digital cash. Likewise, folks in the community, folks in the ecosystem could purchase Dai and use it for transactional purposes.
00:06:41.354 - 00:07:36.862, Speaker A: But in order to be able to earn something on your die, you would necessarily have to go to the secondary lending platforms and stick it with them. And they in turn would create a return for yourself. With multicolateral Dai, the dye savings rate allows you to take your Dai and simply stick it into a smart contract, which is absolutely amazing because you get paid for doing that. But what is really interesting is that your diet goes into the smart contract but doesn't get used. So you don't have a Central Party counter sorry, central Party or counterparty risk or credit risk. So what you've effectively done is just put your die into a system and you've got effectively paid for it. So there's a lot of demand with respect to that.
00:07:36.862 - 00:08:33.402, Speaker A: So that's one reason you're going to see folks migrating from a single collateral die to multicolateral die. The other reason you want to move across to multicolateral die is obviously because the ecosystem is going to become a lot more robust and a lot more scaled. That's what the multicolateral component really brings to the system as well. It allows you to scale the system and by including collateral types that are uncorrelated with each other, you bring a robustness into the system that keeps the stability of the diastable coin in check. So there are very specific incentives, DSR being one of them. There's also a difference in stability fee. So you'll find that the stability fee is a lot lower with the multicolateral, not a lot lower, but 1% lower with multicolateral die.
00:08:33.402 - 00:08:49.778, Speaker A: And there's a die savings rate. So there's two economic incentives to migrate across. But in terms of the structural features of multicolateral Dai, the increased robustness and stability is another reason to migrate across to multicolateral dye.
00:08:49.954 - 00:09:31.330, Speaker B: Well, one thing I wanted to ask about the dye savings rate is it's 2% now and I get that that's more than you would get from creating a PSI. But what a lot of people are doing is putting PSI in things like in compound or dYdX, and both of them are offering interest rates of over 5%. And I saw like Camilla Russo in her newsletter the Defiant, pointed out for a lot of those people, they don't really have an incentive to switch, which I agree with. So I see the comparison that you're making. But within the larger ecosystem, it doesn't feel like there would be an incentive.
00:09:31.990 - 00:10:19.650, Speaker A: Well, from that standpoint, you need to take a bit of a step back and say, well, strictly speaking, what is the dire savings rate and how is it comparable to what you see on the secondary lending platforms? And this is where it really becomes incredibly interesting and very innovative. So the Dai savings rate, as I mentioned to you, you put your Dai into a smart contract. So that dye belongs to you. That smart contract belongs to you, and your dye does not get used. So what you've got is this new interpretation of a risk free rate. Your Dai does not get used, it doesn't get rehypothecated out, it doesn't get loaned out. There isn't credit generated on the back of the dye that you put into the system.
00:10:19.650 - 00:11:09.278, Speaker A: You literally lock up your Dai into a smart contract and you get paid for that. Now what's interesting, as I just mentioned, it redefines the idea of what a risk free rate is. What you're looking at is in a secondary lending platform, your risk is the counterparty. Your risk is the organization that is effectively using your asset to provide loans. So you have counterparty risk, you've got credit risk that you have to consider, and you need to be compensated for that. So there's a premium that is required when you have a look at the DSR. The risk free rate, I kind of like to now term it as the trust free rate because that rate is not dependent on a central party or a counterparty.
00:11:09.278 - 00:11:22.630, Speaker A: It's dependent on the decentralized protocol. So what you're really doing is you getting paid by relying on a decentralized protocol as opposed to a central counterparty.
00:11:23.450 - 00:12:01.266, Speaker B: Okay, yeah, so I see it is, in a way, a more abstract argument, but obviously in this ecosystem, these ideological or philosophical arguments do carry a lot of sway with certain people. All right, so we're going to discuss more about how the system made a transition like this in a moment. But first, a quick word from the sponsors who make this show possible. Crypto.com sees the future of cryptocurrency in every wallet. Have you seen the MCO Visa card? A metal card powered by crypto loaded with perks, including up to 5% back on all your spending and unlimited airport lounge access. They pay for your Spotify and Netflix too.
00:12:01.266 - 00:12:24.426, Speaker B: What's not to love with crypto.com? Not only can you spend your crypto, but you can grow it too. Earn up to 6% per year on the most popular coins like BTC, XRP, LTC, and up to 12% per year on stablecoins like PAX or TUSD. Just a few tabs before you start receiving interest every week. Join the over 1 million others and download the crypto.com app today.
00:12:24.608 - 00:13:17.930, Speaker C: Will the world follow France and advocate banning privacy coins? Will government backed stablecoins become the new fiat? Are distributed and PeerToPeer exchanges just a flash in the pan? The answer is maybe. Virtual currencies can flourish and create a new, private and more versatile economy. But that grand vision can't happen without keeping crypto clean, and that requires support of governments and accountability for bad actors. Privacy Enhanced Compliance using cryptographic controls has the potential to preserve anonymity without compromising legitimate investigations. CipherTrace is working on this vision of the future. Sign up to stay up to date on the Privacy Enhanced Compliance Initiative and receive authoritative crypto AML reports quarterly. WW, cyphertrace.com
00:13:17.930 - 00:13:19.740, Speaker C: slash, keep crypto clean.
00:13:20.190 - 00:13:49.720, Speaker B: Back to my conversation with Stephen Becker. So one thing that I also wanted to ask about was just because the MakerDAO system is a dao, meaning that it's supposedly decentralized for you guys to essentially create this new system, how do you kind of make the transition happen in a way where it is actually still somehow decentralized, even though there were certain identifiable players who were creating this new system.
00:13:50.490 - 00:15:06.910, Speaker A: So the one interesting component of the space that I've found, and I come from the traditional finance background, the value that's been created in this decentralized world actually is at the intersection of centralization and decentralization. If you think for a moment about Bitcoin and ether. Where does it get majority of its value from? Well, it gets majority of its value from exchanges through price discovery. And which are the main exchanges that bring about the price discovery? Well, those are centralized exchanges. So there's an irony in there that the true value of the system is really where the analog world meets the blockchain world. And that really is also the underpinnings of what I think will generate a new sort of economic regime where you'll find the traditional world dovetailing with the blockchain world. So ideally, what you're looking for is a clear use of governance that doesn't fall into the old buckets that everyone is used to.
00:15:06.910 - 00:16:22.498, Speaker A: So when folks think about governance, they always think about representative democracy. And then when they think about representative democracy, they start thinking about well, how can you influence it? And then from there you get to Plutocracy, you get to Gerrymandering and whatnot where when you have a look at a dow, the thing that you've got to really focus on is well, what are you deciding on? What is governance focusing on? Now, if you make it as broad as possible and say, well, governance can decide on pretty much anything they would like, well, you might find that there is a possible edge case with plutocracy. That large whale comes in and says, I would like to turn the maker protocol into an ice cream factory. Well, if they had enough influence, they could possibly make that happen. But what makes the maker protocol so unique is that that governance is constrained within something we call scientific governance. So you as an MKR holder get to decide on specific parameters within the confines of scientific governance. You don't get to decide on changing to make a protocol to an ice cream factory.
00:16:22.498 - 00:17:29.290, Speaker A: You only get to decide on the stability fee, the debt ceiling, the liquidation ratio, these parameters that can use best practices and best models to figure out what those numbers should be. So if you as a whale came along and you decided that the stability fee should quadruple and the community can see that there is no basis for that rationale, it can be argued that that is an incorrect action to take. And if the whale is insistent and decides that they need to move forward with this and they'd like to influence it against the better judgment of scientific governance, they will be up against the community with the ability to initiate something called emergency shutdown. And if there is emergency shutdown, it is a recognition that someone, even a large whale, is attempting to sway the vote to their benefit. And if that's the case, there's a potential that that whale could actually lose their MKR and that is what keeps it balanced.
00:17:29.790 - 00:17:49.890, Speaker B: And one other thing I was wondering is what will happen to Psy going know, presumably the goal is to kind of close down that system. But as we already mentioned, people may not have incentives to move off of it just yet. So how are you going to get people to move off? And what is your ultimate goal of what to do with PSI?
00:17:50.790 - 00:18:29.726, Speaker A: Well, keep in mind that this protocol is decentralized. So from the foundation's point of view, we together with the community have a look at how the migration is going. And if we find that the migration is too slow, if PSI is not moving across, then they're going to be obviously levers that you can use to get the incentive going. As you pointed out, folks on the secondary lending platform, they may not look at my ideological stance and say, oh, that makes a lot of sense, therefore I'm going to stop earning 5%. They're going to look at and say, well, that's 5%, I'm earning it. 2% doesn't appeal to me. No, thank you.
00:18:29.726 - 00:19:42.678, Speaker A: But what really is important here is that governance and the community and stakeholders can come together and say, well, we should then push the DSR up to 5%. We maybe should bring the stability fee down considerably. There are a lot of levers in place that will create the economic incentives for folks to move across. The interesting aspect about economic incentives is that there's always the sense that folks just look at the superficial numbers and that is effectively what's sufficient to them. I think there are a lot of folks out there that are sufficiently, they're proficient enough to understand that if you earn a high interest rate from a specific organization and you see a lower interest rate offered somewhere else, you should be able to reconcile the difference and understand why you are getting that extra premium. So from this point of view, it's really a case of saying, well, you can use those levers to adjust where necessary. So the superficial sort of economic incentives are in play to move folks across.
00:19:42.678 - 00:20:44.534, Speaker A: But ideally, I think a lot of folks will rely on the stability and robustness of the new protocol and migrate across. So what happens to PSI? Well, the two systems remain in place until a critical mass of PSI is migrated across. What is that critical mass? Well, that again is up to MKR governance. This is a decentralized protocol, but once there's critical mass that's been brought across, then what remains? There could be a nice sort of marketing campaign to say, okay, there's only a few folks left, please migrate across. And at one point governors will come out and say, that's enough for us, we're going to institute shutdown on single collateral die and folks that have PSI will end up with ETH in their wallet. So that is in general, the process that the protocol is going to follow. The time frame again is up to make a governance.
00:20:44.534 - 00:20:58.560, Speaker A: This could be in the next month, or this could be something that stays running for the next six to six months to a year. It really is dependent on governance and how the migration is going.
00:20:59.090 - 00:21:13.490, Speaker B: And you mentioned earlier that collateral types can be any ERC 20 token. Of course, so far you guys are considering other crypto assets. But do you foresee a day when MakerDAO adds non crypto collateral types?
00:21:15.210 - 00:22:15.746, Speaker A: So the quick answer is yes, because scaling is incredibly important and at the same time diversification is incredibly important. So yes, but this is my data point. Maker governance also needs to confer on that and come up with what they want. But essentially what we see now are crypto assets that could be potentially used as collateral types, which is great, but what are we doing in the protocol? We rely on recourse for those collateral types and that recourse is price discovery in secondary markets. So that means you need to look at those crypto assets and you need to decide two things. One, how liquid are those assets and two, how correlated are those assets? And I think everybody is aware of the fact that really the majority of crypto assets are quite correlated. So there is a little bit of a diversification benefit to be had in including a lot of crypto assets.
00:22:15.746 - 00:23:54.840, Speaker A: But in order to scale the system and really get the benefit of diversification, one would need to have a look at tokenized real world assets and bring those onto the protocol as collateral. I think that's just a stepping stone though. I think you'll find that a lot of the initially tokenized real world assets will start seeing the benefit of putting operations and processes on chain and they'll see the benefit of the transparency, the value and the transparency that it provides. They'll also see the ability of realizing liquidity premium through exchanges by not only tokenizing their real world assets but also bringing the operations on chain. So I do see a world where the protocol starts accepting tokenized real world assets, but only really as a step to showcase the analog world how blockchain can dovetail with it and start bringing full processes and operations on chain. And when that happens then I am of the opinion you'll see folks start issuing debts and equity on chain and really transform their risk profiles of those particular instruments from a centralized form to a decentralized form and thereby realizing a lot of value. So again, the answer yes, I see it coming but I also think this is just an intermediate step to the full transition of the analog world dovetailing with the blockchain world.
00:23:55.690 - 00:24:10.518, Speaker B: Yeah, I do see the potential there, but already even just this initial milestone you guys have reached is pretty exciting. So we will see how all of these plans play out. Thanks so much for coming on Unconfirmed.
00:24:10.694 - 00:24:13.130, Speaker A: Thank you very much, appreciate being here.
00:24:13.280 - 00:24:41.794, Speaker B: Don't forget, next up is the News recap. Stick around for this week in Crypto after this short break. Are you interested in getting into the cryptocurrency markets? But don't know where to start building your portfolio, etoro has the answer for you. It's called CopyTrader by Etoro. With CopyTrader, you can automatically copy every trade of Etoro's top crypto traders at the exact price in real time. No need to study up on markets or develop your own strategies. Simply sign up and copy the trader of your choice.
00:24:41.794 - 00:25:04.578, Speaker B: Any profits they make, you do too proportional to your investment. With Etoro, you get access to the world's most popular cryptocurrencies with transparent trading fees, all in one easy to use app. Copy the smart money with Etoro. Join now@etoro.com. That's eToro.com. Hi everyone. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap.
00:25:04.578 - 00:25:54.240, Speaker B: Just a quick note before we begin, which is that there appears to be some kind of intermittent construction going on in my building. So if you hear some noise, I apologize in advance. First headline ethereum NVT Ratio low currently enjoying diverse token activity, coin Metrics released an in depth analysis of key stats on the Ethereum blockchain showing that the network value to token value ratio, or NVTV ratio is quite low at 1.9, hovering near the alltime Low of 1.57 on April 1. The firm says token valuations on Ethereum have been gaining relative to the value of Ether, with most of this growth fueled by stablecoins and most of the stablecoin increase driven by Tether. Plus, transactions in the tokens on Ethereum have now surpassed transactions in Ether itself.
00:25:54.240 - 00:26:47.898, Speaker B: On top of that, ERC 720 ones. This is the nonfungible tokens have also increased their activity, surging past the numbers hit during the CryptoKitties Craze and even surpassing transactions in ERC Twenty, S and Ether. Almost all of this activity in the nonfungibles is due to the card game Gods Unchained. If you listen to the recent episode of Unconfirmed with them, then you know that they saw a spike after Blizzard Entertainment's Punishment of a Winner, who made a statement supporting the protesters in Hong Kong. So if all these indicators weren't enough to show that Ethereum is doing pretty well nowadays, CoinMetrics also points out that Ethereum contract calls have hit an all time high, likely pushed over by the current enthusiasm for Gods Unchained. Next headline. Federal Reserve weighs pros and cons of a central bank digital currency.
00:26:47.898 - 00:28:03.842, Speaker B: This isn't brand new news, however. What is new is that Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell wrote a letter in response to a message that he received from representatives French Hill and Bill Foster in September. In his letter, he details how the Fed is currently thoroughly weighing all the costs and benefits of a US CBDC, including impacts on commercial banking, implications for privacy and surveillance, risk of attacks, etc. He wrote, quote in analyzing the potential costs and benefits of general purpose CBDC, we are carefully monitoring the activities of other central banks to identify potential benefits that may be relevant in the US. Context. To date, our observation is that many of the challenges they hope to address do not apply to the US context, including disuse of physical cash, narrow reaching or highly concentrated banking sectors, or poorly developed payment infrastructure more generally. Next Headline Developers Spar over how Private Mimble Wimble is Dragonfly Capital published what seemed to be a pretty devastating post on the weaknesses in Mimble Wimble's privacy, with Ivan Bogarty claiming that he was able to unmask 96% of transactions.
00:28:03.842 - 00:28:52.290, Speaker B: This has big implications for Grin, Beam, Antari, and others that have begun to use the Mimble Wimble protocol. Grin published a rebuttal, and in an article, the block quotes both sides saying that Grin is closer to bitcoin than other privacy coins and concludes that the two sides are actually closer than they appear. Next Headline Binance's Shanghai Office Reportedly Closed After Police Raid The blog reports that Binance's Shanghai office has been closed after a police raid, which has forced employees to either work remotely or to relocate to Singapore. Finance, however, denies the report. Next story. In case you missed it, the big bitcoin heist in Iceland. Vanity Fair had a rollicking feature on theft of 225 bitcoin miners in Iceland.
00:28:52.290 - 00:29:54.694, Speaker B: And the story is replete with characters like the mysterious and potentially nonexistent mastermind Mr. X, the drug smuggler halfy the Pink and a henchman named Victor the cutie Jonathan, who eventually had a tattoo artist testify that he'd spent the night of the theft with her as an alibi. It even features an escape from prison and cute Icelandic details like people disbelieving that something had been stolen. Finally, fun Bits lone Tether whale who pumped bitcoin found to be Barack Pierce. Another coin jazeera gem begins quote Our reporters watched closely as Brock Pierce meticulously combed over the University of Texas Tether Report line by line, his face concentrated as he chewed his fingernails nervously. He was focused on one thing and one thing alone making sure he got away with it. After what felt like an eternity, the hippie king of cryptocurrency closed his laptop lid and breathed a sigh of relief.
00:29:54.694 - 00:30:16.942, Speaker B: They don't know it was me. All at once, the room erupted in celebration, streamers popped, confetti rained from the sky, and chance broke out. Viva Puerto Rico. Viva LeBrock. Mr. Pierce had just escaped being exposed as the sole whale responsible for the biggest financial pump in human history. All right, that's it for this week's news.
00:30:16.942 - 00:30:43.650, Speaker B: To learn more about Stephen and the maker now transition to multilateral tie, as well as to read about the stories from this week's News recap, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of your podcast player. If you enjoyed this episode, please give us a top rating. A review on Apple podcasts that helps other listeners find out about the show unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Fractal Recording, Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness, Josh Durham, and the team at CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening.
