00:00:00.320 - 00:00:28.926, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily Refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 27 December 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So hope you all had a great Christmas over the weekend. On Friday I realized like pretty late that it was Christmas Eve and I'm like, oh God, I'm busy right now. I don't think I'm gonna have time to do the refuel. So I did an announcement in the Discord channel saying that I do a refuel on Monday and take a kind of like breakfast on Friday.
00:00:28.926 - 00:00:54.814, Speaker A: So yeah, I'm back here. Not much has happened actually over the last few days. Obviously being kind of like Christmas time, end of year things slowed down considerably. So not much has happened on the kind of like projects update front or anything like that. So got a few things to get through today, but not that much. I will keep doing the refuel all the way through. I think New Year's, actually, New Year's Eve is on a Friday as well, so I may not do, I think it's this Friday, so I may not do it this Friday.
00:00:54.814 - 00:01:35.222, Speaker A: And then news days are Saturday, so probably won't do a refill this Friday. As I said, there's not much happening right now. The markets seem to be quiet too. Like NFT seem to be catching a bit again, I've noticed over the last 24 hours, which is funny to see, but I think pretty much January is going to be packed. I think a lot of projects right now are waiting until January to announce certain things, whether they announce, you know, come out of stealth, whether announce major updates or anything like that, because right now it really is the skeleton crew online. I've noticed the Twitter kind of people on Twitter are just, um, definitely kind of a lot less. And I also noticed the biggest thing to happen was the so's airdrop, whatever that kind of like was there.
00:01:35.222 - 00:02:13.662, Speaker A: I didn't look too much into it, I just saw it and I kind of like claimed mine and sold it because I'm like, oh, well, some, some more ETH. Um, but uh, but yeah. Anyway, let's get into the updates from the last three days. One thing that I wanted to talk about was this thing from Yi Zhang, who is a co founder and works in research at scroll. Now, Scroll is one of the ZK teams that I've been speaking out about for quite a while now. And he shared on Twitter, basically a research post from the team at consensus working on ZK stuff, basically specifying the ZKE EVM. Now, you'll have listened to me talk about the ZkVM quite a lot on the refuel and about how multiple teams are attempting this.
00:02:13.662 - 00:02:47.174, Speaker A: It's basically attempting to create a generalized ZK. Sorry, generalized EVM platform built on ZK technology. So obviously we have that with optimistic roll ups right now, with arbitrary optimism and a few others out there, but we don't have it for ZK yet. We have generalized ZK stuff like what Starkways building with Starknet. But that is not EVM compatible or EVM equivalent or anything like that. That is using their own language and, you know, their own kind of technology there. Whereas the Holy grail that people are working towards right now, a lot of people believe the Holy Grail is this zke evm thing.
00:02:47.174 - 00:03:10.096, Speaker A: Now, Polygon is working on this thing. ZK sync is working on this. I'm sure Starkware has been looking into this. Scroll is definitely working on it. Um, and consensus here has put together a spec, basically. Basically kind of trying to define what a ZKVM looks like so that everyone's working off the same thing because you can have different implementations of it. You know, Polygon could have their own ZkVM, and Zksync could have their own, and scroll could have their own.
00:03:10.096 - 00:03:39.472, Speaker A: But it kind of just creates complexities. It's kind of like, okay, well, if we want a ZKVM, why not just all of us build something to the. To a spec, right? Why not build something similar? Why not build it so that we can all kind of, like, know what's going on with that, instead of reinventing the wheel, so to speak. So that's exactly what's being done here with this PDF that you can read by the consensus team. So just download it here and kind of open it. So, this is a specification for Zk EVM done by the consensus applied R and D team. And you can see the names of the people that did this up here.
00:03:39.472 - 00:04:07.384, Speaker A: It's a 41 page kind of specification. It is very, very technical. I mean, don't bother reading it if you don't know. You know, don't know the technicals of not only ZK tech, but also the EVM and just general kind of blockchain, low level blockchain stuff. I definitely didn't read this myself because I knew exactly what it was. I mean, you can see all the equations and everything in here. This is not for the average kind of, like, person to give it a read, but as I just described to you what it was.
00:04:07.384 - 00:05:08.776, Speaker A: Basically the abstract is, and I can basically read out the abstract here to get a kind of like full breakdown. This is basically in plain English what this, what this paper is. So in kind of the specification, the consensus applied R and D team describes zke EVM arithmeticization supporting the three following design goals, support for all EVM op codes, including internal smart contract calls, error management and gas management, ability to execute bytecode as is, and minimal prover time. We strive to provide an error message that respects the EVM specification as defined in the Ethereum yellow paper. We provide an original and comprehensive approach of the ZkVM problem, which is technically realizable using existing zero knowledge proving SIS proving schemes. So this is pretty exciting, right? Because if, I mean, if this does work practically, obviously it's just a paper right now, but if it does work practically, it means that we basically have the Ethereum as it exists today, the EVM as it exists today in a ZK form. Now obviously ZK tech is, is amazing, but still very early days, and that's why people are working on this sort of stuff.
00:05:08.776 - 00:05:28.862, Speaker A: You can see here, Vitalik basically commented saying this is amazing work. Are there any draft implementations? Because there's the paper, then there's the implementations. We obviously want to see the implementations. I don't know if there's any implementations yet. I think it's just the paper. But I'm sure we're going to see more and more of this stuff come out over the coming months from the various ZK teams. Because as I said, this is the holy grail.
00:05:28.862 - 00:06:17.074, Speaker A: Once we crack this, once we get kind of like a generalized EVM using ZK tech, it becomes something that a lot of people are going to use very quickly. It's going to, I think it's going to get adoption very quickly. And I think the reason why things like, I mean, stock nets had some pretty decent adoption, same with stockx and things like that. But imagine if stockware ZK tech was built using the EVM, right? Like how many projects would have already deployed there? So, and they've just gone a different approach there, which I actually think is healthy, because we don't, you know, I mean, the AVM isn't perfect. Avium is basically, I guess like you could say, solidity is basically the JavaScript of the crypto world, of the web3 world. It is going to be around forever, it's probably going to be dominant forever. But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't be attempting to make other kind of virtual machines adopt other languages and that's exactly what starkware is doing.
00:06:17.074 - 00:06:50.874, Speaker A: Zksync is also trying to do it with their LLVM polygons. Has a bunch of different kind of efforts going on there. But really getting a Zke VM to work in production is a huge deal. So yeah, go get this specification a read if you're interested in that sort of stuff. As I said, very, very heavy on the technical, low level core, kind of like devi stuff. Um, so yeah, just, just a fair warning there. So Xerox Mons, basically for a little bit of a Christmas present, put out a video here where they decided to vampire attack OpenSea infrastructure with pseudoswap.
00:06:50.874 - 00:07:30.538, Speaker A: So any opensea link for an NFT now redirects to sudo swap. If you change the p to a w, making it Onc one click to make swap offers and asset pages let you see what offers have been made. Now Sudo swap is being built on, I think, ZK sync last time I checked, or at least it was experimenting with ZK sync. But you know, the funny thing is with these kind of like vampire attacks on OpenSea, or at least kind of like these competitors to Opensea, is that they couldn't be coming soon enough. I think Opensea has enjoyed way too much of a, I guess like a cruisey adoption cycle where there hasn't really been any competition for them. They need competition. They, they're not bad, but they could be so much better than what they are.
00:07:30.538 - 00:08:26.090, Speaker A: And I think I mentioned it on the refuel maybe, maybe a couple of weeks ago or something, how they, they are actually planning to do an IPO and not issue a token. I'm not sure if they're going to change their tune there because a lot of people are upset that they're not doing a token. But if they did choose to do an IPo instead of a token, I mean, that really does kind of like open the floodgates to a bunch of vampire attacks to come in and basically say, well, we're like Opensea, but we have a token and get the community on board. Now whether it works is another kind of thing because vampire attacking can be pretty lucrative in the short term if you have a token, if you have a good narrative behind it. But there's a lot more to running a product like Opensea than just slapping a token on it and forking the infrastructure and the code. And obviously zero X Mons knows this. I'm not saying that they have done this thinking that ONC is going to, you know, completely destroy opensea overnight or anything like that, they are building a kind of NFT ecosystem with pseudoswap and, and stuff like that.
00:08:26.090 - 00:09:10.568, Speaker A: But essentially, yeah, I mean, I think people get this false sense of security where they're basically like, okay, we can just easily fork this code, we can fork this infrastructure, and we can just run this thing with a token and we're going to be the best and we're going to take over the world. That's just not how it works. There's so much more that goes into building a successful product and service. I mean, not only is it really hard to break the incumbents network effect, even if you do a vampire attack with liquidity or whatever, you do some liquidity mining or whatever you want to want to call and do some air drops or whatever, you also have to have the experience, you have to have the team there. You have to be able to out compete the person, the ecosystem that you're vampire attacking. Like, for example, the, you know, the classic example of a vampire attack is sushi swap on Uniswap. Now, sushi swap isn't a failure, but it is nowhere near as big as uniswap.
00:09:10.568 - 00:09:37.042, Speaker A: Right? Like, Uniswap is still miles bigger. And that's because Uniswap wasn't just this thing that sat around and stopped innovating. They kept innovating. They came up with v three, which has been a huge success. Um, you know, they, they also did their token, I think, partly in response to, to sushiswap. And they, at least they did it sooner than they probably would have liked, which got a, you know, a bunch of people back as well because they did the, the awesome airdrop and things like that. But the sushi swap kind of experiment seemed to run into a lot of trouble over time because it was very chaotic.
00:09:37.042 - 00:10:02.756, Speaker A: It was, you know, we see kind of like with how the team, I mean, the team seemed to not be as cohesive as they could have been. They kind of like, was a ragtag crew of people, really good people, really cool people working on it. But in the end, it just couldn't compete with, with uniswap, right, because they vampire attacked basically the king. And then the, the king's like, well, I'm still king. Like, I'm still going to keep, keep building here. We're still going to keep building products out. We're still going to keep getting adoption.
00:10:02.756 - 00:10:29.706, Speaker A: And that's exactly what happened with that. So I don't think Opensea can be vampire attacked without kind of like a strong team behind the vampire attacking happening and has to be like an actual concerted effort. But it could be the same thing where Opensea basically says, well, okay, we got forked and they did a token, and now they're kind of sucking liquidity away from us. Let's just do a token and it'll all be well and good. But anyway, still cool to see this. Still could. I mean, I'm not against forking projects.
00:10:29.706 - 00:10:59.244, Speaker A: I think it's. I think it's fine as long as it's kind of like an open source license or anything like that. But yeah, cool to see these from zero x mons here. So Lucas from bankless put together this amazing thread on the best yields for your ETH. So this is a bunch of different kind of like opportunities that you have for earning basically a yield on your ETH. So it goes through that the balancer St ETH wrapped ETH pool currently gives a 7% apY. So this is current as at December 24.
00:10:59.244 - 00:11:48.892, Speaker A: I don't know if it's changed since then, it's only been three days, but yields in crypto can change quite quickly. But yeah, balancer Labs Steth Weth pool is currently paying out 7% ETH denominated yield. Mind you, then you have yearn, which is paying out 8%. You have token reactor, which is also or tokamak, which is also paying out 8%, up to 70% if you have to. Rewards included in that ribbon Finance's STF covered core vault has 28% APY and then redacted, he says here has over 60 API, which is hint, uses Uniswap V three and always outperforms Ethan or bull market. And then you've got like a link to a blog post here with the best yields on ETH, USD and BTC. So these are all risky and come with their own kind of like trade off security risks, some impermanent loss depending on what you're doing.
00:11:48.892 - 00:12:36.414, Speaker A: And obviously trading options is not risk free. It can be very risky if you don't know what you're doing. But it's really cool to see that there's like a much bigger ecosystem these days on earning on your 8th, right? Like, obviously you can do staking with your ETH and you can earn five to 6% on your own, we know, just staking on your own. Or you can stake through something like lido and then restake your staked lido in a pool, on a liquidity pool and get more apy like that. Or you could do the same thing with rocket pool with your reth and stuff like that. But, you know, vanilla ETH staking is about five to 6% ETH denominated, right? It's not USD denominated is ETH denominated, which, as I've explained before, if ETH goes up like two x, then that yield is basically two x, because essentially you've got the. The Ethan nominated yield, and then you've got the ETH price increase against USD as well, which is really, really cool.
00:12:36.414 - 00:13:00.374, Speaker A: And, you know, there's going to be more opportunities as time goes on as well. I mean, there are plenty out there. Just depends on what your risk tolerance is. And, you know, it's impermanent loss that comes into things as well. If you're providing liquidity on stuff with options, there's a risk of things expiring worthless. And, you know, if you don't know how options work, I suggest kind of reading up on them before getting involved there. But this just speaks to what I've been saying, you know, for a long time, about how ETH is just this incredibly productive asset.
00:13:00.374 - 00:13:36.486, Speaker A: You can earn a yield on it. You can obviously use it for freeze, you can kind of like, stake it, you can use it as collateral within defi, even if you're not owning a yield on it. Like, that's the thing as well. You can basically put your ETH into like a money market, borrow stable coins against it, and then go earn a USD denominated yield. Or what you could do, if you're feeling especially risky, put your ETH in a money market, borrow USD against it, go buy more ETH, you know, leverage up on ETH, and then put that ETH into something to earn yield on it. Or you could just kind of like, borrow ETH, depending on what's most capital efficient, and do all that sort of stuff there. Obviously there's liquidation risks there and all that.
00:13:36.486 - 00:13:48.264, Speaker A: All that stuff there. So it's, you know, it's more risky, but the higher the risk, the higher the reward. Right? We all know that. But anyway, go give this a blog post to read. It's published in bankless from Lucas. Yeah, it was. It was a good one.
00:13:48.264 - 00:14:18.786, Speaker A: So Kane from Synthetix put out a tweet a few days ago, or yesterday, I think, where he said, last week I sent an email out to six projects offering them a mentorship in exchange for a commitment to launch on optimism. I wanted to keep it to three, but honestly couldn't decide which ones to cut. They are all great. I'm going to turn it into a program and publish it. And then he says l 220 22. And yes, I will be encouraging them to all launch via alien protocol. So Kain has been doing a very big push to get more and more projects onto optimism, which I think is solely needed.
00:14:18.786 - 00:14:59.984, Speaker A: I think, you know, there's three main things when it, when I'm thinking about kind of like l two adoption that needs to happen. First one, there needs to be a token, right? Like all these ecosystems that you see get lots of TVL, lots of kind of liquidity and users, they all have token incentives. This is just how we're going to bootstrap usage of anything, l two s, l one side chains, whatever it is, token incentives are the best way to bootstrap things. So that's, that's the first thing there. Second thing, there needs to be a concerted push from community leaders to get projects to actually launch on these things that the merits need to be explained to them. Basically it inherits Ethereum security and decentralization while offering cheaper fees. And they will get better over time and the ecosystem will grow over time.
00:14:59.984 - 00:15:22.946, Speaker A: And then you may get some token incentives as well, well added on top of that. So there really needs to be a push there. Like I'm pushing it all the time. Cain's been pushing it a lot. There's a lot of other people in the Ethereum ecosystem that are pushing it, but we need to keep doing that and doing it in a big way. And thirdly, the actual infrastructure and the actual teams building these l two s need to really push on the marketing of business development themselves. They really need to do a polygon's been doing.
00:15:22.946 - 00:16:05.052, Speaker A: I know I go on about polygons marketing a lot, but they are kind of like best in class when it comes to this sort of stuff. There's a reason why they have pretty much everything on the PoS chain and, and that's in large part due to their business development and marketing efforts. They really truly understand that that's kind of like how to grow an ecosystem coupled with token incentives. There were matic token incentives originally on the Pos chain and then they kind of built up a base and now it's kind of been steady growing and steady growing. And I think the polygon Pos chain is actually the most used chain, even more so than these other Alt L1. So it works, right. Marketing business development, they work really well, goes hand in hand sometimes with token incentives.
00:16:05.052 - 00:16:36.006, Speaker A: Like I think token incentives can be a form of marketing business development as well. Get a lot more attention on your project, get a lot more people involved. A lot more people kind of like on there and there's some sort of sticky liquidity that kind of like stays around once those token incentives taper off or go away completely. So I'm hoping to see more of that in 2022. As Kane says here, L 220 22. That's what we're all kind of like pushing towards. As I said before, I think within the next six months, three, maybe even three to six months, all the l two s are going to do tokens, especially in reaction to what's been happening with other Altus that already have tokens.
00:16:36.006 - 00:17:04.102, Speaker A: I mean, Metis is a fork of optimism. I believe they have a token and that token's gone pretty ballistic in price. Right. And they have a big army now on Twitter that I've been seeing of people just basically shilling them or kind of like shillings. Schilling has a negative connotation attached to it, but I mean it as in like, kind of like talking about them a lot, promoting them, getting projects to deploy there, all that sort of stuff. So that's a strong thing. But also I think the technology is just going to keep getting better and better, exponentially better in 2022.
00:17:04.102 - 00:17:42.669, Speaker A: And we're going to have a lot more projects launched there, which is going to give users something to do, because at the end of the day, the users are going to go where the products are, where the money is, where the incentives are, and we have a really big, really awesome opportunity to do this with l two and take a lot of those users back from the alternative l one s. But not only that, because as I said before, the fact that we're fighting over a small set of users right now is kind of like missing the forest for the trees. I think what we need to do is focus on the new users pouring in. Um, and, and that's kind of like where the centralized exchanges come in with their onboarding as well. And I would say that that's kind of like the fourth pillar. Maybe there's more than three. There's the kind of like three major pillars for l two adoption.
00:17:42.669 - 00:18:26.520, Speaker A: The fourth would be the centralized exchange, bridging and fiat on ranch, which basically go hand in hand. I think we're going to see a lot more of that happening in 2022 as well to capture those new users, not only the existing users that we have out there today. So speaking of fiat on ramps, Arbitrum announced that banks now allows users to convert their fiat to crypto that can be used on arbitrum one. So this is just another kind of, I guess, option for you guys if you want to go straight from fiat to arbitrum, sorry, to crypto, and then to arbitrum one, which is always awesome to see. I mean, these smaller ones are cool. Like, I think it's all additive, but man, these centralized exchanges are dragging their feet. I really hope they're kind of like just doing it, gonna do it in January and February.
00:18:26.520 - 00:19:18.286, Speaker A: I really hope it doesn't take until like mid year for them to do it because it really needs to happen. I think even with token incentives on these l two s, it's still not gonna be enough to get the users that we want onboarded because the l one gas fees are pretty high now, obviously, if there's token incentives, people will be like, okay, well, I'll just eat the l one gas fees because I'm gonna make it back with these token incentives. But the token incentives can't last forever. And I don't think these l two should do like overly aggressive ones either. They should do kind of like big ones, get some kind of like, headlines around, they get some marketing from it, but I don't think they should do it in such a way that it basically just attracts, like, extreme amounts of mercenary capital that just, that just leave after it's done. But I also hope that they have more kind of like bridges into these l two s before they even do it. Because if they don't, what ends up happening is that I think it's just going to onboard the existing users rather than the new users.
00:19:18.286 - 00:19:45.300, Speaker A: And what we want are the new users. The existing users have already used kind of like Ethereum. They've probably already used many of the l two s, at least tried them in one way or another. But we need the new users, the millions, the tens of millions of people that will come on chain over the coming years. Hundreds of millions. We need them to kind of use these technologies, and that's kind of where we get the real benefits from. But they won't use it unless there's an actual bridge from their centralized exchange to, to the l two.
00:19:45.300 - 00:20:22.048, Speaker A: So I'm hoping to see more of that in 2022. And speaking of fiat on ramps, layer swap has now added ZK sync to their portfolio. So you can now bridge ETH directly from your binance Coinbase. Kucoin, Kucoin, Huobi and more account to Zksync without losing on gas fees. And it's fast. You can go to Layerswap IO to try this out now. Layerswap, I believe is a centralized service that basically is an intermediary that sits between a centralized exchange and the l two and will basically take on the, um, the cost for you because they're taking kind of like a fee on that.
00:20:22.048 - 00:20:51.674, Speaker A: It's an option for you guys to use, but just be, just keep in mind that it is like pretty centralized, but at the end of the day, like, so is a centralized exchange. So it's kind of like, okay, well, they're both centralized. What's more risky? Depends what centralized exchange you're coming from. Like, I would consider, you know, Kucoin much more riskier than a coinbase, for example. I would consider hobby much more riskier than a binance because it's based in China, for example. So at least I believe hobby is based in China, or maybe, or maybe Korea. But somewhere where there's heavy regulations, then hobby's always been in the news about heavy regulations.
00:20:51.674 - 00:21:21.448, Speaker A: But still, it's all based on your risk preference. I mean, pretty much everything in crypto is based on your risk preference. But this is just another option for you guys if you want to directly kind of onboard onto Zksync or other l two s from centralized exchanges. So Slingshot has now been deployed to optimism. This is, this is pretty quick, this is pretty fast. So really, really great to see slingshot on optimism here. So, as you guys know, if you've been using slingshot before on the polygon pos chain, you'll know just how, you know, how smooth it is to use.
00:21:21.448 - 00:21:39.434, Speaker A: They've got, like, Dex liquidity with centralized exchange performance, real time charts for every token and positive slippage. And their video is always pretty cool here. So you can go check this out on optimism. Just another way for you to trade on there. I believe they're on Arbitra, and I mean, they're on polygon, pos chain. I believe they're on arbitrum as well. They're going to be everywhere.
00:21:39.434 - 00:22:09.208, Speaker A: I mean, this is the thing about these apps. They're pretty much going to be everywhere, but it's. And, and the winners are going to be determined by a variety of different things of like the winning kind of, um, implementations on the chains. I don't think there's going to be that many. There's going to be a handful for reasons I've outlined previously, such as, I mean, the overhead is pretty extreme to maintain. Like, imagine you're a developer or a team of developers or a dao trying to maintain like 20 different implementations of your, your app and trying to update them, and try to keep them on the bleeding edge. It's not going to work, so.
00:22:09.208 - 00:22:46.172, Speaker A: And, and really, I mean, it's not going to work for the end user either. So I think what's going to happen is going to be a handful of winners. Uh, and then that, you know, that that's just going to be how, how it is, like how it's, um, in the mobile world. Like how there's only the iPhone, uh, the iOS App Store and the Android Play Store, and there's a few other attempts out there. I know Samsung had their own store for a bit and there's a couple of other smaller ones, but they didn't really go anywhere. But it might turn out to be, there's more than just two dominant platforms within crypto, I believe there will be like, I don't think there's only gonna be two dominant l two s or two dominant l one s, but, yeah, see, and then I kind of, like, think about this as well. It's kind of like the l one s.
00:22:46.172 - 00:23:15.374, Speaker A: You guys know, my views on the l one s is that they all have to be settlement layers or else they're kind of useless. Like, even the ultra scalable ones are not going to be able to outperform Ethereum's altu ecosystem when it really gets going. So for me, there might just, they might only be two settlement layers. You know, I don't actually think there needs to be two. I think one makes enough sense, but there probably will be at least two, maybe even three. But I don't know, I don't really see it. But in terms of like, execution layers, the l two s and things like that, there's going to be many of them.
00:23:15.374 - 00:23:48.952, Speaker A: But in terms of like, the winners, it's going to definitely be look like a. A power distribution where 90% of the activity will just be on a handful of them and then the rest of them will kind of fight over that, that last 10% there. So Mahalo from Polygon announced that Stephen Curry has joined the Polygon family with an NFT collection. So this is pretty cool. A polygon's NFT drops have been pretty big lately. They've had Dolce and cabana, they've had NFL, they've had draftkings, Macy's and a bunch of other brands launching on there. So as I said, guys, this is their business development team at work.
00:23:48.952 - 00:24:34.986, Speaker A: This doesn't just happen, right? It's not like these big companies have all gone to Polygon and been like, we want to do nfts on you some of them maybe, but a lot of it's got to do with having like a dedicated business development team or teams that go out there, talk to these brands, build relationships, and actually get these things to launch on Polygon instead of somewhere else. Like these kind of like big companies, they are just looking at one solution, they look at many other solutions, many different solutions, and whoever has the best pitch and whoever has the best business development team and who is the one that onboards them. So Polygon really does. I mean, immutable X is also another example of a great business development team that has been able to get big brands on board, such as TikTok and other ones like that. But Polygon, yeah, I mean, he's just killing it in that, in that kind of area, too. So it's cool to see this. I believe.
00:24:34.986 - 00:25:09.476, Speaker A: I think I'm saying his name right, Stephen Curry, or maybe it's Stefan Curry. I don't follow the NBA, but I believe he's a popular NBA player. But, but, yeah, I. This is really, really cool to see here from, from Polygon. So gnosis safe has now been deployed to optimism. As I said last week, guys, optimism removing their whitelist means that the floodgates have just been open. We're going to see so many things deployed, you know, slingshot now, gnosis safe, which is a staple for a lot of teams before they can actually deploy to optimism because they use nurses safe as a multi sig for their kind of like for their admin keys that they use, you know, if they're early stage projects.
00:25:09.476 - 00:25:41.858, Speaker A: So nurse is safe. Being on there means that a lot of other projects will probably migrate across now. I can't wait to see them all go across. As I said, I think January Q one in general is going to be pretty big for crypto, especially for Ethereum and especially for l two s. We really are just on the cusp of like a huge year for Altus. I am very excited for 2022 for ethereum. I know that 2021 has been a weird year for ethereum, where it's funny because we had like a massive run from like $700 to 4400 in May to May at the start of this year, and then we had the crash.
00:25:41.858 - 00:26:35.074, Speaker A: And then since then either has kind of like hovered around $4,000, I mean, gone up and down, hasn't really done much since May in terms of price, but it's done a lot on the fundamental side of things. But at the same time, there's been other l one ecosystems that have pumped a lot in price because of Ethereum's kind of like quote unquote failings in the scaling department. But I think because Ethereum has been trying to scale the right way, right, the decentralized way, it's taken longer, but we're finally there. And I think 2022 is going to be the year where Ethereum actually takes the scaling narrative back in a really big way and allows lots of users to onboard and experience Ethereum without the expensive fees. And you know, the funny thing is these other l one s are allowing users to experience Ethereum without the high fees because they're evms, right? Like for example, the Avalanche C chain is an EVM chain. Phantom is EVM compatible as well? There's a few others out there that have EVM compatibility. It's basically all Ethereum just on.
00:26:35.074 - 00:27:08.240, Speaker A: It's not the Ethereum blockchain, but it is the Ethereum experience. You have your metamask, you have, you're kind of like your Etherscan like block explorer. You have the same kind of ux just generally from there in terms of how to do transactions and gas and all that sort of stuff. So I think people are going to really enjoy the same experience on optimism and arbitram. And we also need to kind of like keep pushing the virtues of how these things inherit Ethereum security and decentralization. They are better than these alt l one s from that perspective, and I think we will. Especially when they have tokens.
00:27:08.240 - 00:27:36.096, Speaker A: Man, when these things have tokens, it's going to be such a narrative shift. It's going to, you know, you're going to break your neck just trying to catch the narrative shift because it's going to go by so very, very, very quickly. And, you know, from one day to the next, it'll just be, oh, ethereum scaling, you know, buy this token and all this sort of stuff. So. So, yeah, anyway, cool to see notice, save on optimism here. And the last update comes out of diversify. So if you're looking to buy crypto with fiat on l two ETH, well, you can, because diversify is integrated with moonpay.
00:27:36.096 - 00:27:59.232, Speaker A: So basically moonpay is acting as a fiat on ramp for diversify's l two ecosystem. So just another one of these fiat on ramps, they're all coming. They're coming in waves. Everyone knows that we've needed them. I'm actually really surprised that we're getting the fiat on ramps earlier than we're getting the centralized exchange on ramps. Because as I've said to you guys plenty of times, it's such low hanging fruit for these centralized exchanges to do this. It's an in demand thing.
00:27:59.232 - 00:28:25.056, Speaker A: Their customers want this, people are asking for it, and yet they're dragging their feet. Whereas these fiat on ramps like that aren't centralized exchange. I mean, they, they kind of are centralized exchanges, but they're not like the coinbase or the binancers of the world. They're kind of just like a fiat portal, so to speak, rather than an exchange. They're just beating them to the punch. So they're going to get a lot of users out of this, I believe. And also the l two s that they're supporting are going to get a lot of new users, too.
00:28:25.056 - 00:28:46.484, Speaker A: And that's what we love to see when we see this kind of like fiat on ramps and stuff like that. But anyway, go check this out. If you're a user of diversify or want to be a user of diversify, it's an easy way to get on boarded there, but I think that's going to be it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
