00:00:13.690 - 00:01:29.558, Speaker A: Cool. Hey, everyone, I'm going to give a quick presentation talk on the status quo of derivatives, traditional finance, centralized finance, and what we can expect to have going forward in Defi, as well as company I co founded called infinity Pools. So this is kind of a hot take. But all futures markets constraints can be traced back to a single problem, which is liquidation risk. Essentially, all constraints that are self imposed by futures exchanges are simply constraints that are there to do risk mitigation in case liquidations are not done efficiently enough. So margin trading, well, futures are really at a super high level. Various different variations of margin trading, right? So like futures and margin trading at a very, very high level work very similarly and as a result also have a lot of the same constraints.
00:01:29.558 - 00:03:06.182, Speaker A: So how does it work? Well, to go long, ethereum, for example, trader starts by borrowing cash, right? Like this is usually USD or USDC or whatever. The trader then swaps that cash for ethereum, thereby entering a long position. If the price goes up, everything is good. They can sell that like ethereum for the underlying USD at any point they want. They don't really have any time limitations, but if the price starts to drop, if the price works against them, then they have essentially a very limited amount of time to actually liquidate the Ethereum in time to repay the cash loan. So think about it this way. When you've got ten x leverage on a margin trade, you need to be able to sell the Ethereum when there's a 10% price move against you, but then you also need to be able to sell that Ethereum in time to actually be able to pay back the USD cash loan, right? So why doesn't that work? And why is that actually really bad? Well, quite simply, there's no guarantee that traders can liquidate assets efficiently enough to cover their original cash loan, right? Like usually that comes either under the form of bad debt, or we'll talk more about that.
00:03:06.182 - 00:04:18.782, Speaker A: But essentially there's simply no guarantee that somebody can sell ethereum for USD fast enough to pay back the original USD loan. So in traditional finance, the crazy thing that I think most people in crypto and that have only interacted with perps don't really realize is that these margin calls can take up to three to four days. So imagine that you're getting liquidated, and instead of getting liquidated immediately you get a phone call that says, hey, you need to top up your collateral. You've got three to four days. Well, what happens if the price drops over the course of three or four days? Then all of a sudden you can't sell that ethereum that you bought for the original USD loan. And the problem with traditional finance, and it's a really big problem, is that they have something called unlimited liability, which means that in case the price drops more and there is bad debt, they can actually come after your personal assets. Crypto, very cool.
00:04:18.782 - 00:04:52.618, Speaker A: With perpetual futures, there's limited liability, right. Once you get limited, you can only get the funds that you have on the actual exchange that get taken away. Right. They can't go after your personal assets, but it also means that these liquidations are pretty much done instantly. It's also the reason why you'll actually find that leverage in crypto is higher than traditional finance. Right. Once again, it's literally just because traditional finance, it takes three to four days to liquidate you.
00:04:52.618 - 00:06:33.268, Speaker A: In crypto, it takes 5 seconds. And for perpetual futures, the constraint comes under the form of liquidation penalty. Right? So liquidators, when they need to take your position and essentially sell the ethereum for USD, what they do is that they've got a one to 3% margin of error to actually do that, right? So they can afford to have up to 3% of market impact before the exchange, the traders end up with bad debt. Um, even worse is for long tail assets, right? So, you know, long tail assets, I don't know how many of you trade shitcoins, but liquidity is not great. What that means is that liquidating shitcoins without significant market impact, and I'm talking more than like, one to 3%, is extremely hard, if not straight up impossible, which is also why you do not have a single protocol so far that's really been able to offer perps on the long tail of assets. And one last thing I'll mention is that even for large market cap assets like Ethereum, if the position is big enough, the market impact can go beyond 3% if you really have to sell it all in a very short time period. Right.
00:06:33.268 - 00:07:45.950, Speaker A: And I don't know, once again, how many of you are big time traders, but if you go on finance and you have a position that's several millions of dollars, you'll actually see that your leverage gets reduced from whatever, like 50 x to actually one or two x. So this is, once again limitation because of liquidation risk. And one last thing I'll talk about is what happens when there is this bad debt, right? Like, I talk a lot about this bad debt, but how is it actually, like, a bad thing? Well, when you have enough bad debt that accumulates, you have something that's called the forced settlement. Of markets. Essentially what happens is that markets get paused, right? The perpetual market on which you are trading gets paused. Profitable traders don't get paid out on their position. So like, if we're talking about the long e position that I was talking about earlier, if that ETH doesn't get liquidated to USD fast enough and you can't pay back that USD loan, then what happens is that the short traders that were actually correct don't get paid out on their position.
00:07:45.950 - 00:09:31.260, Speaker A: And obviously market makers also get wrecked and so does the exchange. So it's a lose lose lose kind of situation, which is also why you have all these constraints, right? These are not things that exchanges want. So another question that I get for the status quo of derivatives and traditional finance, and even in crypto and defi, is what about options? Well, fragmentation across expiries and strikes for options actually make markets very illiquid. I don't know how many of you know that Robinhood, for example, makes most of its money on options, because once again, markets are illiquid. So you can charge bigger fee with market makers, and it also results in a worse ux for traders, right? Like traders need to think upfront about, okay, what is the time frame of my trade? And also how high do I think this asset is going to go, which is obviously much worse than perps, where you just have a big long button, ten x leverage, and you just ape in, right? The friction is much worse, which once again is why I think retail loves perps versus options in crypto. So to kind of recap some of the constraints that exchanges have in order to mitigate liquidation risks, you have limited leverage, you have few assets, right? You only have perps on subset of available assets. And finally, you have liquidations.
00:09:31.260 - 00:10:34.130, Speaker A: And one thing that I haven't really talked about is how do liquidation penalties actually affect expected returns for traders. So we actually, at infinity pools, we actually ran tests using simulated data, and we noticed that for a trade over a week, we have a sharp of one, right? So this is a directionally correct trade. Beyond 15 x, leverage traders can actually expect to lose money. So layman's terms, even though you are correct on the direction of your trade, if you leverage up beyond 15 x with perps, you're actually expecting to lose money. And this is because of liquidations. So this is kind of a part where I start to show my own protocol. Infinity pools solves all of these problems, essentially by solving one very simple problem.
00:10:34.130 - 00:11:58.750, Speaker A: It does so by guaranteeing the liquidity to make sure that all trader positions on an exchange close perfectly. So if you kind of remember the way that margin trading works, you borrow cash, you sell that cash for Ethereum, and then when you close out your position, you need to essentially liquidate that Ethereum back to cash. And fading pools works differently because instead of borrowing a single asset, what you're actually borrowing is liquidity. And specifically in crypto, what we mean by liquidity is, for example, eTh USDC LP token. Once you've borrowed that eFUSDC LP token, you can redeem it for USDC, given that as long as it's underneath the market price, you can swap that USDC for Ethereum using any Dex aggregator. And if the price moves against you, well, the LP is expecting back Ethereum anyways. So you have that liquidity there, that's there to essentially act as the liquidation for you.
00:11:58.750 - 00:13:12.980, Speaker A: And essentially what that means is that traders pay an interest rate upfront to lps, kind of like a streaming options premium, to keep their position open. So how does that actually work? Right. Traders guarantee that they can close their position perfectly by borrowing liquidity upfront at the bankruptcy price or at the price or where, for example, with perps they would have gotten otherwise liquidated. And essentially you can think of it as borrowing a limit order or a no slippage stop loss against which when the price moves against you, well, it's no problem because you can close out your position against this limit order that you've borrowed. So what does that enable? Well, quite a few things actually. When we launch our v one and our testnet is coming like this month. So our v one main net should be next month, we're going to be able to offer unlimited leverage.
00:13:12.980 - 00:13:56.700, Speaker A: I'm talking 1000 x on most pairs or more, 10,000 x on EUSDC, sorry, on forex pairs like euro USDC, no liquidations. So traders will be able to keep their position open as long as they are paying an interest rate, streaming interest rate on their position and zero counterparty risk. So very much like uniswap. And all of this is a completely oracle less implementation. Yeah. So no for settlement of markets, no bad debts, no oracles. Oh, and on any asset.
00:13:56.700 - 00:14:51.990, Speaker A: So we're going to be the first leverage swap protocol to actually be able to offer extremely high levels of leverage on the long tail of assets. Similarly, the way it's going to work, infinity pools is a two sided marketplace. So on one side you've got traders that get all that good stuff. Liquidity providers very similarly also get a bunch of perks. Number one, they get higher yields. Because essentially the way that we price the interest rate is that it's very similar to a combination of black shoals plus utilization rate ave style. And essentially there is a volatility arbitrage that allows any arbitrator to push the yields up to at least realized Vol.
00:14:51.990 - 00:15:45.940, Speaker A: And for those that know a little bit like how options work, that means that in the worst case scenario, when that volatility arbitrage is being done, lps do not lose money or like they do not have an expectation of losing money. And this is with zero trades on the platform. With additional trades, we expect for the yields to be at option premiums, if not above. The second thing that's pretty cool is that we're going to be the only protocol where you can generate yield continuously. That means that you can generate yields on your liquidity even when it's out of range. So you can deploy, I don't know, liquidity between 800 and $900. If the market price of Ethereum is $1,000, you're still generating yield on that liquidity.
00:15:45.940 - 00:16:22.050, Speaker A: And the last thing I'll add is that because yields are paid out on a continuous basis, from leveraged traders to our lps, there is no advantage to coming in for a single block depositing liquidity and claiming a majority of the rewards. Essentially this is a just in time liquidity proof yield. So pretty cool for MMev resistance. Thanks. And I'll take questions now if you guys have any.
00:16:33.470 - 00:17:16.806, Speaker B: This is really interesting. Honestly, really brilliant idea because it's beneficial for the LP providers and for the traders and souls from many soft spots of the current access trade forbs. But my question is, how do you launch? So you will have your platform which will enable staking or pc provider or are you going to integrate on top of the existing. It makes sense. Just curious, what is your user experience, the presence?
00:17:16.998 - 00:18:20.314, Speaker A: Sure. Okay, so what I'm hearing is probably you're talking about this slide, right, where I talk a little bit about swapping Ethereum for swapping the USDC that you've redeemed. Yeah. Okay, cool. So first of all, I'm going to say that we've obviously abstracted all of this away in the UIUX. The UI UX is going to look exactly like trading perps, obviously with much higher levels of leverage and no liquidations, and then kind of like a uniswap style stuff for choosing assets. But essentially the reason that we can use a Dex aggregator here is because these transactions are done atomically, right? So once you borrow liquidity e FUSDCLP token.
00:18:20.314 - 00:19:24.900, Speaker A: You redeem it for the USDC that backs it. And once again, this is like liquidity that's below the market price. So it's fully backed by USDC, you redeem it for the USDC, and then essentially on the protocol, you need to always have at least that much USDC that's available. So what happens is that you can use an atomic transaction here. It's a swap that USDC to Ethereum to basically get the assets. I'm like realizing this is a little bit complicated, but yeah, basically you can use atomic transaction to swap that USDC for Ethereum and get it on the exchange. And essentially the protocol doesn't care if you have USDC or Ethereum for that specific pool, as long as the combination of your assets in that pool amount to a certain threshold amount.
00:19:24.900 - 00:19:47.820, Speaker A: I can explain more in depth afterwards. I think we've got like four other questions out here. I've got 30 seconds left, so maybe can take one more. Otherwise, just come find me. I'll be right there. One more. Thank you.
00:19:47.820 - 00:19:52.420, Speaker A: Cool hat.
00:19:52.840 - 00:20:11.900, Speaker C: I appreciate it, man. For those who can't see it, it says math on it. Anywho, I was a little late running the talk, but I'm curious, how do you attract liquidity consistently, especially in derivatives, when usually liquidity can be scarce, so price can get erratic.
00:20:12.400 - 00:20:56.308, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a great question. Actually, one of the main questions that I always get on Twitter is, oh, our liquidity provider is going to be compensated fairly for the liquidity that they provide on your protocol. Right? What are you doing to make sure that they don't lose money? And I honestly think that people have kind of been traumatized by Univ. Free in that respect. I have the exact opposite concern, which is that liquidity providers are going to be compensated too much. Essentially, as I said, you've got a volatility arbitrage that makes sure that at the very least, they don't lose money. But then with any extra trades, you actually get really good yields.
00:20:56.308 - 00:21:42.210, Speaker A: And one thing that we've noticed is that retail doesn't really tend to care that much about interest rates and specifically just because they're kind of used to. When you go faze and x on an asset, you're just kind of like, okay, well, I'm paying 1%, so what? But that actually turns out to be a lot of yield for lps. So yeah, I fully expect that people are just going to recognize that this is a really good opportunity to make money. Great question. Yeah, I think I'm a minute over. So going to exit, but thanks everyone, for listening. And, yeah, let me know if you have any other questions.
