00:00:07.850 - 00:00:30.070, Speaker A: Everyone. I'm Toreo and this is the 1000 take of this. I also only have five minutes because I don't know how to use my software and I get limits on this. So I'll be quick, but there'll be more info coming afterwards. Don't worry about it. Here to present Spark. Spark, if you don't know, is part of the maker ecosystem.
00:00:30.070 - 00:01:23.830, Speaker A: If you don't know Maker, don't worry. Hopefully you do know about Dai, which is the biggest, most decentralized stablecoin in the market. So Maker, we are reorganizing ourselves and starting next year we'll have this system of maker core with the different subdaos. The subdos, what they'll be doing is allocating capital or essentially becoming a liquidity provider to the entire DeFi space. So to do that, we have a couple of technologies to help the subdos, particularly for our hackathon here today. These are the three technologies that you can build on top. Please let me say also that you're free to build whatever type of project that is aligned with Spark.
00:01:23.830 - 00:02:18.946, Speaker A: So even that you can still build things that help Spark in other ways that simply just using these three technologies, they're still applicable and you're eligible for Bounties. So please reach out to me and tell me your idea and then we can discuss whether it makes sense or not. Okay so quickly. Spark conduits. Spark conduits are essentially you can think of them as ways of mediating the movement of funds between the maker subdos and the different protocols. Whether you're doing the LP into a wider system, it's called the Maker location system. But for the point of view from the protocol, the only thing you really care about is this adapter that allows subdos to send money to your protocol.
00:02:18.946 - 00:03:10.066, Speaker A: So again, the fact that they don't have any third party liquidity providers and that the cost of capital that the subdao has that is providing you this liquidity is what we call predictable rate, means that you're going to have a less volatile partner behind your protocol. This is something that doesn't matter for the hacker itself. But the way that protocols can get access to this capital is really by building the conduits and also going through an onboarding process of assessments of difficult risks that they'll have documentation for. This is in our official docs. These are fairly new documents and this is a system that is currently being built. So any feedback that you have, please let me know. Any sort of lack of context is probably my fault, not yours.
00:03:10.066 - 00:03:49.766, Speaker A: So please let me know. Okay? And then with two minutes left, I'm going to talk to you about the two other products. These are Sparklent, which is a lending market, and SDI. So I like to think about this from point of view of whether I want to be a borrower or I want to be a depositor. If I want to borrow funds at a predictable rate, then I would go to Sparklent if I want to deposit and receive a predictable rate, I'll do that with SDI. So Sparklend is a lending marketplace. Currently allows Dai ETH and staked ETH derivatives on it.
00:03:49.766 - 00:04:23.150, Speaker A: It's currently on Ethereum mainnet, but hopefully by the time you see this, we are already live on Gnosis chain as well. Next is SDI. So SDI is yield bearing stablecoin. That's it. That is basically distributing the revenues from the protocol back to users. The token is a USC 46.6. So that's what we call the vault token.
00:04:23.150 - 00:05:04.380, Speaker A: Should be easy, make things easier when you want to integrate it. There's a lot of use cases that you can have with SDI. Very importantly is I urge you to find use cases that simply necessitate a yield stablecoin rather than just any random token that can fit your project. The one big thing, important thing that if you're going to be interacting with the contract itself by basically depositing or withdrawing funds or basically by minting and burning SDI is that it doesn't produce a transfer.
