00:00:03.280 - 00:00:31.674, Speaker A: Thank you all for showing up. Text, tweet. Your friends say they're going to miss the greatest presentation of the week. So I appreciate everyone showing up. I actually shouldn't really talk because I was woken up from a nightmare that I got canceled from retweeting the wrong account. And I woke up about 35 minutes ago because I'm all jet lagged and out of sorts, so I shouldn't give people too much of a hard time for winding their way in this morning. I'm excited to have this kickoff chat.
00:00:31.674 - 00:01:27.022, Speaker A: I actually changed the title of the presentation because there's kind of three things that I wanted to talk about. One that I'm sure is on everybody's mind if you follow me on Twitter, which is, why am I so unhinged sometimes? And I'll give an answer to that in this presentation. Two, I think it's really important to address the fact that we are really in an all out information war in different kind of pockets of society and culture. And it's especially true in crypto. The truth is our friend, data is our friend, and information is our friend, I think, when we're going through some of these battles. And then third, this is a defi day. So I wanted to be able to discuss what I think is the metagame, because the most at risk segments of the crypto markets in Europe, even though there is Mika, I think, in Europe, and in the US in particular, is Defi decentralized finance and self custody.
00:01:27.022 - 00:02:14.514, Speaker A: And some of the things that I think are really important to the folks in this room. So I'm going to talk about why I believe market intelligence is actually crypto's defense tech. And I don't use the term information war lightly, because there are different pockets of information wars that are much higher stakes than what we're talking about at crypto. But I would argue that what we're trying to do in terms of preserving individual financial freedom is at least in the second tier of really important battles that we have ahead of ourselves. And Messari is based in New York. I actually moved closer to DC just by happenstance during the pandemic, a little bit closer to family. But it has allowed me to spend a lot more time than I ever thought I would, and frankly, that I ever wanted to in DC, engaging in some of these issues.
00:02:14.514 - 00:03:09.258, Speaker A: And that kind of puts me in rarefied company, because there's not a lot of founders and execs that are in that neighborhood. People kind of make their pilgrimage sometimes, and they meet with congressmen or they meet with policy groups, or they just form it out completely. I've had the opportunity to get to know how the swamp works a little bit. It's a little bit different in Europe, but I want to. This is going to be a us based presentation in some cases, but I think you can extrapolate some of the lessons internationally as well. And I wanted to try to distill down some things that may be basic, but if they're good, helpful mental models for folks, it can show you the importance and kind of the battle tactics that I think are ahead of us. So when we think about the information war here, there's a few truisms in DC, and I think in policy in general, one is famous quip, politics is downstream of culture.
00:03:09.258 - 00:03:40.002, Speaker A: Essentially, politicians are social animals. They respond to incentives, both positive and negative. So really, when the culture changes, that's when you start to see politics change. This has happened in myriad issues over the years, and I think crypto will be no different. We see this age gap with older regulators, older politicians and the younger. In terms of favorability, it's pretty stark, the split based on their technical know how. Politics is really about winning elections and then picking the personnel that actually enact most of these public policies.
00:03:40.002 - 00:04:11.866, Speaker A: And then personnel is policy. And policy. I think the most important thing to know is sentiment is temporary. So as bad as last year was, it could have been a lot worse if some of these really horribly structured bills had gotten passed right in the wake of the FTX collapse in the US. So sentiment is temporary. Law is permanent. And this is slow by design because it's 100 times more difficult to unwind a bad law or a bad policy than it is to prevent it and fix it up front.
00:04:11.866 - 00:04:45.404, Speaker A: So this uncertainty is actually our friend in some cases, particularly in Defi. How does this apply to crypto? You can see this kind of mirror image from culture, politics, personnel and policy in the previous slide by just looking at some recent examples. So last week, even in the last couple of weeks, we've seen. I'm not sure how many people saw the Wall Street Journal article about crypto funding Hamas. Everyone see that? Yeah. If you didn't see it, you probably heard about it. Very damaging.
00:04:45.404 - 00:05:34.100, Speaker A: And the response the last couple of weeks has been like a micro information war on that one subject where you've got crypto, Twitter, basically fact checking and industry fact checking what was an erroneously sourced article. But that had a lasting, damaging impact on our situation with regulators and policymakers because Elizabeth Warren, I think, planted that article. That's a different story and then immediately took it and got 100 of her colleagues to co sign a letter saying, we need to look into this. We need to understand how much of crypto is funding terrorism. And by the way, I have a bill that addresses all these problems and would essentially ban the industry. So she's trying to recruit an anti crypto army. She raises money off of this ad of building an anti crypto army.
00:05:34.100 - 00:06:06.868, Speaker A: And the reason that one of a hundred senators is so important and powerful, a lot of people, you know, don't really know this because maybe if you look at Wikipedia, you look up Senator Warren and be like, oh, she, like, she passed one bill in eleven years. She's not that powerful, she's not that influential. But if you're down in DC, you know that she is the progressive flank of one of the parties. She's on the Senate banking committee, which is the committee that matters. And she ran for president. And by dropping out of the presidential race a few years ago, she endorsed Joe Biden. She helped him win.
00:06:06.868 - 00:06:56.234, Speaker A: And the bargain that she struck was, I want to have a strong influence on policy. So her staffers are all spread across the administrative state in the US, most notably Gary Gensler. So if you look at the SEC, it's not a monolith. You have people like Commissioner Hester Peirce that wants to work with industry, think about safe harbors, think about all these ways to kind of promote the industry or at least create safeguards without pushing it offshore. And then on the other hand, you have someone that is very happy to hamstring this for political reasons. And then finally, the very last kind of battlefront here is can we get legislation passed or can we get favorable court precedents when there are challenges and there are differences with some of these regulators, like the SEC. All right, so that's kind of the framing.
00:06:56.234 - 00:07:26.328, Speaker A: Culture, politics, personnel policy. You can see the information. True kind of decentralized information versus mainstream media, the politicians themselves, the regulators, the laws, and the court precedents. And this actually maps the two other columns here, which I would say is War 101 and crypto Infowars 101. And then, of course, my mean tweets as a service the last couple of years, which has been the source of quite a bit of adjutant for me. But the good news is we've had a playbook. And whether you're talking about physical war or information war, I think the same is true.
00:07:26.328 - 00:08:04.228, Speaker A: So Sun Tzu, in the art of war says the highest form of warfare is to attack the enemy's strategy itself. Right? Culture, information, the next is to attack alliances, politics. Elizabeth Warren. The next is to attack armies, the people that actually implement this policy. And then the lowest form of war is to attack cities. Siege warfare is the last resort. We've kind of seen this as, like, a good analogy to the trench warfare of, like, how do we get good policy enacted? And then ultimately, you know, when should we pick battles that are gonna be multi year, that are gonna be extremely expensive in court just to.
00:08:04.228 - 00:08:54.064, Speaker A: Just to defend crypto and decentralized finance? And I would say that the answer, you know, is much of what I'm gonna talk about in the remaining slides, broken into four categories. So at the information layer, you've got citizen journalism. On the political layer, I think there's quite a bit of education that we still have. An uphill battle on. Coinbase has done a great job spinning up an organization called stand with crypto. That's an information resource that helps people understand how to get involved, where to get involved, who's good on Crypto, who's bad on the personnel side and the army side. We can help ourselves quite a bit by doing a little bit more self regulation and doing some of the job that the regulators want to see ourselves without waiting for this to come top down through law when, especially if that law might be a couple years away.
00:08:54.064 - 00:10:08.994, Speaker A: And then we've got, on the policy side, the opportunity to fuel kind of class actions, amicus briefs, and things that are going to actually empower the folks that are going into battle with this whole hive mind and kind of swarm that we have from the community is very highly activated and passionate within crypto. So, first things first, I'll give you three examples. And I picked these three for a reason, because Nick and Matt, I'm not sure how many people know Nick Carter and Matt Walsh, but there's three examples of citizen journalism from two people at one firm that I think are exceptional highlights here and kind of shows the power, if we could actually extend this and more people kind of took it on themselves to spend a little bit of time with the data driven FUD fighting that we see on a day to day basis. So the first one, going back to the Wall Street Journal example, Wall Street Journal article a couple weeks ago, said that crypto might have been responsible for $130 million of Hamas funding. The only problem with that is it was wrong, and by a significant amount. The Wall Street Journal claim was about six x overstated when it comes to the PIJ, and then when it comes to Hamas, it was about 160 times overstated. So minor details but this is now in the public consciousness, and it's in the consciousness in DC.
00:10:08.994 - 00:11:11.282, Speaker A: So it could impact policy regardless of the weakness retraction that ultimately we were able to get from the Wall Street Journal. And part of that was because they didn't have the technical know how or the heuristics to filter out events like self transfers or understand the difference between a wallet that is actually self custody or owned by one of these groups and something that is going through, for example, an exchange or a high risk off ramp in the region. So this skewed all the volumes and transaction counts and ultimately was really damaging. But what was. What was really fascinating about what Nick did is he crowdsourced 21 bounties from the community to use any and all tools at our disposal as an industry in terms of blockchain forensics, and actually put the graphics together, put the information together, and try to cobble together the counter narrative and the truth about where this funding is now. Is it good that $250,000 seems to have gone to Hamas? Absolutely not. But the news that we really should be promoting here is all this is traceable.
00:11:11.282 - 00:12:01.304, Speaker A: And we've seen, more often than not, the ability for crypto exchanges on and off ramps to be able to work proactively with law enforcement to actually seize some of these, or whether you're talking about in the US or internationally, seize some of these funds for illicit activity. So in the grand scheme of things, this is a blip versus the legacy banking system. Cash, gold, whatever. You want to think about the second example. Earlier this spring, there was a very curious briefing and hearing in Capitol Hill where the founder of this little known broker dealer that had gotten the first exemption in the US for digital asset securities just happened to be called in front of Congress. And they had raised about 40, a little under $50 million. But for whatever reason, no one had ever heard of them.
00:12:01.304 - 00:12:22.632, Speaker A: They don't trade any volume. They don't really have much of a business, but. And they're staffed by a few lawyers. As the executives, they have strong cap table ties to an entity out of China and affiliated with the CCP. And you're like, why the hell was Promethium? Had anyone heard of Promethium even today? Yeah. Okay. Did anyone hear of Prometheum before June? I didn't think so.
00:12:22.632 - 00:12:44.688, Speaker A: And Matt Walsh from Castle island again took it on himself to say, like, this doesn't make any sense. So he looked at the Reg D filings. He's like, okay, they've raised $48 million. And he just went online. And he kind of did, did a little homework. He's like, this is really weird. And then you actually heard the hearing and you realized he was essentially parroting every single talking point that the Warren allies on the Senate banking committee would have fed him.
00:12:44.688 - 00:13:33.364, Speaker A: And then anything that you might have heard historically from Chair Gensler. So ball don't lie, as they say in basketball. And the truth is that there's 80 other brokers, exchanges, custodians, you know, folks that really would be incentivized to get this special purpose broker dealer if there was an actual path that didn't involve a phone call to a political ally, which is really not the way it's supposed to work in general, but certainly not in the west with the rule of law. And by the way, you can. I'll do a quick plug here, but these fundraising screeners we just released last month. So if you want to scan this QR code, you can actually go and see the screener that I've alluded to in this slide, in addition to many others. Okay, third one is the investigation in stablecoin flows.
00:13:33.364 - 00:14:57.664, Speaker A: I bring this up because this is the type of data that, when we pull it together and we have some of these conversations, speaks volumes more than, please don't hurt us when you're talking to policymakers. And you can see the counterproductive nature of the conversation in DC and the counterproductive nature that some of the crackdown of banking alliances has had on, I would argue, our national security and our interest as Americans in overseeing the crypto dollars that are circulating. And this is pretty obviously evident just when you look at what happened after the SVB collapse. So post FTX collapse, you saw a little bit of divergence between Tether and USDC, tether being the red line, USDC being the blue line. But then during the crackdown on the crypto related banks, and then especially after the SVB collapse in March, you just saw this wild divergence. And so now the net result is tether and offshore euro dollar is getting stronger and USDC, the onshore, much more tightly regulated and regulatable asset that's powering a lot of crypto finance now is a distant second, again after it almost closed the gap completely year over year. So this is the type of chart and the type of information that moves mountains in terms of resetting the narrative in DC.
00:14:57.664 - 00:16:11.942, Speaker A: I mentioned the stand with crypto alliance, and we talk about the political fight ahead. I think this is more just a call to action. It's a little bit less of an information related resource you want to pay attention to who's actually coming out of pocket, who's funding the fight here, how much is it going to cost to fund the fight? And I think the Coinbase guys have done a good job of creating leader boards with stand with crypto, in addition to some automated tools that make it easier for people to chip in and call their congressmen congresswoman when they have an issue or actually contribute to the right organizations, whether it's coin center, blockchain association, or the equivalents in Europe, hopefully they'll be able to expand their focus with the european instantiation of stand with crypto in the next couple of quarters. And then the other thing is, follow the money, right? There are public repositories for disclosures when it comes to political contributions and also when it comes to PAC contributions and key holdings from various congresspeople. So the biggest spenders are the ones you want to look out for. They tend to be the ones with the most regulatory capture. The irony, by the way, with the FEC is you're not allowed to scrape their database.
00:16:11.942 - 00:16:40.514, Speaker A: So go figure. Rules for rules for thee, but not for me. And then this is a call to action. I'd say it is going to be very difficult to win hearts and minds in DC if our leaders cannot or will not own digital assets. Many, oftentimes they're interested in the space. They like crypto. They don't want to take the political hit from having to disclose that they own it or for whatever reason, seem like they are conflicted when they talk about this issue.
00:16:40.514 - 00:17:19.302, Speaker A: But the reality is, when five out of 535 members of Congress own crypto, we've got a real problem because it's tough seeing as believing. Using is believing. And it's going to be tough to move the needle if we're just totally reliant on these folks and their staffs, many of whom are also restricted from buying it by, you know, thanks to their bosses. So this is actually one cycle old. So call to action for anyone here that wants to update this. It's a slog to go through 535 senator and Congressman financial filings, but Jamison Lopp has this resource and a GitHub called bitcoinpoliticians.org dot.
00:17:19.302 - 00:18:15.262, Speaker A: If anyone wants to spend the time and refresh it, let us know. Mior Lapp, I'm sure we'll be happy to subsidize you and get this updated. For this current cycle, I want to talk about policy. So the, or, sorry, the regulatory atmosphere and maybe three kind of core things that I think we do really well in terms of the availability of public data. One is first principles disclosures. So there's a number of great tools on the market, whether you're talking about Nansen or token terminal or dune or Masari, that have protocol financials and real time financials available for community members at that. We actually, when we launched the company, we said we want to build a first principles Edgar from day one, Edgar being the financial filing system that has been useful in financial services for decades now.
00:18:15.262 - 00:18:54.974, Speaker A: And we said we want to do that because it's not just about on chain data or protocol metrics. You need to know what the insiders are doing, what the governance activity is, what the risk factors are. We actually aggregate all of that through different products and are going to be starting to offer a white label solution, actually manage like community relations, soup to nuts in the new year. So hopefully we'll be able to work with some folks in the audience. We already do this in depth, quarterly reporting that gets distributed to all the major financial players. This is essentially what Hester purse and the SEC reps want to see in a safe harbor, but we've already built it. And I think that's also true with things that might be relevant to the banking regulators.
00:18:54.974 - 00:19:27.454, Speaker A: So some of you have heard of proof of reserves. It doesn't solve 100% of the problem. You can still have issues with liabilities that are unknown, as we've seen with the lending crisis last year within crypto. But while you can hide liabilities, it's very difficult to fake assets and digital signatures. You can solve half the battle. And I would argue it would have solved quite a bit of the pain and headache with FTx. If we had known the FTT balance earlier at Alameda probably wouldn't have gotten as big and out of control as it had.
00:19:27.454 - 00:20:31.008, Speaker A: It's also 100 times faster than anything that you'd see in the public markets in terms of financial filings. So, for instance, GBTC insider transactions, the Grayscale trust, that's done on about a six to 16 week lag, depending on what the disclosure is. And then finally, traceability. We have, I think, a narrative problem when it comes to crypto crime because it's so transparent. We end up getting beaten up over it because it's in your face. And we have organizations like elliptic and chainalysis and others that are trying to solve this problem and doing a good job of it, but because they're able to say the nominal dollars that are used for different purposes, that's always the headline number, regardless of whether this number has gone down on a percentage basis, not just for the last five years, but for the last decade. The other thing that's really important to look at more breaking down illicit activity within crypto, and I think we need to be able to communicate better about, is the illegal activities of the past generally get stomped out because of the traceability of public blockchains.
00:20:31.008 - 00:22:08.986, Speaker A: So if criminals are one step ahead or they're using blockchains for different purposes and different illicit activities, the illicit activities of ten years ago are de minimis today. And you actually see this in the second chart here, where the illicit usage more recently has come from theft, usually bridge and oracle attacks within deFi, just like we've seen with other areas of crypto crime. As security improves, as you know, our infrastructure improves, that will decline rapidly in both dollar terms and especially percentage terms in the years ahead, because people will realize this is not very interesting or good use of time if we want to stay out of jail. Last thing, as we get into class action lawsuits, amicus briefs, and this strength in numbers argument, we have a number of things that are on our side that we need to be able to hype up in different corners of the market. One example is the impact that the SEC's obstinance on a bitcoin ETF has had on 800,000 shareholders of the bitcoin investment trust. So you can see at the depths of the market, investors were underwater to the tune of 50% on their own bitcoin, simply because of the SEC's incoherent refusal to allow for a spot ETF conversion, even though they had offered a derivatives based ETF the year prior. This is the damage that it had done to retail investors, and not only retail investors, but GBTC is a bit of toxic collateral was, I would argue, top two, maybe arguably the reason that we had the lending crisis last year.
00:22:08.986 - 00:22:47.910, Speaker A: Because this bad collateral and the illiquidity of these shares in terms of redeemability in these trusts ultimately led to three arrows capital going under. It created a lot of stress on FTX, it ultimately unwound DCG, the owner of Grayscale itself and Gemini and their lending desk as well. All of that the SEC doesn't care about. But there's 800,000 investors that own these shares. And so if you can show that they're being impaired to the tune of six, $8 billion, it matters. And we actually saw, as there was momentum and people believe that the ETF might get approved. You saw this gap close from 45% at the beginning of the summer all the way down to 10% a couple weeks ago.
00:22:47.910 - 00:23:05.142, Speaker A: It's widened a little bit, but that should be zero. If and when an ETF has approved, approved. And then last but not least, everything that I just mentioned, you're probably like, I'm not going to spend time in DC. I want to build. I want to do, you know, I want to be focused on the tech. I want to, you know, just like defer. You know, there's other good people that are doing.
00:23:05.142 - 00:23:53.598, Speaker A: It's. Elkas will take care of it. He'll send another mean tweet. And I think the most exciting thing that I've seen, and really the no excuse kind of tooling that I've seen more recently, is this combination of legal library and AI, particularly the first one just came out a couple weeks ago from the Lexpunk army. Not sure if any of you submitted a letter. You have a little bit more time. If you're american and you would like to see Defi not get crippled in the US, you can literally go to this Lexpunk app that allows you to choose the reasons that you believe the proposed ruling from the IR's and treasury on how to report financial transactions within crypto would cripple a good chunk of the industry.
00:23:53.598 - 00:24:41.638, Speaker A: You can choose basically what you want to comment on. Poorly defined terms, impact abroad, just general lack of feasibility. And this will auto generate a comment letter that is in legalese that looks very professional. The best part is they even have a toggle for tone if you see at the bottom here, so you can ramp it up to 100 if you want to be like, do your fucking job. I don't recommend it, but I think you can basically toggle it so that it's within your personality and it doesn't cost you a ton of money from a lawyer or a ton of time and effort if you're doing it yourself. So these are all the things that I think little kind of micro anecdotes. But at the end of the day, if I could leave you with one thing, I would say it should be in the top of everyone's mind if it figure out, like, where you're uniquely situated to participate in this information war.
00:24:41.638 - 00:24:53.734, Speaker A: Because in a war, people die. And we don't want to be the ones that are ultimately squashed in the process here, because what we're building is important. So with that, the important builders are going to take it away the rest of the day. But I appreciate you all inviting me to speak thank you.
