00:00:00.200 - 00:00:58.158, Speaker A: Hi, I'm Jason Pagaladis. I am a markets associate at Delphi, and I kind of just do a lot of research around all things markets, both traditional and crypto markets. Looking back at 2022, obviously the market hasn't been great. Even prior to the FTX collapse, 2022 was already an extremely tough year from both a macro perspective and from an industry specific perspective. And what I mean by that is macro has been challenging in the sense that it almost combines many of the previous traditional finance financial crises into one big one right now. So what I mean by that is like the oil energy crises, the inflation crisis of the 1970s, the tech bubble valuation bubble, akin to the.com bubble, the housing market, it's kind of akin to 2008.
00:00:58.158 - 00:01:48.942, Speaker A: And then on top of that, you've had 7% or seven years of 0% interest rate. So it kind of, like, combines a ton of all of the financial crises we've seen into one perfect macro storm. And then from the industry specific standpoint, right, like since April and May, we've had the lunaterra collapse, the three ac collapse, and failure, and then the subsequent CFI crisis or centralized finance crisis within crypto. And then most recently, we've had the FTX and Alameda collapse and contagion associated with it. Crypto sentiment and trust has been shattered. Right? And many people have been burned. So it's probably going to take some time for things to recover, if we're being completely honest here, from the macro perspective, what was kind of interesting was how long it took people to kind of come to terms with the 2021 bull cycle had ended.
00:01:48.942 - 00:02:39.600, Speaker A: Having been around and falling victim to the 2017 cycle myself. Many of the same signs were present this time around as were in previous cycles that I had experienced. I even saw many people on Twitter that I've been following since the previous cycles and who had been involved in crypto longer than me, still falling victim to that same super cycle mentality. Oh, like, this time's different. Which is very interesting to me, that many people who had been around longer than me and that I had learned from previous cycles were still kind of falling victim to that mindset and not seeing things for how they. They actually were at the time. I wouldn't say, like, the industry is doomed to fail forever, right? Like, while the industry might wallow in misery for another year, two or three, maybe more, maybe five to ten, similar to how we saw with, like, the.com
00:02:39.600 - 00:04:00.560, Speaker A: bubble, where you had huge valuations, big collapses, and even the most, like, successful companies today still had a long road to react, re achieving those pre bubble highs and pre bubble valuations. Right? So we've seen these things kind of happen in, in the traditional world, right? Like, while we think crypto is so innovative and new, which it is in a sense, right, it's also still subject to human behavior, and human behavior is in every industry. So you can learn a lot about an industry just by looking at other industries. And since our industry is so closely mirrored right now to the traditional finance industry, since that's the biggest use case for crypto and decentralized finance products at the moment, it makes sense that there's a lot of thematic lessons that we can learn and look back on in traditional markets, right? So I think there is merit that, like, it could be a longer than usual bear market. And I don't think it's simply because of the luna terra collapse or three ac or even fTx, right? Like, I think those maybe make it or exacerbate, exacerbate the issue in the short to medium term. But I think, like, generally, crypto is and always has been, at least since, like, after 2014 when it started becoming, like, more mainstream and more people started to adopt it, right? And it wasn't such a niche asset. I think it's more at the whim of, like, what the global monetary situation is.
00:04:00.560 - 00:04:44.483, Speaker A: And it's something that we've written about a lot. And it has to do that, has to do with the thesis that, like, cryptocurrency, bitcoin and things like that are like, the purest form of a bet on, like, monetary debasement on a global scale, which is what you see with, like, the seven years of interest rates held at 0%. And it's typically why assets like this tend to do so well during those periods. We're at this really weird point in time where, like I alluded to before, you have a bunch of different financial crises brewing all at the same time, making it just a really tough macro environment, right? I didn't predict the war in Ukraine, which obviously caused asset prices to go down. I didn't predict the Luna collapse. I didn't predict the three AC collapse. I didn't predict the c five contagion.
00:04:44.483 - 00:05:13.568, Speaker A: I mean, I did after three ac collapse, but that's easy. I didn't predict the FTX collapse, but I predicted prices would be trading down at this level at roughly this point in time anyway, simply because of how challenging the macro environment has been. And I think asset prices are generally reflecting that. Right? So, like, it's not predicting any of these specific events. It's more so just having your core thesis, knowing when to take action. And for me, it's like I don't want to be trading in and out of positions daily. Like my thesis is down.
00:05:13.568 - 00:05:48.632, Speaker A: So I'll go long when I see a big liquidation events, as those are usually fruitful to trade around. But whenever those aren't happening, when, when prices ranging for the majority of the time like it was this year, like I don't want to be involved in that. If price moves to an extreme, I look to see if there's signs of things like exhaustion, absorption, whatever, whatever the things you look for are. And then I get into that trade and I will hold it for a fair amount of time. I'll give myself room to be wrong, as you always should. But I know that if my read on the general trend is right, it will resolve to where things generally go. In this case, for this year, it's mostly been down.
00:05:48.632 - 00:06:21.204, Speaker A: Doesn't really matter if things like on the day to day look different, like on the macro scale, nothing's changed. And it doesn't matter that 80% of the people I talk to disagree with me on this. It's just kind of like you have to tune out the noise a lot of the time and just focus on what your thesis is. And it's just harder to do in a bear market because most people are just inherently bullish always. So it's just harder to just be like, okay, this is the right thing to do. Things are going to go down. Even if I don't like that, that's most likely what's going to happen.
00:06:21.204 - 00:07:07.304, Speaker A: A couple of big things people are probably going to be looking forward to on the macro side is probably, there's going to be a Fed pivot at some point in 2023, definitely not before year end. So I don't think the market bottoms this year. Generally, when you look at the Fed pivot, a fair amount of equity market downside comes after the Fed pivot, coincidentally, and then markets reverse. Also, dollar strength, that's a big thing. People are looking at the dollar strength and wondering if the dollar has topped in its strength and it's going to give other currencies and risk assets room for relief here. And then from a crypto related thing, it's tough, right? I don't. There's nothing I'm really looking forward to crypto specific into 2023.
00:07:07.304 - 00:08:06.382, Speaker A: I think I'm looking more forward to macro things resolving or becoming less unclear and giving us a lot more clarity for lack of a better word onto what the future for risk assets holds, at least in the short to medium term. And until that happens, I don't think crypto is going to decouple to the upside for any meaningful amount of time. But I think something important to look out for in 2023 is like perhaps regulatory clarity, regulatory changes. Perhaps this finally spurs some actual clarity for what is and isn't allowed or frowned, or not frowned down upon by the agencies in the US, which I think is super important, regardless of what they decide to do, because it will have an impact. I don't think 2023 is gonna be a good year, but I don't think it's gonna be like a horrible year. Like, I don't think crypto is going to go down another 80%, right. But I don't think crypto is going to go through a bull market or anything like it.
00:08:06.382 - 00:09:23.486, Speaker A: I think it's going to be mostly sideways, maybe with some down at first or something, or down halfway through and then up, or, I don't know, but mostly sideways, because the bear markets and big macro changes take a long time to happen. Right. One thing I said before is after the Fed pivot, like, if you overlay Fed pivot dates with the equity indexes, you typically see significant drawdown. And usually the biggest, or not the biggest, but usually the final leg of the bear market, which can last and be pretty drastic, occur after that, Fed actually pivots. So if, say, the Fed pivots Q 120 23 or Q 220 23, and we get another leg down over the preceding couple of weeks or months, like, I don't see crypto doing well. And if employment numbers drop because of the economy being weaker due to interest rate hikes and things like that, and the effects it has on companies and hiring and costs, or companies profitability continues to shrink, as they alluded to in their guidances last quarter, there's just a lot of things that, like, don't seem ideal. Probably not a wrong thought to.
00:09:23.486 - 00:10:24.796, Speaker A: To think that, like, the more the market participants within crypto represent the same type of market participation found in traditional markets, both from, like, a retail and institutional perspective, crypto markets will, like, exhibit similar characteristics to traditional finance markets, and they'll start to, like, behave more akin to those markets. While I think what I just said is true, I think that the crypto market, as it pertains to, like, the dominant products used by market participants, how those products work. Right. It's structurally different from those found in traditional finance markets, specifically perpetual futures contracts and things like that. And because of that structural difference, there's always going to be some type of differences in how these markets operate and trade. So I think that's also important to recognize while they will have the same type of people playing in them, what also matters is the rules in which those people can play the game. And those rules are governed by the products that they have access to and that exist in those markets personally, kind of selfishly, and maybe, no, maybe a lot of people have this view.
00:10:24.796 - 00:11:35.440, Speaker A: I want, like, the Dex experience to mirror or exceed that of, like, centralized exchange platforms. Right. Like, I'm not the person to talk about this from a technological point of view, and I'm not really sure if Amms versus, like, if the technology is there for Amms versus order books and things like that, but for the types of things that I like to do and that a lot of other people like to do, Dexs haven't really, just haven't really been cut out for it just yet. I still like using them because I like tinkering around with the crypto protocols and things like that that I find interesting. But given recent events with FTX, the ball is in the Dex sector court now to really take advantage of the opportunity to really take some market share that was previously on FTX and is looking for new homes and might have some aversion at the moment to centralized entities. Not taking the opinions of people who contradict things you own or things you like as seriously simply because they contradict you and don't align with the direction you want your bag to go or you think the project will go. Like, there's, there's obviously a lot of merit in the, in the warnings that these people had, and it's a lesson that I'm going to take with me into next cycle.
00:11:35.440 - 00:12:00.770, Speaker A: Almost one of the biggest lessons I'm going to take with me until next cycle. Even though I didn't get her on Luna in any meaningful way. Right. It's one of the biggest takeaways from this, and it's the similar takeaway to FTX and Alameda and three ac. Right. There was rumors about all of these things ahead of time, and they were all on crypto Twitter. Most of them didn't get any engagement because it's not cool when number go up to ring the alarm bells.
00:12:00.770 - 00:12:25.528, Speaker A: But unfortunately, when it comes to bull and bear markets, like bear markets specifically, the person who sells first sells best. Usually. Don't get too bullish at the extremes. Don't get too bearish at the extremes. And if you're generally interested in the technology. It's not going anywhere. And bear markets are the best time to just accumulate cash, capital, dry powder, and learn what part of the industry you want to focus on.
00:12:25.528 - 00:12:26.144, Speaker A: If you do.
