00:00:00.280 - 00:00:16.710, Speaker A: Hey, everyone. Welcome to Galaxy Digital's research podcast. This is our first podcast. We don't have a name for it exactly yet. So, by the way, if you think of one, feel free to comment or write back to us with a good name. I'm Alex Thorne. I'm the head of firmwide research at Galaxy.
00:00:16.710 - 00:00:39.192, Speaker A: And this is that first episode of what will ultimately be a weekly podcast focusing on insights and analysis about trends and events we see in the digital assets ecosystem. I'll be always joined by members of my team, and today I have Christine Kim, Charles Yu and Lulay mascal here with me today. Hey, everyone.
00:00:39.328 - 00:00:41.256, Speaker B: Hello. Hey, guys, I'm Christine.
00:00:41.360 - 00:00:43.200, Speaker C: Hey, good morning. Chuck here.
00:00:43.272 - 00:02:12.624, Speaker A: Great. So I think what we're going to do on this podcast is typically talk about two or three big stories that are happening in the crypto ecosystem and then opine a bit on what we think is the most interesting takeaway and who the players are, why it matters, and why it should matter to anyone following this ecosystem. So this week we're going to talk about Russia and Ukraine and how the resulting sanctions have perhaps indicated that we may see a shift in the global monetary order. We're going to speak a bit about Europe's forthcoming Mica crypto regulation, and then we're going to talk about a really interesting story with Yuga Labs, the creator of bored ape Yacht club, acquiring the ip for cryptopunks and mebits from larva labs. So a major, I guess, NFT merger, we could call it one of the first. And so why don't I just kick it off with Russia and the Ukraine? Obviously, over the last several weeks, Russia has invaded Ukraine and has been pummeling cities and ukrainian forces across that country. As a result, Europe and transatlantic partners like the US and Canada have joined in pretty unprecedented sanctions, both in their scope and quickness, some of which have involved freezing the foreign held currency reserves of Russia's central bank, which we really thought of as sort of a nuclear option when it comes to sanctions.
00:02:12.624 - 00:03:23.452, Speaker A: And whether they're working or not is probably the subject for another debate. But I think it's very obvious that the US dollar as risk free collateral is in question here, because the whole idea of it being risk free is that it can't be summarily seized or frozen. And obviously that's what's ended up happening. And we've seen a lot of developments along the lines of the dollar and sort of western transatlantic regimes, credible neutrality being called into question, even countries like Finland in Switzerland, which had been historically neutral between east and west have taken sides with the west here and imposed sanctions and in some cases are sending weapons to the ukrainian forces. We also saw even just yesterday the saudi arabian government considering paying for oil with China in yuan rather than dollars. And we can continue to see the reserve assets composition that's dollar denominated in many central bank balance sheets declining over time. China's is down significantly over the last six, seven years.
00:03:23.452 - 00:04:06.052, Speaker A: Russia spent years sort of steel manning its economy and central bank against western sanctions following their 2014 annexation of Crimea. We see India making similar moves. So I think I just wanted to raise this here as something that is very, very prominent major at this point. Major commentators are now talking about this. People like Mike Novogratz, Arbas Zoltan Posar at Credit Suisse wrote a very widely read note called Bretton woods three and many others. And it's kind of funny. I mean I don't want to brag here but we were talking about this back on February 24 and February 28 and wrote extensively about this in our newsletter.
00:04:06.052 - 00:05:00.394, Speaker A: It sort of raises the question not that bitcoin's going to be that thing that steps in necessarily but it anything that calls into question credible neutrality of a system. It's hard not to look at something like bitcoin which is perhaps among the most credibly neutral systems on earth and see that as a stark contrast. So to me one of the takes here aside from the fact that we're entering a multipolar monetary order which I think is very obvious is also that the sort of investment case for bitcoin is expanding beyond simply digital gold to include something like people really recognizing now its value as a credibly neutral platform. So thats what ill start the discussion with. Would love. Chuck, Christine Lulay, if you guys have any thoughts, you wanted to add on this, its obviously been a wild few weeks.
00:05:01.854 - 00:05:57.016, Speaker D: Yeah, it has indeed. I think I can kind of jump into set the framework of or what was before when we come into an idea of Bretton woods two, like you mentioned, it was this idea of safety in treasuries that there was a constant bid for us treasuries using this petrodollar. And as soon as you place these types of sanctions on Russia you take away that safety and you start to remove that constant bid for treasuries and that kind of breaks in and widens this FRA OIS spread right this overnight banking spread and that safety, low risk and no risk that widens and thats what happened in 2008. And you start to see that widen, and that's the displacement of cross border security. And then to extend that, another kind of big issue with this is commodities were never polar. There's no such thing as a russian commodity or a chinese commodity. Gold is gold.
00:05:57.016 - 00:06:37.112, Speaker D: Metal is metal, no matter where it's from. But now at this point, there's a difference between russian oil and non russian oil on a political side. And that has created this huge spread. And Zoltan mentioned that in his paper and that is what kind of is creating this issue because commodities were a ground level to debt in the world. And I think that's where to jump on what you said as well, where bitcoin comes in, because then it can be the most liquid commodity. There is no difference between russian bitcoin and chinese bitcoin. So the two countries that now are in this incredible position are India and China, because they have decided to abstain and they also have decided to start accepting russian commodities.
00:06:37.112 - 00:07:13.484, Speaker D: And that's puts them in a very interesting place. And to tie back to what you said about Saudi considering pricing their oil in yuan, what does that do to the dollar? And does the yuan become a more circulated currency? Is a really important question to ask as well. On top of that, I think I'm really curious to see how commodities evolve now that it's outside money, now that there's less security in treasuries. Where do people find a safe haven? Is the really important question to ask as well.
00:07:15.144 - 00:08:43.484, Speaker B: I also think that the way this whole narrative and discussion around the Ukraine Russia situation has kind of polarized the crypto industry and the kind of behaviors of exchanges and on ramps and off ramps to bitcoin. We've seen the ukrainian government reach out directly to cryptocurrency exchanges, asking them to please censor russian addresses. And we've seen very recently that the ukrainian government has asked tether to start blacklisting certain russian addresses. And this puts the crypto industry in a very similar spot of do we start creating russian and non russian bitcoins or. And to what extent can the network continue to stay a credibly neutral network? And I think that bitcoin as a network will always remain credibly neutral because it is so decentralized. But there will be large players, large entities that operate on the network that do get involved in politics. I think we live in an age where companies no longer can, can, can shy away from the ESG narrative and they have to really participate in being marketing themselves as like a good social player, I would say, yeah, that's interesting.
00:08:44.144 - 00:09:23.230, Speaker A: I definitely agree, too. I mean, in commodities have been an absolute crazy on a crazy run. I mean, oil basically went up to $120 a barrel and fully retraced. And gold also rose significantly and then has mostly retraced. But we see grains, metals still quite elevated, let alone something like uranium, which I think in the face of growing ESG concerns, has been rising significantly. And Russia is a huge, huge producer of uranium. And so it definitely feels like a bifurcation, if not a trifurcation, is sort of happening here.
00:09:23.230 - 00:10:18.222, Speaker A: Right. And, yeah, I would also just point out, like, there's been a lot of, and maybe this is a good transition into our next topic, but there's been a lot of pushback. Christine, you mentioned the ukrainian government calling for freezing and censorship of russian based addresses on crypto networks like bitcoin and tether. And there's been significant discussion in the west about whether Russia or sanctioned individuals in Russia could use cryptocurrency to evade sanctions. I think it's very clear, many us included, the Treasury Department, many commentators have actually pointed out that crypto is not nearly effective enough for large scale sanctioned evasion to occur. Frankly, it's simply not liquid enough to support a nation state adopting cryptocurrency in order to evade sanctions. But also it's highly traceable.
00:10:18.222 - 00:10:41.274, Speaker A: And we've seen plenty of examples of why bitcoin is bad for crime. But it has sort of accelerated some discussion both in Europe and in the US on whether we should have additional regulations on cryptocurrency. And I don't know. Lulay, do you want to introduce that second topic on mica and the European Parliament's efforts to advance crypto regulation?
00:10:41.694 - 00:11:32.794, Speaker D: Absolutely. Absolutely. So this Monday, we had a little bit of excitement online March 14 because there was a last minute addition to the Mica, which stands for markets and crypto assets regulation. There was a last addition that essentially did not actually particularly ban proof of work, but the wording was stated to hamper or shut down any trading of a crypto asset that does not abide by environmental sustainability. And then those articles were stated below on what those guidelines are. So, in fact, it would ban bitcoin, but it wasn't necessarily a worded ban of proof of work, which gave it this very broad and very dangerous context. Fortunately, in the heat of it, the crypto community came together and it was voted down with a slight.
00:11:32.794 - 00:12:16.714, Speaker D: With a slight majority. So just to step back to understand what MicA is, it was kind of started after the bull run of 2017 and 2018 on this back of Europe, needing to digitize their financial network, they realized, okay, we need to really, this is one of our biggest exports, right? I mean, European GDP has been on a decline since the seventies, and financial instruments are essentially their biggest export. So they understood we need to understand and control this, and we need to give a framework. And so that's what Michael is for. It's for kind of creating a framework for the out of scope crypto assets, which are utility coins and exchange coins. The security coins, however, already fall under their financial services. So that's why this new regulation is really important.
00:12:16.714 - 00:13:21.234, Speaker D: And the other thing that's really important to know is that because there was nothing, no regulations there before, each nation had their own regulations, which created this fragmentation and actually led to a lot of firms in Europe leaving, coming to the United States, going to Singapore and Southeast Asia. So this is one of their ways to try to bring a lot of business back, try to make it easier. And I think it's honestly a positive momentum towards having a more friendly ecosystem in Europe. And then one last thing to add onto this. What did happen as a result on March 14, because that section was rejected, a new amendment was added. And this new amendment actually puts the regulation and environmental analysis of crypto under a EU taxonomy, which now puts it under another body of review. And actually, in the next two years, will place some really regulation on how proof of work will be determined and what the emission framework will be for it.
00:13:23.254 - 00:13:47.474, Speaker B: And Louis, you did some interesting analysis on the exact groups and political leanings of the people that rejected the amendment to the Michael bill and then the other groups that supported it. Was there anything surprising about who was, again, against the amendments for proof of work and who was for it?
00:13:48.374 - 00:14:38.254, Speaker D: Yeah, actually, it's very interesting. So the progressive alliance of Socialists and Democrats are colloquially referred to as s and D were unanimously for this. They were pushing this. They were the party that introduced this in the last minute. And looking back to a lot of the rhetoric that they've been pushing since the beginning of this in 2018, it's been very bitcoin focused, not necessarily proof of work, which is a little bit alarming, because it seems like there's just an action and a focus attacking bitcoin. And I think because bitcoin is in a unique point where it doesn't really fall under the security utility token or the asset token. It's just really this own asset that is falling outside of their framework of regulation and is a little scary to the ECB and EU in terms of regulating the economy of the EU.
00:14:38.254 - 00:14:58.414, Speaker D: So I think that has become a particular target vector for that party. But the rest of it, the vast majority of the European Parliament, is very pro crypto and pro protecting the consumer rather than strangling the exchanges.
00:14:59.994 - 00:15:45.824, Speaker B: That's really interesting. The idea, the intense focus on proof of work mining, even though bitcoin has always been an area of concern and research and focus. Chuck, I know you've done a lot of writing and looking into the regulatory movements of the US. Have you ever seen kind of like a very intense focus on proof of work? I know there were some hearings last year on mining itself and its impact when the whole environmental impact of bitcoin was also becoming a very hot topic in mainstream media. Do you see kind of like a reflection or a parallel of that kind of focus in terms of us regulation in crypto?
00:15:46.884 - 00:17:09.004, Speaker C: Yes, I think at least in the US, things kind of kicked off after all the Elon drama, him calling it saying he would accept payments in bitcoin, and then later going back on that statement saying it wasn't in line with what he or Tesla really believes in from an environmental standpoint. And then, of course, that brought along the creation of a bunch of different organizations looking to dispel some of the truths and really assess bitcoins impact on the environment. So I think it's really just like a continuation of, of all of these efforts here. We saw it on the executive order issued last week from President Biden that there was another, I guess, another deliverable that assessed bitcoin's environmental impact. And so we're going to see, I don't know, the US. I feel like the US is actually going to be leading on this front because they're probably going to be closer to the data. They have more organizations that are closely tied with the bitcoin miners, and they're going to be able to.
00:17:09.004 - 00:17:33.794, Speaker C: What's the word? I don't know, just come up with, have a more comprehensive view of what the actual look is. But I do think the EU is still taking some initiative in pushing this agenda forward. But in the end, I feel like the US is actually going to be leading on it.
00:17:34.254 - 00:18:17.400, Speaker A: It's interesting, too, because there are efforts in the US outside of bitcoin mining specifically, but in line with MICA to try to come up with a more standardized framework for digital asset regulation. Obviously, the executive order is sort of a step in that direction, but there's several bills kicking around in Congress to do a variety of things on this. Right. And try to join this fragmented ecosystem, because the US is quite fragmented as well. On crypto regulation, most exchanges are regulated at the state level. There's disputes between federal regulators over their jurisdictions, where they start and where they end. And so we're likely to see, I think, some more movement on a mica related thing.
00:18:17.400 - 00:19:02.782, Speaker A: But I think the shoot down of the proof of work coin trading ban in Europe bodes well. And it's along the same lines that we've seen in the US, where legislators are taking a much more proactive and interested, but also positive view overall of the digital assets ecosystem, probably in the face of growing lobbying, donations, and also just constituents. Right? I mean, what did the executive order say? 16% of Americans, 40 million Americans, I think they claimed, own and trade digital assets. That's not a small group. And we know that it's much higher for some demographics than others, some of whom are quite important for electoral purposes. So good to see. I think we're going to see more.
00:19:02.782 - 00:20:13.110, Speaker A: I think all of us agree that the right regulations can be very positive for this industry overall. Okay, so for our third story, let's talk about Yuga Labs, which is the creator and issuer of bored apes, the most valuable NFT collection. They've acquired the IP for cryptopunks and mebits, which are two other very valuable NFT collections from larva labs, which is. And so quite a massive acquisition and kind of a fascinating one here as well, right? Because this doesn't move tokens out of people's wallets necessarily, right? This isn't like they're actually acquiring the punks themselves, right? But they're acquiring the intellectual property. And my understanding here is that it should be quite impactful because larva labs license over punks and mebits was quite restrictive, actually. It did not allow owners of those NFTs to individually market or commercialize those nfTs. It did up to a tiny amount.
00:20:13.110 - 00:21:35.478, Speaker A: I think you could do maybe one hundred k of merch if you owned a punk, right? Essentially sort of a trivial amount, but you couldnt, for example, use your punks in brand marketing, whereas the bored apes yacht club license is much more permissive and gives NFT owners the ability to commercialize the NFTs that they own and the imagery that is associated with those NFTs. And now punks and mebits will come under that license. And it seems like a very positive outcome in my view, partially because this is what we thought NFTs were supposed to be, right? It's already for skeptics of NFTs it's already hard enough to convince them that buying an NFT that represents a piece of digital art is sort of real ownership. But then when you add in the fact that actually for some of them, it's not real ownership, you can't even actually use it for commercial purposes, I think the value proposition for nfts becomes very degraded rated in that scenario. And it's one of the reasons perhaps that bored apes have become so valuable, is that owners of those apes can repurpose them to their, you know, pretty much to their heart's desire. So I think this is very positive. I think it's obviously positive for punks, which are one of the oldest NFT collections.
00:21:35.478 - 00:21:54.564, Speaker A: They predate the ERC 721 standard, which is what many NFTs use for, for their token standard. Um, and they give the ability, uh, they sort of help, I think, actually realize the value of what mts were supposed to be. Um, anybody have thoughts on this, on this story?
00:21:55.864 - 00:22:22.084, Speaker D: Yeah, I, I'd like to, I guess, pose a question as a crypto punk owner, if I am one, say on crypto punk 1000, now that they own the ip, can they theoretically create my same crypto punk and release a new collection with these identical collection and sell it again? But I paid ade for mine, theoretically. Now does that, does that kind of ruin the value in which I paid for my punk?
00:22:22.424 - 00:23:10.504, Speaker A: Yeah, I think they could, theoretically, but I think really what they've done, and I don't think they would. Right, because that would destroy the value of punks which they just acquired. I think really it's about bringing the punks under the same license structure that they use for theirs, which is permissive. They're not going to, I don't think they are going to go and use your punk that you own in some marketing stuff and not give you any royalties for it. I think that's at the core of the acquisition. Whether or not you go labs could actually issue crypto punks to another collection and essentially inflate the count of punks that I do not know. I do, you know, that I think that would be detrimental to the crypto punks collection.
00:23:10.504 - 00:23:36.344, Speaker A: But at the same time, everybody would know what was the true punk and what was not, right? What was the original punk. So presumably there'd be some price resiliency on the original punks by crypto owners. But yeah, I'm not sure that's a good question because they can always create, they added mutant apes and then they added the dogs and they can keep adding to these collections. That's true.
00:23:37.084 - 00:24:03.284, Speaker D: Yeah. That's the part that I'm most curious about as well is the owners of these cryptopunks and me bits. How optimistic should they feel? Are they happy to be part of Yugalabs? Because maybe, as you said, they treat IP in a more fair manner for the board ape owners. It adds to their value. They're part of the juggernaut. But yeah, the cryptopunks and mebits owners, I'm really curious what their sentiment is going into this acquisition.
00:24:03.404 - 00:25:28.676, Speaker B: I also think that in terms of the change and the kind of trends that we're going to start seeing of new NFTs being created under the same license as the ones of board apes, I'm curious to know how that might impact, say, the NFT collections coming out of big name corporations like Disney, Nike, sports teams. I have a hard time believing that they will give up the IP rights to anything. So it might be interesting to see a dichotomy between crypto native NFT projects pursuing this route of free ip, allowing you to do what you want with the token staying true to what NFTs were supposed to be. Like you said, Alex, and then the kind of more commercial entities trying to make money and profit and really use these NFTs as marketing tools and see how like both sides of the NFT industry kind of like battle it out. I had no doubt that crypto punks versus board apes, because of that IP difference, that bored apes had more value. But now I think with nfts becoming more mainstream, this trend is quite an interesting one that might rub the wrong way with, with some other players in the space.
00:25:28.860 - 00:25:52.812, Speaker A: Yeah, I think you're right. I think for some of these brands that have issued nfTs, you're very unlikely to see them put out. Nfts that have permissive ip licensing. Right. They're going to be more like sort of reward tokens or badges. But these are, yeah, these are a different one. And I think you'll also see it affect the art market pretty interestingly as well.
00:25:52.812 - 00:26:39.000, Speaker A: I think, again, people think that the value proposition of buying a digital piece of artwork is actually owning that digital piece of artwork as opposed to, say, owning a token that links to an image and that's it. Not owning the art, not owning the ip. Look, you're going to see that there's definitely going to be both. I mean, I guess the question is what's going to be more interesting long term? That's what I'm always wondering. But digital property, this is I think a positive step in the direction of true digital property for these two projects in particular that have been thought of as the iconic digital collectibles. And really when you dig under the hood, they weren't that great, at least on the ownership side, which to me is pretty much the most important side. So we'll be interesting.
00:26:39.000 - 00:26:52.832, Speaker A: I agree. That's an interesting one to follow. All right, let's run through just a couple more things, get some hot takes. Ethereum's merge took place on a new testnet, Kiln, what, a day or two ago. Christine, tell us about it.
00:26:53.008 - 00:27:55.814, Speaker B: Yes, Kiln is the last testnet for the merge before developers start rolling out the merge upgrade to public Ethereum testnets, basically testnets that decentralized application developers users are just using to test out different software. And for those of everyone listening who doesn't know what the merge is, the merge is basically the transition of Ethereum's existing proof of work blockchain to a proof of stake system. The activity of mining, which we talked a little bit about being very energy intensive, is going to be replaced on Ethereum sometime this year. It's expected with a much more energy efficient activity of staking. And basically developers have released a very major testnet for making sure that there's no bugs, no kinks when that, when that merge takes place. So I'm very optimistic. I thought it was a nice milestone for the team.
00:27:56.274 - 00:28:04.402, Speaker A: Nice. I think that's going to be interesting. We'll do the proof of work versus proof of stake episode sometime in the future, but that'll be a good one.
00:28:04.498 - 00:28:05.722, Speaker B: That's very hot one.
00:28:05.858 - 00:28:47.644, Speaker A: Yeah. One that I don't have on the list, but was really interesting in the bitcoin community this week was Wasabi wallet, which is a coin joint implementation. The founder of Wasabi has said that they're going to start doing chain analysis on, on coins going into the coin join pool, which was not taken well by obviously users of coin join, which are sort of using coin join as a way to gain additional privacy for their coins. And so a spin off was created, Wasabi BTC, which was an open source project. Right. So a new version of Wasabi has been created and we'll see sort of what happens. But lots, lots occurring in the world of bitcoin and crypto privacy broadly.
00:28:47.644 - 00:29:06.606, Speaker A: Also lots of news on zero knowledge proofs and roll ups, which are going to be a big part of this story going forward. Consensus raised 450 million at a $7 billion valuation. The valuation to me isn't surprising, but I did read on Twitter that they're going to spend that 450 on ETH. Is that right?
00:29:06.670 - 00:29:36.220, Speaker D: That is right. They are putting a massive bid in soon. There's no schedule to it, but it will be completely allocated to ETH, which is exciting for any ETH holders as well. And to wrap it around back to Micah, this is actually an interesting transition for consensys. They moved the metamask IP from a Switzerland based company to a New York based company for this raise. And so this is a huge deal for them as well. And hopefully, a lot of the lawsuits in the background will fizzle out as they try to progress.
00:29:36.332 - 00:30:17.874, Speaker A: Great. Obviously, I think at the time of recording, the FOMC is meeting, and so we're going to get news on, on rates. What is likely to be the first of a series of fed rate hikes this year is probably going to be announced momentarily. We won't speak to that now, but information about that will be in our newsletter, and we'll definitely be speaking to it more over the coming weeks. And, I don't know, one last thing we had on the list that was interesting, we saw was Kazakhstan cracking down on bitcoin miners, seizing a bunch of equipment. I saw something like $200 million worth of bitcoin mining equipment seized. I don't know if anybody has thoughts on this.
00:30:18.614 - 00:30:50.714, Speaker B: I believe it's now stricter regulations in terms of registering any mining operations. And all the ones that were seized and cracked down on were the ones that hadn't followed the new policies for mining. And so I think given the kind of uncertainty there was when there was that mass exodus of bitcoin miners for Kazakhstan, the very restrictive policies that are now fully in place and being enforced suggests that bitcoin mining isn't about to return to the country anytime soon.
00:30:51.894 - 00:31:25.664, Speaker A: All right, there's plenty more happening we can't cover here. But before we go, I wanted to ask Christine to give a brief preview of a report that comes out today. And it is the first in a series we are publishing called the do your own research series, where we will focus on educating and examining ways to research cryptocurrencies. And this one is an introduction to on chain fundamental analysis. So using on chain data to create valuation methodologies. Christine, give us just a quick overview on it.
00:31:26.084 - 00:32:58.744, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely would love to. So this report really offers a comprehensive and general overview of how you can use on chain data to value crypto assets in different ways. And when I say value crypto assets, there's different ways you can interpret that, meaning how do you value, what's the fair value that bitcoin should be trading at? What's the intrinsic value of Ethereum, given all the use cases that it has? But there's also ways in which you can use on chain data just to get a sense of investor sentiment. So how are the holders of a token? Depending on how long they've been holding their token, what are the activities that we're seeing on chain? Are we seeing a lot of coins moving, and can we assume that that means coins are being sold? These are questions that you can start to ask and start to answer using on chain data, but it requires quite a lot of foundational knowledge about how a blockchain works, about the technology of the network itself. So this report really dives into showing readers how to utilize blockchain, their knowledge about blockchain technology, and apply that to fundamental analysis. Because that's just one of the key things that I find. Without it, there's a lot of like, misconceptions and a lot of wrong takes when it comes to using say, like the complex valuation methodologies of coindes destroyed or MVR V SoPR.
00:32:58.744 - 00:33:09.376, Speaker B: So that's the gist of it. I hope everyone checks it out. And if you do, be sure to drop a note of what you thought about it throughout Twitter.
00:33:09.560 - 00:33:30.084, Speaker A: Awesome. I think it could be really useful for people getting into investing in crypto. All right, that's all we have this week. Thanks everyone for listening. Thanks to the team for joining. As always, check out our content at www. Dot galaxydigital dot IO research and follow us on Twitter at glxyresearch.
00:33:30.084 - 00:33:31.584, Speaker A: We'll be back next week.
