00:00:00.160 - 00:00:22.414, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sosano, and today's the 17 May 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. Actually, sorry, before we get into it, just excuse the mess behind me. I'm having some shutters installed tomorrow on my windows over here. So I had to move everything from over here on my left to kind of like behind me to get out of the way. There's a lot of stuff back there.
00:00:22.414 - 00:01:14.650, Speaker A: Just, just ignore that mess. That'll be gone by tomorrow. But anyway, on to kind of like what I wanted to talk about today. So I put out this tweet today where I said, remember when we all thought Defi tokens were going to be in the top ten? And I have that kind of wojack meme with a crying face in the background and mask of a smiling face on in my caricature, of course. But this was a very popular narrative back in the day that these defi tokens, wifi, comp, uni, there's so many of them now, right? There was sushi, there were these kind of like narratives that, these popular narratives that these default tokens would replace all of the dead coins, all of the zombie coins, all the scams that exist in top ten, top 20, top 30, top 40, blah, blah, blah. Right? And you know what? I personally was one of those people that was very bullish on this. I had a, you know, a pretty, pretty strong thesis that this would happen.
00:01:14.650 - 00:01:49.272, Speaker A: I thought that, you know, we would finally get some kind of like fundamentals based kind of top ten. And sure enough, that didn't happen. Defi tokens have been down only since Defi summer against ETH. They never, none of them have actually reached their all time high against ETH again. And I think, you know, it's a function for a few different reasons. But I think what I wanted to focus on with this is that I spoke yesterday about how kind of like, I went through my journey of how like, I kind of invested in crypto over the years and kind of invested in the wrong things, you know, sold the wrong time, took three cycles to get to where I was, blah, blah. Right, you guys listened yesterday.
00:01:49.272 - 00:02:21.604, Speaker A: But what I wanted to focus on with this was that I think what happens in this industry a lot of the time, and why so many people are just really bad investors, is because people will take like three months of time. Like Defi something was about three, I guess, like three, four months of time in 2020, and they'll kind of extrapolate that out to a long term thesis. So, you know, and typically this will happen during bull markets. So, for example, if you take like three months of a bull market and say, okay, well, these three months, this thing has done really well. You know, this pro, this project is doing awesomely. They're generating all this revenue. Revenue.
00:02:21.604 - 00:02:53.536, Speaker A: They're growing really quickly. I'm super bullish on this. I'm going to kind of, like, be bullish on this for, like, the long term. I'm going to, you know, stack a bag of this and be really bullish on it over the long term. And then, of course, what ends up happening is that the bull market made it kind of like, kind of tricked people into thinking that this protocol or this project actually had a product market fit when in reality it had kind of like bull market product market fit, right. It didn't have like, you know, the ongoing kind of like, fit there. And that's not to say kind of like any of these things have failed or anything like that.
00:02:53.536 - 00:03:28.816, Speaker A: Like, there are, there is kind of like, exceptions to this rule as well, such as uniswap, for example. Like Uni, the uni token against both USD and ETH has done quite poorly. But Uniswap has been growing. It's deployed in other chains, it's maintained its dominance and continued to kind of, like increase its dominance over the amm space. And it has some of the smartest people in this industry working on it, but its token is just not doing much. And there's a million different reasons why tokens kind of like go up and down and things like that. But I think that, you know, extrapolating out certain kind of market conditions and forming a long term thesis based on that is probably not the right way to go about things.
00:03:28.816 - 00:04:19.553, Speaker A: We have plenty of evidence, evidence for that. And, you know, it's funny that I say that because I think that we, you know, it's kind of like these things go through hype cycles as well. So, for example, now let's use ETH is the perfect example. ETH went through, like a pretty massive hype cycle in 2017, where it went from ten dollars to one thousand, four hundred dollars in, I guess, like the first week of 2018, technically, and then it came down to $80 during 2018. And if you actually put a plot that ETH chart in linear against a lot of the charts of pretty much like, every hype driven token, they all look the same, right? They have like an initial kind of like, you know, they're flat at the start, and they have, like, a little small run up, and the run gets kind of, like, more steep and steep, and you kind of, like, have this chart that just goes straight up, but then obviously it kind of, like, peaks out, and then it comes straight back down and kind of levels out, and. And it might level out like. Like above.
00:04:19.553 - 00:04:52.486, Speaker A: Above what it was like when it started. About the same level or below. Right. Um, and that's because these things, a lot of these things are purely kind of, like, hype driven, especially during bull markets where their prices make absolutely no sense and they're only going up because there's such a liquidity injection into the crypto ecosystem, and that kind of, like, rises all boats for. For a relatively short period of time. And ETH went through that and then came back stronger. But the thing is, 99% of tokens during that era have not come back stronger, and they never reached their all time highs against USD, let alone ETH again.
00:04:52.486 - 00:05:27.910, Speaker A: So kind of like, when I look at things like. Like, from that kind of, like, perspective and kind of, like, take a. I guess, like, take that kind of, like, longer term view, I mean, it makes sense that a lot of these things will never kind of, like, go back up, especially if they were only going up because it was a bull market. So, you know, ETH, the thing is, ETH started going up, I think, in 2020, and it wasn't really a bull market yet. Like, there was kind of, like, defy summer that happened and kind of like, ETH, where, I mean, 8th was kind of, like, flat during that, the Defi tokens went crazy, but ETH was relatively flat. But then he started going crazy from there and had its own bull market. So there was kind of, like, changing dynamics around that.
00:05:27.910 - 00:05:39.920, Speaker A: But it was. It was kind of, like, pretty. Pretty crazy to see, right? Pretty. Pretty interesting to see how it all played out. And the thesis of Defi tokens kind of, like, climbing up the ranks. I think at this point in time, he's dead. Maybe it'll change in the future.
00:05:39.920 - 00:06:20.866, Speaker A: But, yeah, it was just such a kind of like, I guess, like a failed thesis that I figured that kind of. I would discuss it today. And I wrote some more about this in the Daily Gwen newsletter as well, if you want to kind of, like, check that out. And, you know, in my newsletter, actually, I'm just looking at it now. I actually made a point about the fact that I think what a lot of people miss with these Defi tokens is that they're tied to businesses, right? And kind of like if they like businesses being the products, the projects that the apps on chain, and if these apps are doing poorly, then the token has absolutely no reason to go up in value. Like, that's the thing. Like, as I was talking about the bull market masking the fact that these projects don't have actual product market fit because they might be paying out token intent.
00:06:20.866 - 00:06:45.802, Speaker A: These, for example. And if their tokens going up, they might be able to increase their TVL. But it's only because the token rewards that are being paid out is lucrative enough for that to happen. But, you know, a lot of them don't actually generate much revenue at all. A lot of them are actually at a loss because they're paying out for those kind of like incentives. And the token literally has zero reason to go up in that kind of, kind of scenario. And that's, that's why a lot of them will just go down, trend down over the long term.
00:06:45.802 - 00:07:16.920, Speaker A: You know, a lot of them are, I mean, I was looking at some of the charts. Like, a lot of them are pretty wrecked. Like some of them are down 90 plus percent against ETH, which is, which is crazy, right? Like, as you guys know, I use ETH as a benchmark asset. So yeah, I just wanted to kind of like give a few thoughts on, on that there. And I think the main takeaway is that it's not just limited to defi, tokens. Don't look at like the three months of like, I guess, like the few months that we're having like a really crazy bull market where everything's going up in value. Don't form a thesis based on that because it's not going to work.
00:07:16.920 - 00:08:05.264, Speaker A: Like, especially for an asset that, you know, has a really, really strong run in a bull market, there's, there's no point forming a long term thesis based on that because there's no guarantee that it's going to be around even kind of like six months after the bull market, kind of like substitute sides. The project may kind of like fail, the team might run out of money or anything like that, right? So there's a million reasons why projects fail, fail. And I think if people, people keep extrapolating out kind of like the bull market to form a long term thesis, they're going to end up holding something down like 90 plus percent. And I did that from 2017. You know, it's funny, there was a token called Aon, and I've spoken about this before, that I bought, like, I drank the kool aid of Aon in 2017, it was some interoperability project. I, you know, I bought a decent chunk of it, and then there was some token rewards scheme where you could lock up your tokens for a period of time and get more tokens. Maybe.
00:08:05.264 - 00:08:30.432, Speaker A: I mean, maybe you could call it early yield farming, but it was called the TRS, the token release schedule. And, you know, I ended up getting a lot of tokens with that. But the thing is, is that a on really only went up in value because of the bull market. And since the bull market ended in 2017, it's been down only. And no one talks about Aon at all anymore. And it's down like 99 plus percent plus against USD. Right.
00:08:30.432 - 00:08:53.448, Speaker A: And I can't remember where I sold it exactly. I think I sold it when it was down 90% ish or something like that. I sold it in chunks, but I held it down because I still kind of, like, believed in that project. I was still like, you know, it's just a bear market, you know, this project is going to be cool. But then it just faded into irrelevancy. So don't think that, you know, that that's kind of like a bad thing to do that either. I think it's a kind of like a lesson to be learned.
00:08:53.448 - 00:09:25.062, Speaker A: But at the same time, I didn't put all of my money into a on. Right. Like, I, I still had majority of my funds in ETH. Um, and then I had a few side bets here and there, and I cut, you know, I cut pretty much, like, all of them through the bear market, uh, which was a good idea in hindsight, but, yeah, you have to kind of, like, live it, I think, to get to that point. But anyway, moving on from that for now is a bunch of other things to get through. All right, so superfuse put out an interesting tweet, uh, yesterday saying Ethereum isn't done. It has been in heavy development for eight years, and it may continue in development for a very long time.
00:09:25.062 - 00:10:16.346, Speaker A: Don't assume that you're looking at a finished product and feel frustrated with weaknesses we're building for the future. So this is what I tried to kind of like, get, I guess, like a major point. I try to get through to everyone when I'm kind of like, educating about a theory. Is that Ethereum in its current state, if you're judging Ethereum and its current state, as if it's kind of like a finished product, that's kind of like the complete wrong way to look at things. Ethereum, for all intents and purposes, is still kind of like in a beta version, right? Or kind of like version one. And I know that we had the ETH one and ETH two numbing clutch before, but just generally, like, ethereum as it exists today is really a beta product, right? And that's because there are so many upgrades still coming to Ethereum as kind of like superfizz alluded to here, to greatly improve it. And obviously, some of these upgrades are things like the merge and dank sharding and always other roadmap items that Vitalik has spoken about before.
00:10:16.346 - 00:10:48.576, Speaker A: And those are not just small things. They're major parts of the Ethereum protocol. Like, the Ethereum protocol, in my mind, won't be finished for at least another 510 years, I would have to say, in terms of. And what I mean by finished is that kind of like, it's never gonna, it might not ever be like 100% finished when, like, no changes are made to the base layer, or maybe it will be in like a few decades time or something like that. But I think that you get to a point where it's kind of like, well, you know, it's 90% done or 95% done. Let's make, let's make much slower changes to this. Maybe we'll do a change every three years instead of every six months.
00:10:48.576 - 00:11:24.902, Speaker A: You know, a hard fork every three years instead of every six months, because the upgrades aren't, you know, critical, they're nice to haves. And kind of like, when we reach that point, that's when we can say that Ethereum maybe isn't dumb, but like, is, that's the vision, right? That is the original vision that we wanted to kind of like, get towards. This is what Ethereum is, and it's servicing kind of like billions of users by that point with the L2s and everything like that. So, so that's why we say Ethereum isn't kind of like dumb, because as it exists today, like, it's not. I mean, we all know what Ethereum as it exists today can't scale to billions of users. It can't even scale to millions of users. Ethereum layer one, at least, and a few L2 can't either right now.
00:11:24.902 - 00:11:40.782, Speaker A: But with all these upgrades coming, with all these roadmap items coming, we're going to get to that point. And the funny thing is, a lot of the. God, my camera keeps going out of focus. Sorry, guys. I think it's because I've got the stuff behind me, but I'm just going to leave it. Um, I, I think I think the thing is, is that ethereum. Yeah.
00:11:40.782 - 00:12:10.984, Speaker A: While theorem can't scale to millions of millions of users or even hundreds of thousands of users, because the fees just skyrocket. Neither can a lot of these other chains, even if they've kind of like completely centralized themselves. Like they all have their own issues. For example, BSc, the fees went up because it's just an Ethereum fork, right? Avalanche. C chain fees went up again. Solana fell over because it can't handle, you know, bots kind of like coming on the network and they're going to introduce a fee market to kind of like combat that, which is ironic, but I've discussed that before. I won't go into that.
00:12:10.984 - 00:12:51.356, Speaker A: But basically anything that you look at today can't handle that many users. So nothing is finished, nothing is done. Everything has to improve, you know, orders of magnitude from here to get us to where we want to be, which is mass adoption. And then those improvements are going to come in different flavors. You're going to have layer one improvements, L2 improvements. Side chains that even exist, like people sometimes say, oh, side chains are going to be completely obsoleted very soon. It's like, no, I don't think so, guys, because there are certain use cases that don't require ethereum level security, but can still interact with Ethereum, can still kind of like work with Ethereum, and can still do things like posting a proof of their transactions to Ethereum and then having their data stored off chain.
00:12:51.356 - 00:13:26.460, Speaker A: Right? Like a valid m, for example. And I think those things are definitely going to exist and keep existing for a long time. So scaling is going to come in all forms, in all kind of like shapes and sizes, because Ethereum layer one, ethereum, L2, probably, I mean, as bullish as I am on both of those things, they're not going to be ready for mass adoption for quite a while, still like it. The thing is, is that there's this debate right now. Oh, no, not right now, but just generally, it's like what should be on chain versus what shouldn't be on chain. There are some people that think that everything should be on chain, like. So for, just to give an example here, say you're playing like a game of chess on chain.
00:13:26.460 - 00:14:16.120, Speaker A: Should every move be recorded as a transaction on chain? Well, no, it shouldn't be recorded on layer one, Ethereum as a transaction on chain, because that just doesn't make any sense, right? Maybe even not on a L2. But what about like a side chain? What about something like a validium or something like an arbitrum kind of any trust chain or a polygon supernet. Right? Maybe it does, or maybe it can be on chain in that because they're obviously much more centralized in Ethereum and much less secure. But it's a chain chess move, right? Like, it's not like it's a, it's kind of like this high value financial transactions. So I guess, like, taking that view as well. Well, you know, you could still store the result of that chess game as a proof on Ethereum layer one if you wanted to, right? So there are different hybrid ways to scale. And I think that's kind of like the pragmatic approach to scaling crypto in general, not just Ethereum.
00:14:16.120 - 00:15:06.302, Speaker A: And I think that we shouldn't be so tribal within the Ethereum ecosystem either around different scaling solutions. Like, the tribalism is always funny to me because it seems to always come back to how does this technology or how does this product benefit e three, the asset. And honestly, guys, like, I think that the more adoption we get in crypto generally is going to benefit ETH, the asset, even if the adoption doesn't happen directly on a theorem, layer one or even at L2, because the pie just gets so much bigger. The pie is so small right now. So, so small. Like, I think at peak, during the peak of the bull market, metamask had 15 million monthly active users. And that includes not just Ethereum layer one, it includes Ethereum L2, but also the EVM chains, such as BSC, avalanche, Phantom, all those chains, right? They all accounted for that.
00:15:06.302 - 00:15:27.980, Speaker A: So 15 million monthly active users. It's not daily. Monthly active users at the peak of that bull market is nothing. Guys, there are 8 billion people on the planet, right? And the thing is, is that I would wager that that's a lot less now, given how quiet the market is. Like, it's probably only in a few million at best. And even then, I mean, it probably even less than that. If you look at the prices as, like, a proxy, it could be down as much as 90%.
00:15:27.980 - 00:15:42.964, Speaker A: That could be like 2 million or something monthly active users that we currently have left. So that's nothing. We are still so bloody early. And it's good and bad. I mean, it's good because it gives us a bit more time to build. It's bad. I mean, depending on where you fall here, it's bad.
00:15:42.964 - 00:16:30.260, Speaker A: Maybe because, like you, you would have, we would have expected to have more adoption by now, but the industry is still young, as I've said before on the refuel, I think that the industry really started getting like actual proper on chain adoption in 2017. I think up until that point, like, even with the bitcoin kind of like, uh, manias that happened in the past, there wasn't really much going on. I think 2017 is where kind of like you had the, the kickstart of like the on chain users and things like that with Ethereum. And then since then it's kind of like been growing, especially during kind of like the hotter periods of the market. And if you kind of take that, well, then it's really only five years old, the industry, I guess like if you want to take, and even if you want to go back as far as 20, kind of like 15, seven years old, so, so to speak. Right, 2015, when a theorem kind of like went online. But I mean, you can take it from anywhere.
00:16:30.260 - 00:17:03.574, Speaker A: I don't think you should take it from when bitcoin came out in 2009. It just doesn't seem like the first three, even four years of bitcoin was kind of like muted. I mean, really the only use case was Silk Road and there wasn't that many people using it in the grand scheme of things. So I think that taking it from maybe when Ethereum came online and when we can get do more stuff on chain is probably the better way to look at things there. But anyway, interesting tweet from super frizz that kind of like prompted me to talk about all this stuff. And, you know, maybe you guys have different opinions to me, as I said, you can always bring that up with me in the Discord channel. Always happy to have a conversation in there with everyone.
00:17:03.574 - 00:17:50.918, Speaker A: Alright, so Coinbase had a big announcement today that they shared here and they titled this post access web3 with the Coinbase app and the TL doctor is that the post highlights the ability to access and explore web3 directly from the Coinbase app, powered by the new Dap wallet and Dapp browser. So you can use it. Popular Ethereum dapps with Coinbase's new wallet here, which is really, really cool. This is kind of basically Coinbase acting as a neo bank for different projects on ethereum. So you can see here in this gif, you load up your kind of like wallet, you kind of load up these apps, greeted some terms and then you get started, right? You can see all the apps that are, that are kind of like listed here, such as Uniswap, Opensea, all the popular ones, and then you can kind of like interact with it directly using the Coinbase app. And as I was just talking about when it comes to mass adoption, there's. There's kind of like two major parts to it in my eyes.
00:17:50.918 - 00:18:17.700, Speaker A: There's the. The kind of part where we need scale, obviously, like, everyone knows that, but then there's the part where we need UI and ux to get vastly better. And I think Coinbase is doing a kick ass job here. Like, you guys know, I've been pretty critical of Coinbase in the past for various different decisions that they've made. But the one thing they do really well, I think, is a nice user experience. And that's why they're one of the top exchanges in the US, I think, is that they make it super easy just to buy crypto. You know, for all their faults, they do that really, really well.
00:18:17.700 - 00:18:49.084, Speaker A: And I've always liked the Coinbase kind of like app, the mobile app. It's actually pretty smooth and pretty nice. And now the fact that you can kind of like access all these apps, all these dapps using the, the mobile wallet app is really cool. So kudos to coinbase for this. I think this is the kind of stuff that's going to onboard, you know, even more users than anything else could. At the end of the day, maybe, maybe we get to a point where we finally flip this industry on its head and instead of like, relying on bull markets to bring in new users, we just get new users because the products are that good. Doesn't matter if it's bull or bear market, the products are good enough to bring in those users.
00:18:49.084 - 00:19:12.838, Speaker A: I'm hoping we get to that eventually. We'll have to see how it plays out. But, yeah, very, very nice release here from Coinbase today. So Cloudflare announced that they have started experimenting with ethereum proof of stake. So I think they're going to be running, from what I understand here, I think they're going to be kind of like running their own validators. I think Tim Bico kind of like, asked about that. Uh, they're getting their feet wet right now.
00:19:12.838 - 00:19:44.754, Speaker A: Um, and, and they'll be using Cloud, Cloudflare's own assets to do this. So for those of you who don't know, Cloudflare is a massive web to kind of like, uh, I guess for. They do a bunch of different things, but kind of like, you know, a lot of you may have seen them. They do like DDos protection. That's where, that's a consumer facing thing where you're loading up a website and then it says, like, protected by Cloudflare. And it's like checking to make sure you're not a bot or you're not trying to ddos the website. Cloudflare does that, but they do a bunch of other kind of like Internet related services and kind of networking related, networking related services, I should say.
00:19:44.754 - 00:20:46.594, Speaker A: So obviously, Ethereum is right up there, alley here, and it's really cool to see them publicly announced that Cloudflare itself is going to be kind of contributing to Ethereum even more than they already have. They've kind of like announced, you know, previous things like the Ethereum gateway and kind of like working with ipfs and stuff like that. But now it seems like they want to kind of like get involved with Ethereum proof of stake, which is very, very cool. This is not going to be the kind of like first or last company that does this, guys. Like, I feel like there's going to be so many of these companies that are going to be running validators for Ethereum, which is going to be super cool. Like, I know stake centralization has been a topic of this, a big topic of discussion recently, but I think, as I've said before, I had, I have two kind of like main points around that. I think once withdrawals are enabled for stake, we're going to have like a great reshuffling of stake, but kind of like, secondly, as we go on, as I've said before, the business opportunity for either creating staking services or just staking in general is so, so big, especially post merge where the yields are looking like they're going to be seven or 8%.
00:20:46.594 - 00:21:12.552, Speaker A: There's going to be a lot of people staking. There's going to be a lot of businesses built up around that. There's going to be, and then post withdrawals, there's going to be a lot of businesses that kind of like maybe do marketing campaigns and say, hey, you should switch your stake from this pool or this platform and you should come stake with us. Right? They can't do that right now because obviously you can't, uh, kind of, um, I guess like change where you're staking. They can do marketing around, you know, if you've got ETH, you should stake it sort of thing. And they do that. But in terms of like changing providers, you can't do that right now.
00:21:12.552 - 00:22:01.396, Speaker A: You're locked in as soon as kind of like you stake, um, even with the liquid tokens, like just because you sell your steth doesn't mean that ETH isn't staked with, uh, with Lido, for example, anymore. You, yes, you could go buy, you know, you could sell your st for ETH and then go stake with, um, with someone else if you wanted to. But, but it's kind of like a different thing there, right? So I think kind of like from that perspective, the way I kind of like, view this thing is that there's going to be lots of these companies staking ETH. They're going to lead to more decentralization and distribution of the stake. And post withdrawals, there's going to be a lot of people vying for a lot of companies vying for the kind of like stake from different parties out there. So I think taking all that into account is going to be very important. And I think that we should all be focused on kind of like paying attention to this sort of stuff and encouraging these companies to do it.
00:22:01.396 - 00:22:30.534, Speaker A: I think it's very, very important. All right, so some big news out of Polygon today. So, well, I guess like a teaser of big news. So Polygon, in partnership with EY, is launching the first ever l two ZK live on Mainnet, Polygon Nightfall. As you guys have known about now, Polygon Nightfall. I think I've discussed this before, but I think it came back all the way back, came out all the way back in 2018. And then they joined Polygon recently, and now Polygon is going to be streaming, doing a live stream today at 12:30 p.m.
00:22:30.534 - 00:23:17.762, Speaker A: Eastern time, talking about this kind of like l two ZK being live on Mainnet, which is very, very cool to see. I mean, not much to say here besides kind of like tuning to the live stream. And I'll definitely recap this tomorrow on the refuel and see kind of like what all the fuss is about, but very cool to see this out of polygon. So Frederick here shared a blog post today called secured number four bug bounty rewards for Ethereum core protocol development. So you can see here that there's been a massive bump in the rewards paid out to bug hunters or kind of like people that kind of like find bugs. On Ethereum Mainnet. You can get a reward of up to $250,000 and double to $500,000 for Mainnet targeted upgrades that are live on public testnets.
00:23:17.762 - 00:23:56.388, Speaker A: So, for example, if you find a bug in kind of like the Ropston testnet after it goes to the merge transition, you could earn up to, you know, $500,000 for bug, depending on the severity here. This is really a really big deal. I think these, but the kind of ethereum foundation has come under a bit of a, I guess, like scrutiny before from people saying, you know, the bug bounty is too low, it should be much higher. Well, here it is. Like this is half a million dollars. That's up for grabs if you're able to find a critical bug. And so it should be because if a critical bug in a kind of like Ethereum main net targeted kind of like upgrades are found, well, I mean, if that made it to mainnet without being found, that could lead to a massive loss of funds for users.
00:23:56.388 - 00:24:22.230, Speaker A: Right. So definitely cool to see a bit massive kind of like bump here in the bug bounty rewards. If you are a bug hunter, definitely go check out this blog post for more details. All right, so Eric Connor shared a interesting little tweet thread today about kind of like screenshots of the first Ethereum newsletters. So this newsletter issue went out on the 10 February 2014, I think. At the 10 February 2014. Yeah, I think so.
00:24:22.230 - 00:24:40.884, Speaker A: I think he's. Because, okay, the reason why I'm getting trumped up here, guys, is because the australian date format is, you know, day. Month. Yeah, the american date format is month day. Yeah. Which it's always puzzled me, but that's the kind of like way it is there. So I don't know if this is the 2 October 2014 or the 10 February 2014.
00:24:40.884 - 00:25:00.472, Speaker A: I don't know. Either way, he was in 2014, it should be the 10 February since this is Eric is american. But yeah. Anyway, let's focus on the content. The newsletter itself is pretty cool. It's funny, it's very, very short, right? This is talking about kind of like the testnet, the ether pre sale. Okay? The pre sale hadn't happened yet.
00:25:00.472 - 00:25:40.218, Speaker A: So this is the fact, this is the 10 February, not, not the 2 August. So talking about a testnet, the ETH pre. So coming up, the testnet clients, this is test net clients for like Ethereum, like Genesis, right? And they details on the pre sale and then Eric kind of like shares some more. So you got the 3 March here in 2014, another Ethereum newsletter and then a third one here, I think from the 3 July 2014, talking about kind of like Ethan this and Ethereum mainnet went live 31 July 2015. And then the ether sale started in around this time in kind of like 2014. So yeah, just cool to see some history here from Eric. He's, I mean, he'd been around since day one.
00:25:40.218 - 00:26:11.658, Speaker A: Like he, I always say to him, like, dude, I like I wish I was around since day one. Like you were like, it's just crazy. That kind of like he's been in it for so long. But yeah, really, really cool to see these kind of like original kind of like emails here. So thanks to Eric for sharing this. All right, so Slingshot announced their mobile app today, so you can reserve your spot on the waitlist by going to Slingshot Dot finance dot mobile mobile and earn an NFT plus BTC rewards. So you can go to this link, it'll be linked in the YouTube description to sign up on kind of like the waitlist.
00:26:11.658 - 00:26:36.706, Speaker A: And then if you kind of like share a referral link, you'll get bumped up the waitlist. Now, I shared my referral link on Twitter today. Some people kind of like, were like, has your account been hacked? And I was like, no, guys, like, I kind of like captioned it, saying that if I make any money from this, it's going to be donated to public goods. So I kind of like, did it as an experiment. I was like, okay, well, let's share this referral link. People are going to probably make fun of me, but I'll do it anyway. And then any kind of like money that I make from it, I want to donate to public goods and I'll probably just send it to the protocol guild.
00:26:36.706 - 00:27:07.250, Speaker A: That seems to be the easiest way to donate to public goods these days, you know, besides the Gwen grants matching rounds, of course. But yeah, anyway, sign up on the kind of like waitlist here if you're using slingshot. If not, you know, maybe you want to start using it. So definitely go give this a sign up. Alright, so for those of you who have been in the ecosystem for a while, you'll know that Eric and I, Eric Connor and I have been doing a podcast for a long time now, three and a half years since the end of 2018. And that's part of ETH up. So it's called the into the ether podcast.
00:27:07.250 - 00:27:45.698, Speaker A: A lot of you, I'm sure, have been listening to it and still listen to it over the past few months. We've been quite kind of like, I don't know if it was slack, but kind of like very hard to schedule, kind of like recording podcasts. Then we did our first one, kind of like in four weeks yesterday. And it should be coming out today, I guess like today, technically, we did it and it should be coming out today for you guys based in kind of like the US and stuff. But essentially we changed up the format. So usually in these podcasts, there were like weekly recasts where we'd go through the news of the week and talk about things that, you know, the major things that had happened. But we kind of like figured that there was enough people doing that at this stage.
00:27:45.698 - 00:28:19.154, Speaker A: I mean, obviously I'm doing it with the refuel every day, that we don't need to do that anymore. So we changed the format up to be kind of like no more structured news updates, but just like casual back and forth conversation with me and Eric about kind of like ethereum and about crypto in general and like the past kind of like weeks worth of, of kind of like big events. And, you know, if I had to say what it's similar to, it's probably similar to the live streams I do with David Hoffman, where we just kind of like have a back and forth, no real agenda or anything like that, just talking about the biggest themes. And honestly, like, it was super fun. This is the first time Eric and I had changed up the podcast in three and a half years. And it was, it was refreshing for us. It was really fun.
00:28:19.154 - 00:28:43.606, Speaker A: It felt really, really great, and I can't wait for you guys to listen to it. If you do listen to the podcast, it'll pop up in your feed if you're subscribed, but if not, definitely give a listen to it because Eric's got a lot of great insights. He's been, as I said, he's been in the ecosystem longer than I have and he brings a different perspective. So definitely, you know, recommend checking that out if you aren't a subscriber yet. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:28:43.606 - 00:28:50.214, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
