00:00:00.240 - 00:00:43.000, Speaker A: So thank you very much for the invitation. Like everybody, I really would like to be there, but okay. It's also nice that we can at least meet in this way. So everything I'm going to talk about is based on joint work with Ruben Glasgow Garcia and Jose Ignacio Gudo. Also, there will be a little bit at the end, which is a joint work with this islabaco gluco. Okay, so I will talk about this generalization of this well known Vespina Brady construction in, well, I should have said here in even acting groups of FC type, but anyway, it will come soon. So let me just give you a brief outline of what I'm going to talk about.
00:00:43.000 - 00:01:38.044, Speaker A: I would like to start just explaining a bit about telling you about two very well known examples which I think are like the motivating for all this theory. Then I will talk a little bit about the classical stuff, which is sigma invariance in the case of right angle arcing groups. And then I will move to the subject of talk, in which I will consider these arching groups, even arcing groups of FC type. And finally, at the end, if I have time, I will say a little bit about the case of lialtipras, just in the right angle case, by the way. Okay, so my first example is the well known Stalin group. This is a group which is famous because it's finitely presented, but it's not of type f three. So I put about there in the slide the definition of this condition that I will be talking about all the time.
00:01:38.044 - 00:02:18.154, Speaker A: So recall that the group is of type fn if there is a kg one which has finite n skeleton. The most famous instances of these properties are f one. F one is the same thing as being infinite degenerative, and f two is the same as being finitely presented. So this fn is like a higher dimension, analogous of these two well known finiteness properties. For groups, this is like the homotopical version. And then we have also the homological version of the property. We say that the group is of type fbn if there is a projective resolution of the trivial module which has finitely generated modules up to degree n.
00:02:18.154 - 00:03:26.936, Speaker A: Of course, if you can build a kg one with finite skeleton, then the COVID of the of this gives you a free resolution, which is also a projective resolution with this finiteness condition. So Fn implies FPN, but, well, whether the converse is true or not was an open problem for a long time, but now we know the converse is not true. So this group, well, it was originally defined with this presentation, I think but one can modify it a little bit and make it turn this into something connected to the groups we are dealing with in this workshop. So you just introduce new letters and then you define these new elements like this. And using these new letters you can show that your group S is the kernel of a map of homomorphism from the product of three free groups into set. This map is defined by sending everything, all the generators to one. Right.
00:03:26.936 - 00:04:01.338, Speaker A: This is a right angle artery group. So this group is a particular case of the very well known Vespina Brady construction, which is going to be my second example, second family of examples. So here, assume you have a graph, and then we construct, we heard the definition many times in this workshop. We have the associated right angle arching group to the graph. Right. I can define a homomorphism just sending everything, all the generators to one. Right.
00:04:01.338 - 00:04:35.184, Speaker A: I look at the kernel, and this kernel is what we call the Vespina Brady group of the graph. The nice thing about this group is that you can determine this homological property finance properties in terms of the graph. This is one of the most beautiful results for me in group theory. So just, you know. Yeah, we know that this is FN if and only if. This is n minus one connected FPN if and only if. Here we have the homological version of the homo topical condition that we have on the other side.
00:04:35.184 - 00:05:28.924, Speaker A: So one can, this was one of the objectives in the original paper by one can use this result to produce examples of groups which show you that this implication is not true, as I said before. And so here the nice thing is this relationship between the homological or homotopical finiteness properties of the group and of the graph. And then there is a natural question whether we can do something similar for different maps, different homomorphism. All these kind of maps I'm going to work with are always maps from my group to r or to set. In set, it's what we call a discrete case. And if not, we have the not discrete case, and these maps are going to be called characters. So you can think in terms of the maps or in terms of the kernels.
00:05:28.924 - 00:06:32.084, Speaker A: Right? Here the kernel is a co cyclic subgroup, and, and here the kernel, sacua billion. Sacred. So really here the question is, what can we say about the homological finance properties of the kernels of this map, or in other words, of coabilion or co cyclic groups? So there is one case in which things are easy or easier, right? If you have character, and it turns out that when you evaluate the vertices in the generators, you never get zero, then the kernel behaves exactly in the same way as the Vespina Brady group. So this is one case to which one can generalize this theory. But there are problems if you don't have this condition. Okay, so how to solve these problems? This is classical. You consider your graph, and then you just remove those vertices for which the value of the character is zero.
00:06:32.084 - 00:07:45.124, Speaker A: Or in other words, you just look at what's called the leaving subgraph. The living subgraph is what remains after removing those vertices. Of course, I'm considering the full subgraph, right? Whenever two vertices remain, I also leave the edge between then if there is one. So using this graph, Meijer and van Wieck were able to characterize the finite condition of the kernel. So the first result that they obtained was in the discrete case they proved that this kernel is finitely generated if and only if this leaving subgraph is connected and dominant. Here, dominant means that whenever you take some vertices which is not in the living subgraph, then that vertex is linked to something in the leaving subgraph. This is the meaning, right? So here we see that instead of just one condition on the graph is what we should have, right, in the Vespina daily theorem, if you put here one, here you get, sorry, if you put here one, you get minus one connected.
00:07:45.124 - 00:09:07.430, Speaker A: What I'm saying, okay, here there is some sprint. Okay, sorry, that's wrong. It should be here. Anyway, what I wanted to say is that instead of only one condition, now we have two, right? Why is that? One can see the reason just changing a little bit the hypothesis. So here, well, I will use the standard notation in graphs. So here I have, sorry, here, so you take a vertex, the link of that vertex is the full subgraph span by all the other vertices which are linked to that vertex you started with, you also can consider links for subsets of your graph, right? So here, instead of saying that the graph, the limit subgraph is connected, we can say that the link of the empty subset is connected, because they are the same thing. Here, instead of saying that the leaving subgraph is dominant, I can say that for any vertex not in the living subgraph, this link is not empty.
00:09:07.430 - 00:09:56.888, Speaker A: Right? So here I have something which is zero connected. And here I have something which is minus one connected. And then I can rewrite this theorem as follows. So this theorem is telling me that the kernel is f one if and only if this thing is zero connected. And when I have here empty set, and when I have here the link of a vertex, it has to be minus one connected. Right? So this was the key observation for the generalization of this result, that was proven by, well, the same authors, plus Meinert. So a little bit later, Maya Maynard and van Dieck, they were able to prove the following.
00:09:56.888 - 00:11:05.874, Speaker A: If you start with any discrete character, then the kernel is fn if and only if. Whenever you have a click, which is in the complement of the leaving subgraph, you compute the link in the leaving subgraph. Always we take this thing in one part and this thing in the complement, right? The link is in the complement. So the condition that we get is that this has to be n minus the size of sigma minus one connect. So if you just translate to the case n one, you get the hypothesis above, like many times here, there is the homo topical and there is the homological version of each result, right? So both work okay. In fact, well, this is not the way in which Meijer, Meinert and Van Wieck gave this theory, because here I'm just so far considering the discrete case. Now I would like to move to the arbitrary case, right, to the case in which my character is not just ending in set, but in r.
00:11:05.874 - 00:12:04.114, Speaker A: But to do that, it's better to let, to change a little bit the language. So now I would like to introduce what's called the sigma. Okay, I'm not going to give you the precise definition, because it's very technical and one really does not see what's, what's about, right. So I just would like to tell you what's important, what we need to know about this invariance in this talk. So, assume you have a group, and to avoid problems, I'm going to assume that my group is FP infinity. This is like being FPN for Nen, right? So this sigma invariance, they were originally defined by BD, Neumann, Rensson, Straw, in a very serious of papers, in which, well, they gave first version for small ends, and then where the theory developed and was getting rich and original. And right now it's a very rich and powerful theory, and, well, it was maybe forgotten for a while, but I think now it's very active again.
00:12:04.114 - 00:12:59.258, Speaker A: So consider now, just for technical reason, one uses usually what's called the characterist fear, right? But I do, I'm not interested in trivial characters, so I don't consider that case. And then I normalize my characters to get a sphere, right? So I just declare that two characters are equivalent if they differ in some positive real number. So now these are defined as subsets of SG. Well, it's not obvious, but it turned out that they are open subsets and they are sitting in this way. Right. It's like they are getting more and more restrictive in the same way that being FP infinity is more restrictive than being FP one. Right? But the nice property that we are going to be interested today about this invariant is the following.
00:12:59.258 - 00:13:39.370, Speaker A: When you have a coabilian subgroup, it turns out that you can use these characters, if you know them, to determine whether this covalent subgroup is FN or FPN. And this is amazing. Yeah. Because this is very difficult in general, it's not easy, because of course, these properties are, don't pass to subgroups, right. They behave quite badly in general. So having our tool to determine whether a subgroup, even if you restrict to coabilian subgroups, having a tool to determine whether a subgroup has one of these properties is really very strong. So, well, again, we have the homotopical and homological version.
00:13:39.370 - 00:14:43.026, Speaker A: In the homotopical case, this condition is what you have here, right? Your subgroup is FN if and only whenever you have a character that restricts to zero in your subgroup, that character has to be in the environment. So if you read this condition, in the case of a discrete character, and you look at the kernel, because here you have something which is called cyclic, really, you only have two characters that determine that whether the kernel is FPN or not, you only have to look at your character and the opposite, right. This is, in general, it's not difficult to construct a sample of groups in which you can build a character so that, for example, this, the character is in the invariant and the opposite is not. So this is not close under the minus. Right. In general. But this is also, this is a feature of right angle acting groups.
00:14:43.026 - 00:15:28.180, Speaker A: In this particular case, basically because of the symmetry of the presentation of these groups, you can prove that here this invariant has, this property is closed under the minus, right. And this has this consequence that if you have a character which is discrete, then the curve is FPN if and only if the character is in the invariant. Right. Here I say same for Sigma, I mean for the homotopical. Well, as I said, this is not true in general. This is something very particular, right, of right angle outing groups. So instead of saying when the kernel has or is of type FPN, one is interested in determining the sigma invariance for rectangular tips.
00:15:28.180 - 00:16:21.544, Speaker A: And this is really what Maya, Meinert and van Beek did in that paper, right? So really, this is the way in which they, they proved the theorem, right? They proved that for an arbitrary character, the character is in the invariant. In the homotopical version, for example, if and only if these things are connected for any click. So this is a very nice result. Yeah, because it gives you a complete way to understand these invariants, which are in general very difficult to compute. Right. For example, if you, well, we know that free groups have particular cases, right? So for free groups, these invariants are empty. Yeah, it's something you can also see using this description.
00:16:21.544 - 00:17:03.044, Speaker A: Okay, so now I want to move to this class having even arching groups of FCDI. So, well, first, of course, ideal would be to generalize two arching groups, but in general, this is probably a very, very difficult problem we had already. When one moves from right angular arching groups to arcing groups, many things get really much, much more complicated. And there are many open problems. We even don't know if they are torsion free in general and things like that. So then usually everybody has the favorite. Everybody working in this area has a favorite family of arctic groups.
00:17:03.044 - 00:17:40.672, Speaker A: From some point of view, even acting groups of FC type are close to right angle acting groups, so restricted to them, one can have hope that things get not too much complicated. Anyway. So here, let me just recall the definition of arbitrary arcing groups. I also will use the graph notation in the geometric sense, not in the more classical algebraic sense. It means that I consider a graph. My graph has labels. This label have to be bigger or equal than two.
00:17:40.672 - 00:18:18.794, Speaker A: And then I look at the group generated by these vertices, and I put relators, one relator for each edge. To define the relator, I look at the label. If the label is even to m, say, then I put this relator, and if the label is odds, then I put this every, all the time. I have here a word of length. The label, right. Of course, if everything, if all the labels are choose, then I recover the typical rack presentation. I have a rack.
00:18:18.794 - 00:19:10.468, Speaker A: And if the labels are all even numbers, then this is what we call an even arting graph. What about this Fc type? Assume that whenever you have a click, well, clicks appear already before clicks are full, complete, sorry, complete subgraphs. Right? So if whenever I have a complete subgraph, I look at the subgroup it generates and it's spherical, it means that the associated cox settler group is finite. Then I call my group of type Fc. So here I really have two nice families, and I interceptor. Right? They want groups which are twice nice. It's known, for example, that arctic groups of Fc types satisfy the k by one conjecture.
00:19:10.468 - 00:20:25.654, Speaker A: This was proven by Ruth and Mike. And also one can prove that even arcing groups satisfy the k by one conjecture by separate. They are nice, as I said before. So when you have a group of Fc type, you have the k by one conjecture. And this is something that will be behind some of the proofs of the results I'm going to mention, right, because if you, if the group satisfies the KPI conjecture, then you have a nice model and you can compute things with your group. Okay? So from now on, at least until I talk about the algebras, all my groups are going to be even arching groups of fc type, right? If I just forget to mention, okay, so I said before, right, we can expect them to behave a little bit like rice, but it turns out that even if the easiest possible case you, it's not difficult to find differences. So I would like to just to mention an example, right, the easiest possible example of an even arting group, which is not a rack, is a dihedral parting graph.
00:20:25.654 - 00:21:06.600, Speaker A: In this case, my graph has only two vertices, one edge, and they have, say two m. It really doesn't matter if you put here a four, for example. The problems already happen in that case. So this group can be defined by this presentation. And now we can consider a very easy character, right, we just map b to one and w two minus one. Then one can check that the kernel of this map is the sub group generated by these elements. And here I have to consider every possible integer as exponent.
00:21:06.600 - 00:21:32.464, Speaker A: I cannot get rid of that. There is no way I reduce this to a finite generating system. So this is not finite generated, if you remember. Well, of course it doesn't make much sense to talk about the rack case. Here just would be the free abelian group of rank two, right? Of course every subgroup is going to be finely generated. In that case. Right, here we see that already things get different.
00:21:32.464 - 00:22:31.334, Speaker A: One can prove the same thing using a little bit more sophisticated techniques instead of just computing by brute force, the kernel. So now assume you have an arbitrary discrete character. In this case one can use the presentation to complex, that's a kp one for this group. And then one makes a few computation. And it's not difficult to prove this statement here, whenever you have a character like the character I had before, right? So that the sum of the value on the two vertices is zero. And here, this is interesting. If you are working in a field of characteristic prime and this prime divides m, then the dimension here should be k dimension, right? By the way, the k dimension of this homology group is infinite.
00:22:31.334 - 00:23:05.990, Speaker A: In particular, the kernel is of course not finite generated. Right? But it's interesting to note that it fails precisely in this characteristic, right? If you work in zero characteristics. This is not true, right? This is not true. So there are differences, and this difference happen at prime characteristic. And this prime is related to the label. That's not much surprising. Anyway, so this tells me that if this condition happened, then the group is not in the sigma one, right? Because if it was, the kernel should be finitely generated.
00:23:05.990 - 00:23:47.764, Speaker A: Well, in fact, Meyer, Meiners and Van Big, they prove that this is a complete characterization of the sigma one invariant for this group. And, well, they also proved that, in fact, this, I could have written here any n, because you get the same condition. Yeah, for every n here. But anyway, so this character is not there, but all the other characters are there, right? For all the other characters, the kernel is finitely generated. To prove this result. They use this theorem by themselves. And I would like to mention, because this is also behind some of the things that I will say later.
00:23:47.764 - 00:24:36.172, Speaker A: So assume you have a group, your group is nice, it's FPN, right? You consider the center and you have a character. If you are lucky. And when you restrict the character to the center is not, what you get is not zero, then for free, your character belongs to the sigma. I find this result kind of surprising because it's stronger than I would have expected, right? But in this case it's very useful because we know which is the center of this dihedral group. If you have this dihedral group, it's easy to realize that this element commutes with everything. And from that, well, it's something well known. You can prove that in fact, the center is generated by this element.
00:24:36.172 - 00:25:58.944, Speaker A: So having this condition is the same, but this is an if and only if, right? It's the same as having your character not vanishing in the center, right? So this is, this result explains this phenomenon. Okay, so now for our general arting groups, as I said before, there are many things that we don't know. And for example, I'm not aware of many more results in Delhi charter, apart from, from these two results that I'm putting here. So for example, Maya, Maya van Beek, they were able to prove that if you have a group, an arcing group of FC type here, they don't need the group to be even, by the way, just FC type. So if you have this condition, and here they assume that when you restrict your character to the center of any click, of the sub regenerated by any click, if this is not zero, then they prove that the character is in the sigma here of course, they have to remove the empty case. If you have here the empty click, you have here the trivial subgroup. And always the restriction of the character to the trivial subgroup is zero.
00:25:58.944 - 00:26:46.314, Speaker A: So here is as it has to be, right. Still more difficult, as you see here. Now, we don't have any more full characterization, as we had in the case of rectangle artin groups. That's much more difficult. So, full characterization, I only know in this, in this case, yeah, this is putting together results by Meyer, Meyer, van Beeck and also by Almeida and Kuflukova. They give a, if you have a graph which has this very strong condition, right? This group is trivial or cyclic, then you have full categorization just for sigma one, right? In terms of being connected and dominant. And this is again the living subgraph.
00:26:46.314 - 00:27:43.164, Speaker A: But this is just to let you know, more or less, how is the state of the art. And now I just want to tell you what one can do, having this x hypothesis that the group is even, right? Even and Fc type. So I will introduce a little bit of notation, right? So I assume I have a group and anointing group, which is even, Fc type, and I have a character. So I'm going to consider here. Well, it depends whether you like to think in terms of the graph or in terms of, of the group I gave you here, in terms of the group, but that's not important. So this is like the click poset, or if you like to think in terms of the subgroups, is the posit of spherical subgroups of your arting. Suppose it by containment.
00:27:43.164 - 00:29:09.074, Speaker A: And in here I want just to look at those elements for which, when I restrict my character to the center, is not zero. So, if you remember the hypothesis in the result by. Let me try. Okay, this hypothesis is the same as saying that for any click which is not empty, this is always not zero. So, the hypothesis in the theorem by Meyer, Meiner and van Vick is saying that here you have everything except of the empty click, right? Of course, the empty click is always in p, is never in eight, right? Well, I will tell you in a few minutes why this postset is nice, this eight here, right? But here, let me just observe the following. If you have an even arcing group of Fc type, then whenever you have a clique, the FC type condition tells you that the group generated by that clique is spherical, right? It's finite type, or the coccyte is finite, if you like. But we are also assuming that our groups are even, all the labels are even.
00:29:09.074 - 00:30:05.962, Speaker A: So if you go through the list of spherical arcane groups of the irreducible ones. I mean, almost always you have some odd label, right? So the only way you have to have an irreducible spherical arcing group, which is even is to have a daedal. It's just, you only can have, well, you can have just one vertex or you can have two vertices and label linked by something with even label. And that's it. So the subgroups in B, all of them have to be direct products of or four abelian and some dihedral arcing groups with different labels, right? But it has to have this form, and this is very nice because it means that I'm going to be able to compute the center very easily. In general, to compute the center of an arctic group is a nightmare, right. We don't know how to do that.
00:30:05.962 - 00:30:54.794, Speaker A: But for this very particular family I have here, it's much easier, right, because I understand the center of the diagram. And of course I have this free abelian part which is not creating any problem. So I'm also going to be able to determine which subgroups are in h and we are not in h, because I know the center, I know the character. So this is easy in a sense. Okay, so using this language, I still need to introduce some more notation, but I can give you our first main result. So if you remember in the, in the characterization by Meyer Meiners van Vick, they were using this living graph, right? This is what you get when you start with your graph and remove all the vertices for which the value of the character is zero. Right.
00:30:54.794 - 00:31:52.354, Speaker A: Now I'm going to remove something else. I have to remove more things. What I do is I look at those edges for which the sum of the value of the character in the vertices is zero. Right? I do that only if the label is bigger than two, right? If the label is two, I'm like in the right angle case, and I don't mind, but if the label is bigger than two, I also remove that edge. I leave the vertices, but I remove the edge, right. Of course, if you are in the case of the hypothesis of this theorem I told you about before, I mean, if this happens, then you really, you are not here, there is a guy missing, you are not removing any edge, right? Because this is never happening. But in the general case you might be removing more things.
00:31:52.354 - 00:32:52.302, Speaker A: Okay? So one can prove the following. Assume you have a character. This is an arbitrary character. And then if this condition, which is very much related to this kind of condition about links we are having all the time, if this condition about the link holds, then you get that the character is in the homological invariant. Well, here I'm giving you the homological version of the result, because this is work in progress. We still didn't check everything for the homo topical, right? But I would expect this to be also true, right? So instead of a cyclic having here connected, and instead of the homological version having here the homo topical version, but just to be safe, I only put this version right now here. And also this is just one implication, we don't have a full cartesia, right? We only have it in some cases.
00:32:52.302 - 00:33:37.150, Speaker A: But because again, this is work in progress, I prefer to just leave here with this. But it's done. Yeah, what is finished? So I will say a little bit about the proof, but to illustrate the result, I would like just to discuss a couple of examples. So consider this graph. I have this square, and these numbers in red are the values of a given character, right? So I have this Arden group look observed that this is of Fc type, right? This is spherical and this is spherical two. And there are no other cliques of three vertices. So this is spherical, sorry.
00:33:37.150 - 00:34:50.864, Speaker A: This is Fc type and this is obviously even. And I consider this character here. First I want to picture here this other graph that was in the theorem, right? What I have to do, I have to remove vertices for which the value of the character is zero. I only have one, I remove the vertex and I cannot leave edges without end, right? So I have to remove all the edges ending in my vertex. And I also look for edges for which the sum of the values is zero. I have two of them, but I don't touch this because I have a two, and I have to remove this because I have a four, right? So this is what's left, right? Okay, now I now should understand what is this age, if you remember. Let me go back now, I understood this subgraph here, but now I have to understand the links in this subgraph of those spherical subgroups which are not in h.
00:34:50.864 - 00:35:47.474, Speaker A: Being not in h means that when I restrict to the center, my character vanishes. So here, for example, if you consider ab, this here, right, the center is generated by the product of the two generators, right? So when I restrict a character to the center is zero. But if you consider this three, click. Now the center, we see that this d commutes with a and b, right? So the center is generated by both by the product a, b and d. And because the value in d is not zero, then the restriction to the center is not zero, right? If you, if you go through all the clicks. It's easy to see that there are only three case in which things go wrong, right? It's empty. For the empty, always things are wrong.
00:35:47.474 - 00:36:08.414, Speaker A: Then I have also c, because the value is zero and c. And I have this edge ab. There is nothing else. And now we compute links here, right? Of course, the link of the empty set is always the whole thing. Here there is second Amis print. I'm sorry. Here should be c, right? The link of c.
00:36:08.414 - 00:37:02.946, Speaker A: Here, c is linked to a and d, right? So this is the link I'm looking for. And finally, the link of ab is d, right? So these are my three links. And now, if you remember, it has some condition about these links being spherical and blah, blah, blah. But they are all contractual, right? So I don't have to worry and doesn't matter which degree I put, my character is going to be in the sieve memory. So I get this for free, okay? But things change if I just modify a little bit my graph, right? I just respect to this, I just remove this diagonal thing. I consider the same character, the same everything. But now my surviving graph, so to speak, is disconnected.
00:37:02.946 - 00:37:31.558, Speaker A: And this already makes brown. Right? As before, we have the same situation. These are the only elements for which the restriction to the center is zero. But here, because this link is already not connected, I don't have the condition. The condition does not hold true. And moreover, for this graph, this is one of the cases in which we have the double implication. For this particular graph, we have the cartelization.
00:37:31.558 - 00:38:23.284, Speaker A: Yeah, it's an if. Our theorem for this graph is if and only if, right? So in this case, we deduce this. But this is also related with the fact that here I have only four, which is two times two, and here I also have two times two. The problematic prime is only two. Okay, now, well, I'm not going to make the proof, but just to give you an idea, is based in this beautiful result by minor, right? Well, this is a very typical kind of result in chromology of groups, right? You have a group acting on space. You know something nice about the space and you know something nice about the stabilizer. And then very often you can get back the information for the original group out of these two facts, right? Nice space, nice stabilizer.
00:38:23.284 - 00:39:40.246, Speaker A: And this is one of these examples, right? If I have a space and I assume my space to be n minus one, connected. And now I also assume that when I restrict a character to stabilizers, it behaves well in some sense, right? Then one can prove that the original character is also nice. So, to apply this result, what we need, we need a space, right? We need x, which kind of space x I would like to have. Well, if you remember, we have that result by minor that Meyer van Dyke, sorry that I mentioned before, that if you have a character and you know that the restriction to the center is not zero, then that restriction is in the sigma invariant of the subgroup. So really I would like to have space and space for which stabilizers are things like that, these spherical substance which live in that posit I call h. If I manage to construct a space like this and prove that this is n minus one connected or whatever connected, I will be able to apply this result. This is just the idea.
00:39:40.246 - 00:40:24.054, Speaker A: And how to find x. One can start with the modify the link complex. So here what we can do, we consider the again as before, the positive of spherical. And then we make it a little bit more complicated by considering the coset poset, not just the spherical subgroup, but all the cosets of spherical subgroups. And then I construct the geometric realization. It means that I consider the simplicial complex and which simplexes are given by change in my post. Well, the nice thing is that if your group is of Fc type, this thing is contractible.
00:40:24.054 - 00:40:57.314, Speaker A: And also, obviously my group acts just by translation. And obviously because of the way this is defined stabilizer are just subgroups which are conjugated to some subgroup in pie. So inside p I have my h. And this is where I would like to have the stabilizer in h, nothing p. I can repeat the construction, but for h. And I call this geometric realization x. And this is going to be my x, as you can imagine.
00:40:57.314 - 00:41:49.472, Speaker A: So now what I have, I have that g axiom on both right and x and y. But when it adds action x, it has the stabilizer that I like, right? It has the right stabilizer to apply the theorem. But I know that y is connected, sorry, contractible. And I don't know what happens with x, right? So this is the information I need, how to prove that, or how to give conditions that imply that x is n one connected. When this is something also quite usual, right? You can construct a proper right, a nice filtration that relates these two spaces. And then you can look at the homology of the pairs, just to pass information from one space to the other. And this is precisely what happens here, right here.
00:41:49.472 - 00:43:20.904, Speaker A: I don't want to give you the details, but the point is just that these pairs have homology that you can compute or better, you can describe in terms of precisely these links that we have in the theorem, right? So if the links are cyclic enough, then you can deduce what you want. Okay. Okay, so, well, I would like to say a little bit more about the homology groups just in the discrete case, right? Because I said, as I said before, right? We know that the KP one conjecture is true for these groups. So then one can hope, right, to start with salvetic complex and then make computation and describe in a more precise way the homology of these kernels that I'm looking at. And in fact, this is something to avoid, right? So basically you start with the Salvetti complex, and then if you have a discrete character, you have a cyclic cover of the Salvetti complex associated to this, to this map. And then of course these terms in the cyclic cover you can see as modules for a ring. Which ring, here you have the group ring of the gaussian, right? And ring is just this ring of polynomials.
00:43:20.904 - 00:44:50.914, Speaker A: So just you look at this chain of modules for urine and then compute the homology. It's something you can do in general. But here, if you work, sorry. Okay, okay. Here, if you work in prime characteristics, there are some technicalities that you have to worry about and some, some problems, right? But something which I think is nice is that if you work in a field of zero characteristics, then it looks like if you are in a right angle acting group, right? All these phenomena does not happen anymore, right? In other words, yeah, assume you have an even acting group of Fc type discrete character, and you just, you forget about the general condition FPN, and you only are interested in knowing whether these homology groups are of finite dimension or not. Right? But recall that if you have a group of FPN, the moral groups have to have finite dimension, right? So this is a weaker condition, okay? So in that case you can characterize this precisely in the same tense as in the classical result by Meyer, miner and big four right angle arching groups, right? So in a sense, in zero characteristics, things are easier. And these groups behave as one could expect for right angle arching groups.
00:44:50.914 - 00:45:30.224, Speaker A: Well, what we do, because we did more or less all this computation, at least in some cases, we give a more explicit result describing them. As I said before, we have this ring. All the terms in the complex are modules for this ring. So the homology groups also are. My ring is a principal ideal domain. So if I want to understand the modules, I have to understand the free part and the torsion part. The free part behaves as in the right angle case, this is also, this results also known for rectangular.
00:45:30.224 - 00:46:15.042, Speaker A: And then you have also the torsion part. And the torsion part is. Well, here there are maybe too many details, but just I would like to mention that the torsion part is related to integers that divide the values of your character and also things that divide the labels. Right. Here you get like a richer structure because the labels also give to some torsion. Okay, so, well, just very briefly, I will tell you a few words about the case of li algebra. So here I'm only thinking about the right angle case.
00:46:15.042 - 00:46:49.374, Speaker A: Right. So a lie algebra, you can define right angle the algebras in the same way as you do for groups. For groups, your relators are commutators. For the algebras, you just use the lie bracket and define things in the same way. Or another way to define these algebras is just look at the central series of rectangular thing, group a gamma. Precisely what you get is the same thing. This is maybe from the group theory point of view, this is kind of more nature.
00:46:49.374 - 00:47:11.666, Speaker A: Okay, so this is part of the project that I did with the Slavakuklukova. So we were wondering. Yeah. Whether one can generalize things to the algebras. The problem is that for the algebras, we don't have sigma theory. And there are very powerful results in sigma theory, which are behind all the proofs that I was talking about before. And we don't have this here.
00:47:11.666 - 00:47:45.706, Speaker A: So when you want to translation results from groups to the algebra, sometimes what you do basically is to linearize everything. Sometimes you expect things to get even easier because we have the idea that linear things are easier. But of course, you don't have spaces. And that's a big problem because you have to compute all the resolution somehow by hand. But very often it's like you can see the phenomena in groups. When you understand it in the group, you can translate it to the, to the Li algebra. This FPN condition for li algebras is defined in the same way.
00:47:45.706 - 00:48:15.764, Speaker A: It's only that in groups they have group rings, group algebras. And here I have something which is called the universal developing algebra. But yes, this is just the end of my talk. Just to tell you that for lie algebra, things behave in the same way. Yeah. For right angle l algebras, we have exactly the same kind of condition that we have for, for groups. And, well, probably this is not surprising, but it is a little bit.
00:48:15.764 - 00:48:41.464, Speaker A: Yeah. Because somehow for li algebras, because things are linear, you have more freedom. Yeah. So you can expect sometimes to have some things happening that you don't have for groups, so it's not always the case that things translate so easily. Okay, so I think that's my last. I didn't have time to add a thank you slide at the end, so thank you very much. And that's all I stop here.
00:48:41.464 - 00:48:47.764, Speaker A: Thank you very much, conchita, and let's unmute and thank our speaker.
