00:00:00.400 - 00:00:23.862, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 23 March 2021. Alright, guys, let's get into it. So just a quick shout out here. I put this out on Twitter just before, but basically, if you haven't visited the ethereum.org website lately, I highly recommend that you do. There is so many resources and so much information on that website now.
00:00:23.862 - 00:00:44.874, Speaker A: It's actually incredible. And it's a beautifully designed website, too. I mean, I can open it up here to give you guys a bit of a. Bit of an overview, right? A bit of a teaser. I mean, I think I've shown it on the refill before, basically. But, you know, the website's also available in a bunch of different languages. You can see here this, it's not just English, you know, it's basically, I think, native translations for these languages and all these sorts of things.
00:00:44.874 - 00:01:21.230, Speaker A: And then, yeah, I mean, there's so much info you can click learn up here and learn about basically anything. And it's not just, you know, kind of like your standard info. They've actually got like a ton of stuff in here, especially geared at kind of like newbies as well, and kind of like let you click through to exploring Defi apps if you're in the defi section and stuff like that. I mean, this is awesome, right? I mean, it's absolutely incredible. And, you know, if you haven't been on it lately, you definitely should. And on that note, actually, it's funny because there's a bit of history here with, with ethereum.org. I think up until recently, this is only a recent thing, maybe the last couple years or so, that the redesign kind of happened.
00:01:21.230 - 00:01:52.186, Speaker A: But up until then, the ethereum.org website was still kind of like what it was from 2014, I think. So it didn't get updated for quite a while, and it had a bunch of like outdated information on it, didn't have kind of like any of the new information. And that's actually one of the major reasons why Ethub was started, is because, you know, people kept kind of like saying, you know, I need to update this website, need to get it done. And it didn't get done for a while, obviously, it's gotten done now. But, you know, to fill that kind of void in that hole, Eric and I started Ethub. That's one of the major reasons we did.
00:01:52.186 - 00:02:22.668, Speaker A: And kind of like, I guess like since then, their website's been updated here. They actually use Ethub's information to kind of relay off this site and kind of link to and things like that, which is really cool. But yeah, just a really, really cool thing to say that this website got the love that it deserved. Because this is the first thing new people see when they search Ethereum. Like the first Google result, the last time I checked at least, is ethereum.org dot. So, you know, we didn't want to be funneling the newer people into an old kind of website that still mentioned, like the term world computer that no one uses in Ethereum anymore.
00:02:22.668 - 00:02:51.192, Speaker A: So the fact that they've got a really, really great resource here to learn from and it's available in many different languages is just really positive. So, yeah, kudos to the ethereum.org team for this. I think it's really important. And, you know, I really like what they've done here. So I think the biggest bit of, I guess, like, news today was Uniswap put out a Uniswap v three teaser on their Twitter profile. Now, you know, uniswap v three is the most hyped thing ever at this point.
00:02:51.192 - 00:03:22.018, Speaker A: You know, I don't think you could get any more hype than this. I mean, look at the engagement on this, like over 500,000 views, over 10,000 likes. You know, it's very rare for an ethereum kind of related tweet or to get. To get this much engagement, but it's absolutely, you know, amazing how much engagement this got. And that's because Uniswap has such a kind of like big brand awareness behind it. Right. You know, everyone knows that, especially because the uni airdrop is basically some of the best airdrops ever in the ethereum ecosystem because so many people got it.
00:03:22.018 - 00:03:54.254, Speaker A: But basically they did this whole video and teased v three, which was quite cool. I mean, at this point, it's like, are they just going to release it this week? Because if they're releasing this today or yesterday, sorry, which was Monday, you know, can we expect them to release v three this week? They also had like, I mean, you can see it here in the video. There's a teaser and they tease some logos here. The pig is actually teasing Unipig, which is a L2 demo they did a couple years ago with optimism. So they're teasing that there's a red fox here, which I assume is metamask. And there's another logo here, which is actually for cyborg.org, which is like a governance related website.
00:03:54.254 - 00:04:23.404, Speaker A: So, and at the end, they spell, like, v three out in the stars and stuff. I'm sure you all saw this, this teaser, but, yeah, I mean, I think we can expect v three any day now. And, I mean, I don't know if it's going to live up to the hype. I've said, you know what? I. What? I think that will live up to the hype if they do kind of a dual kind of release on layer one and L2. So obviously put v three on layer one and then have it on optimism's L2 as well. I kind of have a theory that may play out that the Univ three is ready, right.
00:04:23.404 - 00:04:48.900, Speaker A: It's ready to go, but they're waiting on optimism to kind of release their main net before they. Before they release Univ. Three. So they are very close with the optimism team, like the Uniswap team and Uniswap's main backup paradigm, main investor paradigm is also very close with both teams. And they, you know, the paradigm isn't just like an investment fund. They have, like, some of the smartest people working there. So they obviously help a lot with, with different sorts of things here.
00:04:48.900 - 00:05:20.920, Speaker A: But, yeah, I guess, you know, from, from this kind of note here, I would say that Uni v three is dropping any day now. You know, it may, it may even drop, like before you watch this video. I don't know, maybe it drops today. Who knows? But I think, you know, they wouldn't put this teaser out like this if it wasn't dropping soon because if you remember back to when Hayden teased the uni token, it was six days before it released. So he teased it on Twitter, he said, pretty colors and posted a picture of kind of like a logo of the uni token. And then six days later, the unitoken was live. So maybe, you know, I guess maybe it takes six days.
00:05:20.920 - 00:05:39.482, Speaker A: Maybe it takes till next week, but I would expect v three to go live any day now. And, I mean, just get it over and done with, right? We've been. We've been kind of like, I guess, awaiting this for so long now. Hayden keeps hyping it up. Everyone keeps hyping it up. There was a meme on Twitter today about, you know, what v three does and what it enables. So, yeah, we'll see how.
00:05:39.482 - 00:06:11.494, Speaker A: We'll see how this goes for sure. So Alpha Finance announced today that their alpha token tokenomics, the staking and more will be launching in the coming days. Now, this has been in the works for quite a while. I think this has been quite hyped up as well. And basically, you know, this, this, this kind of token becomes productive. Now, the alpha token, very productive within the alpha system. And you can use it for different sorts of things on layer one and L2 and different chains and sort of things here as well across their various products and stuff like that.
00:06:11.494 - 00:06:32.692, Speaker A: And you know, depending on. And there's also kind of like alpha tiers as well. So depending on how many alpha tokens you stake, you'll be in one of the five alpha tiers. The more you stake, obviously the higher tier tier you will be in. And then you can unlock unique features and kind of like unique, unique products within the alpha finance system. So yeah, yeah. Cool to see more experimentation being done on the token side of things.
00:06:32.692 - 00:07:13.206, Speaker A: You know, there's a lot of teams doing tokens these days, but a lot of the tokens leave much to the imagination. You know, a lot of people just say, okay, governance, token, fee, capture token. That's it, right? When there's so many different things we can do with tokens. I mean, one of my favorite token designs is actually Arvair and how they do different things. Like, you know, you're staking it, right, to earn fees on the, on the platform, but you're also acting as an insurance pool. So to Aave token stake, act as like an insurance pool. So yes, you're getting the reward, but you're also taking on the risk that your assets may be sold if the platform, I guess, essentially loses money for some reason or becomes under collateralized or be, or needs to kind of recolateralize or get more liquidity into the system.
00:07:13.206 - 00:07:48.296, Speaker A: So yeah, I really do like Avo's mechanism then. I think a lot of tokens are trending towards that over time. You know, it's funny because there are some tokens that just won't change like MKR. I actually think MKR is a funny thing because the MKR buy and burn mechanism actually makes a lot of sense because it puts constant pressure on the MKR token, you know, from, from maker system revenue. But a lot of people don't like buy and burn. What they do like is stake and earn. So you can imagine if maker had a kind of, I guess, option for you to stake your MKR tokens and then earn the system revenue like that, instead of going and buying and burning MKR.
00:07:48.296 - 00:08:16.760, Speaker A: I actually think that that would be a better thing than buy and burn. Because when you think about it with a buy and burn, there's no token lockup, right? There's this, the tokens are free kind of trading. They're on exchanges, they're in people's wallets, whatever, right? They're always liquid. Whereas if you did like a lock up, what kind of like, I guess what curve does where you lock up tokens and depending on how long you lock up, you get more system revenue, right. All these sorts of things. I think that is the better model. And I think that's what kind of like Alpha is doing.
00:08:16.760 - 00:08:45.674, Speaker A: Yeah, that's kind of what like Ave Ave is doing with that. With the lockup. Another lockup, sorry, the staking. Um, and you know, it's shown in the markets, right? Like Maker isn't, you know, I guess a low cap coin, it's like two or $3 billion. But I think that it would have an even much higher market cap considering how much system revenue it generates if they were a stake and earn model. But maybe that doesn't matter in the long run. Maybe, you know, eventually we have enough people coming in who are like, wow, this, this protocol is generating so much revenue and it's going and burning its token.
00:08:45.674 - 00:09:39.190, Speaker A: Like, let's, let's get some of this. So yeah, we'll see how that plays out. But, you know, I'll link this thread on Alpha's token that you can find in the YouTube description, so you can go read the whole thread for yourself. So the documenting Ethereum account on Twitter, which I recommend following, by the way, put out this tweet, and it was quoting Santiago from Power five capital I've spoken about before, but basically what he said on, I think he was on a podcast, he said Ethereum is a perpetual call option on human creativity and innovation. And I mean, I couldn't have said this better myself. You know, if you're betting on Ethereum and you're buying ETH, you're buying different kind of like tokens of Ethereum based projects and things like that. You're betting that Ethereum, you know, it keeps innovating, right? Keeps growing, keeps, I guess, like coming up with all these kind of new ideas of how to, I guess, improve the Ethereum protocol itself, but also improve the different apps, you know, scale up to, you know, billions of users.
00:09:39.190 - 00:10:24.392, Speaker A: I mean, we're not even at millions of daily active users for kind of, I guess, like DeFi product protocols at this point. Not even close. So when you take that into account, right, it's kind of hard not to be bullish because if you really do believe that Ethereum is going to deliver all this value, DeFi is going to take over the traditional finance system and replace it, then how can you not be bullish at this point? So, you know, and you basically, yeah, by, by being in Ethereum and by betting on ETH, you are kind of like, you do have this call option on human creativity and innovation. So I thought that was just a very kind of like powerful way to put it. And, and it's exactly been my thesis for a lot of the years on Ethereum and ETH. And, you know, a big part of my thesis has been the developer ecosystem, which falls into that because the developers are the one ones mostly who come up with the innovation. Right.
00:10:24.392 - 00:10:53.444, Speaker A: And the human creativity. But we also have a lot of creativity in the NFT space, for example, too. Right. So, you know, I think just betting on all of that happening on Ethereum is, is a good bet to make and you won't regret it. I think at the end of the day, you know, I know, I don't. So, hot protocol officially announced, I guess, like, I mean, I don't know if they were like in fully full stealth. I remember they had a white paper that they released, but they've kind of announced that the, you know, their protocol is being audited and will be live on Mainnet next month.
00:10:53.444 - 00:11:27.840, Speaker A: Now, for those who don't know, hot protocol is going to be a protocol for sending tokens across different roll ups, aka L2s on Ethereum and different layer one networks. So this, they're going to be supporting optimism, arbitrum, polygon and xdai starting next month. So, you know, I know that Connext is doing this as well. And I'm going to talk about Kinect in a sec, but this is just another team kind of focusing on this. And this is actually the team behind autherium, which is an ethereum wallet that some of you may be familiar with. But I mean, it's good to see these solutions coming out. You know, I've kind of gone over the different solutions now.
00:11:27.840 - 00:12:14.048, Speaker A: You know, I remember showing you guys that make the Makerdao community came up with an optimism. Bridge to bridge from like, I guess, L2 to layer one in a very fast kind of manner. Arbitrary is using connects, networks, technology. You know, there is, um, there is also, I think, like some other tools out there right now that are maybe in Alpha that are kind of live but hot protocols, just another one that kind of goes into the, you know, puts the hat in the ring here, because this is, this is a critical issue, right? A critical problem where we need to open these lines of communication between a different. The different L2s and the different, I guess, quote, unquote side chains, so liquidity can flow freely through all of these stuff and through the Ethereum layer one network as well, and that the users don't have to worry about it. So, yeah, really cool to see this from hot protocol. And, you know, on that note, Connext actually announced today that they've.
00:12:14.048 - 00:12:38.558, Speaker A: Yesterday, sorry. That they raised the $2.2 million seed round led by some big investors, polychain Capital one, KX Network, hobby Global, and I think a bunch of different kind of angels as well. So, yeah, I mean, Kinex is doing something similar to. To hot protocol, but they've been doing it for. For a while now. I think they've been doing it for about four years, where they want to bridge all the different chains together, all the different l two s together.
00:12:38.558 - 00:13:29.116, Speaker A: And they have. I think they have a bunch of stuff going live to us going live soon as well in terms of, like, cross chain exchanges, cross chain bridges, you know, all this sort of good stuff. And, you know, you may be thinking, is this, does this include, like, other layer one blockchains? Right? And yes, it does, because Polygon and at least matic network and XDai are, like, separate layer one blockchains, even though we call them side chains. They have their own validator set sort of thing. So from that. From that perspective, yes, but also they'll be able to breach, like, any EVM compatible network. So you might have seen this term flying around, and there's a bunch of them, right? I mean, BSc has had so much kind of, like, I guess, growth, you could call it, or kind of like users moving over, because it's just very easy for BSc to copy anything in Ethereum because it's EVM compatible.
00:13:29.116 - 00:14:03.426, Speaker A: Same with, I think, Phantom as well, that Andre's been talking about. And there's a bunch of other networks here that are all EVM compatible. But at the end of the day, I mean, I do think the L2 ecosystem is going to win out, you know, in the end state. So we still need this for the L2 system, even though there's bridges between the EVM chains. Even if the EVM chains, you know, besides Ethereum, just die out, which there's a very real possibility that they do, we're still gonna have this technology for L2s, you know, communication between the different L2s, fast communication between L2 and layer one, which is sorely needed. It's a huge problem. I mean, a huge thing that needs to be solved.
00:14:03.426 - 00:14:41.986, Speaker A: And I'm glad to have multiple teams working on it, not just one, because, you know, if we only have one team working on it, then, you know, there's, it's a lot slower to get things done. You know, there's no competition. There's no kind of like fire under there asses, so to speak, to get them to get to mainnet and things like that. So I think now that there's competing standards here and people have realized that, I guess the winner of the, or at least like the project that takes the most market share here in the bridging world is going to do very well. So I think that's why we're seeing this kind of like resurgence here of these kind of technologies, because now's the time that we need them, basically. And, you know, Connex is hiring, so if you want to go join, you can go to jobs dot connects.net work.
00:14:41.986 - 00:15:08.858, Speaker A: And I actually think hot protocol may be hiring as well. Uh, yes, join the team. You can reach out to them. So, yeah, these are both hiring. I mean, pretty much everyone's hiring right now. So, you know, if you, if you don't have a job in crypto, and actually wrote about this yesterday in the Daily Way newsletter, there's never been a better time to, to work in crypto, especially ethereum ecosystem, than there is right now. So if that's something you're interested in, you can go and, and, you know, literally any team or every team right now in the ethereum ecosystem is hiring.
00:15:08.858 - 00:15:49.084, Speaker A: So there's no shortage of roles there. So the Ethereum foundation ecosystem support program put out their Q 420 20 allocation update. So they ended up paying a bunch of different grants to a bunch of different teams. So you can see here that there's a lot of community and education that got funded here, like the Truffle suite they sponsored Trufflecon 2020 virtual developer conference. You know, I mean, there's so much here, cryptography and zero knowledge proof research. And I mean, look at it. Look at this list, right? There's just so many people that got funded from the Ethereum foundations, which is really cool, including ETH one x work and Ethereum two dot I work and kind of like developer experience and tooling.
00:15:49.084 - 00:16:35.302, Speaker A: So yeah, really cool to see this. Obviously this will be linked in the description. You can go check it out and see kind of like what teams got what and see, you know, what it's all about because I think, you know, these grants are all well and good, but you want to, I mean, I'm sure that the support program knows what they're doing and knows who they're giving the grants to and everything. And they've been doing this for quite a while now, but it's always good to kind of like, I guess go through and see kind of like who's been given the money and like the total given away was over $4 million. So you definitely want to see, you know, who's been given the money, what their projects are doing, how you can maybe help. As I said, lots of projects hiring right now, and even if you're not looking for a full time gig, you can probably jump into any number of projects as just part time or casually and help out, maybe get paid some tokens, if they've got a token or something like that. Or if you just want to do it for free, you can do that too.
00:16:35.302 - 00:17:23.284, Speaker A: So definitely a lot to do right now in the Ethereum ecosystem. So Justin Drake continues his I guess I wouldn't call it shilling, but I guess like memeing with the ultrasound money thesis, and you may have listened to the bankless podcast yesterday with Justin Drake. If you haven't yet, I highly recommend going listening to it. It's, I think it's about 2 hours of like pure Bliss, pure Ethereum bullishness, pure ETH bullishness around this ultrasound money thesis. Now, I mean, I've explained it before, it's basically the thesis that ETH supply is going to become deflationary due to the fee burn. And what Justin Drake is doing here with this, with this chart is he's basically mapping out kind of like the ETH per day that would be burned with EIP 1559 and kind of like what sound barriers where we're going to be breaking. And these are kind of a little bit arbitrary, I think.
00:17:23.284 - 00:18:09.566, Speaker A: But he's put them on this chart where he says going to be, we've already broken ultra ultra mark one and then ultra mark two we've done as well. And then we're on to ultra mark three. And ultramark two basically means burning over 6000 ETH per day if ERP 155 numbers implemented, which it will be soon, of course. And I mean, yeah, I've spoken about this a lot on the refuel right, where I think that eventually we're going to get to a day where billions of dollars of fees are paid and that so much ETH is being burnt that ETH just becomes like such a, an awesome deflationary kind of asset here. But you know, he does make some assumptions here as well on the bottom left, you can't see because my camera is blocking it. But he assumes that 20 million ETH is staked and there's a 70% fee burn. So if 20 million ETH is staked, I actually think that the issuance goes up to maybe 0.80.9%
00:18:09.566 - 00:18:42.714, Speaker A: on ETH two. And then he's assuming that there's a 70% fee burn here. So if 70% of all the fees are burned, we could still get to a point where we're actually burning more than we're issuing each day, which means, you know, it becomes this deflationary asset, aka ultrasound money, which is really, really cool. So, yeah, as I said, I highly recommend going and what? Listening? Sorry. And watching, actually, there's a video to the Justin Drake podcast slash YouTube video with bankless, because he explains this thesis. I mean, he goes deep on this sort of stuff, and he uses so many analogies that I really, really liked. But.
00:18:42.714 - 00:19:29.014, Speaker A: But basically, I think, you know, this is something that a lot of people are still sleeping on. I know I talk about it to you guys a lot on here, but, you know, I don't reach, like, tens of thousands of people. Right, or hundreds of thousands of people. And I think that eventually, when more people clue into this and clue into, you know, how ETH is going to become a deflationary asset, they're going to realize that it's like, why aren't I kind of like, why don't I own ETH? Sort of thing? And that's been a big part of my thesis on ETH as an asset for a long time, is that the information asymmetry is pretty bad where, you know, a lot of people don't have the information available to them right now about ETH. They still think it's like an uncapped shitcoin, so to speak, where I think they couldn't be more wrong by that. But the only way, I think, to convince people is to just show them over time, right? Once we get fee burning in, we're going to be showing that we're burning fees. I mean, right on mainnet, there's.
00:19:29.014 - 00:20:01.842, Speaker A: There's. There's on chain proof of this, and then when the merger happens, we're going to be showing that we're potentially, you know, and I think there's a high chance we're going to be burning more fees that are being issued each day. Now, can you imagine the kind of headlines that that's going to, you know, generate, especially the mainstream media? I do think the mainstream media will cover it too, because they already have covered ERP 15 because it's such a popular thing, thing to talk about. But basically, you know, there's no denying it at that point. You know, not even bitcoin can hold the candles there and say, oh, we've got. We've got a cap supply and. But it won't be, you know, fully capped until 21 40.
00:20:01.842 - 00:20:25.894, Speaker A: Right. But then we can say, well, we're burning more ethan. We're issuing each, each day now or each month or each year. Right. Which means we're a deflationary token, which means where we're basically on our way to being more scarce than. Than bitcoin or already more scarce than bitcoin. So, not to say that it's a zero sum game, but I do think that once more people realize this, and once, once more we will realize that at one point, there's just not going to be enough ETH for everyone.
00:20:25.894 - 00:20:48.306, Speaker A: Right. There's going to be ethan in ETH two that's perpetually locked in, you know, in there for, you know, a long, long time. I mean, I have a stash. I'm gonna, you know, I haven't put all, like, most of that stash into ETH two yet because of the long kind of arm lock up I put. I. I do have some, obviously, staking, but, you know, when we have the merge and everything, I'm planning to put like this, this perma east stash just in staking, right. And that's just gonna earn me some.
00:20:48.306 - 00:20:59.354, Speaker A: Some passive income and stuff like that. And then obviously I'll earn fees out of that, too. Not just the issuance, but or at least bit of some of the fees. Right. Not all the fees because some of them will be burned. But, you know, there's that. Then there's the.
00:20:59.354 - 00:21:16.398, Speaker A: The public companies gobbling up ETH, right. Then there's also defi. Gobbling up ETH, right. And then just people holding it in cold storage. There's so much of that going on. I don't know. I just, you know, I know the price action's been a little bit shitty lately, but, like, this is just short term stuff.
00:21:16.398 - 00:21:52.038, Speaker A: Long term, it's incredibly bullish. So, yeah, I'm glad to see Justin Drake pushing on this ultrasound money thesis. And obviously, the bankless guys do it a lot, too. And I've been tweeting a little bit about it because I think more people need to be aware of this. And, you know, I do want to do a video on this at one point, basically kind of like, breaking this down for people in plain English that kind of anyone can understand, because I do think sometimes it's hard to understand some of the stuff that we talk about in Ethereum or most of the stuff that we talk about. So breaking it down into like, bite sized chunks where people can actually get a grip of what, what's happening here, I think is very important. So ether scan added a new feature today.
00:21:52.038 - 00:22:16.310, Speaker A: Basically, you can now see the minimum or maximum amount of tokens you will receive in a uniswap or sushi swap trade and when the swap will expire in the kind of pending transaction view. So you can see here that while the transaction is pending, you know, you can see it on the bottom, it says, swap 53 uni for 12.9 torn. Oh, sorry. For at least 12.9 torn. So it would say it says to you, get at least 12.9
00:22:16.310 - 00:22:50.132, Speaker A: and then the swap will expire at this time here. So just another quality of life feature that Etherscan has added here. They are the absolute best. I mean, Etherscan is free. Obviously there's ads on there, but it's free, right? I mean, even if they charged a monthly subscription fee to use it, I would pay it. I mean, I use etherscan every single day, you know, without fail, because, I mean, I'm pretty sure we all do, right? You know, even if we're not doing transactions, we still look at other people's transactions, we still look at our addresses, we still look at our balances and things like that. Yes, there's pretty dashboards for all that stuff, but a lot of those dashboards won't show you the kind of details of different transactions.
00:22:50.132 - 00:23:15.198, Speaker A: Right. And obviously, etherscan helps a lot for tax purposes, too, to work out how much you kind of owe there. But, yeah, I mean, I just. I can't believe how much of Etherscan is just like, sorry, how many features Etherscan has considering it's free. Just amazing. So, yeah, definitely a welcome kind of quality of life improvement here. So Arthur Zero X put out a really great tweet thread just before where he took a data focused look on ETH.
00:23:15.198 - 00:23:49.890, Speaker A: And, and he goes and says that ETH role within the ethereum ecosystem is becoming more significant over time and currently being used as a non speculative asset more than ever. And he put together a mini thread here. He basically said that the amount of ETH sitting on centralized exchanges has reached the lowest level in the last 19 months. And I remember talking to you guys about this in the context of the ETH kind of going into smart contracts here and I actually wrote about this on. On the deliberate newsletter, but I also spoke about it on the refuel. And as you can see on this chart, Ethan Smart contracts has just rocketed up since kind of like Defi summer. Right? And exchange balance has gone down because of that, and also because people are withdrawing to cold storage and things like that.
00:23:49.890 - 00:24:16.480, Speaker A: You know, this smart contract balance, this doesn't just include Defi. It includes the gnosis safe multi sig wallet, which I believe has over a billion dollars worth of ETH in it right now. So there's that. And then he also, you know, says that the amount of ETH locked in ETH two is at 3.56 million, but increasing steadily. You know, it's kind of like flattened out here, but it's still increasing, you know, steadily over time. And obviously, once we have the merger in, that's just going to increase even more because there won't be a kind of lockup anymore there.
00:24:16.480 - 00:24:47.094, Speaker A: And that represents 3% of ETH supply. And then he goes on to say all about all of the above. Combined with the implementation of ERP 1559, an accelerated timeline of proof of stake merging should further increase the value of ETH. The future of ether looks bright to me, and, I mean, same with me. Like, I just. I mean, I just spoke about kind of like Justin Drake's ultrasound money thesis here and why the future of ETH looks kind of, kind of very bright from that perspective, or at least from like a, I guess, scarcity slash issuance perspective. But I would also say it looks bright from a utility perspective.
00:24:47.094 - 00:24:54.798, Speaker A: Right. Because it's just. It's being used to power defi. There is 9.3 million, Ethan. They're being used as collateral, as exchange pairs, you know, as. As.
00:24:54.798 - 00:25:12.434, Speaker A: As money. You know, the NFT six NFT ecosystem is powered by ETH, priced in ETH. You know, you know, a lot of. Sorry. Obviously, ETH two is powered by ethanol. I mean, there's so much going on right now and the fees being paid, too. Like, with ETH as an asset, it is just so amazing, like how.
00:25:12.434 - 00:25:43.214, Speaker A: How many different roles it has and how much demand there is for this asset that I just can't help but believe that the, you know, the same as Arthur here, that the future is extremely bright. We have so much to look forward to when it comes to not only the Ethereum as a platform, but ETH as an asset. And as more and more time goes on, I believe more and more people are going to clue into this and they're going to realize that what they've been sleeping on is this amazing asset. Because every time I explain this to someone one on one, they're like, holy shit, I had no idea. Right? Because this, as I said, this isn't. I've said this before on the refill. Sorry.
00:25:43.214 - 00:26:02.706, Speaker A: Where. This is not something that is easy to explain, like the. Like the bitcoin kind of thesis, because you can say to people, well, bitcoin supply is capped at 21 million. It halves every four years. And here's the current issuance rate, right. With ETH, there's so much moving parts right now. I know it's, you know, people hate the moving parts, but I actually think it's a positive thing.
00:26:02.706 - 00:26:36.776, Speaker A: But basically, right, you have to say to people, okay, well, each supply isn't capped, right? Each supply will never be capped. Its current issuance is 4% on proof of work. But then when we move into proof of stake, it'll be under 1%. And then we have this thing called ERP 1559 that's coming in that's going to burn ETH. And then eventually, you know, we're going to burn more ethan is being issued when the merger happens with ETH two. And then, you know, we're going to get to a point where ETH deflationary and then all of that, they're just like, okay. You know, especially if they're newer to the ecosystem, they're going to be like, okay, well, explain all of those steps to me again, because each one of those steps requires a full explanation.
00:26:36.776 - 00:26:59.760, Speaker A: But if you have people that are already in the ecosystem and have. Have at least surface level knowledge of this, they do kind of get it straight away from my experience, which I think is really important. And that's why I kind of keep bringing it up on the refuel, too, because I know there's a lot of you guys who may be newer to the ecosystem that are watching or may not know about this kind of, I guess, monetary policy plan for ETH in the future. And. And I just. I think it's important to keep. Keep you all informed.
00:26:59.760 - 00:27:20.784, Speaker A: So, yeah, great thread from Arthur here, and if you're not following him on Twitter yet, you're missing out. He does a lot of great threads, and he's. I've said it before, but he's one of my favorite investors in this space. He takes a very, very long term look on things. He has great ways of looking at different kind of defi tokens and things like that. So, yeah, you're missing out if you're not following him. But I assume most of you would be following him at this point.
00:27:20.784 - 00:27:32.188, Speaker A: So. Yeah. Alright everyone, that's it for today. Thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to that channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Join the Discord Channel, subscribe to the newsletter and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:27:32.188 - 00:27:32.644, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
