00:00:01.800 - 00:00:56.450, Speaker A: Hey everyone, how's it going? My name is Liz and I'm the head of growth at Azuki and I'm also a contributor at Anime Chain which is from the Anime Coin foundation where I'm a contributor. And Azuki and Anime Coin foundation are partnered together. So today I want to talk to you about how anime chain is going to onboard millions of anime fans into crypto. Animate chain will be built on Arbitrum. But overall, arbitrum is the leading l two on ethereum by TvL, primarily driven by Defi. And here are some of the really interesting and innovative defi use cases that you can see on arbitrum today. However, for any l two ecosystem to remain dominant, they have to offer a wide array of different use cases.
00:00:56.450 - 00:01:18.434, Speaker A: The way I like to think about it is like this. I live in New York City. New York City is the most visited city in the United States. And the reason for that is because there's something for everyone. There's Wall street, which is the financial engine of the city. There are wonderful museums and art galleries. There are amazing restaurants and bars.
00:01:18.434 - 00:01:58.926, Speaker A: And it's just very, very rich and diverse of a city. In contrast, if you look at other major cities in the United States they're really defined by one sector. So Washington DC for politics, entertainment for LA, San Francisco for tech. So stated differently, New York City is the most visited city because there's a lot of things to offer. And I do think this is a parallel for ethereum l two ecosystems as well. So that brings us here today to Azuki. So for those of us who aren't familiar Azuki began as an NFT collection of 10,000.
00:01:58.926 - 00:02:30.012, Speaker A: But our vision and roadmap has expanded out to become a lot more than that. Namely, we're looking to bring the anime industry on chain. A few facts and figures about Azuki. We've generated $70 million in primary sales. We have over $1 billion in secondary trading volume. We have over a million followers across social channels most of whom actually don't even know that we're a crypto project. They simply like the art.
00:02:30.012 - 00:03:23.870, Speaker A: And we have 28,000 holders all around the world but concentrated in APAC, the United States and Europe. Azuki has three core IP collections. That's Azuki, our flagship collection beans, our companion collection and elementals, which expands the Azuki universe. And we also have community driven IP. So we fractionalized one Azuki into 50,000 parts and the holders of those tokens can put forth proposals and vote upon them. And one of my favorite proposals that was passed on the Bobu side was that in the crypto space, we often talk about Wen moon. In Bobu's case, we actually literally sent him into space on a ledger in a real SpaceX rocket on an actual NASA mission.
00:03:23.870 - 00:04:09.050, Speaker A: I want to talk a little bit about the Azuki community. We have a very special, very passionate, very global community, and I think what makes them really special as well is that they're really creative. So they create lots of work of fan art, they create animations and so on. And to date, since Suzuki has been started in around two years, we've generated around 10,000 works of fan art. In addition, our community, they manufacture toys and apparel. They organize meetup, they create their own food and bev, they've started their own businesses. And it really adds to the rich cultural fabric that is Azuki.
00:04:09.050 - 00:05:27.890, Speaker A: We also have something that we like to call sub communities, which are clubs within the community. So this can be organized by geography, this can be organized by NFT attribute, it can be organized by interest. We have Azuki watch Club for luxury watch aficionados, Azuki Fitness Club for fitness enthusiasts, and many, many more such cases, such as Queer zuki, which is the organization for lgbt holders, and we have one for women as well. We've launched a lot of really trailblazing partnerships, primarily on the web two side. So, for example, I spearheaded a partnership with the Formula One team, Red Bull Racing, where we put an azuki on the chassis of the race car that was driven by Max Verstappen and Checo Perez during the 2022 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. And I know in the crypto space, when you see things like that, you're like, well, how much do they spend on that sponsorship? But actually, for Azuki, we were able to get the Azuki on the car for free. And if you watch the Netflix show drive to survive, you can actually see the Azuki on the car showing millions of Netflix subscribers and exposing them to our ip.
00:05:27.890 - 00:06:32.490, Speaker A: We've also spearheaded a partnership with line friends. So line friends are the mascot of the line messaging app, which is the dominant messaging app used in regions like Taiwan, Thailand, and Japan. And we created a line of merchandise that actually onboarded people from the web two side into web3, and we had a full store takeover of the line Friends flagship store in Gangnam, Seoul. In addition, we've also had a partnership with Ambush, which is a japanese streetwear brand. We've also had a partnership with Bilibili, which is the YouTube of China. We've also had Azuki visuals in Coachella during a k pop concert as well. I know there's a misconception out there that NFT teams are not technical, but three out of four of our founders are developers, and there are a lot of really interesting things that we've been able to do on the technical side.
00:06:32.490 - 00:07:33.760, Speaker A: So for example, we innovated this new standard called PBT, or physical backed token, which bridges digital and physical together. So what that means, for example, is that in my previous slide, I talked about ambush, which is a streetwear company that we partnered with. So we created a line of custom hoodies in two colorways. Every unit in the same colorway looks the same, but because there's an NFC chip that you can scan with your phone, you can mint an NFT that has a huge array of possibilities. So I call this the second unboxing, because the first unboxing is that you see the physical item, and the second unboxing is you see what NFt you got. And what we've seen seen in the secondary markets is that although the hoodies look identical depending on what NFT they're associated with, they can actually command different price points. In addition, we also pioneered ERC 721 A, which is a gas optimized contract.
00:07:33.760 - 00:08:31.528, Speaker A: And we see other projects in the space using this, like adidas and doodles. We're also working with top talent within the anime industry. So we're working with Densou, who created Attack on Titan. They also co produced a lot of the studio Ghibli films like Howl's moving Castle, Spirited Away, Princess Mononoke, and they also created the Naruto film, as well as the one piece film. We're also working with the legendary anime director Goro Taniguchi, who worked on the one Piece film, which is a top five grossing anime film in Japan. So we recently released the debut episode of our anime anthology series, which was produced with Densu. And very excitingly, we've generated over 5 million views in a couple of weeks.
00:08:31.528 - 00:09:39.986, Speaker A: And actually this episode went viral in China, on China's Twitter called Weibull, where it was reposted by some chinese celebrities, such as actor Stephen Feng from Hong Kong, as well as Angela Baby, who's the Kim Kardashian of China. And again, because of the Solana meme coin, celebrity meta, you might think these are paid partnerships, but this happened completely organically. And what that tells me is that art and culture can be a vehicle or ambassador to introduce new audiences to technology. Which brings us to anime chain. Today we're looking to bring the anime industry on chain. As an example of how we're accomplishing this, in our first episode of our debut anime anthology series, we introduced this new crypto use case where if you were to watch the episode in the browser on Azuki.com and you had two nfts in your wallet, you could actually see your Azuki in the background of one of the scenes.
00:09:39.986 - 00:10:33.220, Speaker A: And what I think that brings to the table is enriching and deepening the fan experience. So for decades, the relationship between big studios on the entertainment side has been very one way. So they create the content and the fan is the passive consumer. But I believe that through crypto technology, it'll change not only the fans relationship with the IP, but also how new ip is created at the grassroots level. I want to take a moment to talk about the opportunity at hand because I know that anime can seem extremely niche. However, global demand for anime has never been higher. The anime industry was a $26 billion industry in 2021, and by 2030, that size of the pie is set to grow to $60 billion.
00:10:33.220 - 00:11:28.910, Speaker A: So to put these numbers into perspective, that's larger than the global music industry and global box office sales combined today. In addition, we're seeing that anime is definitively moving from a subculture into the mainstream pop culture conversation. Big luxury fashion houses like Chanel and Burberry are partnering with major anime brands. We're seeing rappers like Megan Thee Stallion sample the Jujutsu Kaizen soundtrack in their albums and rapping about Naruto. We also see big companies like McDonald's running anime themed campaigns. And actually they have a jujutsu Kaizen campaign that's ongoing right now and so much more. Indeed, it could be said that we're living in an anime renaissance because of demand for anime in the west.
00:11:28.910 - 00:12:49.470, Speaker A: There never have been as many titles in production as today. And what we're seeing is that a lot of western entertainment companies are actually acquiring anime related companies to be able to stay on top of this meta. Surprisingly or not so surprisingly, given what I've shared, anime is more popular than sports for America's Gen Z. So what that means is that your average Gen Z would prefer to watch an episode of anime over watching a basketball game, a football game or a baseball game. And that's really no surprise because a lot of subcultures are very youth oriented, which propels them into mainstream pop culture. We saw this with the rise of surf culture decades ago, with the rise of skateboarding culture, and with rap and hip hop. Recent surveys have shown that 60% of Gen Z watches anime at least once a month, and I truly believe that anime will be Gen Z's version of Friends or the office, because the viewing behavior that we're seeing with Gen Z in anime is that they're returning to the same shows over and over again for comfort and nostalgia.
00:12:49.470 - 00:13:40.814, Speaker A: In addition, streaming platforms are also leaning into the anime meta. Netflix reported that 50% of their total viewership watched anime in 2021. In 2022, 300 million people around the world watched anime. That's almost the size of the population of the United States of America, which is the third largest country in the world. However, despite all of these tailwinds for the anime industry, the anime fan experience is still quite fragmented. What that means is that as a fan, I have to go to certain platforms to be able to watch the shows that I want to watch. I have to go to yet another platform to be able to rate and review what series I want to watch.
00:13:40.814 - 00:14:30.702, Speaker A: And to discover anime, I have to go to yet another platform to be able to discuss my favorite shows and speculate on what's going to happen next season. And I have to go to somewhere else to be able to buy merchandise. And speaking of anime merch, the leading vertical for anime merchandising is anime figures. And it's crazy how much money people spend on anime figures. If you guys follow Anthony Cisano from the Ethereum community, you'll see that he posts about his anime figure collection from time to time. And some of these pieces are literally life size, and that's easily five figures for just one piece. If you google anime figure collection on YouTube, you can find people whose collections are so big that they don't even fit inside their house.
00:14:30.702 - 00:15:16.016, Speaker A: And that's easily a six to seven figure collection in terms of dollar value. So if I walked into Louis Vuitton today and I dropped six to seven figures, they would have me down in their CRM as a vip. What that means is that they would send me a gift on my birthday, or during Christmas, or during Chinese New Year's. They'd invite me to a fashion show. They'd maybe even solicit my advice for upcoming collections. But there's really no such thing within the anime industry. And it's very, very interesting to see, because anime fans spend not only a lot of time and money on their fandom, but they also put in a lot of effort.
00:15:16.016 - 00:16:15.832, Speaker A: They write fan fiction, they go to conventions, they create cosplay and so much more. So how are we able to create a more unified anime experience? I truly believe that crypto technology will allow us to aggregate, track and reward the anime fan experience today. And I want to take a step back and talk about the global macro of entertainment. We are slowly but surely moving away from generalized entertainment as a trend, and what we're seeing is that we're moving toward niche and more deep fandoms. There are some obvious exceptions, of course, like Barbie and Oppenheimer, but mostly the reverse is true. We're also seeing this global convergence of taste. So there are a lot of soft cultural exports that are coming out of AIPAC.
00:16:15.832 - 00:17:23.814, Speaker A: So there's k pop, of course, there's award winning films like Parasite, and there's kdramas. What I think is really interesting about kdramas is that a lot of them originate from webtoons, which are a type of digital comic optimized for mobile that's created by everyday people like you or me. And in South Korea, the MAU, or monthly active users for one of the leading webtoons platform there, called Naver Webtoon is 89 million monthly active users, and that's actually larger than the entire population of South Korea. So what that tells me is that there's a movement away from new ips being launched from big studios to new ips being launched at the grassroots level. We can also see this reflected in the choice of movies that we have when we go to the theater, namely that we're finding big studios. They simply don't want to take risks anymore. It's so much more safe to be able to launch a sequel, a prequel, reboot an existing franchise, than it is to gamble on completely new ip.
00:17:23.814 - 00:18:16.128, Speaker A: And I think crypto in the future will enable this to happen while deepening fandom alongside. This brings us today to anime chain, which will be an arbitrum orbit l three. We believe this will be an app chain for a modern, unified anime experience. So I wanted to talk a little bit about how I and my contributor status at the anime coin foundation did my due diligence and how we landed upon arbitrum. So from my perspective as a contributor, arbitrum really is the ecosystem for builders. There's so many things going on with the arbitrum ecosystem, with real adoption, real transactions, real volume being generated. There's this passion within the arbitrum ecosystem as well.
00:18:16.128 - 00:19:14.786, Speaker A: And the tech, of course, enables actual mainstream use cases. Here are some of the examples of technical innovation happening within arbitrum at the moment. I also wanted to talk about what I think anime chain is able to bring to crypto overall as well as arbitrum so of course we're in this era where there's so much exciting new infra being pioneered. When I started out my career in crypto six to seven years ago, it was extremely difficult to be able to even launch a layer one. You had to work with a team of cryptographers and developers instead of data centers and all that kind of thing. But now, through ras like Conduit and Caldera, you can deploy an l three with a click of a button. So what's missing are these active consumer use cases that actually onboard millions of people from the web two side into web3.
00:19:14.786 - 00:20:19.500, Speaker A: And this is what we think we can bring to the table with anime chain. I wanted to talk a little bit about something we did together with arbitrum. So when the Anime Coin foundation announced that anime chain would be using arbitrum technology, Azuki donated a rare NFT to the Arbitrum Dao treasury. And we also opened up a mint where over around 100,000 arbzukis, as we called it, Azuki's minted on arbitrum were minted. And what that goes to show from my opinion is that there's huge synergies within crypto between infra communities as well as consumer use case communities. The launch timeline for anime chain is by end of year and you can follow our journey at animecoin on x. Thank you for listening and I hope I got you excited about what anime chain will be doing to upend the anime industry with crypto technology.
00:20:19.500 - 00:20:28.140, Speaker A: If you want to reach out to talk about all things anime chain, you can contact me on Telegram or via Xwang. Thanks again.
