00:00:06.170 - 00:00:52.218, Speaker A: Gonna get started with everyone's favorite topic, regulation. That's kind of a joke. This is really meant to be more me downloading some of my thoughts on my conversations that I have with regulators and policymakers, my experience running a public company and some of the unique challenges we have to help anyone. Who's here who's a developer be thoughtful about the design and products that they're building making thinking about making and how can we design knowing what we want to achieve here? So this is also meant to be interactive. I kind of threw together some slides very quickly this afternoon. So if there's any spelling mistakes, I don't know what to tell you. We'll just push through.
00:00:52.218 - 00:02:04.594, Speaker A: So regulation and crypto. So kind of the outline of this is going to be a little bit of my background, how I got into the space, my company and what we do, some of the history of regulation in the space and how it's starting to shape up. And then what scares me, I think, is a really important section, because when I have conversations with people who work policymakers around finance, banking, that kind of infrastructure, I kind of see where they're thinking, this is all going to go. And that's a world that I don't want and I don't think most people in this room want, because I think everyone here who's at this conference, who's into crypto has the same ethos and spirit of what the future of the web and decentralized finance could be a much better system than we have today. And then how do we avoid that potential future that I see kind of coming and build more betterer? How do we build to stop that from happening? So my background and why I care so I first heard about Bitcoin in 2012 through helping a friend buy a used iPad off Craigslist. The guy was selling everything he owned for Bitcoin. I had never heard of it.
00:02:04.594 - 00:02:46.334, Speaker A: My friend and I thought he was absolutely insane. It sounded like a crazy idea. I went home and read on reddit, what is this thing called? Bitcoin. It didn't make any sense to me. And then it was really in 2013 that I fell into the space in a meaningful way. Where I went back, I read the white paper, was part of a meetup group in Toronto, and then really fell down deep into that rabbit hole, first through Bitcoin and then of course, Ethereum. And I thought ethereum was really interesting and it really was the spirit of disrupting all these centralized ways of doing things and how money works and that there was a potential to be a better system out there.
00:02:46.334 - 00:03:15.962, Speaker A: And so I got really interested in that. And that's still very much what I care about today, even though I might sit a little bit more on the traditional finance side of the spectrum with where I work. So 2014 to 2018, I was spending a lot of my time researching this space, getting involved in the community in any way I could. This is a picture of me. I actually have a copy of the Bitcoin paper, the Genesis Block paper, if anyone knows what that is. It's pretty cool. Keep that thing in a safety deposit box.
00:03:15.962 - 00:04:06.646, Speaker A: And so part of what I see the potential of my history of being in the space for that long is now that I'm on kind of the structured product existing in the capital market side, trying to bring some of that ethos into traditional finance and trying to help regulators think about this space in a way that I see it. And that maybe the goals that they're trying to achieve about investor protection, the way that they're going about it, can be thought of in a different way. So I'm the CEO of a company called Ether Capital. I'm not going to get too deep into Ether Capital, but what do we do? We're a publicly listed company in Canada. We were put together in 2018. We're on an exchange called the Neo under the Ticker ETHC. We are the first public access point in the capital markets to focus on Ethereum.
00:04:06.646 - 00:04:32.718, Speaker A: We're not a fund. We're not an ETF. We're set up as a corporation, which gives us a lot of flexibility to do things like staking to build infrastructure. So it's kind of a unique position to be in. We hold over 40,000 ETH on our balance sheet and we use that as our currency to do all of our various activities. We are currently staking just over 20,000 ETH right now. I think that we are the first ones in the world, in the public markets to stake.
00:04:32.718 - 00:05:27.270, Speaker A: And that came with a bunch of challenges, not so much about regulation, but audit and all that fun stuff. And then we want to build institution grade infrastructure. We see that if this is going to continue the space to grow, if we're going to go from a $1 trillion set of assets to $10 trillion, it's going to have the JPMorgans, it's going to have the traditional financial institutions participating. But right now the infrastructure is not really being built with them in mind. And we kind of think of this as the spectrum where you've got crypto artisanal Bakers on one side who understand the crypto way of doing things, but then you have this set of standards, accounting, reporting, audits, securities, regulation. And for that world to plug into this space, a lot of infrastructure is still missing. And so Ether Capital kind of sits right in that middle where we see what it's going to take for those financial institutions to participate.
00:05:27.270 - 00:06:38.074, Speaker A: Our management team is a blend of crypto natives and people from traditional finance. So really interesting work. And through being at Ether Capital, why am I giving this talk? Who have I had conversations with about policy and regulation and what that's going to look like? I've sat on a number of security advisory committees or advisory committees to various securities regulators, a number of trade associations that oversee some of the exchanges, mostly up in Canada. I work as a mentor, or I am a mentor at this thing called Creative Destruction Lab, specifically in the blockchain stream. So I see a lot of early crypto projects come through there, and I get to see what developers are thinking about, and a lot of my advice to them is the same, and we'll get into that in a little bit. So I mentor there. I'm the president of something called the Web Three Council of Canada, and that is a group that is meant to act as kind of an education beacon for policymakers and regulators who don't have answers to things.
00:06:38.074 - 00:07:16.326, Speaker A: They don't understand the lexicon of this space. You say things like a nonce to a regulator, they shrug their shoulders and go like, what? The F is a nonce? When you say staking, half of them have never heard the term staking before. And so the Web Three Council is meant to be this beacon for regulators and policymakers to come to for good education in the US. There's a number of associations as well. We work closely with them, and again, it's to help create thoughtful policy. I'm an advisor to a large crypto trading platform. I'm not sure if I'm allowed to disclose at this point who that is, but anyway, something generic that's in a bullet point there.
00:07:16.326 - 00:07:53.182, Speaker A: And through Ether Capital, we helped launch the world's first true spot ETF up in Canada. We do have spot ETFs, not futures based. There was one to $2 billion of AUM in the bitcoin and Ether ETFs, depending on what month we check the price. And that was a lot of conversation with regulators over a six to eight month period to get them comfortable with green lighting an ETF. So we were the first in the world to do that, which was pretty cool, alongside purpose investments. And then I'm currently in conversation with a number of policymakers. It's a never ending set of discussions.
00:07:53.182 - 00:08:32.526, Speaker A: People who work for Finance Canada, the central banks, what are they thinking about in terms of what a stablecoin is going to look like or a central bank digital currency. So this gives you a bit of a picture of who I am and the kind of thoughts that are constantly going through my head. Some of it is fun, some of it I'm banging my head against the wall. But I think it's important to do this work and to engage in a way with regulators that's not a just, we need to tear down these systems, and there shouldn't be any regulation. That's not how I come at it, that's not productive. It's not going to advance the space in a positive way. And so that's me.
00:08:32.526 - 00:09:08.890, Speaker A: So if anyone has any questions, by the way, outside of this presentation, feel free to stop me in the halls or wherever you see me. And also feel free to raise your hand if you have any specific questions as we go. Just out of curiosity, how many people here are developers? Raise a hands. Well, okay, so not that many people. So what do the rest of you guys do? Are you guys like business development? Like who you're in business development at a protocol. Okay, so not a lot of developers. Okay, interesting.
00:09:08.890 - 00:09:53.146, Speaker A: So let's talk about the history of crypto regulation. What was the landscape looking like from 2009? I would say up until 2018? Things started to change in the very early days, of course, all of the crypto trading platforms were not really registered. It wasn't clear who they should register with. It's still a little bit ambiguous in the US who the platform should register with. And you're watching this fight play out, of course, through the CFTC and the SEC trying to assert jurisdiction over who would regulate these exchanges. The CFTC, of course, thinks that it's in their lane and that most of the assets are commodities and that they should oversee spot trading. The SEC is trying to make a claim that everything is a security or most of everything is a security.
00:09:53.146 - 00:10:31.030, Speaker A: I feel bad for the platforms who are trying to launch new products. Right. They're trying to offer lending products access to DeFi NFTs staking, and it's unclear what things would trigger them being in the offside of securities regulation. And so some platforms you're seeing be aggressive in launching new products. You're seeing some platforms decide not to launch certain activities to retail customers because they just don't want to be offside with a regulator. So it's a bit unfortunate, but the history of the space was largely that regulators were not really paying attention to the space. It wasn't for me, at least until 2013.
00:10:31.030 - 00:12:08.770, Speaker A: This is a little sound bite for anyone who gets asked, will governments ban it? Which I get asked constantly by investment advisors and people thinking about buying one of the structured products, whether it's a grayscale product or one of the ETFs we have in Canada, I hear constantly, won't governments just ban it? Are they going to let this happen? And I think back to in 2013, I think in the fall there was a hearing that was broadcast on C Span where every major US. Government agency was asked to present their views on at the time, it was basically just bitcoin, but what are your views on the space? What are you thinking about? Should we ban this? What should we do with it? And one by one, every single agency came out and said, we don't think it's within our interest to try and ban this new industry. What we need to do is hire new personnel, do a lot of education, get smart on what this new asset class is going to be, and figure out how it can snap into existing laws or we can create new laws. So it's really interesting to see that even in 2013 they were thinking that way. And you've seen this recently in a few months ago, 2022, when the Biden administration says, here's this executive order where again, we're calling on specific agencies with very poignant questions and asking you to work with industry to come up with answers to a lot of these things. So the history of crypto regulation has been largely that regulators didn't know what to do with it. And we're still a little bit there, we're still a little bit stuck with it not being clear whose lane each activity should fall in, who should oversee various activities on which platforms.
00:12:08.770 - 00:13:01.350, Speaker A: But I think that the conversations are happening now and we are going to have clarity starting within the next few months to the next couple of years. And it's going to be an evolving thing. It's not going to be where we just say, here's the set of regulations, and then they walk away and go do something else. There's always going to be new activities that create new challenges. So when I think about the current landscape and this is going to lead into the things that scare me a little bit, but I want to talk about some of the things that regulators and people who work in government what they are thinking about. So how many people here have heard of Fatif? Okay, not too many people. So Fatif basically is this group that comes up with a set of guidance for a number of traditional financial institutions globally and says, here are some rules and you can figure out how you want to implement them.
00:13:01.350 - 00:13:48.562, Speaker A: And the one that is really important to note is something called the travel rule. Now, the travel rule is all about when you send some asset from one account to another, theoretically it can't be completely anonymous. There should be some amount of information that is attached to that transaction that travels with the set of funds or with the asset to the receiving party. And this has not been something that really has existed in crypto. Right? If I send one ETH from my wallet to Cheyenne, Cheyenne's my CTO who's sitting in the front, and so he's one of the only people whose name I know. So I'm going to use him for the example. When I send one ETH to Cheyenne, do I have to attach my information and his information to that transaction? And there's two ways that this can exist, of course.
00:13:48.562 - 00:14:44.354, Speaker A: One is through a self hosted wallet, right? People taking possession of the asset on their own, and then there's the centralized service who's doing it on your behalf. So Coinbase is going to allow the withdrawal from Cheyenne's account to his own wallet, or Cheyenne's going to withdraw from his account over to me. And the question is, should the travel rule that applies in traditional banking should Coinbase have to do this? Should they have to force KYC or collect some information to allow that transaction to take place before they send those funds? This has been a point of contention for a number of years, kind of off and on in headlines. You might have seen it being proposed in various bills throughout the last couple of years. But this is a really important thing to think about and you'll see why in a moment. Of course there's pros and cons to centralization and the risks there. I'm not going to get into the nightmare scenario because that's my next slide.
00:14:44.354 - 00:15:46.810, Speaker A: But the current landscape is we've got a lot of centralization happening right now where a lot of assets are sitting in either structured products MicroStrategy holding a lot of Bitcoin, ETFs, closed funds holding a large amount of ETH or Bitcoin. A lot of those assets also sitting on centralized exchanges in essentially choke points, right places of custody that can be frozen, they can be confiscated. And so AML and KYC mandates this next point here. What does it mean for anti money laundering? And KYC is know your customer. What does that mean in crypto? It's very easy to know what this stuff means to a centralized exchange. What is it going to mean in DeFi in a self hosted wallet? And this is kind of the battle right now, is these two worlds shaping up. And of course governments and policymakers would love everything to happen through centralized exchanges because they'd have choke points and can push all these rules on those, I guess, new set of institutions who would have to register.
00:15:46.810 - 00:17:13.698, Speaker A: Then there's something called the Trust and this came out a number of months ago from Coinbase with a number of other large custodians where they basically said we're going to work together to create this. Not necessarily a database of information, but if assets move from Coinbase to, let's say, Gemini or Gemini to Kraken or to know the big custodians, that the information of sender receiver can be shared with those two groups. And then of know wallets play into this because some of the wallets are being created by these centralized exchanges and some of the wallets are like MetaMask and it's just meant for self hosted assets where they don't have a vested interest in a specific exchange. And then I have this point here on DeFi risk assessment. My CTO brought this up to me before when we were just talking about staking and trying to DeFi things in a public structure where it wasn't clear if the auditors were comfortable with us, let's say doing some type of yield farming or even lending in a DeFi protocol. Because if there's no AML and KYC on the counterparty of whatever that trade was going to be, they weren't comfortable auditing that set of transactions and signing for it in our financial statements. And so we ended up just not doing anything because we couldn't fit that square peg and round hole.
00:17:13.698 - 00:18:21.630, Speaker A: So this is kind of all different things that are percolating. So let's talk about what is the nightmare scenario. What is the thing that I stay up at night thinking like what would happen if this was the world so nightmare scenario? The thing that really scares me is the potential for a bifurcation in the space. And the bifurcation in the space to me is that right now you have all of these centralized platforms saying we are being forced whether they want to or not, they're being forced to comply with the AML and KYC mandates that are now being pushed out globally and the assets are coming into these centralized exchanges and centralized custodians. And right now you can withdraw to a self hosted wallet. But one of my nightmare scenarios is that one day they don't allow you to withdraw to a self hosted wallet. One day they say that the asset can come in but the asset can't go out or it can go to any counterparty who's in that trust right in that consortium of custodians or exchanges but it can't go to a self hosted wallet.
00:18:21.630 - 00:19:21.022, Speaker A: And part of what scares me there is the idea that if they provide a wallet, can that wallet interact with every smart contract that lives on chain or maybe it only interacts with certain whitelisted smart contracts. And so there's certain applications that you as an end user can participate in where you feel that you have control over the asset but not really. You just have these permission controls on. They've said we provided you this wallet and this wallet will let you do certain lending on Aave or Compound or certain trades on Uniswap but it's going to block everything else. And what scares me about that is you're going to split the space essentially into a dark market and a light market where you're going to have these two different versions of the assets. You're going to have ETH that lives in these central that is loud. You're going to have ETH that lives in these centralized boxes, this kind of watered down version of true crypto where end users can't really do whatever they want.
00:19:21.022 - 00:20:23.198, Speaker A: It stops becoming a true digital bearer asset and it becomes this you can do what you want as long as we give you the right to do, we approve it. And that really scares me because to me the most interesting stuff is going to take place in that open permissionless world. And so I really don't want to see this bifurcation in the space. I'm not exactly sure how we front run that, but it is something I'm thinking about is what happens if we go one step further of assets go into the trust into decentralized choke points, but they can't leave. So it's really important to do a lot of education for people in this room, in this space and then in your network of friends and people interested in the space to understand why a self hosted wallet is so important, and not just to rely on holding your assets on these centralized exchanges. And I don't know how this is going to play out, but I think in the next few years this is going to be a real conversation that's going to trigger a lot of people. In Canada there was something called the Freedom Convoy.
00:20:23.198 - 00:21:50.186, Speaker A: This trucker rally might have hit some of your radars. And one of the things that became very clear is it pushed the idea of crypto, the conversation of crypto and these digital bear assets basically to the top of the pile of everyone in government and every policymaker saying, can we stop people donating to this protest that we disagree with? Do we have a centralized choke point? And of course, if the answer was no, because the assets that were being donated in Bitcoin or ETH were in self hosted wallets. Well, governments and policymakers don't like that and are quick to say, oh, so the solution here is let people have the assets, but force those assets to exist in a centralized way where we can choke point it, where we can treat it like a financial institution. And so that scares me. So what is another bad outcome here is where biddle, where does the building take place? If we have this know, people aren't going to be able to innovate in the same way in North America or whatever jurisdiction says, you can't have true on chain permissionless DeFi. You can only do KYC versions of DeFi, which by the way, my answer for anyone who know, can you have KYC and DeFi? My answer is no, that's CFI, we already have that, we don't need that again. And the way that I think about it is that if you break fungibility, you lose composability.
00:21:50.186 - 00:23:05.720, Speaker A: So if anyone's wondering how you can tell someone why KYC and DeFi don't go together, it's that you're breaking fungibility and then composability is out the window or it's watered down. So yeah, it scares me to think about will certain jurisdictions basically push all this innovation somewhere else and say, unless you go and get permission to build your specific application, licenses, registration, we don't want that activity here, it pushes developers into different areas and then will retail users get left behind? A lot of people who are here, I'm assuming, have been invested in the space for a little while. Maybe you've had some financial success currently you're feeling some pain. But retail, part of the advantage here of what crypto did is it stopped this two tiered system in centralized finance. We have a two tiered financial system of accredited investors and retail investors, where the accredited investors are allowed to take on more risk, get access to private deals, and the retail investors are pushed out of that and they're left waiting until an asset comes to the public markets. And they're usually buying it at some multiple of where the venture funds and the private institutions have been able to participate. Crypto was meant to be this great leveler of access.
00:23:05.720 - 00:23:41.390, Speaker A: And so I do worry that if we start having these watered down versions of onchain crypto, retail users won't be able to access all those products. So they'll get pushed out of lending. Maybe they're not able to stake unless they stake through a centralized institution. That's something I think about. And of course I have down here it says, are we going to be back at Web 2.5 and CFI? I really don't want us to go backwards. It felt like in the last two or three years, as a lot of these really interesting verticals emerged, we made so much progress in what you can do on chain and with crypto.
00:23:41.390 - 00:25:33.270, Speaker A: When I think about the early days of Ethereum, that kind of like 2016 2017 era, we had the ICO boom, but we didn't really have DFI DFI yet. We didn't have uniswap. We had attempts at that through Ether Delta, if anyone remembers Ether Delta. But the really cool stuff has really emerged in the last two and a half years and I really don't want to see that progress, get throttled back or slow down because of bad policy. Staking risks I put here because we're staking at Ether Capital and I talk with Cheyenne, our CTO, a lot about is there a world where the regulators say the staking providers, the companies who are running validators, need to register something with the securities regulators? I don't know what that registration would look like, but is it possible that a securities regulator looks at that staking provider and says, you can't process transactions that don't have KYC on that address? Something I don't think most people have thought about, but that to me is super scary, where again, you'll have this bifurcated space where certain transactions will get processed by this validation service and then, I don't know, ones that exist in other jurisdictions are just going to process everything. Do we just have a fork in the chain and we have two versions of ETH? Two? I don't know what that would look like, but I don't think it's good. And I wonder, anyone who's thinking about building a staking company, can you be thoughtful in your design? Where are the servers running? Are all those servers, if it's physical hardware, somewhere that you set up versus something in the cloud? Does it all live in one specific jurisdiction or is there diversification globally in other jurisdictions that is much harder to censor or shut down, or have a regulator say you need to censor certain transactions or certain addresses.
00:25:33.270 - 00:26:06.350, Speaker A: So these are kind of the things that I worry about. How do we get ahead? What are some things that we can do to be thoughtful about how we're designing certain things? When I look at various platforms or front ends. One thing that scares me is almost everything is running right now on AWS and maybe it's pushing a backup over to IPFS. We need to flip that. It needs to be IPFS first. That is where people are going not AWS first. And it may mean that things are a little bit slower.
00:26:06.350 - 00:26:40.298, Speaker A: I'm not a developer, I'm not the most technical person, but I do see that as long as you're pushing things on AWS, that's not ideal. We need to go to IPFS first. And part of what I think about that could happen one day. That also kind of scares me and I don't know how we design for this. Maybe some of you guys have ideas. Is that you have, let's say I'll use Uniswap as an example. You have Uniswap that is this on chain contract and then you have this front end that's allowing you to interact with the on chain code.
00:26:40.298 - 00:27:20.586, Speaker A: And right now it's ish easy to go to that front end and say, hey, you need to delist some derivatives. That's definitely an illegal security or it doesn't have a prospectus or meet certain requirements. You need to take that off the front end. And when I talk to regulators and one of their mandates is with good spirit investor protection, I'm always trying to push back and say investors and people in the real world, in the meat space world, not just the lawyers who sit in these buildings, they don't think of things as securities and commodities. And the risk profiles of those two different buckets. They either want an asset and certain activities or they don't. That's it.
00:27:20.586 - 00:28:35.358, Speaker A: And they're going to find an access point. And so one thing that scares me is if you have that front end that delists certain assets or certain activities, what you're going to do is have different front ends pop up who will provide an access point to that same asset that just got delisted from the trusted group of people. And maybe there's some malicious code that's been inserted so you could have like the true uniswap front end and then you have, I don't know, Mooney Swap, I don't have a funny name for one, but someone builds some clone of the uniswap front end inserts malicious code. Does that retail investor or does that user know how to audit that site? Is there some way that we can ensure that the contract that that front end is interacting with is not malicious in any way that we know that it's the correct code and is all thumbs up? Or is the user about to go click a bunch of buttons because they wanted to buy an asset that was delisted off the good front end and then it ended up losing their funds. So however we can try and build or be thoughtful about that I think would be really great. And I have as the second point here, helping regulators think about. This thoughtful policy because again, I'm trying to help them understand.
00:28:35.358 - 00:29:34.658, Speaker A: You want people to use the actual uniswap front end or the one inch front end, where we know who the developers are, we know that they're above board, they've put their faces out there, they've put their faces on the website. We know that they've been good actors in the space for a number of years. I'm more concerned when the pineapple on Twitter builds a front end. And maybe it's trustworthy, but maybe it isn't. So different ways about going about their objectives is something we can help them think about. How decentralized is enough? This is not something that I have an answer to, but thinking about trying to cross some threshold where you feel you may not have true control over a project anymore, maybe is the definition of it was decentralized enough. And when I talk to friends who are lawyers at various protocols, this is one of the things that they talk about all the time, which is not enough of these projects are thinking about how decentralized they are and they're still retaining too much control.
00:29:34.658 - 00:30:50.734, Speaker A: So it's important to ask yourselves these questions when you're designing various products and services to ensure that from the get go there's some amount of decentralization and you're working towards achieving that ASAP. I put in here titles only because when you see people who have these kind of traditional titles like CEO and CFO, is that decentralized? I mean, there's certainly no CEO of Bitcoin or a CFO of Bitcoin, there isn't a CEO or CFO in Ethereum. But as you start to get into some of the specific lending protocols or projects and you do start to see some of these titles slip in, does that trigger a regulator's curiosity and hmm, how much influence do they have over this protocol? So, something to think about when I am mentoring at CDL Creative Destruction Lab, I meet with a lot of early stage projects. People who are tinkering, people who have ideas, people who want to build crypto software. Almost none of them have worked with a proper law firm to talk to them about the activities that they want to do on chain. A lot of them will say, well, I have a friend who's a lawyer, or they used to work at a firm and now they've left and they're giving us some advice. That's a great start.
00:30:50.734 - 00:32:09.474, Speaker A: But it's really important to approach, in my opinion, some of the big firms who are working with a lot of the big projects, like For, I'm not going to name who some of their clients are, but those levels of firms that have a lot of experience working with the CFTC and the SEC and then these protocols and helping them be thoughtful about what they're building and getting creative about. You can do this thing, but you're going to have to go at it from a different direction. Or you can go about it, but understand the risk or the gray area that you're existing in for now, really important to get that advice up front, not later. And, yes, it may cost you $10,000, which is hefty. But for these protocols or projects that want to have market caps or valuations of hundreds of millions of dollars or billions of dollars, $10,000 to make sure you don't go to jail is probably a good idea, although most people, I don't think, go to jail, but they end up in a very uncomfortable set of conversations with regulators. So I can't stress enough, get good legal advice, get recommendations from projects. Ask people on Twitter who are working at the big protocols who they use for legal counsel.
00:32:09.474 - 00:33:15.430, Speaker A: And also sometimes you can ask some of those projects or protocols if they have a general counsel working or ahead of legal working for that project or protocol. Ask if they'll give you ten minutes of their time, tell them what you're working on and just hear their thoughts. They've probably had to ask a lot of the questions you have and you can get some free advice. I put how much control does the team have? We've already talked about that. I've made this next slide about for anyone who's thinking about a token. Some of this stuff is obvious, but I've kind of summarized this with a lawyer who was at a big stablecoin project, not one that blew up a big stablecoin project and is now at a major protocol for Ethereum. I said, can we together come up with five points for people who want to create and launch anything that one day will have a token? So number one, try as hard as possible to launch a completed product with no promises of using the token or using a token sold or airdropped to raise funds for operations.
00:33:15.430 - 00:33:54.854, Speaker A: This is really important. Basically not making a promise to anyone that there will be a token in the future. Just go out and build the product first. Number two, don't have the tokens, accumulate protocol fees from the get go. Let that be something that gets pushed in later, and it needs to be a community decision. And a really good example of this is in Maker, if anyone's familiar with the I think it was called the PCM module, that would allow USDC to always convert to dai at one to one, regardless of where the peg was for dai. Hopefully people remember this.
00:33:54.854 - 00:34:34.290, Speaker A: That was not a piece of code that was pushed out by the maker foundation. That was something done by the community, by people who had nothing to do with the maker foundation. And they were very intentional about they're not going to be the ones to propose it, they're not going to be the ones to vote on it. That has to be something for the community to decide. It is a really good example of decentralization and thoughtful design or thoughtful contributions from a community who decide to do something, not from a centralized group of people behind a protocol. Number three, language, language and language. Be cautious how you describe a protocol and the token and its function.
00:34:34.290 - 00:35:36.354, Speaker A: So this is something that lawyers can definitely help you with. It's something you need to be very careful about because all you need is one document or one investor meeting where you've hinted at a potential token or something that later that document comes back to create a lot of hassle or trouble for you. So really be thoughtful about this kind of stuff. Number four, find the product market fit before you decide to release a token. Figure out, does your project have legs? Is there a need for that in the community? Can it gain traction on chain? Not just say, hey, we're going to do a token and we've kind of thought of this product idea, but we're just going to try and raise a bunch of money and we're going to promise some tokens because we all just want to get rich. Really think first about what you're building and who's going to use it before you think about what a token might look like. And number five, if you are going to sell tokens because you're trying to do a raise, really unfortunately you have to focus on private sales to accredited investors.
00:35:36.354 - 00:36:26.710, Speaker A: And then there's various ways that you can do lockups and cliffs and things to release those tokens over a period of time where it doesn't get dumped on retail. Again, these are all things that a lot of people probably have thought about, lawyers will help you with. But here is just a nice five token summary of some thoughts on token design. So I don't know if we have time for A-Q-A-I haven't really been looking at my watch, but I put A because I'm Canadian and I don't know, everyone always says you say A. I'm like, no I don't, but you do. So does anyone have any questions with anything relating to regulation policy, how government is thinking about the space? Happy to kind of now open this up to the group for a conversation.
00:36:34.380 - 00:37:00.050, Speaker B: That happened back in 2018. So I remember like during the whole fiasco when the owners bank account started getting locked up, everyone was starting to hate regulation because it was kind of stopping, people were thinking of stopping exchange from being but then we went with the kind of metric scam. Everyone's perception on regulation sort of flipped and then realized that the banks were actually kind of stopped happening.
00:37:04.100 - 00:37:47.244, Speaker A: So the question was about Quadrigo, which is an exchange in Canada that I think operated from about 2014 or 2015 and then had an unfortunate end late 2018 where about $200 million of customer funds just went bye bye. So in Canada, this is an exchange almost exclusively focused on Canadians in Canada at that point in time, there was no oversight from any regulator. Now one unique thing in Canada is that we don't have a separate commodities regulator. In the US. You have the CFTC and the SEC. So you have two different groups looking at commodities versus securities. And in Canada there just isn't a commodities regulator.
00:37:47.244 - 00:38:48.240, Speaker A: So what happened was it set off a lot of the regulators and people in government saying like, who's responsible here? Who should have been overseeing this platform, this marketplace? And I'm making a joke here, but everyone kind of did a shrug, shoulder emoji and went, we don't even know what these assets are or who should be overseeing them. And they made a decision. There was a staff notice put out by the Ontario Securities Commission where they basically decided that if a platform sells to a customer a digital asset, whether it's a commodity or a security, they don't really care and doesn't deliver to that customer, the asset immediately into a self hosted wallet. So it remains on the platform. What they said is what they've actually sold you as a derivative. And in Canada that derivative is going to be captured by securities laws. And so the regulator said, great, what they're selling you then is a derivative, and therefore all of these platforms need to register as a securities dealer because they're selling derivatives.
00:38:48.240 - 00:39:45.012, Speaker A: It's a bit of a bizarre interpretation, but that's what they went with. Now the pro of this is that there's starting to become some clarity in Canada over who would oversee these platforms. And you're starting to see all of the regulators in Canada, the securities laws, there's actually different regulators for each province, which creates this weird patchwork of registrations and different sets of rules on which provincial securities regulator will let you do different things. Bit of a nightmare, but it has created at least a path towards clarity. And we're not quite there yet, but you're starting to see these local platforms figure out what assets they can offer, who they need to register with, how they're going to be above board, and try pushing the conversations forward on things like staking and DeFi and all that stuff. There's still a ways away, but different than the US. Where I think the platforms here don't even know who they need to register with.
00:39:45.012 - 00:40:27.392, Speaker A: It's still not clear exactly what registrations they need to hold, but I do think that that's coming. One of the issues also in Canada is that I think it's everywhere. It's very hard to get support from proper banking institutions that don't support these businesses. The risk profile is just way too high for crypto companies. And if they even smell the word crypto anywhere to your business, they don't want to bank you. And so people are using credit unions to get access to banking services instead of the proper financial rails. So Quadriga kicked off a set of conversations that are being worked out.
00:40:27.392 - 00:41:14.784, Speaker A: The real problem with Quadriga by the way, to me wasn't even forget that it blew up. It was bad governance. There wasn't a board of directors, there was no real oversight. You had one person just doing what they kind of wanted with funds that were sitting in foreign bank accounts, in crypto, in a self hosted wallet, a bunch of ledgers or something on his laptop, and he was moving those funds and leveraging on other exchanges. Bit of a nice parallel to today that what you're seeing is the problem is leverage in the system, not that the protocols themselves are blowing up. So a lot of the issues with quadriga was around governance. And I think that you're going to start to see better clarity in the next one to two years as we know what registrations are going to be required for every platform.
00:41:14.784 - 00:42:03.472, Speaker A: When that clarity comes, the traditional banks and financial institutions are going to start offering their products and services to these new businesses. It's not that they don't want to do it. You have to imagine that in that second half of 2020 till now, anyone who had a relationship with any of the big banks, if they're not in our cohort, our generation, who's comfortable with these assets and on these exchanges, would turn around to the financial institution and say, can I just buy my Bitcoin and my ether for you guys? I trust you, you have a history doing custody, you have some amount of insurance. Why can't I buy that through you? And it's not that the banks weren't getting those questions. They're getting those questions from tons of customers, at least up until probably a few months ago. And the banks don't want to do it because they don't know how to do it yet. It's not so much a technical issue.
00:42:03.472 - 00:42:34.988, Speaker A: They're going to go and buy Teams products. They're going to go and do a big acquisition. They'll go on an acquisition spree eventually. What they need is the clarity from regulators how to offer those things. And specifically, if you think back to that slide where I had up Fatif and AML and KYC, the anti money laundering laws that they have to abide by, that is where they are currently. Yeah, that will come in the next few years. We almost out of time.
00:42:34.988 - 00:42:55.676, Speaker A: What time is it? Yeah, I'm getting the head nod. How what? I mean, that's it, it's done. No, that's done. I can end here anyway. Thanks everyone. If anyone has any questions about this stuff, happy to stick around and chat. There's no answers to a lot of these things, but they're certainly important things to be thinking about, even though they're not fun.
00:42:55.676 - 00:43:18.630, Speaker A: And then working as an industry to have these conversations with regulators and policymakers and then ourselves to help each other think about how we design the protocols and projects that we want to make sure that they don't get captured by securities laws or end up getting us in trouble. So thanks, guys. And see everyone around the building.
