00:00:00.560 - 00:00:33.518, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gui refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 22 July 2021. Right everyone, let's get into it. So I wanted to discuss something got to do with EIP 1559 and the ultrasound money meme. Today. I kind of put out this tweet where I said ultrasound money for ETH is only achieved once we have unlocked both EIP 1559 and the ETH one to ETH two merger, aka foolproof of stake. We're getting EIP 1559 on August 4, and we'll hopefully see the merge in the first half of 20 2022 patients.
00:00:33.518 - 00:01:09.658, Speaker A: My fellow ethereans. Now, this tweet was prompted by the fact that there are a lot of people out there that believe that as soon as 1559 is activated on ethereum's main net, it means that the supply of ETH is going to be going net deflationary. And that means that we're going to be achieving this ultrasound money kind of notion that has been put out, or at least been talked about over the last few months. Now, that is not correct. It would be correct if the gas prices were 140 plus, you know, for the whole year, so to speak. Like, if you're talking about like yearly issuance here with proof of work, it's about 4.5% per year of new ETH being issued.
00:01:09.658 - 00:01:50.694, Speaker A: So gas prices would have to be around 140 at current prices, sorry, gas prices to. And that would have to persist for the whole year to make ETH net deflationary. Now, once the merger comes around, that drops down to like about eleven way at current. At the current amounts of ETH staked. Now, the more ethic at stake, the higher that will be because you have more ETH issuance, the more ETH that is staked. But it's around eleven gwei, and even if like, you know, double the amount of ETH gets staked, it would only go up to like 20 guys. And I've said before how I expect like ten to 20 way to be pretty much the floor of gas prices going forward, and that's probably just going to increase over time, no matter what the market is doing.
00:01:50.694 - 00:02:15.756, Speaker A: So just, yeah, throwing that out there, that ERP 1559 on its own does not make ETH net deflationary any and definitely won't make it net deflationary under proof of work because of the fact that we have that large 4.5% issuance. Now with proof of stake. The current issuance is around 0.5%, probably less than that, or maybe more than that. I can't remember the top of my head right now, but, and that's like about 6.5 million ETH staked.
00:02:15.756 - 00:02:46.452, Speaker A: So. And you know, as more ETH gets staked, that goes up over time, but pretty much it's going to be less than 1%, I think, at all times. It depends how much ETH is staked, of course, but I don't imagine there being more than maybe 30 million each staked within the next couple of years or something like that. We'll have to see how that plays out, of course. But you know, I think, you know, post merge, the fact that it will only require around eleven way to make Ethernet deflationary with 1559, that's what we should be focusing on. That is ultrasound money. It's not ultrasound money with just 1559 put in place.
00:02:46.452 - 00:03:11.268, Speaker A: This is a, this is a long term game like Ethereum's monetary policy. And the way and what we're kind of progressing towards has been, you know, in research and development for quite a while now. It's not like it's just going to be activated at once. It comes in phases. We've obviously, over time been reducing the block rewards that we've been paying out to miners. We've done that a few times already. And we're reducing the issuance by about 90% with the merge.
00:03:11.268 - 00:03:57.584, Speaker A: And we're obviously going to burn ETH with 1559, which reduces the amount of ETH in circulation and obviously like offsets some of the issuance. But until we get to post and a post merge world when it's just all one ethereum, it will not make Ethernet deflationary over the course of something like a year. It requires gas prices to be, you know, 140 gray plus, you know, every, pretty much every single day persistently for that to happen. And that is definitely not going to happen when the market's quiet and even when the market's kind of hot, that only lasts for a few months at most. That doesn't last a whole year. And there's, you know, in the current climate of what ethereum is today. Now I've said before on the refuel plenty of times that I expect one day theorem to be doing billions of dollars of transactional revenue on its network.
00:03:57.584 - 00:04:29.496, Speaker A: There's a fee revenue and you know, no matter what the market is doing, but that is still a while away. That is mass adoption levels. That is essentially when, you know, a lot of the world is using Ethereum for whatever that, you know, for their financial activities or for whatever else. So yeah, I just wanted to kind of clear that up. And on the note about 1559 as well. This is a related, not related note, but like a separate note. But just about 1559 in London, there was an issue on the Ropsten testnet with London, unfortunately a very edge case bug with EIP 1559.
00:04:29.496 - 00:05:34.062, Speaker A: This bug was so edge case and so kind of like rare that there was only a one line that needed to be fixed within the go ethereum client. So what ended up happening was that essentially the kind of the Rops and testnet forked because in the go Ethereum client, it was unfortunately had a bug in that line of code that I told you about and that caused this kind of like fork to happen. And then the goal, Ethereum team has obviously fixed this now, but this may lead to a delay of 1559 and London, sorry, I should say, because of the fact that, you know, go with your and fix this, or the Geth team fix this, but everyone needs to upgrade their client now and we're about, what, twelve days away from August 4 or maybe, maybe 13 days away. And, you know, is that going to be enough time now? The time to give people to upgrade their clients to this new version of Geth? With the fix in place now, the final decision will be made on the all core devs call happening tomorrow. Uh, that happens about midnight my time. I'm not sure what time that is for you, but essentially they'll make the call there. I think that if there is a delay, it'll be one week at most.
00:05:34.062 - 00:05:52.982, Speaker A: I don't see it being a two week delay. I don't think we need that much time. Um, and you know, there's even a chance that there's no delay because the, the core devs feel that it's enough time to give people to upgrade their clients. You know, it's, it's 14 days. It's not hard to kind of like upgrade the client and everything like that. It's actually really easy to upgrade. And you don't have to resync the chain or anything like that.
00:05:52.982 - 00:06:22.214, Speaker A: You can just use the one you've got and everything should be fine. So, you know, I guess it's just a coin flip if there's going to be the delay or not. And even if there is a delay of like a week, it's really not a big issue at all. Like I've said this before, we've waited so long for 1559 that at this point, it's just like another week, delays, whatever. But also, you know, I saw some people talking about what kind of impact this could have on the price of ETH. I don't think it's going to have any impact on the price of ETH. Like, the market is not that efficient, as the crypto markets are nowhere near that efficient.
00:06:22.214 - 00:06:48.904, Speaker A: And as I've said before, I think, you know, I was discussing this the other day on the refuel, where I was basically saying that these kind of news events, whether they're bullish or bearish, they don't really have an immediate effect. Most of them. Some of them will like, and some of them will have a very noticeable effect, but most of them don't. And I really don't think the market's going to say, oh, wow, ip 1559 is delayed by a week. Let's dump ETH. I just don't see that happening at all. Even if the market was efficient, I don't see that as a reason for Easter dump.
00:06:48.904 - 00:07:20.142, Speaker A: Now, of course, there could be kind of something that happens where the delay gets announced, and then within like, 24 hours, the ETH price dumps, and people will be like, oh, it's because 1559 got delayed. And, you know, you could argue a debate that forever, and you could basically, you know, try to sell whatever narrative you want to sell. But in my eyes, I just don't think this is going to have any effect on price. But I just wanted to give you guys a heads up on it. This is the retrospective that Tim Bico put together on the issue with kind of like a timeline of events and things like that. So you can definitely check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description.
00:07:20.142 - 00:07:57.360, Speaker A: But yeah, this is why we have test nets, right? This is really great that this happened on a testnet and not on Mainnet. If it was to happen on Mainnet. The funny thing is, if this exact bug happened on Mainnet, what ended up, what would have ended up happening is because Geth is the majority of the network. It's about 80%, I think, of the network. It would have actually just de facto become a protocol rule, which means the other clients would have been the ones that would have to update or at least kind of get back in sync and get back in consensus with Geth. And then we could fix that and do, like, another hard fork to kind of fix up that issue. So it wouldn't have been a breaking issue for, for the network on Mainnet.
00:07:57.360 - 00:08:26.216, Speaker A: It would have been fine, but it would have kicked off the other clients, off the network, they would have had to fix their clients and all that sort of stuff, but the network would have kept running just fine. So, yeah, I mean, full details of what happened is in this retrospective here. You can go check it out if you want to. So daniel put out this really cool tweet today. It's a short tweet, but it really encapsulates what I love about ethereum conferences. But essentially he said, you, problem, you feel smarter than anybody else you meet. Solution? Go to an ethereum conference.
00:08:26.216 - 00:09:12.066, Speaker A: Now, as you all know, I'm having, like, massive fomo over the fact that I can't attend ETH. And obviously this is very topical here, but essentially he's totally right. I mean, I've been to a few ethereum conferences, mostly, uh, the second half of 2019 is when I attended most of them. But I've been to like, defcon, edcon, dapcon 8th, denver um, and they're all pretty much like very similar in, in kind of like what, what Daniel says here is that you go there and there's just so many smart people around. Uh, because you have all the smart people that you see on Twitter, but they're in person and they just like, you know, anytime you talk to someone, you always end up talking to people that are just, what? Way smarter than you about a particular topic. You learn so much. And, you know, for me, like, conferences really are about networking.
00:09:12.066 - 00:09:46.314, Speaker A: I don't attend too many of the talks, but the talks are even kind of like really smart talks. But personally, I just, you know, I know they're being recorded, so I kind of like, just watch them. Later on, I go for, like, talking to people, meeting people, meeting all my, like, kind of Twitter friends and things like that. And really, it's, it's, it's amazing how many smart people are there. And, you know, on top of that, a lot of these conferences usually have, like, hackathons going on as well, where you can go and talk to developers and see what they're working on. And it's just incredible the amount of really cool things that come out of hackathons. I mean, a lot of the top projects in this space have come out of ethereum conferences, hackathons.
00:09:46.314 - 00:10:25.344, Speaker A: So that's a signal right there. But, you know, it's not just kind of like the smart people you meet at conferences. And that's not the only reason why you should go. The biggest I think, thing for me about Ethereum conferences is that when you go there, you can basically feel the Ethereum culture around you because why don't you have people from all over the world attending, like, from pretty much every country out there, which is crazy because for me, I actually didn't travel very much outside of Australia until, until actually, I think, 2019. I think I actually had to get a passport because I didn't have one to go to New Zealand. And in 2019, I was, well, how old was I then? I. 27 or something like that.
00:10:25.344 - 00:10:52.332, Speaker A: So I hadn't traveled overseas or anything. I traveled nationally, but then I started traveling overseas in 2019 a lot. And you, you basically get a lot more cultured, right? Like that. That should, that's obvious, people who have traveled a lot. But essentially, I met people from, from all over the world that I hadn't even talked to before because I just had no reason to talk to because I was, you know, in my little bubble in Australia and that. And it's funny because, like, they meet Australia, like, australian. These Australians are basically underrepresented, I think, in crypto or have traditionally been underrepresented.
00:10:52.332 - 00:11:27.992, Speaker A: And they kind of, like, comment on my accent, even though I don't think I have an accent and things like that. And, you know, you just share, you share in the culture. There's. But that is what makes up Ethereum's culture. And I spoke about, like, generation Ethereum on yesterday's refuel. But essentially, Ethereum's culture is a kind of, like, combination and amalgamation of all of the world's different cultures just coming together around basically to kind of, like, build this decentralized thing where, yes, we're all part of, like, different countries, but we're all part of, like, the Ethereum nation, and we're all ethereum citizens, so to speak, which I think is another really cool thing. And you won't get that online.
00:11:27.992 - 00:12:04.220, Speaker A: You won't get that from VR conferences. You have to go to one of these ethereum conferences, preferably in, um, you know, a place that you haven't been before. So something like Paris would be cool because you have a lot of the european culture there. And then, you know, obviously there's a lot of them in the US that happen. There's also going to be Defcon six or five, I think it's six that it was announced for Columbia. Um, so, you know, you have basically all these different kind of cultures clashing in a positive way, not clashing in, like, a negative way. And, you know, I'm remembering back to the other conferences about, like, one in Berlin, there's Prague as well.
00:12:04.220 - 00:12:36.982, Speaker A: I mean, you get to experience a different culture. And then you get to experience all these kind of these conversations with people from these different cultures around the world. So that to me is the coolest thing about Ethereum conferences. And that to me is a big reason why I'm fomoing because I love just talking to people, you know, offline and getting to know them and getting to meet all of my Twitter friends. But hopefully soon. But yeah, I'll leave it at that for now. But essentially, if you haven't been to an ethereum conference and you can go to one, highly suggest going to it, hopefully next year we can put COVID behind us with, you know, most of the world vaccinated and we can actually start travel.
00:12:36.982 - 00:13:16.354, Speaker A: Everyone can start traveling around the world again. Because I think that everyone should attend an Ethereum conference at least once in their life. And one of the bigger ones, like there's small ones that happen from time to time, but I think the bigger ones like Devcon or EtHCC or ETH Denver, all those sorts of things, or EthNew York and things like that, those ones are the ones that I think people should attend. And you'll know what I mean when you attend them. So stateful works has introduced the AIP 1559 nfts. Now, I spoke about these the other day. This has been made in collaboration with the AIP 1559 contributors and all proceeds will go to them.
00:13:16.354 - 00:14:01.612, Speaker A: There are two different nfts, the AIP 1559 supporter, one with 1559 total editions, and then the 1559 patron, one of one edition which is up for auction for 15.59 ETH, which is about 30 grand at current prices. So yeah, you can go to this website here. I linked this in the discord, the Discord channel yesterday to kind of alpha leak it out. And I was actually, people thought that I was an insider and I had like insider kind of information about when this was going live, but I really didn't. What ended up happening and why I was the first minter of this NFT was because I kept refreshing the page. I assumed that it would have launched like early morning us time because of the fact that's just the time that makes most sense to launch it.
00:14:01.612 - 00:14:23.316, Speaker A: Sorry. So I was like, okay. And I just kept refreshing it every so often and then it popped up and my heart skipped a beat and I'm like, oh my God, oh my God, it's live. And I went there and then I did it and then 2 seconds later the second person popped up. I'm like oh my God, I just made it in time. But anyway, it's really cool to see 860 of these nfts have already been sold. As I said, it's a limited edition of 1559.
00:14:23.316 - 00:15:00.292, Speaker A: The price is 0.1559 ETH for the supporter nfts, which is about $311 at time of recording. Now, obviously that's a bit steep for an NFT for a lot of people, and that's totally fine. Like you don't have to buy it or anything like that. But still, I think it's awesome that this many people have bought it and it's raised 134 ethics, which is a lot of money for the EIP 1559 contributors there. And then on the Patreon edition, we've just got one person bidding so far, Leorad F, which is the same person who did the infinite garden movie and donated the most to the Infinite Garden crowd. Crowdfund there.
00:15:00.292 - 00:15:24.152, Speaker A: But yeah, this, this auction goes for another five days and 19 hours. But I doubt there's many people who have this much Easter splurge on NFT. But they look so cool. I mean, these are made by my good friend kid air. Um, you know, you, I've spoken about him before. He's made his other nfts out there and he donated proceeds to gitcoin, but he made both of these. So this is the one of one edition and then this is the Patreon edition here, which I think both of them are just absolutely awesome.
00:15:24.152 - 00:15:43.142, Speaker A: I really like Kita's work. He's, he's really talented and he's been a long time ethereum as well, so he kind of gets it, which I think is really cool. But anyway, go check this out if you haven't already. I have. I think I've shielded enough on Twitter, on the Discord channel, on the refuel. So I'm sure you've seen it, but I think it's very important to go check it out. So immutable announced their token today.
00:15:43.142 - 00:16:13.794, Speaker A: Remember how I told you guys that if every single crypto project is going to have a token, you know, and just assume that they will? Well, this is just another one coming to life here. So their token is called IMX. And this will power. Are they saying this is going to power the growth of the first layer? Two for nfts on Ethereum. Now a bunch of this is getting air dropped for people who you, who were part of, I guess, like gods unchained. You can see here the airdrop detail, sorry, the tokenomics details here. And then there's a way to earn IMX, which is in this blog post about the airdrop.
00:16:13.794 - 00:16:46.412, Speaker A: Once it loads, there we go. And you can see here how the airdrop is done. So they're doing it in a few different ways. There's going to be a bunch of IMX distributed evenly to every user who traded or held in their inventory a gods unchained card or on immutable X at any point before the snapshot date of 22 July. And then there's a secondary air trap, which is much bigger, that will go to people that hold different kind of like rarities of gods unchained cards. You can see the table here. Now, this snapshot hasn't been taken yet, so you can actually buy these cards to get this airdrop, you know, when it happens in a few weeks, they've stated here.
00:16:46.412 - 00:17:11.060, Speaker A: So yeah, two different kind of like ways to get an airdrop there, which I think is really cool. But yeah, I mean, the general kind of gist of this token, they actually tell, actually say what the IMX is. Use cases are going to be within the immutable X network. One of it is fees. So 20% of every transaction fee on the protocol will be paid in IMX own. Any IMX IMX will be automatically purchased using your ETH, which I think is really cool. It's like using meta transactions there.
00:17:11.060 - 00:17:47.792, Speaker A: Staking all IMX used to pay transaction fees is sent to a staking rewards pool. This pool will proportionally distribute, be proportionally distributed among users who are currently staking IMX. The more you stake him, the more you earn. And governance, obviously, as an active member of the Mutable X community, you have an IMX way to vote on the future of the protocol. I'm really glad that there's talking about, I guess like the uses of the token, like right off the bat, instead of just leaving it up to the community to come up with uses. Because normally you'll see tokens launching, they'll be like, okay, we're a governance token. And I've kind of discussed how I think that that's fine, and I believe governance tokens are bullish.
00:17:47.792 - 00:18:16.550, Speaker A: But the problem is, is that you can get to a point where the community doesn't really come together to drive value to the token because they don't really care. You kind of need this benevolent dictatorship at the start. You need this little bit of centralization in order to bootstrap these sorts of things, at least I believe so. That's really cool. And on top of this, like immutable is an Aussie based team. They're up in Sydney. So, you know, it's just another Aussie team kind of like making more of a splash here, which I really, really love seeing.
00:18:16.550 - 00:18:56.050, Speaker A: But yeah, if you haven't read the details about the airdrop and everything and you want to learn more about that and the IMX token, of course, generally I'll link both of these blog posts in the YouTube description and you can go check it out. So I'm sure a lot of you saw this video today of Ashton Kutcher posted on Twitter where he said, welcome to Kutcher Kitchen talks, episode one. Now, I'm probably going to spoil this for those who haven't seen it yet, but I'm assuming that most of you have seen this. But anyway, it's basically a video of Ashton asking Mila Kunis, his wife, a bunch of questions about crypto. And like, what is crypto, what is a blockchain? Blah, blah, blah, blah. And she's giving, like, you know, she's giving decent answers. I don't think they're like bad answers or anything.
00:18:56.050 - 00:19:28.136, Speaker A: But then halfway through the video, he pans the camera from Mila to Vitalik, who's sitting in Ashton Kutcher's kitchen, which, I mean, you can see the comments here. Everyone's like, what the fuck? This is hilarious. And then, you know, crypto Cobain had a hilarious comment here where he says, completely disagree with what the last guy said to describe Ethereum. Very bad explanation, imo. Hate all these new normies jumping on the scene trying to explain what Ethereum is to us crypto ogs. Then you have this guy, this account here called good names, who said, this is the founder, though, and they were serious about it. And all the comments.
00:19:28.136 - 00:20:11.814, Speaker A: I mean, this whole thing was just an absolute laugh and I loved it. But what was hilarious to me was it was just so unexpected. Like, you don't expect Vitalik, of all people, to be sitting in Ashton Kutcher's kitchen, right? So that was, that was pretty funny. But anyway, Ashton Kutcher has been getting more involved with crypto, I guess, over the last few months. I think I've spoken about him on the refill before, but he's pretty involved in the NFT space and has been, and has been doing a lot of funding in that area, too. So I'm actually really liking the fact that Vitalik is spending time with him because who better to educate Ashton on the crypto space and on Ethereum than Vitalik at the end of the day? So I feel that's very, very positive. And on the other side of things, we had this kind of like bitcoin conference that happened over the last 24 hours called the b word.
00:20:11.814 - 00:20:56.930, Speaker A: And it was, I mean, I didn't watch it, but like, from the comments that I read and people telling me about it, it was, it was pretty, like, it was just too bitcoin focused. Like, they didn't even acknowledge Ethereum, really, except Elon saying that he owned Ethereum, which I'll talk about in a bit. So I'm really glad to see that we have other kind of like celebrity types out there or people with audiences just like putting more spotlight on Ethereum, because bitcoin already gets too much attention in my eyes for what it does. It really gets way too much attention. And I think that because of that, you have people who basically bucket Ethereum in with bitcoin and think of it as the same thing. When Ethereum is extremely different to bitcoin, it is distinctly different. I mean, they could, they actually, the funny thing is that at their core they are pretty similar in the fact that they are decentralized networks and they share some similar views.
00:20:56.930 - 00:21:28.160, Speaker A: But once you start going a little bit higher than that and you go to like, the, I guess the social layers, they are very, very, very different things, very different beasts. And then you go into like, what they can be used for and what, what the community wants to use it for, and it's just totally different. So I'm really glad that, I mean, Ashton advertised Ethereum to his, what is it, 17.2 million Twitter followers, which is absolutely insane. This video was watched by 770,000 people so far. And, you know, I was talking about this on yesterday's refuel where I said that, or maybe the day before where I said that. Vitalik's following of 2.1
00:21:28.160 - 00:22:04.234, Speaker A: million followers. I wish that he used it better because I, you know, having this amount of reach and having this, this kind of like, audience is, and using it and getting people to kind of like, look at the right things and read, um, the most interesting stuff about Ethereum is the way to go about it, I believe so, yeah. Really cool to see this. Watch this video if you haven't yet. I know I spoiled it for you if you haven't watched it yet, but I just thought it was just absolutely hilarious and you should go check it out for sure. So I did mention that I was going to talk about the Elon thing. So I put out a joke tweet today where I said it's in response to Elon announcing that he holds ETH I wanted to reveal that I also hold ETH.
00:22:04.234 - 00:22:25.192, Speaker A: This may come as a shock to some of you, but the writing really was on the wall for a while. So I know you guys, some of you are standing up right now. Some of you, like, just been taken back. You may, you may have fainted. Um, but yes, I do own some. No, no, seriously. Um, apparently, uh, uh, Elon said on, on this, the b word conference, he said that he owns, obviously, bitcoin, um, ethereum and, and dogecoin.
00:22:25.192 - 00:23:03.536, Speaker A: So I don't think, I don't think it should come as a shock at all that he owns bitcoin and ethereum, and it should definitely not come as a shock that he owns Dogecoin. Um, but he did say he owns a lot more bitcoin than anything else. He said that like SpaceX and Tesla own bitcoin, which again, is not very shocking to me. Um, and he seems to be generally quite bullish on bitcoin. He didn't really say much about ethereum, which was disappointing. I would love to hear his, like, unfiltered thoughts on ethereum that don't involve him talking about it on Twitter, or at least talking, just talking about dogecoin on Twitter, whatever. Because, you know, as much as I think that he has a lot to learn about this industry, I feel like he's a quick learner and he's not like a total idiot either.
00:23:03.536 - 00:23:59.620, Speaker A: And I don't think he's ignorant or anything. And I'm pretty sure he's, I think he's met Vitalik before, or maybe not, but if he had, I'm sure Vitalik spoke to him about, about Ethereum and all that sort of stuff there. But what I wanted to focus on was the fact that, like, and I know I just said all that, but at the end of the day, like, who cares that Elon holds ETH? Like, I don't, I don't know if the Ethereum ecosystem really cares too much about celebrity worship. And even, like, I was just talking about Ashton Kutcher and how obviously he's a huge celebrity, has like, you know, tens of millions of followers on Twitter and his reach is great and everything, but outside of their, I guess, marketing pool, I just don't know why we, where we should care too much about celebrities, you know, coming into Ethereum, being on, boarded onto Ethereum, it's all well and good for them to educate the audience as if they're doing it correctly and doing the marketing side of things. But generally, as I've said, plenty of times, Ethereum is for everyone. At the end of the day, like, it is not going to. The network cannot discriminate against anyone.
00:23:59.620 - 00:24:33.184, Speaker A: You can be a poor farmer in some third world country, or you could be the richest person on earth. The Ethereum network does not discriminate based on that. Like, yes, you could make arguments that, oh, well, you know, the rich people can afford the gas fees and the poor people can't. But like, I'm not talking about that side of it. I'm talking about the fact that the Ethereum network itself, regardless of gas fees, is not opinionated on who's using it. Now, obviously, this applies to pretty much like, most blockchains out there and everything like that, but I think it's very important to reiterate that fact that it doesn't matter if celebrities buy ETH or not. It doesn't matter if they use Ethereum or not.
00:24:33.184 - 00:25:03.886, Speaker A: I think, as I said, their power is in marketing and awareness. I don't think that them buying ETH or kind of like using Ethereum is necessarily adding, you know, an outsized amount of value to it, rather than, you know, millions and millions of people from around the world doing it. But still, on that note, like, I don't think it's a negative thing. I think I'm just neutral on it at the end of the day. And I'm not someone who likes celebrity worship. I mean, I don't worship any kind of celebrities. I mean, the only person that I really look up to is Vitalik for a number of different reasons.
00:25:03.886 - 00:25:35.686, Speaker A: I don't think I have to go through why, why I look up to Vitalik, but I don't like worship him. And I don't see much celebrity worship within the Ethereum community, whereas some, like in the bitcoin community, you definitely see it. There's definitely a lot of celebrity worship there. So I don't know if that's, maybe I'm generalizing too much, maybe I haven't, I just haven't seen owner. But generally, I don't think that we've got that we have that kind of like culture in Ethereum, which is, which is positive, I think, at the end of the day. But anyway, I guess cool to know that Elon holds ETH as well. As I said, not shocked by that.
00:25:35.686 - 00:26:35.026, Speaker A: But I'm looking forward to him at least getting more up to speed with crypto and becoming more knowledgeable about it. Because as much as I think it's just a neutral thing for him to be involved, it's actually a negative thing when he starts spreading crap, like I talked about the other day, about how he said, let's scale dogecoin by doing, you know, increasing the block size, whatever, and all that sort of stuff. And I just, I'd like to believe that he's just misinformed or uninformed and that he's not just spreading like crap on purpose. So the more he gets educated, the more he'll be able to educate those around him and the better off I think we'll all be. But yeah, we'll have to see how that kind of plays out there. I'm sure he's, I'm spending more and more time looking into it, considering he's becoming more active within, within the ecosystem. All right, so last up here, ETH block art announced that they have raised a pre seed round led by coin fund with participation from Focus Labs Venture Dow, which is Metacartale Venture, sorry, and divergence ventures here.
00:26:35.026 - 00:27:21.316, Speaker A: Now, disclaimer, I participated as a seed investor in this. But, you know, for those of you who don't know what ETH block art is, it's basically an NFT project that allows you to create your own deterministic blockchain art, painting with Ethereum blocks and mint nfts. And they basically allow you to essentially use data that's contained within the Ethereum network, within different Ethereum blocks to generate different pieces of NFT art. Now some of you may have seen this on Twitter before. You may have seen people posting pictures of it and saying, oh, look, I just, NfT this transaction hash at this block and stuff like that. That's, I guess like on the surface, what the ETH block art, or block art as it's called here, allows you to do. And it's basically a tooling and infrastructure that will allow builders and creators to do this.
00:27:21.316 - 00:27:48.622, Speaker A: I mean, they describe it here. They basically say the block art tooling and infrastructure will serve builders and creators at the intersection of creative coding, generative art and Ethereum data, looking to develop their own independent platforms such as ETH block dot art powered by deterministic data. So the websites, I mean, all of this is already live, actually. This isn't like a pre product thing. You can actually go here, create your own kind of nfts, mint them, you can see all the ones that have been created already, which I think is really, really cool. And you can start from a style. I mean, there's so many things you can do here.
00:27:48.622 - 00:28:37.508, Speaker A: And maybe I should talk a little bit about the reason why I backed this kind of like team and everything like that. It's because I, I mean, I've said before that I'm not a guy who's huge on art or anything like that, but I am huge on culture. And I think art is just a culture in visualized, essentially. And I think that there's a lot of culture embedded right into the ethereum network itself. So if we can harness that and we can give people the ability to create works of art or kind of like really anything, any types of nfts using that data, I think that's going to be incredibly cool to see play out, and I think that's going to be incredibly powerful. So I'm really excited to see, you know, people building with this, building with these tools, generating these kind of like art pieces and just coming up with things that I can't even think of right now, to be honest. So, yeah, I guess, you know, congrats to block out on the raise here.
00:28:37.508 - 00:28:54.974, Speaker A: Obviously, I participated as a little seed investor among all these really cool people here, but I'm really excited to see how this project progresses. But on that note, that's it for today's episode. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
