00:00:06.650 - 00:00:22.798, Speaker A: Really happy to have Aaron Wright with us today. Aaron is a co founder of OpenLaw and the Lau we were just talking about. And both OpenLaw and the Lao use the Chainlink Oracle network. So, Aaron, happy to have you here. I'm going to just let you take it away.
00:00:22.964 - 00:00:26.310, Speaker B: All right, thanks so much, Andy. Let me just share my screen real quick.
00:00:26.460 - 00:00:26.966, Speaker A: Sure.
00:00:27.068 - 00:00:55.470, Speaker B: Hey, everyone. It's really great to be here, just to give you some context. And thanks for the warm introduction, Andy. I'm a professor at Carto's law school. I also am the co founder of a project called Openlaw. And we've been building lots of really interesting things using Chainlink and including a really awesome project called Allow, which is a Dao that enables venture style investing. For me, this is a really important moment.
00:00:55.470 - 00:01:46.350, Speaker B: I've had the pleasure of knowing Sergey and Steve even before Chainlink existed, and just seeing kind of the power of the community here and the technology that Chainlink has built has been really incredible. And I'm really here to tell you that over the next several decades, billions upon billions of contracts will become smart. We're going to transform the way that contracts are created so that they're no longer encapsulated and built using paper documents, but they become fully digital in nature. And why is that the case, really? Although people often don't think about contracts, they're the dark matter of the commercial world. They're everywhere. They're in every single industry, lurking behind every single commercial transaction. And all of this is going to change over the next coming decades.
00:01:46.350 - 00:03:04.200, Speaker B: And we got here not just because of the great work of Chainlink, not just because of the great work of Ethereum. This vision really started way back during, even before the web began. In the web, one community, there was a community out in the Bay area which folks have referred to as the Xanomix community, and they really foresaw the vision of the future they outlined at that point in time. Again, this is even before the World Wide Web, a vision of what the Internet would look like. It included hypertext, which is the World Wide Web, the digital currency, smart contracts, ricardian contracts, virtual goods and prediction markets. I think what we've seen over the past 40, 50 years is really the birth and growth of this vision and smart contracts started. And we stand on the shoulder of many other amazing people, including Nick Sabo, who came up with the concept of smart contracts, Ian Grigg, who came up with the concept of ricardian contracts, which I'll unpack in a little bit, and Mark Miller, who's a tremendous engineer who thought about e rights and other ways that we could encapsulate rights online.
00:03:04.200 - 00:03:48.206, Speaker B: And now we're in kind of phase two when we're seeing not just these visionaries come up with the ideas, but we're seeing people actually build the technology. Vitalik and team obviously helping to build Ethereum, Sergey and Steve helping to build chainlink. And in many ways, what we're doing at Openlaw is trying to also bring this vision to fruition. And when people think about smart contracts, I think it's a little bit of a misnomer in our mind. It's really three related technologies that work closely together. Smart contracts at a base blockchain layer, a ricardian contract interacting with smart contracts, and obviously oracles providing the data to make this all work together. We've called this, in the Openlock context, the Olay stack.
00:03:48.206 - 00:04:36.370, Speaker B: And this is what I think the vision of the future is bringing. So for those that may be new to the chainlink ecosystem, for those that may be new to smart contracts, just to give you a sense of what's happening here, smart contracts are little bits of computer code that run on a blockchain, primarily, and they're used to create digital assets, define rights, and manage an asset's movement. Oracles make smart contracts dynamic. They're really the linchpin. So without oracles, you can do lots of things with smart contracts, but you can't do as many interesting things. And ricardian contracts manage the real world risk, the meat space risk. So all these things that you may not be able to encapsulate in code, you can still use a ricardian contract, which is a way to represent a legacy, traditional real world contract in a digital format.
00:04:36.370 - 00:05:37.350, Speaker B: And this is our vision of what the web three smart contract stack will look like. This is the Olay stack with Ethereum, OpenLaw and Chainlink kind of all working closely together, and this is being explored by enterprises. We're still kind of in the early days of seeing this vision come to fruition. But on the Openlaw side, we've been working with tremendous partners like the LSTA, which manages a massive syndicated loan marketplace. We've been exploring derivatives and other ways to represent other high value contracts with organizations like ISDA. We've been working with a handful of other legacy organizations really to start to see how we can transform the existing world into this one that is digital. And one thing that we're excited to announce, we announced this earlier today, you're now actually able to execute smart contracts which incorporate Chainlink oracles into the Microsoft Word ecosystem.
00:05:37.350 - 00:06:44.382, Speaker B: So the way this works is people can create and execute smart contracts now using the legacy tools that they have at their disposal. So we've abstracted away a lot of the pain points that we felt being developers in interacting with and generating smart contracts and also smart legal agreements. So you can now use Openlaw to automatically generate agreement, filling out a simple form. You can pull in a Chainlink oracle, either the data itself or incorporate an oracle into the underlying smart contract that can all be packaged together into one unitary document that can be opened up in Microsoft Word. And using a plugin that we developed that you can install with a click via Microsoft, via Microsoft's App Store, you can actually execute the smart contract with a click of a button. Once the parties sign the agreement with a click, you're able to actually trigger the smart contract and also pull in any Oracle price data or other information. But there's more.
00:06:44.382 - 00:07:43.034, Speaker B: We've also built this so that all the information and data from the smart contracts and all the information and data from an oracle can be saved in legacy systems. So you can save the document itself in Dropbox or OneDrive, you can export that data into Google sheets, and you can even create workflows that kind of manage that process so that we can begin to incorporate this technology into a greater range of commercial transactions. And the nice thing here is that we built a whole framework to make it easier to bridge into other systems. So we started with the Microsoft ecosystem, with parts of the Google ecosystem, with Dropbox and a handful of other integrations. But it's going to become easier and easier and easier to plug this into other systems. But we're really not just here to build for the legacy world. We started Openlaw to really build this future digital world, and we're building really for this future of commerce.
00:07:43.034 - 00:08:35.150, Speaker B: So this smart contract stack that I showed before is really beginning to bridge Defi for the real world. It's getting incorporated into an increasing range of Defi products. For example, we're using Openlon now in conjunction with Ave to help bring new advanced forms of lending products to the world. A really interesting form of credit delegation that will hopefully make it easier for people to take out loans and to receive credit if they need it. At the same time, we're using the same stack to power dows in ways that comply with us law, in ways that make people feel comfortable to pool their capital together and begin to do something really productive. So this is just beginning, and there's plenty more to come. And that's, I think, what's really exciting about this technology and about this stack.
00:08:35.150 - 00:09:35.818, Speaker B: But I wanted to just pause for a minute and just outline why does this matter? Why is it a big deal that we have kind of the technology and the tools to begin to bridge defi into the real world? It matters because this is what's going to enable the digitization of real world assets. There's a tremendous amount of value in the legacy world, in those legacy assets, and that value is primarily managed via traditional legal agreements. And using the Olay stack, we're going to be able to begin to bring these assets into the Ethereum ecosystem. It's going to help create a funnel of value that really will grease the wheels of DeFi. So right now we're seeing lots of amazing projects being built, a lot of really innovative technology that's getting deployed. But in many ways it's just recycling digital value that's already kind of at our disposal. For this really to get to the next level, we need to create a funnel of value that will bring in even more capital into the ecosystem.
00:09:35.818 - 00:10:38.774, Speaker B: This will increase the adoption of Ethereum, this will create more demand for oracle data, and this will all reside on open, permissionless, decentralized systems. And that's critically important if we want to bring this to the masses. So what's fascinating here is that this is going to be a process, and I think in the end, this is where we're going to land. As Ethereum gains adoption and as the digital world expands, I think real world risk is going to be increasingly managed via Daos. I think we're going to start to see this technology and some of these real world risks that today we have and manage via traditional legal agreements, increasingly getting managed by groups of people. Smart contracts for commoditized agreements, things like derivatives, things like syndicated loans, things like standard agreements. I think they're going to be increasingly provided on a take it or leave it basis based on some underlying smart contract technology potentially represented in some sort of tokenized form.
00:10:38.774 - 00:11:36.410, Speaker B: And governance tokens. And dows will manage the real world risks. So people will standardize around a set of smart contracts and the risks related to interacting with that smart contracts will be managed via dao and folks that have governance tokens who can begin to kind of tweak the underlying code to make it better or deal with some other risks that may manifest in the way that it's presented to the public. So this is, I think, one of the endpoints of the stack that everybody's building here with Ethereum kind of sitting at the root with some sort of smart contract protocol that's beginning to tackle a commercial relationship or social relationship in some sort of way. Those smart contracts will likely rely on oracles, and presumably those are going to be chainlink oracles. We're going to start to see Daos increasingly being formed. Those Daos are going to presumably have a governance token that's going to manage the risk related to the smart contract and to protect the members of the Dow itself.
00:11:36.410 - 00:12:11.414, Speaker B: And to structure that transaction, you're going to need ricardian contracting systems like what we provided for Openlaw to really be at the root. So things are looking bright. We've come a long, long know. I mentioned this in the green room right before we started, but I've known Sergey and Steve for a long time. It's tremendous to see so many people interested in smart contracts, so many people interested in really rebuilding this future. And we've come a tremendous amount in a very short amount of time. But there's still a lot more work to do.
00:12:11.414 - 00:12:38.720, Speaker B: Right. We're still in early days of making sure the world can interact with smart contracts. So put on your boots, report for duty, ignore all those haters, because there's plenty of haters, and keep on building because if we do this, we can really transform the world. So thanks. That's about it. I'm happy to take any questions that folks may have the next couple of minutes.
00:12:39.570 - 00:12:53.794, Speaker A: All right, we'll help look through the chat for some questions and ask them to you as well. Aaron, you guys just released that Microsoft word thing this morning. Can you talk just a little bit about that? How does it work?
00:12:53.832 - 00:12:54.226, Speaker B: What is it?
00:12:54.248 - 00:12:55.666, Speaker A: Just the basics of it?
00:12:55.768 - 00:13:36.094, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. So you can go and log on to Openlaw and set up any legal agreement that you want. As part of that, you can incorporate a call to a chainlink Oracle so you can pull in the data itself. Once the agreement is generated, it can be manifested into a Microsoft Word document, something that people who are lawyers or people that work in the commercial setting can easily understand and digest, et cetera. Under the hood, though, in that agreement, you can include calls to smart contracts. So those smart contracts just kind of sit in the back, almost like opening up the hood for a car. The smart contract just kind of sitting on the back.
00:13:36.094 - 00:14:05.882, Speaker B: The agreement may account for that in some sort of way. So you can open it up in Microsoft Word. You can edit it some more if you want. You can play around with it to make sure that it kind of suits your needs. And with a simple plugin that you can download via the Microsoft App Store soon. We're still getting just approval to get it listed, but that shouldn't be an issue. You'll be able to sign the contract right in Microsoft Word, that signature will get secured via blockchain and then that will trigger the smart contract execution as well.
00:14:05.882 - 00:15:16.446, Speaker B: So either the data is getting pulled in from before or the smart contract itself may reference some Chainlink Oracle data that gets triggered at that point in time. So it's really end to end. The beautiful thing about what we've done in OpenLaw is we turned all these contracts into data objects, so all the data related to the contract itself can also be pulled out and pushed into other systems as well. Now that contracts are not just simply paper documents that are hard to read and hard for computers to understand, all that information can get pushed into really any other system that we want, whether that's excel to keep track of it, or Google sheets to keep track of it, or really another data structure. All that becomes possible right now, which I think is pretty amazing. We've also built some really nice basic workflow tools so you can begin to structure even how you generate these agreements off the bat. So the hope here is that people that are working in legacy institutions and large enterprises anywhere around the globe, they can begin to play around with this technology, right? They don't need to settle for these boring old school legal contracts.
00:15:16.446 - 00:16:00.400, Speaker B: They can begin to play around with dynamic contracts and make these contracts more responsive, make them more accurate using chainlink data, a whole bunch of other things that folks may want, and it's all at their fingertips, which is pretty awesome. I just saw this in the chat, although it's running really fast. But even if you don't want to have the contract signed on a blockchain and we have a basic signature solution, you're going to be able to sign it using Docusign, you're going to be able to sign it using hello, sign. So all these legacy tools now can really take advantage of the technology that we've been collectively building. So it's been pretty great. Yeah.
00:16:00.770 - 00:16:20.674, Speaker A: So can you talk a little bit more about ricardian contracts and just what that is, how that works? There's a number of questions in the chat about how dows can govern things in the real world and how micro we can get for management and those sort of things. So can you talk a little bit about how those contracts work and how they might be governed?
00:16:20.802 - 00:16:54.302, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. So the notion of a ricardian contract is really taking what you would think of today as a legacy contract and turning it into data. So all the relevant parts are turned into data, and that data is cryptographically secured and verifiable. And that's why you need a blockchain for this. Right. Blockchains are amazing at storing cryptographically secured and verifiable data, and that's what Openlaw does. So you could think of Openlaw as taking these legacy boring documents and turning them into a race car.
00:16:54.302 - 00:17:26.150, Speaker B: So instead of having it just trapped in paper, not knowing what's in the agreement itself, you're able to structure it as a data object. You're able to cryptographically verify all the data that's being inputted so that you know that that's actually accurate. And then on top of that, you're able to secure that with a blockchain. And now that it's secured with a blockchain, you can start to plug into other awesome technology that blockchain technology provides. Like Oracle. Like oracles and smart contracts, et cetera. So the moment that you sign something, you can trigger all those other actions that could happen on chain.
00:17:26.150 - 00:17:54.450, Speaker B: So it really is a complementary set. That's why we view this as a stack. Right? So if we want to suck in this real world value, we're going to need to manage real world risks. We're going to need to manage things that folks in the real world worry about. And this is really the way you do that. You begin to present contracts in a way that work for people and that can get as micros, macro as you want. Right.
00:17:54.450 - 00:18:17.514, Speaker B: Really? Contracts can be really large, they can be really small, they can kind of be everywhere. I actually tried to look up before this started how many contracts there are created annually in the be. I think it's probably about a trillion a year, maybe. It's an incredible amount of activity. And now we get to begin to tap into this. So it's pretty awesome.
00:18:17.712 - 00:18:42.530, Speaker A: Yeah. Well, Gleb dudka, just a few sessions earlier was talking about how part of the challenge in enterprise is and doing some of the blockchain sort of stuff is you don't have a lot of that traditional contract infrastructure. You sign on with your wallet in your browser and you staking and all of a sudden you're doing all these things. And so formalizing some of that in contracts that combine those two worlds may go a long way for enterprise adoption as well.
00:18:42.680 - 00:19:16.042, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. And the nice thing here is you can make all those relationships legally bonding. Right. So what we're doing now in the DeFi ecosystem, I know we have 1 minute left, is it's really important, but frankly, it's small potatoes. It's small value as compared to what happens on the desks of big banks in Wall street or in other major organizations. So to get to that point, this is what we're going to need, at least in the short term. And I think in the long term, what we're going to see is what I talked about at the end of the presentation, kind of an evolution away from these paper agreements into these Dow based managed smart contract systems.
00:19:16.042 - 00:19:34.850, Speaker B: So it's going to be pretty awesome. Yeah, they're going to be at least legally binding. I'm seeing some comments. At least in the US, they'll be legally binding and in probably many other jurisdictions around the globe. But the know lots of problems in the US, but we make things pretty easy on contracts. We love contracts here. We're a nation built on contracts.
00:19:35.590 - 00:20:01.082, Speaker A: That was my next question is following from the chat, is that domestic? Let me just double check. Rory, are we out of time or do we have more? All right, we have some more. Let's get some other questions here going on. Yeah, so we have these domestic laws. Are there international laws? How would they be different for some of these contracts? Can you talk to some of the international implications of these?
00:20:01.216 - 00:20:50.822, Speaker B: Yeah. So every country determines whether or not they want to, what criteria is going to make a contract valid. So in the US, you just really need it in writing. There's nothing limiting it from just being an underlying ethereum based smart contract. With an appropriate design, not all smart contracts will necessarily be binding, but with an appropriate design, you can have an entirely code based contract be binding between people. But to just limit any questions, something like what we're doing, a recording contracting system like Openlaw, just closes any argument that the relationship is not a binding relationship. That means you can choose the law that provides, you can deal with things like dispute resolution, which will open up the door for online dispute resolution, or blockchain based dispute resolution.
00:20:50.822 - 00:21:31.254, Speaker B: All that type of stuff can be defined in a simple agreement automatically generated, and we can begin to kind of administer even the dispute resolution parts. Other jurisdictions around the globe, they haven't seen the future as quickly, so they may not have accommodated digital contracting off the bat, or this notion that people could express their relationships and code. But in the US, we dealt with this back in the kind of in the phase one of the Internet to enable ecommerce. There was lots of activity in the US to make sure that electronic contracts were binding, and so we can piggyback off of that law here. So we're in really good shape now.
00:21:31.372 - 00:21:53.578, Speaker A: So with DFI, we're hearing a lot about, essentially, engineers and developers that have a finance background, or vice versa. People with financial background that have development background have a significant advantage. Is this going to be the same thing with contract lawyers? Are we going to need to start recruiting contract lawyers that can read smart contracts or teach them or how does that impact?
00:21:53.754 - 00:22:16.934, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I think it's always helpful to have folks that understand this world. I use this analogy that contracts are like dark matter, in part because nobody really understands how dark matter works. In many ways, contracts are similar. Right. Lawyers are kind of the high priests of contracts. They understand how it all works, but not many other people do.
00:22:16.934 - 00:23:02.646, Speaker B: So in order to build this completely digital future, the lawyers need to translate part of their knowledge base into code. So to the extent that you can bridge both of those worlds, I think that there'll be a lot of value to be had. But I do think we're moving to a point where hopefully we can liberate contracts from their paper based form and make them entirely digital in nature. I don't think that's going to be every contract, but I think it's going to be an increasing range of contracts over time. So I think it's going to be a good time to be a digitally native lawyer. It's going to be a good time. Like you noted, if you're somebody that has financial experience and understands how markets work and are able to translate that into some sort of smart contract code, that's going to be amazing.
00:23:02.646 - 00:23:31.840, Speaker B: And at the same time, if you want to think about things that just possibly couldn't happen before, that's why you need services and tools like Chainlink. Right. The ability to have real world data at your fingertips is just amazing. And that's really, I think we're going to see not horseless carriages, but actually new and innovative technology, it's really going to be around. How do you incorporate some of this oracle data to just do things that we couldn't even think about a couple of years ago?
00:23:32.690 - 00:23:45.220, Speaker A: Right, the digital revolution. We begin by moving communication online with messages and then eventually images and documents, which are really just paper representations. But now it's the actual agreement itself.
00:23:46.570 - 00:24:22.960, Speaker B: It's this vision that the Xanomix community put together, right? It was, let's get content with hyperlinks, let's get money with digital currencies, let's get contracts with smart and ricardian contracts. Let's get property virtualized and let's be able to cut through the noise of prediction markets. And really, that's the future that we're building towards. And we've only done really one of them. We've only really brought content online. What we're talking about in the blockchain ecosystem is three more or four more or the rest of that entire vision. So it's pretty amazing.
00:24:22.960 - 00:24:42.120, Speaker B: And that's why I think there's a tremendous amount of value, my personal belief, I actually think blockchain tech and the stuff that we're doing here is going to be considered, in hindsight, to be tremendously more valuable than everything that we've seen with the Internet off the bat. So it's going to be a really interesting run.
00:24:43.290 - 00:24:53.286, Speaker A: All right, cool. Well, that's actually a fantastic sort of cap. And so I'm not going to push you two more because that's a really nice summary. Aaron, where can we reach you?
00:24:53.388 - 00:24:58.194, Speaker B: Follow you. I'm on Twitter. It's right there on the screen, if it's still there. Fantastic.
00:24:58.242 - 00:25:05.360, Speaker A: Well, thank you for coming. We get the next speaker going. Aaron Wright, everybody, from open law and the loud. Check them all out online.
00:25:06.290 - 00:25:06.780, Speaker B: Bye, guys.
