00:00:02.120 - 00:00:08.794, Speaker A: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the go to podcast for investors and builders in crypto.
00:00:17.294 - 00:00:46.356, Speaker B: And before we get started, just a reminder for you guys out there. The Blockcrunch podcast is intended for informational purposes only. Neither the host nor its guests or licensed financial advisors, and nothing discussed should be construed as financial advice. Views held by Blockcrent's guests are their own, and sponsorship messages do not constitute financial advice or endorsement. With that out of the way, let's jump right in. Now, before we get started with today's episode, I've got some great news for you. Now, a lot of you have been asking for how I analyze projects that I bring on the show.
00:00:46.356 - 00:01:32.170, Speaker B: That's why I decided to create blockchains VIP to share with you all the heavy research that goes on behind the scenes. Now, every week or so, our team prepares an in depth research memo with things like sector analysis, technical concepts made simple, in depth competitor breakdown, and even interactive models so you can learn about the most important projects before they become important. And our team is putting in hours every week, scouring discord, twitter, forums and blogs to help you get an edge in crypto and understand the latest projects and themes at the deepest levels. That goes way beyond just an interview. Now, in addition, we'll also host exclusive AMA's with myself to answer any of your questions. So all of these are only available to blockchain's vip subscribers. And the good news is that while our interviews will always be free, the VIP tier costs less than one coffee a day.
00:01:32.170 - 00:02:13.720, Speaker B: So head on over to theBlockcrunch.com VIP or click the link in the show notes below to sign up right. Hey, everybody, welcome back to another episode of the Blockchain podcast. Now, this week I'm very excited to interview my friend Jonathan, who is the founder of Levana, which is a project built on top of Tera that combines gaming with Defi. And they have some new plans on the horizon as well. So we scheduled this interview actually before the whole Luna event, which we covered for our vip subscribers. But I thought it'd be a great way to get into the weeds and hear from the builders firsthand how they've been impacted, what happened, and also take a look at some of the exciting things that Lavon has been working on even before and after the whole event as well.
00:02:13.720 - 00:02:18.604, Speaker B: So there's a lot to unpack here. There's a lot of stories to tell. So, Jonathan, really excited to have you on finally.
00:02:19.064 - 00:02:56.384, Speaker C: Yeah, it's great. So I run communications you know, it's. I've never really. I'm not sure. I wouldn't take the title of founder, but I have been very influential in the project. And so thank you for that. But, you know, I think that the project is really one of its strengths is how community focused it is and how much the product and the vision has really grown out of a massive community that is roughly about 30,000 members today.
00:02:56.384 - 00:04:19.536, Speaker C: We launched the project about a year and a half ago. It took on many different forms. It focused on creating a gamified experience on top of perpetual swaps. It was originally built on Terra, and then after the Terra crash, we've been looking at the broader cosmos ecosystem, which were incredibly bullish on. And we think that there is going to be growing significantly over the next couple of years in order to identify where's the next best location for Levana and how to continue the unique blend of decentralized finance and financial gamification that really brought us so much success within the terra ecosystem. And some of the, you know, some of the, I guess we could call it vanity metrics that we achieved within Terra was we were the first to launch perpetual swaps. So we had a successful testnet build which had thousands of participants and, you know, millions of, of UST deposited 60 million UST deposited onto their Bombay network with over.
00:04:19.536 - 00:05:18.304, Speaker C: It was live for about seven weeks before the crash. We had about 350 million UST worth of trading volume. And we had about 10,000 participants that were interacting both with our DeFi, but also with the gamification that we used in order to market and to educate a broader audience how to use these more advanced DeFi services. And so we had about 10,000 monthly active gamers playing with the gaming experience that kind of funneled you into the defi activity, which was a very unique methodology. I think it was probably pioneered by Defi Kingdom, which was built on harmony. One. We were really excited and impressed with what they built and inspired to build something that really took that concept and drove it to the next level.
00:05:19.524 - 00:05:39.894, Speaker B: Definitely, yeah. Thank you so much for that overview, Jonathan. And I'm curious as well, just to take a step back here, because before Levana, I know you used to be part of starkware, and then you chose to decide to go and build on terra. And you touched on this a little bit just now in your overview as well. But I'm curious, what was the initial pool to the terra ecosystem like? What was the most interesting things about that ecosystem that drew you to it?
00:05:40.434 - 00:06:21.494, Speaker C: So for that, I think that we'd have to look from a couple different perspectives. You know, I was. I was always very interested in stable coins. You know, stable coins. I got into crypto in 2016, and the just general concept of censorship, resistance, self custodied, uh, unit of, uh, account, and, uh, medium of exchange was very attractive to me. Uh, I. That's how I ended up, uh, down the bitcoin rabbit hole was, uh, looking, you know, going through experiences like having my PayPal account frozen, you know, having money transfer problems, you know, between different countries.
00:06:21.494 - 00:07:44.712, Speaker C: And just seeing that I could send, you know, a 700 megabyte, uh, video file to someone, you know, in less than 20 minutes. But if I wanted to send you $200, that realistically could take, you know, 48 hours, and I could pay a $50 fee for that. Obviously, the, you know, money transfer has improved over the last decade, but we're still really not at a point where the Internet, well, we don't have an Internet of money. And crypto proposes, or at least has a good shot at becoming the Internet of money. And so as stablecoins really became the core of defi, I'd say, from 2018 and onward, then I became increasingly interested in the different ways to be able to generate stable coins. Whether it was just a centralized banker coin, like tether or circle, or whether it was through over collateralized assets, like crypto, native assets, like the original dai, like a single collateral dai, or whether it was purely, excuse me, purely algorithmic, for example, empty set or Olympus. Or, I guess Olympus does have collateral, so that would be under collateralized, but ampleforth, for example.
00:07:44.712 - 00:08:20.118, Speaker C: So I looked at, I became fascinated at all of these, and I saw that none of them really had any semblance of success. And. And I kind of mapped out what would be my ideal design for a stablecoin. And I got to meet, through my work at Starkware Sam from Frax. I was very impressed with the model that he created. And so I took a swing at kind of designing an algorithmic stablecoin. And I was originally inspired by a coin called Haven, which was merge mined with Monero, which used a dual token mechanism.
00:08:20.118 - 00:09:47.834, Speaker C: It had a stability coin and then a volatile coin. And so there'd be burning and minting mechanisms between the two of them, which would then enable, at least in theory, the creation of a stable asset or a volatile asset that could suck the volatility out of its sister pair. And so as I started really noodling on this, I got recommendations that I really should get involved or check out what was being built in the terror community. And so that's how I ended up in the terror community, and I really just fell in love, just not with the structure and the fact that it was being built on cosmos and that I liked the idea of bespoke chains. I felt like it bespoke validator sets as a scalability mechanism because it really bridged with a shared technology and community, because it mirrored the growth of the Internet as I experienced it growing up. And so I became a lunatic, which was the term for people that were all in on Terra. And then I even got to participate in some of the brainstorming of migrating terra from the purely algorithmic standpoint to more of the Fracs model, which, sadly, wasn't implemented because of the crash.
00:09:47.834 - 00:09:56.714, Speaker C: But it was, you know, the whole, you know, that's how I kind of ended up in. In terra and being part of a team that was building on Terra.
00:09:57.734 - 00:10:30.260, Speaker B: Got it. Got it. Yeah. And there's a lot of, I think, lessons for other founders out there as well about how you guys are kind of recovering from this pretty cataclysmic event for crypto, which is this the pegging of Luna, which we'll touch on later on. But I'd love to focus more on Levana for now, because what you guys are building is quite interesting, this whole idea of gamefi with more kind of, I guess, inclination towards the defi side of things. So, I guess, just to start with, how is Levana different from other leveraged trading protocols, things like DyDX or perpetual protocol and others out there?
00:10:30.452 - 00:11:26.488, Speaker C: So it's actually, first of all, from a technology standpoint, there's a unique value offering I'll touch with. I guess DYDX is much more of a professional or institutional tool. It's designed, and I know the DyDX team very well. I know a lot of the guys that built the current version, because they literally sat in the same office as me. And it's an amazing product, but it's really catered to the institutional investor, more so than the target audience of what we'd say uniswap or sushiswap is focused on. So what I like about perpetuals, just in general, is the fact that they really can handle any asset. And that's what Lavon is an acronym for, leverage, any asset.
00:11:26.488 - 00:12:14.014, Speaker C: And the. When we went to a design methodology, we wanted something that didn't have the complexities of an order book, that there was instant settlement on a trade. So that was much closer to the perpetual finance model. So perpetual finance uses a virtual amm. And actually, the first version, which we released on Terra, had a virtual amm. But we've also seen from drift on nearby and from perpetual finance and a few times, and I think from McDEx and a few others, that there's a fundamental problem in terms of being able to open up new markets within the perpetual landscape. That the mechanisms which are designed to ensure that there's.
00:12:14.014 - 00:13:25.996, Speaker C: To ensure that there is capital for payout, which is primarily focused around two concepts. One is a funding rate, like a dynamic funding rate, from the favorable side of the trade to the not favorable side of the trade. And I can unpack these, you know, for those who are listening, that might not be familiar with the mechanisms that power perpetual swaps. But the second is a risk fund, or sometimes called like an insurance pool. And I'll discuss, and pretty much every perpetual product or leverage product has these challenges, is that when do people want to go, go long with leverage? Usually it's when there is consensus, or heavy consensus in a certain direction for a market move. So maybe, you know, bitcoin is down 80% off of its highs, and we've been trailing sideways, and there is macro news that things, you know, the feds are trading changing interest rate, and Russia just announced they'll accept oil in bitcoin, or whatever it is. I'm just making up presumable narratives that could drive price action.
00:13:25.996 - 00:14:17.582, Speaker C: So when those types of occurrences happen, so then you get large percentages of market participants that all want to take one directional trade. So you might end up on a platform where 80% of the participants want to be long an asset, and only 20% of the participants want to be short an asset. Now you have to ask yourself if the longs are correct. And they might be correct, because if there's really any clarity or way to have a high conviction or prediction in the short term of the market, then where is the funding actually going to come from? That will pay out to the lungs, because it's not. Not. There might not be enough cash and carry to be able to create a balanced market. And cash and carry is.
00:14:17.582 - 00:15:16.732, Speaker C: Is, if you're not familiar with that, is a. Is a principle where you take the non favorable side of the market, which is receiving a fee. In perpetuals, you get paid. If you take the favorable side of the market, meaning the popular side, then you pay a consistent fee, which could be every block, or once an hour, or once every 8 hours or once a day from the popular side week to the non popular side. And that's to create an arbitrage to inspire people to take the not popular side. So, a market neutral methodology of creating, of taking the not popular side is you might match a short, let's say you take a short for a million dollars, which was collateralized, you know, at ten x leverage through $100,000 of collateral, and you might be getting, let's say, 4% a day or whatever it is that the funding rate is. In order to take that non favorable side of the trade, you might want to be market neutral by actually going out in the spot market and buying a million dollars on spot.
00:15:16.732 - 00:16:47.212, Speaker C: So now, actually on your order books or just on your books, I should say you're actually taking a market neutral position, but you're really receiving roughly, you know, let's say, from that, like a 2% daily interest, which, as long as you don't get liquidated on your short position, is it can be an incredibly lucrative arbitrage strategy. So, at scale, perpetuals aspire to create this kind of balanced market through the funding rate and through cash and carry and other arbitrage methodologies. And that definitely works at scale. But when it doesn't work, and where we've seen it consistently breaks down, is when the market sentiment changes quickly, when people go from being strongly bullish to strongly bearish over a very short timeframe. So the market neutral arbitrage opportunists may not be able to, they might not just not have the liquid capital, and in order to be able to create those barbell or cash and carry positions in the opposite direction. And then the other time when it breaks down is when you have low liquidity in new markets. And so especially if you're going to be dealing with whether it's small cap coins or highly volatile crypto assets.
00:16:47.212 - 00:18:37.142, Speaker C: So then it's always been a challenge in the market to be able to have a product that really provides leverage, any asset, because many assets, just the methodology breaks down or the potential for manipulation breaks down. Another problem that we see with the virtual amm, or the perpetual finance model is that there's a mark price within the exchange itself, meaning that the exchange has its own definition of what the market price is based on the market participants. The more that longs come in to the platform and the more imbalanced it is between longs and shorts, the more the mark price is stretched away from the global spot bought price of the asset. And then this can actually, again, in these highly volatile and highly enthusiastic bull runs, or in bear positions where everyone just wants to go short, these can actually create an environment which causes cascading liquidations, and we've seen that happen with a handful of perpetuals in the market. So what is a cascading liquidation? It's when the price within the exchange, which is called the mark price, which is independent of what maybe an oracle would provide, or just the global consensus of the price of an asset, or the fair market value of an asset, should be. May be stretched, and that could even be ten to 15% off of the actual price of the asset. A lot of degens, when they're planning on getting a ten x, they don't care if they're paying a 5% or a 10% premium.
00:18:37.142 - 00:19:35.230, Speaker C: They just want to make sure that they have access to the leverage exposure. So when the mark price is overextended, then if you have a large position closed very quickly, so then that can swing the mark price from being very high to being under the liquidation price of. Of the last tranche of Degen speculators. And then that causes everyone's position to close. And as everyone's position is closing, it keeps pushing downward pressure on the mark price, thus executing more liquidations. And so that's called cascading liquidation. And those are the types of problems that we really want to solve in the design methodology of the Levanter perpetual swap.
00:19:35.230 - 00:20:02.364, Speaker C: So it was really threefold. One was remove the need for the mark price. So that means that everybody knows. Everybody knows what the price is of liquidation. It is not dependent on any nuance of a fictitious price within our own ecosystem. Number two was to ensure that the. That when they're to prevent cascading liquidations.
00:20:02.364 - 00:21:41.574, Speaker C: And then number three was to ensure that the platform never incurs bad debt, meaning it's never required to pay out more than what actually is capitalized within the platform, and how other platforms, perpetual finance and. And other perpetual swaps, deal with the problem of bad debt is through an insurance pool, meaning that if a bunch of people come in and say, we want to go ten x long on bitcoin, and we want a million dollars of exposure, and then bitcoin doubles, and so now the platform is required to pay out $100 million. So if there wasn't $100 million worth of shorts that you can actually balance that out to, so then they have to pull from an insurance fund. If the insurance fund only has $50 million. So that means that half of the traders that were in the green actually can't exit their position. They're just. The whole system is underwater, and then you kind of compound a lot of these challenges, or just structural flaws that I outlined here, with the creation of bad debt, with the mark price becoming out of whack, with the spot price, and cascading liquidations, and you can end up with the perfect storm where people can get totally wrecked, where liquidity providers can get totally wrecked, because, bam, the system just becomes insolvent and everybody loses their collateral position, where, bam, all of the traders just get wiped out one after another, or at least on one side, because of cascading liquidations.
00:21:41.574 - 00:22:33.134, Speaker C: And then the people that didn't get wiped out, there isn't even money to pay them for what they were owed. So these are the doomsday scenarios that have plagued the perpetual swap ecosystem for really, since its inception. And it's always been a problem getting up the scale without facing a lot of these doomsday scenarios. So once you have large enough scale, so then you, within certain markets, there's the, a lot of these problems tend to just be solved with high enough liquidity. They say liquidity cures cancer. And so, but what it does is it makes it very risky. Even if you are a very popular perpetual swap, it makes it very risky to add new assets.
00:22:33.134 - 00:22:57.914, Speaker C: Because if you add new assets, you just need to make sure that the risk pool pool is highly capitalized or the insurance pool is highly capitalized. You need to make sure that you have cash and carry bots that are going to provide enough open positions in the non favorable position so that there's a balanced market and there's just a lot of overhead. So it makes it almost sluggish to be able to add new assets.
00:23:01.214 - 00:23:02.742, Speaker B: Hey guys, I'm really excited to tell.
00:23:02.758 - 00:23:21.308, Speaker A: You more about one of my favorite products in crypto right now, DyDx. This is a team ive known since 2018, and theyve built one of the best exchange venues out there that also happens to be decentralized and mobile friendly. Now listen until the end, because theres an opportunity for savvy traders out there as well. And here are just a few reasons why I like DyDx over other exchanges.
00:23:21.436 - 00:23:22.788, Speaker B: First, its very liquid.
00:23:22.876 - 00:24:13.540, Speaker A: It processes two to $3 billion every day in volume, and has 35 perpetual swaps as of this recording, which means you can trade things like Ethereum, bitcoin, Dogecoin, Solana, and most of the most popular assets with up to 20 x leverage in the venue today. Second, it's also extremely cheap, and if you're down bad from the bear market, you don't have to worry about gas fees at all, because there is no gas fee on starkware L2, where DyDX is built on. Now that brings me to my next point as well. It's incredibly fast. Unlike other L2 and high speed dexs, you don't actually have to wait to withdraw your assets anymore. And as an additional point, by using Starkware, DyDx also provides users with increased security and privacy. And my personal favorite feature is the cross margin feature, which means I can seed one account with USDC and trade across multiple markets from there without needing to start subaccounts because I really hate managing so many different subaccounts.
00:24:13.540 - 00:24:50.012, Speaker A: And their iOS mobile app is also live right now. And it's amazing because it's compatible with Metamask, Coinbase Wallet, Coin 98, Huawei Wallet, and a lot of the most popular mobile wallets out there. And it's available for people outside of the US or sanctioned countries today. And one last thing, one exciting opportunity is their competitions, the most recent tier in the $10,000 equity tier, have won over $95,000 in rewards. And you can get started with as low as $500 in equity to compete for prizes. So if you're already trading, might as well get paid to do it. So if any of that sounds interesting to you, I highly recommend that you head on over to DyDx exchange to learn more.
00:24:50.012 - 00:24:52.264, Speaker A: And I thank them for sponsoring this episode.
00:24:53.804 - 00:25:08.224, Speaker B: Yeah, so let me just step in here. So I understand that there are significant pain points with the existing perpetual swap design with some of the more popular protocols. And you mentioned like three of them. So what are you guys doing differently to solve all three of them?
00:25:09.084 - 00:26:16.100, Speaker C: So that's a great question. So the version that we've designed, which is really the Levona perpetual swap v two. So we've nicknamed it Ruth, which is actually named after a dragon from a fantasy story, which was our whole product is themed in dragons. And we've created this rich Sci-Fi fantasy world of dragons on Mars, which is a lot of fun and really leads some of the Gamefi experience. What we've done in terms of changing the design is creating concepts where it's essentially an additional aspect of the funding rate fee, where you're paying for something called cost of capital. And what you're doing is the liquidity providers that are providing the capital for the winning markets or the winning market positions. Their capital is earmarked for paying out certain positions up to a certain point.
00:26:16.100 - 00:27:51.552, Speaker C: So you, when you open a position, you have an extra optionality where you can determine to what not only what leverage that you want to be exposed to. But the but from the get go, you can ensure that a certain amount of upside is guaranteed to your position. And that's called the cost of capital, because essentially you're having a portion of the underlying assets within the system be locked to your open position. Now, this will be alleviated once there is a counterparty that from just either cash and carry or just natural market participants that takes the opposite side of your trade. But until someone takes the opposite side of your trade, then you can pay within your funding rate, a cost of capital fee, which will ensure that your position never creates bad debt. By using this methodology and then completely eliminating the mark price. Now we have the ability to actually, to be able to instantly take a trade, meaning somebody can come into the platform, can say, I want to open a ten x long position on bitcoin, and then the platform says, great, that's yours, even with no counterparty.
00:27:51.552 - 00:28:41.198, Speaker C: And that's something that DyDX isn't capable of doing with the order book model. With, with a traditional order book model, your position isn't really taken until there's a counterparty to actually take it. And then you also, the higher that you want your upside to be, the more of a premium you would pay within the funding rate for that. And that's dynamic. So it can actually be automatically changed as you approach your. Let's see, we can think of it as like a take profit level. So as you reach your take profit level, it obviously, if you just wanted to keep your position perpetually opened, so then the fee would just be adjusted in order to raise it beyond whatever was the initial take profit level when you opened the position.
00:28:41.198 - 00:29:11.354, Speaker C: And then it can also work on the downside as to a stop loss as well. That if you get close enough to your liquidation, whether it's a partial liquidation or full liquidation, you actually would be able to automatically close your position. So it creates these boundaries within your position, which are flexible, but ensure that as long as your position, as long as you are funding your position within these boundaries, the system will never become insolvent.
00:29:12.854 - 00:29:23.824, Speaker B: So, for users who are using levana to trade, does it imply that it's often more capital intensive for them, given that they have to pay this extra fee to ensure that no bet debt can be created?
00:29:24.604 - 00:30:42.904, Speaker C: Only in the times where there's a lopsided market, which are the times of the highest risk. So if bitcoin coin is on a tear and everybody wants to go ten x long, so then the cost of going ten x long versus versus let's say, and again, it's going to be a free market. If there's nobody that's making the bid, then obviously the price is lower. But if there's a high demand, then the price would be higher. So I think that we've yet to see comparative prices, but I believe that the market will act rationally during these times of market enthusiasm where people would be willing to pay a slight premium to ensure that their position can be opened immediately and that their gains are locked in, that they never have a fear that if bitcoin does a ten x, which means that they were right, that the system would be insolvent and they wouldn't even be able to get the. They wouldn't be able to see the benefit of their correct assessment.
00:30:45.404 - 00:31:09.504, Speaker B: Got it. And I think there's a lot more to unpack with the kind of perpetual swap design space. But of the three risks that you mentioned, I think one risk that you didn't cover was obviously platform risk, which Levana was impacted by, by building on terra. So can you talk a little bit about how the Terra event might have influenced or impacted Levona and how you guys are planning to kind of move on from that?
00:31:10.164 - 00:31:53.198, Speaker C: Sure. So, I mean, first of all, we lost about a third of our treasury. So that was just a huge blow financially. We did actually much better than every other project that I spoke to. The majority of the projects that were on Terra had their entire treasury in UST and were heavily exposed to staked Luna. So during the time of the crisis, which was about a 48 hours period, if you didn't move quickly, so then you just lost everything. So we, you know, we got hit, which was painful, but I think that we did better than a lot of the other, a lot of the other chains or a lot of the other projects building on the chain.
00:31:53.198 - 00:33:34.524, Speaker C: And, and then what we learned from that is that it's, it is, you know, it's, it's important to, to diversify. We're looking at the general Cosmos ecosystem and we're very excited to announce we've been looking at osmosis and Juno and secret and launching our own dedicated app chain. And those are things that we're very excited about. And we see that places that are running cosmos in 1.0, that are permissionless, that have a strong community, like, for example, Juno checks all those boxes and it has an NFT ecosystem because we have nfts within our gamefi experience. It's kind of like a funky chain with a funky community. So being able to use a platform like that within the cosmos ecosystem to launch and to kind of view it as to have it as a testbed to recuperate and to relaunch the projects or migrate the projects and then grow them on, and then from there, kind of conquer the entire cosmos ecosystem to be able to deploy either through IBC, to access liquidity on other platforms, or even to launch instances of our defi applications on top of other Cosmos app chains like secret or osmosis.
00:33:34.524 - 00:33:52.194, Speaker C: That type of strategy appeals to us from many different angles. One is because it minimizes platform risk and it maximizes the upside in exposure to liquidity that we have within a growing cosmos ecosystem.
00:33:53.654 - 00:34:13.994, Speaker B: That makes a lot of sense. And I guess when you guys are evaluating other chains to port Levana over to what were some of the key criterias that you prioritized for teams out there who might have been impacted by the Luna event as well, if they're looking for other chains to build on top, what would you say are some best practices to decide where to go to?
00:34:15.353 - 00:35:06.952, Speaker C: So I think, you know, one is you have to be practical about what is your Runway. And you need to make sure that that whatever Runway that you have, you have enough time and resources to be able to get a product in the market, to be able to relaunch. If you have to migrate existing assets or tokens or, you know, migrate your existing community that you have, that there's enough resources to be able to do that. That's one of the things that made it challenging for us to look at the EVM ecosystem, because we built a team of rust developers, we built millions of dollars worth of rust code. And so we really wanted to focus on building within that environment. And so we looked at near. We built some test projects on near.
00:35:06.952 - 00:36:07.694, Speaker C: We deployed a prototype of our v, one of our perpetual swap. One year, we looked at Solana, and then we looked at the cosmos ecosystem when we decided ultimately, to stay within the cosmos ecosystem, primarily just because we're really bullish on its long term success. And we think that it provides the most optionality, the largest amount of options, because, as we've all seen with crypto and, you know, I've been here for about six years now in the space that you never know what success is going to look like. And so you need to be flexible. And I think that cosmos provides the widest breadth of flexibility in terms of deployment, in terms of options, in terms of community. And the next thing that I would look at is I'd focus on community. And I would say, okay, you have to look at the competitive landscape as to wherever it is that you're building.
00:36:07.694 - 00:36:36.684, Speaker C: You have to look at the, you know, the existing community and whether or not there will be product market fit for the product that you're intending to bring to market. And then you have to look at the values of the blockchain and ecosystem that you're building into. And you have to ask yourself, like, does this represent the values that I want to instill within my own community, which is really going to be a subset of this larger blockchain community?
00:36:38.384 - 00:37:15.454, Speaker B: That's really, really interesting in terms of the value alignment part, because that's something that I think is pretty unique to web3, in that different ecosystems have their own value systems that you have to incorporate into the product itself. And speaking of product market fit, I think one of the more interesting things about Levana that we didn't touch on yet was that you guys incorporated nfts and this dragon theme into your product. And to my understanding, this is not a day one decision. You guys kind of came up with this along the way after the product has come out already, and that's the most interesting go to market that I've seen in the Defi product. So can you talk a little bit about why ad NFT is on top of a per product?
00:37:16.954 - 00:38:06.846, Speaker C: Sure. So it is. Gamification is not a new concept. And the idea of having badges and having membership and having different tiered access and having, you know, trophies for achieving certain goals, those are things that like, look, I, you know, if it wasn't for Strava, I wouldn't run or exercise, you know, if it wasn't for, you know, simply piano, I just wouldn't play piano. So these are all just like pavlovian mechanisms that help train humans to develop habits for things that they may not necessarily develop habits for. And it becomes an emotional attachment. Like, I want.
00:38:06.846 - 00:39:22.484, Speaker C: I get, you know, when I play piano from this app, simply piano, which I recommend if you're trying to learn it. I have no connection to the company. It's just the only way that I found to. To practice every day is that if I practice every day, I have my streak and it builds up and I get little awards and sound effects, and if I don't practice, then I get ridiculed by the app. It forces me to go back and do more tutorials, and it helps develop a personality and a relationship with the product. And so that was the initial vision for nfts, is that let's create an ecosystem where we could have these evolving nfts that evolved based on your interaction with the platform. And we could have a community that could even vote on what new features and what aspects could be integrated within the NFTs in terms of, like, providing liquidity to new markets, to having, like, extra insurance, to having delays on your liquidation, to having special farming opportunities.
00:39:22.484 - 00:40:53.394, Speaker C: All different types of ideas came from the community. And so we're excited to have things like that. And that just naturally evolved that the NFTs kind of took on a life of their own because we launched the set, it became the most popular set in the entire tara ecosystem. It had the largest primary mint, it had the most amount of secondary trades, it had the most amount of owners. And it really took us from being a very small community with kind of like a niche complicated defi product to being just a blue chip product on terra, all because of just beautiful artwork and storytelling. And so what we realized was that the emotional attachments, you know, of the that and the willingness for a community to come and learn and be educated in order to level up their dragons was far beyond what we could have just bribed them with money or tokens, because the dragon became something that was personal to them. And so we're excited to just continue to explore this kind of very interesting overlap between NFTs, GameFi, and DeFi, which we think is really just at its infancy from a philosophical or implementation perspective.
00:40:54.654 - 00:41:35.296, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think you're speaking to a broader trend that's happening as well with projects like Dydx. They have their own tiered nfts for winners of their trading competition. Hash Flow has their own nfts as well. And actually, in a recent episode we did with this project called Galaxy, they're creating these NFT campaigns for different projects to issue nfts based on usage. So I think this is something that is happening not just for Levana, but really across a lot of projects. But you guys were definitely one of the first to kind of think of this and pioneer this idea. And remember, when I first saw that you guys are doing dragon nfts, I was a bit confused about, okay, what's going on here? But in hindsight, it makes a lot of sense.
00:41:35.296 - 00:41:55.324, Speaker B: And just to give our listeners some color, I think you guys minted more than 41,000 nfts by 6000 community members. And these nfts also serve different purposes in the Levana ecosystem. So can you talk a little bit about the roadmap for these nfts beyond this kind of feeling of ownership and tie to the part product.
00:41:56.644 - 00:43:08.654, Speaker C: Sure. So what we, one of the things, just looking purely at the numbers we saw that these were estimates from like metamask that, you know, over the last year, there was roughly 2000 new, or, sorry, 250,000 new wallets that participated in Defi. And then there were 17 million new wallets that participated in NFTs and Gamefi. So it's a, it's a staggering spread, like a 55 x. For every one person that comes to just trade or use an amm or to borrow or lend, there's 55 people that are coming to play a game and to speculate about nfts or collect nfts. And from interviewing people, one of the things that we realized is that the NFT community is incredibly degen and they're just kind of stopping. It's like they get into the market, they get to Opensea, they get to discord, they start getting on whitelist and then getting initial mints and then flipping them.
00:43:08.654 - 00:44:28.874, Speaker C: And so they learn a lot of the tool set of DeFi, but they never really get their hands dirty with Defi itself. So the goal of the, I call it the way that the goal has evolved with our NFT set is to build a product that is a landing pad for those 55 people and then to bring them over into the defi products and to not just leave that potential enthusiasm on the table. So what we've done is we created eight mini games, one after the other, on Terra, and then we're migrating those to other cosmos ecosystem, other cosmos chains within the ecosystem today. And each of these mini games solved a purpose. One, was it educated you on what was levana? Two is that it created a wide net to be able to capture the attention of an enthusiastic audience. Three was that it taught you how to use defi, and then three was that it got you to own a levona NFT. And usually the process would be you needed to own a levona NFT initially in order to participate.
00:44:28.874 - 00:45:27.182, Speaker C: And then by doing certain actions and going through some type of educational process, then you would earn a new NFT, which would then allow you to participate in the next game. And then there was usually some type of secondary market where you would need to mix and match or go on a scavenger hunt within the secondary market in order to be able to participate in the next stage of the gaming experience. And we created eight stages of this over the course of about seven months, um, on uh, on terra. And it was all themed in this rich fantasy story which takes place in about, uh, about 500 years in the future where the last of humanity is on Mars. And, um, and, you know, they're controlled by the evil council. And we broke up the community into like a color wars where there were these four different teams and the teams were competing with each other and, and by breaking them up. So we had like, the evil council members that controlled Mars.
00:45:27.182 - 00:46:15.744, Speaker C: We had, you know, the degen free Martians that broke away to the side. We had like the Wall street bets guys of like the Guardians. And then, you know, we had like the, like, nft collectors, you know, and like, you know, the, like, PFP minters, you know, of the, of the Terrans. And so we created these different Personas that people just kind of like, attached themselves to. And then these smaller communities actually helped people team up and really work together to participate in these multiplayer games. And we released the first multiplayer games on Tera and we were getting 10,000 monthly active users of our games at the time that terra blew up. It was by far the most successful gamefi experience in the entire cosmos ecosystem.
00:46:17.384 - 00:46:34.376, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, that's really an impressive feat in and of itself. And I think this is also a great segue to the last question that I wanted to ask you today, which is obviously the entire crypto market is facing a pretty tough time right now with a bear market, actually not just crypto, but most risk asset class in the world.
00:46:34.520 - 00:46:41.360, Speaker C: At least I have my stocks. Oh, wait, no, I don't. You know, it's like. Yeah, it's brutal.
00:46:41.552 - 00:47:09.504, Speaker B: So I guess my question for you is, given that a product like perpetual swaps is particularly a beneficiary of a bull market where a lot of retail liquidity is there. And NFTs also seem to be a very kind of especially prominent during a bull market as you're facing a potential, I don't know, one to two to three year bear market, what are some kind of tactics or maybe advice you have for founders operators listening out there to keep similar products relevant in that time?
00:47:11.934 - 00:48:02.764, Speaker C: So there's a few things that are important. First, capital preservation. So, you know, we worked to like, you know, to significantly reduce our burn rate. And so that meant that, you know, anybody that wasn't like a key player or any contract workers or any expenses that we could reduce. So we worked heavily to reduce them. We're still going to continue to do that. Second is to try and focus on ways to earn revenue in the short term, because I think that what I've learned from any bear market, and this is, I guess, my third bear market in crypto in the last six years, if you say 2018, there was a long bear market, and then the second half of 2019 was kind of bearish.
00:48:02.764 - 00:48:40.208, Speaker C: And when Corona hit, there was a little bit of bearishness there. This feels like, you know, it's got wind that it can last. And so what, you know, I'd say that capital preservation, like surviving, is the most important thing in a bear market. Because if you just go belly up, then that's it. There's no way to recover. But if you can just keep building and you can survive, then you'll make it through. And so a big part of that is just focus on what can generate operational capital or revenue in the meantime.
00:48:40.208 - 00:49:32.706, Speaker C: And sometimes you have to be creative. Now, what's nice about an exchange is that regardless of whatever the price is, somebody's got an opinion on it. And so while you might not get the largest trading volume, you still can collect fees. And so, and then the same thing with Gamefi is that there's still people around the table, especially you have to look at where are people generating revenue. So is it their staking rewards? So how can we build a product that will appeal to people that are getting staking rewards? And maybe they will. We can have that help fund us. Maybe there's contract work that could be done, maybe there's bespoke projects that could be done that, you know, could drive some type of profitability or at least extend the run rate.
00:49:32.706 - 00:49:53.294, Speaker C: So I think survive, you need to go into a survival mode, and that can be painful and it's a big shift. But as long as that you can survive through the end of a bear market and come out on the end with a community and a working product that can generate, that can collect fees, then I think you'll be okay.
00:49:54.424 - 00:50:12.044, Speaker B: Definitely. And I think that hopeful note is much needed in this time in the market. So thank you so much for offering that and for sharing your advice. It's really interesting to see Levana evolve over time, and I'm really excited to see you come back from this Luna situation and be greater than ever. So thank you so much once again for coming on the show. Jonathan, it's been a delight.
00:50:12.944 - 00:50:14.964, Speaker C: Awesome. Thank you so much for having me.
00:50:15.704 - 00:50:17.392, Speaker B: Alright, that's it for this week's episode.
00:50:17.408 - 00:50:18.424, Speaker A: Of the Blockchain podcast.
00:50:18.464 - 00:50:54.646, Speaker B: So thank you so much for tuning in. If you enjoyed this episode, please make sure to subscribe on your favorite apps. And in case you didn't know, this interview is also available as a video on YouTube. And if you tag the blockcrunch on Twitter this week and tell us what you liked about this episode. I'll be sure to respond to you as well. Now, if you'd like to go even deeper, we have a vip tier where every week or so we write an in depth research brief or investment memo on a project and we'll have exclusive AMA's with myself where I answer all your questions as well. Now, we already have analysts from some of the top funds and companies in crypto as subscribers, so if you're serious about getting an edge in crypto, head on over to theBlockhunch.com
00:50:54.646 - 00:50:59.014, Speaker B: VIP to learn more. And once again, thanks for supporting the show and I'll see you next week.
