00:00:00.440 - 00:00:09.838, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delhi Gwei drive thru. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and I'm here today with Eric Conner to talk about all things Ethereum. Hey, Eric, how you going, Anthony?
00:00:09.926 - 00:00:11.434, Speaker B: Doing pretty well. How about yourself?
00:00:11.734 - 00:00:51.846, Speaker A: Good, good. Just enjoying, I guess, like, flashbacks to 2019 this week on Crypto Twitter, with a bit of drama, a bit of the kind of rehashed conversations popping up again. We have this kind of joke, you and I, that during the depths of the bear market is when Ethereum people like to discuss and debate the most esoteric things that don't really matter. And when there's, like, a few green handles and we go into, like, an early stage bull market, these discussions tend to cease. And one of those, I guess, this week was around the Uniswap front end implementing a fee. So there is, I think, 0.15% fee on trades of the most popular pairs on Uniswap, which I think accounts for 90% of the volume on the uniswap front end there.
00:00:51.846 - 00:01:37.414, Speaker A: You know, it's funny, I was wondering why they only did, like, those kind of tokens. I think it's because, one, I guess, like, it covers most of the tokens, but two, it's also, like, maybe a securities concern for them, where if they're taking fees on, like, tokens that could be considered securities were being traded, they might get in trouble. I don't know, that was just something weird to me. But I guess you had an interesting take about fees within Defi and crypto generally, where you kind of drew a comparison to tradfi, where fees are basically a race to the bottom. Right. And in crypto, I think that people can get away with the higher fees right now, just because crypto is so small and there's not that much competition for these things or good competition, and it hasn't permeated out into the biggest tradfi world. So, yeah, I'd love to get your thoughts on kind of the uniswap fee implementation on just the front end.
00:01:37.414 - 00:01:41.914, Speaker A: Um, it should be clear for people. And, like, where you think fees go generally in crypto.
00:01:42.734 - 00:02:21.854, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think we could probably talk about this for a while. I'm assuming we're going to. Right. And this is, like, a really interesting one, and especially for me personally, like, going way back to, like, when I got involved in Ethereum and thought about launching a Dex myself, um, I. Our theory at the time was if you put any fee in, whether protocol fee, front end fee, or even token, we thought people would fork it out. Now this was back in like 2013 before a lot was learned and there's moats around branding and trust and things like that. And people didn't really perfectly envision how the Defi landscape would take place.
00:02:21.854 - 00:03:02.164, Speaker B: I find it kind of interesting that we've gotten to this place where now we have tokens and fees. Ill step back a little bit in the uniswap conversation. I think if we go back all the way to early 2018, all these protocols are being launched. Theres really no fees, theres no tokens. Its just this smaller open source community that has this idea of defi which is hey, can we do finance better? And people are just vibing and writing code. Im making a little more simpler than it is. But this is at least how I saw it.
00:03:02.164 - 00:04:01.850, Speaker B: I think a lot of people in the smaller Ethereum community at the time saw it and a lot of cool protocols were launched. Obviously maker was kind of one of the first auger gnosis, if you want to call them defi, around like prediction markets and then like Uniswap came around and Aave and all these compound. But anyways they came around, right? And it was like, okay, this is cool, but how can we do finance a little bit better? And of course you had the trustlessness and then you had these automated market makers and automated lending and borrowing protocols and it was all really neat. And then all of a sudden the bull market took off and everyone got a little bit greedy, myself included. I'm not going to act like I'm out of this. And token farming started happening, tokens started happening. And it's like, okay, well how do we, to be fair, you and I have talked for years about, we think a lot of apps and protocols have just shoehorned tokens.
00:04:01.850 - 00:04:47.784, Speaker B: And I've also been very critical of token governance on the Ethereum side. I know you have as well, but we went through this boom where it's like, okay, well there's tokens and clearly this is just stocks and these are great protocols and they should be worth trillions of dollars someday. We went through that mania and then we cooled off. And I think, I think we should still as a community be reassessing, are these tokens worth it? A lot of this was, ill just be blunt, a lot of token launches were for early investors in VC to exit their liquidity. And yes, it did give the average Joe an option to buy a share in uniswap. Stocks are the same way. Stocks are a governance vote.
00:04:47.784 - 00:05:16.294, Speaker B: I would say stocks are a little. Well, if you have a dividend stock, thats very different. And there are some tokens that are doing like dividend revenue sharing stuff. Stocks in the traditional finance world, companies get bought way more often. And then that you do get cashed out on your stock at the sellout price, which we will get there probably in Defi and Ethereum in general. But we havent really seen a token buyback. I think weve seen one or two something like that.
00:05:16.294 - 00:06:03.198, Speaker B: I dont want to quite go to the Uniswap front and fee quite yet because Uniswap, if you go back and look at their blog post for their unilaunch, and I think it was in 2018, I believe their big pitch to the token at that time. If you read the post, im not just making this up. They hint at this in protocol fee switch a lot. Uniswap gives a fee to LP's like liquidity providers, which I think is necessary because youre not going to provide liquidity on Uniswap without earning some kind of money. Right. And they were talking about this. Well, we could also, our token holders could enable this fee switch which would go into like a pot and then all the token holders would kind of have like a say at this pot.
00:06:03.246 - 00:06:03.478, Speaker A: Right.
00:06:03.526 - 00:06:27.450, Speaker B: And I remember at the time people were like so into this because they were like, well, if Uniswap is doing like billions of dollars in volume and people were putting out threads like calculating like, you know, how much money could be made and their p to e ratio and all this stuff. And that is what Uniswap put out there. It's in their blog post. They hyped it up. It was intentional. They put it in their code base. It's all there.
00:06:27.450 - 00:07:10.200, Speaker B: And there's been this whole debate. And Uniswap governance, should they enable this, will the SEC come after them for enabling this? Is it putting token holders or Uniswap at risk? You know, let's just be honest, VC's and early Uniswap investors own the Uniswap vote, right? This is a typical kind of governance theater type situation. And recently, as far as I think five months ago, maybe six months ago, the latest fee switch on a protocol level was shot down. So Uniswap still takes 0% fee. The token holder protocol itself takes 0% fee from each trade. So I think I want to put that baseline there. Right.
00:07:10.200 - 00:07:17.444, Speaker B: And like, is that, am I right to that point? Like, is that how you felt about Uni token governance to this point?
00:07:18.504 - 00:08:36.000, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I think if we're talking about kind of the token and then the fee on the front end and how those kind of play with each other, it's a clashing of incentives, right? As you kind of mentioned, you have these VC's, you have the team, but the VC's and the team also, they have the equity in uniswap labs or whatever the actual business name is, right? And this equity is not translated into the token. Right. The token holders do not get access to any of this. They don't get access to any of the money made by Uniswap swap labs from this fee and whatever other money they make. They only get access to the token, right? And if you buy the token and it goes up and you sell, you make money, obviously. But right now, as you said, and probably for a very long time, that fee switch is not turned on, which means that the unitoken as it exists today does not have any value accrual besides some governance value and the hope that the fee switch will eventually be turned on. But because of that clash of incentives, there's no real reason or incentive for the Uniswap team or Uniswap Labs and the VC's to vote in favor of this and open themselves up to possible legal repercussions when they can just make money off of the equity, right? They can just make money off of the fees going to them instead of kind of introducing this kind of fee switch thing, which then the fees go to every uni token holder.
00:08:36.000 - 00:09:04.584, Speaker A: And yeah, maybe they're kind of like uni. The value of uni goes up because of that. But who knows, like how much uni they have left? Maybe they've sold a lot of it already, right? Because some of these VC's are up a crap ton on their Uni because they got in super early. Like for example, paradigm was the first investor in Uniswap. They gave Uniswap, I think, a million dollars in 2019. I think the valuation maybe was 10 million. Now, Uni is worth a lot more than that, right? So Uni fully diluted value is what, like a few billion or something like that.
00:09:04.584 - 00:09:49.900, Speaker A: So if you work out how much tokens they would have gotten, I don't know the terms of the deal, but I'm sure it was a pretty good return for them as 1000 x or something. And like on a million dollars, they just made a billion dollars from Uniswap or from the Unitoken. And then, as I said, I'm not entirely certain what the deal structure is and they did invest in follow on rounds, but they also have access to the equity so they also get a share of whatever the fee is making now on the front end. So really from that perspective, the incentive isn't there for these VC's and team. I don't know, it's maybe different as well because like the team really, if you, if you're talking about the team, it's really just the higher ups that make these decisions. It's not going to be the regular employees, it's going to be Hayden and the other co founders that all the other kind of like higher ups that are there. Not sure exactly who those are, but it's going to be them and the big VC holders.
00:09:49.900 - 00:10:25.652, Speaker A: Right. And as you said, they shoot down every attempt that there is to make, to make, to turn on the fee switch. Now whether they're doing this because of regulatory concerns or they're doing this because they feel like it's going to make Uniswap less competitive because now there's a fee that's not going to the LP's but it's going to the token holders, which means people will be less inclined to LP with Uniswap and might go elsewhere. I understand those concerns, but at the same time the governance is a sham because of that. The community has no say here. And it really, I mean, that's not true of just Unisop, by the way. That's true of pretty much like all of these governance tokens, there are very, very few people who hold the majority of them.
00:10:25.652 - 00:11:17.900, Speaker A: Even the older protocols like rune from maker, for example, pretty much de facto owns the maker protocol because he has enough MKR tokens to do whatever he wants with it. So I think that to this point, decentralized governance with tokens has completely failed in pretty much all the attempts that have been tried because it's not decentralized. It concentrates power incredibly bad, incredibly badly. And it also. So excuse the incentives, as I was just discussing about how that now there's a token and there's equity and there's no incentive for the token to accrue value if you can just kind of make it up in equity. Because at the end of the day you could work out how much you would get from your uni bags in terms of like dividends if their fee switches were turned on, and then as a VC and as the team, and then you can work out how much you would get from this front end fee. And I'm sure this front end fee would probably, it probably drives more value.
00:11:17.900 - 00:11:44.172, Speaker A: And also it only goes to equity holders. It's not shared with all the other uni holders. They get a bigger slice of the pie. So I'm sure they did the math on this and thought that while this is the better way and also from a regulatory perspective, I'm sure it's the better way as well. So yeah, I think that's the disappointment here. But I will, I will be clear that I have absolutely no issue with Uniswap putting a fee on or Uniswap labs putting a fee on their own front end because they run it, right. They designed it, they pay all the infrastructure costs and everything that takes to run that.
00:11:44.172 - 00:12:23.434, Speaker A: But it is a kick in the guts to the uni token holders because again, it's just showing that there is zero interest from the team and by extension the VC's to turn this fee switch on, uh, for the uni token holders. And as you said, it was kind of described in that blog post. It was kind of not, not directly promised, but it was kind of implied that this would happen. And it's been, I think that blog post came out in 2020 because Uni did their token as a result of sushi, sushi, sushi swap during the vampire attack and stuff. So I think towards the mid to end of 2020 that's when, when it happened. So it's been three years, right? Been been over three years now and we're still nowhere close to that fee switch being turned on. And I think thats the main source of frustration for a lot of people over this.
00:12:24.254 - 00:13:02.834, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. And I think, I mean, so ill take the counter to you, I do have an issue with it because of them doing a token and then doing this. And also theres this wording right where its in the blog post, were doing this for a sustainable uniswap and then Hayden tweets out a week ago were doing this for a sustainable uniswap bowl. What happened to the millions of dollars you raised in the token? I mean theres 7 billion fully diluted today at the top of Uni. It had to be 50 billion probably at least because it's at $4 today. I think it hit 50 or something like that. Maybe ten x from what it is now.
00:13:02.834 - 00:13:45.830, Speaker B: And it's just, I don't know, I think I just have a bad taste in my mouth and maybe this is just kind of, everyone thought that Uniswap was like the golden child for a while. It was the first pure defi smart contract. It's like, oh, this is just a smart contract and it runs and there's no token, there's no fees. And then said sushi comes along and they react to that, they launch a token. I think the VC is getting their ears, the VC is getting their ears again to not turn on the fee switch. I think the VC is getting their ears again to turn on the UI front end fee switch. Now I do sympathize a little bit with your point where the front end switch, yes, people can go around it.
00:13:45.830 - 00:14:22.486, Speaker B: So if they put it in the contracts, you can't really get around it. So we could fork any swap and take it out from a. If I'm talking selfishly myself as a non uni holder and as like a trainer that knows how to get around the front end, I would prefer the front end switch because I can just get around it and know how to do that and I'm not paying it on the protocol level as like a purist, like ethereum defi fan. Like, just everything feels a little gross to me and, you know, that's just my honest opinion. I'm just going to put it out there, right. And I don't know, I think. I don't know where this ends is one of my issues.
00:14:22.486 - 00:15:13.024, Speaker B: Like I'm sure over the next few months a lot of other protocols are going to throw out front end fees. And it's one thing to say like, yeah, people can get around it, because a lot of these people say, oh yeah, you can just get around it, right? Well, like 95% of people don't know how to do that. And I think I'm starting to wonder like, where are we really better than CFI now when it comes to fees? Like in like my e trade account, my fidelity account, whatever. I can pretty much do any stock trade for between like zero and $10. And this percentage thing is starting to get to me. So now in DeFi we're setting like percentage fees and say you do like $100,000 trade, you're charged like a large percentage, whereas like on c five now that's like free pretty much, or like $10. I'm not loving this trend of like percentage fees.
00:15:13.024 - 00:15:42.284, Speaker B: And I think this is of course like a still early discovery phase for Defi, right? And I, like you said, I tweeted out, I think eventually Defi will be a race to the bottom because of the open source nature and because I think people think DeFi is going to change every day for the next 50 years and it's not. Finance is kind of boring. I think we're going to get Lindy contracts and contracts. Everybody just is like oh this is great. Look at uniswap v two. It's still getting used like crazy. That thing's been out there for years right.
00:15:42.284 - 00:16:13.564, Speaker B: And there's no fee on that contract. And I mean maybe not on the front end but like you get what I mean. Like I don't think eventually well just have these contracts we trust and if there are fees in them, there are fees in the front end, theyll be forked out, theyll be removed, theyll be worked around. But I dont like this trend of right now where its like oh hey, by the way, we dumped our token on retail and Im not talking to just uniswap. This is pretty much every defi protocol. Hey, we made multi millions on our token and dumped it on retail. We still have like 60% but governance is working.
00:16:13.564 - 00:16:28.686, Speaker B: So were going to throw a fee in the front end too. Im just not vibing with that. I think its a pretty bad look. At the same time, I think in ten years from now itll all be gone. But theres this weird bear market thing right now happening that Im just not a fan of.
00:16:28.710 - 00:16:56.766, Speaker A: Preston. Yeah. I think when you look at Tradfi and how they do it, its more similar to cowswap than it is to uniswap because with cowswap they offer gasless trades and gasless approvals. Now that doesnt mean youre not paying a gas fee. What it means is that its built into the order flow. The market makers that are kind of matching you in the background are paying that. They're baking it into what they're what the trade is.
00:16:56.766 - 00:17:16.934, Speaker A: Right. It's baked into the trade. And I think this is the same for Tradfi where they have things like payment for order flow where they're just baking this all in. And Mev is very prevalent within Tradfi as well. It's just that we don't see it because it's all permissioned and closed source. There's no kind of ether scan for Tradfi that's going to show you what's happening there. And I think that's probably the better comparison there.
00:17:16.934 - 00:17:55.190, Speaker A: And I agree with you. Over the long term it's probably just going to be a race to zero fees but it'll just be baked into that kind of order flow. And I personally don't use Uniswap's front end and haven't in quite a while. I tend to use cow swap because of that, because of the fact that I know that it's not, you know, free gas, for example, I know that it's baked into the price. But in saying that cow swap still gives me a better price than Uniswap does as an aggregator, as a way to aggregate liquidity from basically anywhere and have people fight in the background for that liquidity and also protect me from, from mev or from, from most mev, especially sandwich attacks, which are, which are pretty brutal. Right. Um, taken to their logical conclusion there.
00:17:55.190 - 00:18:37.158, Speaker A: So I think thats probably what its going to, what its going to look like. But as you said, most people will just use the things like the Uniswap front end, because that is like the branding and marketing that has been built up over time when people are like, oh, I know the Uniswap front end, you know, I know what this looks like, im going to go there and use it. Same with metamask swap feature. You know, metamask swap charges 0.8% on a trade and they still do a ton of volume because you can actually see the fee revenue going to their address on, on Etherscan. And they make a crap ton of money from this. Now, okay, who is using metamask to swap with that fee? I'll tell you who one, it's airdrop farmers thinking that they're probably going to get some kind of metamask airdrop, right? But they're not going to be doing like high volume kind of stuff because it's just going to eat into their money.
00:18:37.158 - 00:18:57.298, Speaker A: And then there's going to be the noobs who don't know any better at all. They say swap. They're like, oh, I can buy this dgen token through metamask. I'm going to do it like that, right? And I know metamask, it's my wallet. And that's all well and good. Uh, and then they just use that and they don't even notice the 0.8% fee because for them it's like a calculus of, all right, you know, who cares if it's 0.8%
00:18:57.298 - 00:19:32.562, Speaker A: fee? I'm going to make like a ten x on this. That's the kind of calculus that people run in their heads. And that's another part of this I don't think we've discussed yet, is that when you think about the calculus that people do, kind of like on an unexpected value thing, when it comes to trades like in crypto, your expected value from buying a token is, at minimum probably a ten x as a regular user. Right? You like I'm not talking about traders and things like that. I'm talking about like a regular kind of retail investor who puts their money into this stuff. All they want to do is make a lot of money, right? They want to make the ten x, the 100 x, and that's the calculus that they do. So for them, they're not fee sensitive at all, right? They don't give a shit about a 0.8%
00:19:32.562 - 00:19:55.938, Speaker A: fee if they expect to make a ten x. Now, whether they make a ten x or not is another, another thing entirely, but that's the expectation there. So I think in tradfi there's much less of an expectation of that than there is in crypto. So that's probably why things are different there, especially for the larger players. Like Tradfi is dominated by the institutions, right? It's not really dominated by. By retail players kind of trading stocks amongst each other, whereas crypto is opposite. Still, crypto is predominantly retail.
00:19:55.938 - 00:20:54.948, Speaker A: Predominantly a lot of funds that act like retail, to be honest, that don't act like professional outfits because a lot of the time they're unregulated and they don't care about their customer funds. As we saw last year with the blow up of things like 3 hours capital and celsius and other places where they didn't give a shit that it wasn't their money, right? I mean, FTX is obviously the perfect example here, but that's like the extreme example, but they didn't care. So I think that until crypto matures a lot to the point where it just looks like tried fire looks today, which it will, don't get me wrong, it definitely will. Especially, I guess, like now I think we're starting the institutionalized phase of crypto finally with obviously the ETF's and stuff like that. I think that's what's going to kind of make a major change in crypto, because at the end of the day, I am even the same still at this point where I'm like, if I'm buying a token, I'm buying it because I expect it to go up a lot. I'm not buying it to make a 10% and then sell it because I'm not a trader. So for me, even the fees wouldn't really affect me, but I know better, right? So for me, I'm not going to go to Metamask and do a swap at a 0.8%
00:20:54.948 - 00:21:19.468, Speaker A: fee. I'm going to go to cow swap because I know I'm going to get a better price and it's going to be better for me over the long run as well. But for a lot of new people who don't know any better, they are not going to care at all. And I think that's why we see that. And they also, because the crypto is inherently kind of like self custodial when you do that sorts of stuff. Like if you want to trade some new token on chain, you can't do that through Coinbase, you can't do that through binance or anything. Right? Like you have to actually go on chain.
00:21:19.468 - 00:21:50.184, Speaker A: And then what do most people do? They have a metamask wallet. So they go on to metamask and then they use metamask to swap. And Uniswap has their own wallet now as well, which I'm sure they're loving because that's going to put more order flow through, through that wallet, which means they'll take a fee on that as well, of course. So when you look kind of look at it holistically, I think there's like different market segments and different people who are sensitive to different kind of fees. But I agree with you over the long term. Long term probably being like ten plus years at this point, to be honest, it takes longer than people think it does. It's going to look pretty much exactly like tradfi, I believe.
00:21:51.004 - 00:22:30.926, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. And I think also tradfi goes back to what you were saying, like, so I used Calsoft for pretty much any decent trade as well. And like, all this is just gets kind of like hidden in the order flow. And that happens in tradfi, too. It's like, oh, each race says they have no fees, but you're probably getting a worse price on your stock because they're letting people like frontrun you. So it all is kind of a game. Like, at the end of the day, I think the biggest issue that I'm seeing in Defi is, well, let me, I think my biggest issue, I think if we go back like three years and all the Defi protocols said, hey, you know what, we're just going to throw like a fee in our front end and not do a token, I'd be like, oh, cool, whatever, yeah, that's neat.
00:22:30.926 - 00:22:38.406, Speaker B: My issue is the token and the fee because now you're really admitting that the token nothing, right? And even, I guess, I guess on.
00:22:38.430 - 00:22:43.342, Speaker A: That point as well, like, the token doesn't actually get any of the fear revenue. That's the key point here.
00:22:43.398 - 00:23:49.962, Speaker B: Right, exactly. And that's the most frustrating part. Right? Like, I don't think any of the tokens, well there's a couple like tokens out there doing unique things. I don't want to comment on like every token ecosystem, but most of the, the key DeFi protocols that also have like a fee underneath are not passing that revenue to the token holders. And it, it goes back to what you said, there's this whole like equity ownership and token ownership where like investors and VC's have this equity ownership and if you're pulling in a fee on a front end like Uniswap's going to, you're passing that on to equity owners and you know, those equity owners also got a huge payday on tokens so it just feels dirty. And I think I truly still believe and like one of our famous taglines in our previous podcast lives has always been like a multi decade play, right? I truly think Defi will eventually kind of rid of this hype and greed cycle and will turn into this kind of like more core open source, like let's do a better financial system community, almost like not like Linux but kind of in a way back to OG ethereum style. Because I think this is all going to be flush out.
00:23:49.962 - 00:24:41.886, Speaker B: I think we're going to realize for most tokens it's useless and I don't think they'll recover and they'll go, they never go to actual zero right but they just won't recover. And I think that's a misnomer a lot of people have. Oh yeah, my token will recover with everything. It usually is not probably going to, or it usually doesn't, it's probably not going to happen that way unless some of these protocols wake up and say hey yeah, lets pass some of this fee onto our token. I think one of the other things im a little disappointed about I would say is, and I dont want to just pick on unisolve, I really dont. But theyre just front and center right now is these protocols charging fees and then you see debates on Twitter about public goods and the Defi founders and theres multiple cases in the last three or four years like oh yeah, like the protocol teams in public goods are way underfunded. Well where are the.
00:24:41.886 - 00:25:33.200, Speaker B: We've talked about this a lot in the past and this is not the first time we brought this up. Where's the donation of public goods by these large teams? Where's Uniswap's multimillion dollar donation to protocol teams? I personally haven't seen it. Maybe I missed it, I don't know. But at least at a minimum, maybe as a community. Let's get the talk going about if you are going to charge a fee on your front end and youre just passing this on to equity holders, maybe lets take 1% of that and pass it on to something like protocol guild, donate it to some kind of quadratic funding thing through gitcoin or whatever it might be. And I think at least that would put a better taste in peoples mouth. I mean I think if we could go back and just delete tokens and say hey yeah, were going to take a little bit on the front end but were going to pass 10% of this to protocol funding as well.
00:25:33.200 - 00:25:37.444, Speaker B: I mean I think wed be in a pretty good spot. I dont think anybody would really be complaining right now.
00:25:38.224 - 00:26:03.156, Speaker A: Yeah yeah and on that note, I actually just brought up the dashboard on my screen here of the protocol guild and the donors. So Uniswap Dao has donated to the protocol guild before and it was actually a pretty substantial sum. It was around I think $2.7 million at the time. Now its $2 million obviously because uni went down. So they have done that and theres been a bunch of other communities that did it as well, like arbitrum um 3.4 million at time of donation, Lido 2.8
00:26:03.156 - 00:26:31.196, Speaker A: million. So it is happening with the protocol guild, um, which, which I think is obviously extremely positive. Uh, but I guess like at the same time it's not like a, I guess a standard yet because I would love it to be a standard. Right. And it's also done in like their native token, which is fine, but I mean it should be more palatable to do it with your native tokens is you just print it out a thin air basically, and then the market gives it a value. So you shouldn't really care too much about, about kind of like giving this away so to speak. Um, so I'm glad that that's, that's happening there.
00:26:31.196 - 00:27:17.892, Speaker A: And I think this discussion about public goods funding and this broader discussion actually kicks us into the next topic that we had slated for today was, I guess a topic that has been discussed to death in the old days, the old days being like 2019 2020, but for newer people to the ecosystem. And all those who didn't follow along with these debates, they may be confused about something here. Now what I'm talking about is with EIP 1559, the reason why the ETH is burned instead of sent to like public goods or instead of sent to some address that funds public goods or the protocol development or anything like that. That's the main question people have, like, why are we burning the ETH instead of donating it? Well, let me put some numbers to this. The ETH, currently, the amount of ETH that we've burned, the dollar value is $10 billion. Right. Since inception.
00:27:17.892 - 00:27:31.918, Speaker A: So since August 2021. Right. And when August 5, I think it was 2021. Five nine went live. So just over two years, $10 billion has been burnt of ETH has been burnt. So that's $10 billion that could have gone to something else instead of being burned. Right.
00:27:31.918 - 00:28:07.362, Speaker A: Now, the reason, well, there's, like, a few reasons why this is actually the case, but I don't want to focus on the technical reasons. I want to focus on the social reasons. But I'll give the technical reasons. One, it actually, 1559 doesn't work properly without this being burned because it would basically mean that people could still use out of banned fee markets, which essentially would mean that they could bypass the mechanism altogether, which would just bring us back to the previous mechanism, which was shitty from a transaction fee kind of mechanism perspective. So as the first technical reason, and there was another one out there as well, that basically, I forget off the top of my head right now, but.
00:28:07.418 - 00:28:12.666, Speaker B: The social, you're basically enshrining ETH at that protocol level. Yeah, exactly.
00:28:12.810 - 00:29:04.026, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. And making sure people pay ETH as fees instead of something else. Out of, out of band, obviously, to, to keep ETH as the, the core asset of the ethereum network. Um, but in terms of, like, donating it and, versus burning it. So I explained technically, like, why the burn has to happen, but in terms of a social thing, of, like, donating it, I posed the question to the audience is like, okay, so there's $10 billion over the last two years that goes into a pot. Okay? Who do you trust to manage that $10 billion? Right? Who do you trust to distribute it? Who do you trust to make sure it's not rated? And also, just because you trust them doesn't mean you're going to agree with who they want to give the funds to, right. Because if you want an example of what it looks like when there's a large amount of funds being managed by a decentralized community, and I'm using kind of quotation marks there, look at Dao's treasuries today, right? Look at how they've been managed.
00:29:04.026 - 00:29:27.682, Speaker A: A lot of them just get rated. A lot of them pay exorbitant salaries to members who do basically nothing, right? And it's not just daos. It's actually. This is actually true of, like, just organizations in general. I mean, I saw the other day that the vp of digital marketing at parity, which develops Polkadot, was getting paid, like, $700,000 a year. I don't even hear about Polkadot at all. Like, where's his marketing that he's supposed to be doing? Right.
00:29:27.682 - 00:29:42.796, Speaker A: So, you know, like, this doesn't just happen within Dao, but could you imagine the amount of capture that would be attempted of that $10 billion pot? And keep in mind, this pod grows over time in perpetuity, because it's. It's. It's. It's. It's. It's, um, the fees being burned in perpetuity. Right.
00:29:42.796 - 00:30:24.268, Speaker A: So, like, there's no way you can trust anyone to distribute that those funds fairly and fairly is a subjective term, because what's fair to me may not be fair to you. Like, for me, I'd love all that money to go to the protocol guild, right? But, like, are we now over funding the protocol devs? That's not a shit ton of money going to, what, 150 people? $10 billion split among 150 people. And, yeah, I'm not sure that. I mean, as much as I want to keep finding the protocol guild with as much money as possible, that is, like, when you really put the numbers to it, that is a lot of money. And then do we get into the kind of issue of dissuading core developers from even working because now they've got so much money, they don't have to work anymore. Right. So when you think of it like that, as I said, what's fair to me is not fair to someone else, which is not fair to someone else.
00:30:24.268 - 00:30:56.760, Speaker A: So instead of giving these kind of, like, these. These fees to some pot that can be captured, that can send money to stupid things, that can send money to things that people don't disagree with, we just burn it? Because that is the only credibly neutral way to essentially deal with that. And also, it has the byproduct of, you know, in theory, and plays out over a longer, longer period of time, bringing the value back to all ETH holders. So if you want exposure to that burn, you hold ETH. That's basically the calculus there. And then everyone has access to buying ETH. There is no one in the world that can't buy ETH today.
00:30:56.760 - 00:31:39.428, Speaker A: Even if they only have a little bit of money, they can probably find somewhere to buy ETH, right? And I guess, like, that all comes down to if you've got money to buy Ethan if you can afford to buy ETH. But that is, I guess, separate to the discussion. It's more about making it so that anyone can get exposure to this and to the value that's kind of burned here, rather than it being up to some high priests that would decide where all this money went. Because if you look at DAos today, there's really only a handful of people per dow that make the majority of the decisions out of a few different reasons. I mean, I wouldn't attribute maliciousness to most of it. I would say that, one, it's a thing of most people don't have the time to invest into this, to vet things and stuff like that. And two, most people don't care about this sorts of stuff either.
00:31:39.428 - 00:32:10.450, Speaker A: Like treasury management, stuff like that. So, yeah, that's kind of like the reasoning behind that. But it's funny because, as I said, we had these discussions extensively in 2019 and 2020, and it was, like, settled back then. And that's why 1559 has the burnout. Um, but people like to reframe it to fud Ethereum, I think, from time to time, saying that, oh, we're just obsessed with ultrasound money, we're just obsessed with burning ETH, which I don't agree with because Mev burn, which is a proposed solution or I guess, proposed way to burn Mev in order to. To make the value go back to ETH. I'm actually, like, still on the fence about that.
00:32:10.450 - 00:32:37.584, Speaker A: I'm not in favor of that, and that's because of the technical stuff, not because of the burn stuff. And honestly, I don't know if we should be burning Mev to begin with. And I'm still kind of working through that myself and learning all about it. But I personally wasn't just in favor of 1559 because it burned eat. I was in favor of it because of the massive ux upgrade to Ethereum, which I guess, eric, I'll stop rambling here and let you talk more about because you were pretty heavily involved in 1559 over its lifestyle. I mean, you were a co author on the EIP, right, if I remember incorrectly?
00:32:38.004 - 00:33:22.606, Speaker B: Yeah, correct. I could rant on this for 2 hours, but I know we don't have enough time. I think it's important you open the podcast by saying bear market vibes. And I think you just alluded to this debate we had in 2019. I think people need to first realize this all comes down to issuing a block reward, and every blockchain has a block reward that's paid out to miners validators, whatever you have on your network, and that's what they get for creating a block. Ethereum has created this overarching theme of minimum viable issuance. Early on, Ethereum had a five ETH block reward as a community reduces to three, then reduces it two.
00:33:22.606 - 00:33:55.692, Speaker B: And now with, like, validating, it's a little bit more complex. But it's much lower than that at the end of the day, because even when we had a two ETH block award under proof of work, we were at like three and a half, 4% issuance, I think. And now every day we're hovering around, like 0%. Right now. Like you said, the most important thing to realize about 1559. And like, when I first started co authoring it with Vitalik and a few others, we never talked about fee burn. And it has become like the discussion of 1559.
00:33:55.692 - 00:34:40.150, Speaker B: And it was always like a mechanism, right? Like you said, it has to be there for two essential reasons. One, to enshrine ETH on the base layer, and two, to make sure miners cannot manipulate it. If you, if you're not burning the ETH being paid for the, for the block reward, like, they can create third party auctions, which is like the old, I don't want to get too technical, but it just has to be there, right? And so then people, the community, which rightfully so, I don't really mind it, kind of latched onto, oh, we're burning ETH. It's going to be great. Like, as transactions go up and blah, blah, blah, we're going to burn a lot of ETH. That was never, like, until, like, the final spec was out and people realized it might go on a protocol. No one on the, like, design team talked about that, which is crazy.
00:34:40.150 - 00:35:20.130, Speaker B: Like, if you go but read the original blog post, it's not even there. Um, so the fact that we would then even think about, oh, we should direct this to somebody else. No, it's all a technical reason. Right? And it's all about this minimum viable issuance as well. Because sure, we could say tomorrow, oh, let's increase the block reward by 10%, just pay it out to, like, a dow. Like, this is the exact same debate we had in the bear market back in 2018, 2019 when everything was underfunded. And the exact same debate, we're like, well, why doesn't part of the block award go to? And then we're like, well, who does it go to? Just like you were saying, who can you imagine? $10 billion.
00:35:20.130 - 00:35:25.122, Speaker B: I mean, $10 billion. You're, you're like, if you capture that dow, you're one of the richest people in the entire world.
00:35:25.178 - 00:35:25.418, Speaker A: Right?
00:35:25.466 - 00:35:51.970, Speaker B: Like that. That's an unbelievable amount of money to be managing. Like, I don't know who you would possibly put in charge of that. And so you get into this, you got to just think of the block reward as this pie. And it doesn't matter if part of it's getting burned for mechanism, part of it's going to validators, no matter what. It's just a block reward. And if you want to say, oh, we should take part of that and give it to public goods, okay, yes, but that's a whole different debate.
00:35:51.970 - 00:36:59.270, Speaker B: You can't just say, oh, this shouldn't be burned because now you're saying, well, a very large portion of every block award is going to public goods. Right? Like, if you, if you take all the burn amount, I mean, it's a huge percentage of every block that's been produced. And now we're like, wait, why did you even do that much? So it's just never debate. And I think vehemently anybody involved in Ethereum should deny this ever on the protocol level, because, I mean, you, I don't need to repeat your points, but there's no human mechanism alive that can, like, create, can, like, manage these funds. And we've seen just basic daos, like you said, be captured, do stupid things. I mean, I'll use, like, nouns, dao, which was, like, I was into now early on, and all of a sudden they had, like, 22,000 ETH in the dow, and everyone's like, okay, what are we doing with this money? Who's voting? And then people don't, they fail to miss make the vote, and all of a sudden they were like, buying commercials for, like, millions of dollars. Like, people just don't coordinate well enough to manage this type of money.
00:36:59.270 - 00:37:05.160, Speaker B: And this should never, ever, ever, ever be put on the protocol level of things. Go ahead.
00:37:05.312 - 00:37:33.004, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I mean, I totally agree with you. And I think it brings us to, like, the next point of discussion, which is the fact that there are existing mechanisms and new mechanisms coming online or new things coming online initiatives, I should say, that fund public goods. Obviously, Gitcoin has been around for a very long time, funded a lot of public goods, tens of millions of dollars. Right. You have protocol guild now, which has the goal of actually getting to a billion dollars eventually in there. And it currently has, I think, tens of millions of dollars in there. Yeah, their first goal was 10 million, and they reached that.
00:37:33.004 - 00:38:09.104, Speaker A: And then there are some other initiatives the key point here is that it's voluntary, right? It is not something that is forced upon anyone. It is voluntary contributions to wherever you want to contribute to them. There's not just one pot, there's many pots. So that is good for evading capture of any one. Kind of like pot being captured because it has a lot of money in it, right? That's good for decentralization, it's good for distribution of funds, and it's good for letting people express themselves in various different ways. Do you want to just fund core devs? Okay, go fund the protocol guild. Do you want to fund the app teams and other things like that, or the other public goods on Ethereum? Go do that on gitcoin.
00:38:09.104 - 00:38:52.924, Speaker A: And then there's also optimism doing their retroactive public goods funding with their token, okay, anyone can submit a proposal and then that proposal gets voted on by their badge holders, which are like community members. That's probably the closest thing to what it would look like for Ethereum, to be honest. And there's still a lot of issues with that. Like, I looked at the last round and there was a lot of money that went to things that I didn't personally agree with. And this is where you come to the kind of like subjectivity of this all again. Right? But again, that's kind of a voluntary thing, right? It's optimism, voluntarily saying, we're going to donate about of these tokens to retroactive public goods funding, and that's fine as well. Another very interesting thing that has been talked about before, but isn't implemented right now is what if we had the clients themselves? So the validator clients themselves.
00:38:52.924 - 00:39:56.526, Speaker A: What if they implemented a switch where you could say, okay, well, a portion of my block rewards or fees that I get could go to the client teams themselves, and obviously that would be opt in and everything. So essentially what would happen is that, that you'd run like a lighthouse client, for example, and you'd switch on the thing and say, okay, well, 10% of all the rewards that I get, I want them to automatically go to Sigma prime, who builds the lighthouse client. Now that, again is opt in, and that, again is just giving power back to the individual in order to donate to who they want to, rather than it all going into one big pot like it would if the, the fee revenue that wasn't burned went to just this one big pot that was decided on by who, right. Would it be ETH holders that wouldn't work because then you would just have, like the ETH whales dominating everything and you wouldn't want, you kind of wouldn't want that to happen, right? And then would it be just respect the people within the ethereum community, that's fine. Like, I would maybe trust some of them. But as I said, it's not just about trust, it's about the fair distribution of this and how the word fair is a subjective term. And it is also not, it's not the same to everyone that it is to me.
00:39:56.526 - 00:40:45.736, Speaker A: Like, I know tons of people who want to fund things that I don't want to fund at all that I completely disagree with should be funded, and people disagree with me on things that should be funded. So in that world, which is the world that we live in, is the reality that we live in. Rather than creating massive pots of funds that could get easily captured, we have many, many different pots of funds for many, many different types of things. And people can donate to what they actually want to donate to rather than having to decide as part of like a big collective. It's more of like small collective, small groups here and there. And I think this even goes back to the point of, like, outside of crypto, where people will say, well, or, you know, they disagree with how their government spends money, right? Because they've got that, like, for in the US, there's always huge debates over how the US spends money. Like, should they be spending money on foreign aid? Should they be doing domestic stuff? Should they be doing more military spending or social spending? It's the same thing.
00:40:45.736 - 00:41:18.912, Speaker A: And the way we actually work around that is through democracy. But it's a very imperfect system. And Ethereum is not trying to be a democracy. Ethereum is not trying to be a traditional kind of nation state. It is itself can be considered like a digital nation, but it has its own rules, it has its own protocols, has its own values. Community has its own values and things that they wants to see. So I think that the key difference is that the way Ethereum does it is, as I said, very small groups, small pots of money here and there that people can voluntarily say where they want it to go to.
00:41:18.912 - 00:42:21.036, Speaker A: And then on the nation state level, it's more of everyone gets taxed, and then you vote in the party, and then the party spends the money how they want to, essentially. Right. I mean, it's very messy from there, but you kind of get the analogy there. So, yeah, I think that should be like what we just talked about for the last 1015 minutes should explain to people exactly why the fear revenue is burned and also hopefully encourage people to go and donate to public goods themselves if they want to, and do that through wherever they want to, whether that's gitcoin or on optimism, getting involved with governance there or doing the protocol guild stuff. I'm very partial to the protocol guild because I think the protocol developers and researchers are basically the beating heart of Ethereum, and without them, the roadmap for the next, whatever it is, ten years is not going to get delivered because at the end of the day, we need people to research and build this stuff. So I've made a lot of donations, personal donations, to the protocol guild over time, and you and I both have made a lot of donations to get coin over time as well. So, yeah, if there is people out there who want to donate, there are many, many different ways to do it.
00:42:21.036 - 00:42:33.372, Speaker A: It doesn't require some kind of huge pot of money going from the fees to be captured. I feel like, as you said, that would be the worst possible thing that we could do and it would very much degrade Ethereum's credible neutrality as a network.
00:42:33.428 - 00:43:07.362, Speaker B: I think, yeah, I mean, we're in a much better place now than three years ago, right? So I think there's better options out there and I think the entire ecosystem at a better place. I mean, we're literally like, is this thing going to survive? Right? I don't think we'll ever get back there, especially with ethat, you know, almost 1600 or whatever it is. I just don't think we'll ever return there. So at least, and the EF has got a ton of money, which of course we don't rely on the EF, but at the end of the day, they got multi millions of dollars. Right. So I think just having, and that's.
00:43:07.378 - 00:43:39.030, Speaker A: The thing a lot of people miss as well. I think with like ETH value accrual is that the EF is solely funded by the ETH that they have. And obviously they want to be able to sell that ETH at a higher price that they can get more fiat in, so they can pay, you know, various different things. So, yeah, the higher the ETH price goes, the better it is for ethereum generally, just, just, just from that one thing. And there's so many other reasons, but I think that one thing, like the EF, for every dollar, I think ETH goes up. The EF gets a lot of money, like millions of dollars, I think. So when you look at it like that, yeah, I think people should understand why we want ETH to go up.
00:43:39.030 - 00:43:39.634, Speaker A: Right?
00:43:40.094 - 00:43:50.646, Speaker B: Yeah, I always love like, oh, the EF selling well. Yeah, I mean, what are we just hoping the EF holds to a million dollars ETH? Like, oh, yeah, they have to sell to, like, fund this stuff.
00:43:50.670 - 00:43:50.878, Speaker A: Stuff.
00:43:50.926 - 00:44:00.694, Speaker B: Right. So I just. That always cracks me up. But, yeah, I mean, long story short, I think we're in a better place than we have been. But I totally agree. Go out there. Donate to some of the guilds if you can.
00:44:00.694 - 00:44:24.118, Speaker B: And I would. I would still encourage some of these Defi protocols that are making money every everybody out there to keep donating. And maybe I misspoke earlier. Uniswap has donated 2 million. But, you know, let's do better, right? Your protocol is worth 7 billion, and you have a token, you got a fee. Let's all, like, I like what you said. Let's commit, like, a revenue stream, right? I haven't seen that yet.
00:44:24.118 - 00:44:35.526, Speaker B: It's like, oh, once a year, let's donate, like a million. Let's commit, like, oh, yeah, let's. We're going to give 10% of our front end fee because we've made a lot of money off Ethereum and we need us to keep going to, you know, stay alive.
00:44:35.590 - 00:45:05.134, Speaker A: So crowdfy actually has us beat on that because van Eck committed to donating 10% of their proceeds from their futures product to the protocol, girl. Like, why is tradfy beating us on this? Like, come on, guys, you know? So, yeah, I agree with you. There should be that constant kind of stream there from different projects, different protocols. Maybe not just like, the tokens that they have, but as you said, like, basically on the revenue that the project actually makes. Right. So they can donate a portion of that there instead of the governance tokens, which, yeah, I mean, it's a whole different thing. They should do both, but, yeah, it would be nice to see the revenue portion.
00:45:05.134 - 00:45:24.614, Speaker A: Definitely. All right, well, yeah, I guess that's it for today, Eric. That should make for an interesting episode for people. I think. As I said, there are a bunch of new people who may not be aware of the historical context here around the stuff that we spoke about today. So I'm hoping that we help them understand that. But, yeah, I guess we'll be back in a couple of weeks from now for another one of these.
