00:00:00.250 - 00:01:06.142, Speaker A: In a historic move this week, the feds announced the seizure of over 50,000 bitcoin that had been stolen about a decade ago, when a single bitcoin was worth just $10. It's the second largest bitcoin recovery on record, and the biggest completed by the recently created virtual assets unit. So where were the coins hidden and how were they recovered by the feds? So back in 2012, hacker James Zong managed to obtain more than 50,000 bitcoins from the dark web's hub for drugs, Silk Road, which the feds eventually shut down in 2013. Apparently, Zong ran a scheme that allowed him to withdraw many times more bitcoin than he actually deposited onto the marketplace in the first place. Now, it's not exactly crystal clear how the law enforcement agencies connected the stolen crypto to James Song, who ended up keeping some of the funds on drives hidden in his underwear drawer and in a popcorn tin. But what we do know is that the feds executed a search warrant on his home in Gainesville, Georgia last November. And even though the value of these stolen coins has dropped significantly since they were recovered, it's still a very lucrative payday for Uncle Sam.
00:01:06.142 - 00:02:06.014, Speaker A: For reference, one BTC back in November 2012 was worth around $10. So the 50,676 BTC stolen by James Song would have only been worth about a half million dollars or so at the time. Today, the loot is worth about 2000 times more than that, despite having lost two thirds of its value at the time of seizure. We don't really know how much of the stolen loot Zong managed to use, but we do know that he won't be enjoying any of it now that he's facing a 20 year jail sentence. So how much trouble is Zong in? Well, Tyler Hatcher, the special agent in charge of the IRS in Los Angeles, didn't mince his words at all when he said Zong executed a sophisticated scheme designed to steal bitcoin from the notorious Silk Road marketplace and that he tried to hide his spoils through a series of complex transactions. According to Reuters, defense lawyer Michael Barkner said Zong has returned virtually all of the bitcoin and that he's extremely remorseful for his conduct back when he was just 22 years old. But of course, that's lawyerspeak.
00:02:06.014 - 00:02:59.302, Speaker A: So what about anonymity? Since cryptocurrencies and the Silk Road being mentioned in the same sentence quite rightly raises questions of privacy? You might be wondering how on earth anyone could trace a bunch of ten year old transactions back to James Zong bedroom in Georgia. Well, the idea that cryptocurrencies are completely anonymous isn't exactly accurate. You see, every transaction is recorded on the blockchain, which is an immutable ledger. So just because the transactions are attached to a wallet address and not a name doesn't mean that they're 100% anonymous. Then the next logical question is, all right, how do the feds connect the dots? And to answer that question, all we really need to do is look at the investigation unit set up recently by the FBI. The FBI actually set this crypto unit up earlier this year and called it the virtual assets unit. They announced that they'd be aggressively tracking illicit funds and anyone involved in ransomware attacks, Ponzi schemes and so on.
00:02:59.302 - 00:03:47.602, Speaker A: The unit uses powerful analytics software to track criminals down. And for the FBI, setting up such a unit makes sense for two main reasons. The first reason is that retail investors can and do lose significant amounts of their hard earned money when this type of illicit activity goes on. So when you combine last year's meme stock saga, the economic downturn we're experiencing now, and the increased adoption of cryptocurrencies across a number of industries, the government needs to publicly address these issues and protect the electorate. A likely, much bigger reason for the seizure of all of that bitcoin is that it's an insanely lucrative project for the US government. Chainalysis reports that over $14 billion of crypto was sent to illicit addresses last year alone. So it goes without saying that the FBI's virtual asset unit only has to recover a small percentage of this amount to make it a profitable endeavor.
00:03:47.602 - 00:04:09.730, Speaker A: The US government is sending a clear signal that two can play this game. By enlisting the VAU to deploy powerful analytics software and undertake complex processes of tracking down crypto that was stolen a decade ago, they're asserting that the government is not as archaic, technologically speaking, as some of us might still believe. So thank you for stopping by. We'll keep you updated on the latest Defi news again tomorrow.
