00:00:00.280 - 00:00:44.384, Speaker A: This is very greedy, but sometimes you can get it. So now we're talking about torque varieties, which is what I'm going to be looking at the most. So, for me, torque variety is an irreducible closed variety of complex dimension n with the action, and I'm going to standardize by torus. So this is an n dimensional complex torus, but I would like it to be c crossed to the n, which acts on x with a dense orbit. And just to point out, a lot of other speakers allowed affine out torque varieties. That's great. But just for simplicity, I'm just going to say torque variety, stick with the closed case.
00:00:44.384 - 00:01:27.470, Speaker A: So what are some examples? Well, the first example I really want to focus on are Herzebreak surfaces. So you take p one and you take a line bundle over it with churn class minus m. So a holomorphic line bundle with churn class minus m, and we'll just call that o of minus m. It's the sort of standard notation. So that's a line bundle over p one, and then we add to it a trivial line bundle. So now we have a c two bundle over p one, and then we project, devise it, and we get, what we get is a p one bundle over p one. So these are famous classical torque varieties.
00:01:27.470 - 00:02:00.374, Speaker A: And the torus structure is easy to see. So we can act on p one, obviously by spinning it as a natural c cross action, we can lift that action to the line bundle o. And then that gives us an action on the vector space where we sum with c, and then it gives us an action on the projectivization. So that's one of the actions. And the other action is you just spin the two line bundles in each fiber. So just a fiber wise spinning. So that gives us two torus action.
00:02:00.374 - 00:02:46.210, Speaker A: Great. And another important example is bot manifolds, sometimes called bot towers, but anyway, I'm calling them bot manifolds. So this is very similar. We start with p one, and then we're going to take, and then we're going to define it inductively. And generally, the way you do it inductively is once you've defined xn minus one, you pick some equivariant holomorphic line bundle L over it, you add a copy of the trivial line bundle, and you projectivize. And that would be the n dimensional step, and it's going to be a p one bundle over xn minus one. So for instance, your first step is p one.
00:02:46.210 - 00:03:24.088, Speaker A: Your second step will be a Herzebrook surface, and you keep on going. So, the simplest example would be a product of p one s, but in general, it can be twisted. Any questions so far? Okay, great. Well, continue. So, we've already talked about this, but smooth torque varieties. So I'll be looking at this smooth case, are easy to classify up to equivariant dichimorphism, or really equivariant biholomorphism. So we've already seen that.
00:03:24.088 - 00:04:18.364, Speaker A: We've talked about fans that's appeared a number of the toxins, and those are giving a very good equivariant classification, but it's much harder to classify them up to diffeomorphism, because you're sort of leaving the category. So, for example, we have a very nice theorem due to Maseuda. So, let x and x prime be smooth algebraic varieties. So, if there's an isomorphism of the equivariant cohomology rings that takes the equivariant churn class of x to the equivariant churn class of x prime, then x and x prime are equivariantly diffusing one. And this is essentially sort of the equivariant analog of rigidity, except that we need the turn classes, which is actually necessary. But let's do Masuda. So that's the equivariant where the story is fairly nice.
00:04:18.364 - 00:05:27.830, Speaker A: And then we have a question which was first posed by Masooda and Sue, which is, are smooth torque varieties comologically rigid? So, in terms, this is quite a bold conjecture in my mind, because, like I say, comologically rigid is just a very nice property which generally fails. So. Right. So let's talk about some results. So, the first theorem I want to talk about is a theorem of Masuda and Panov. So, suppose that x is a bot manifold, and the cohomology ring of x with integer coefficients is isomorphic to the cohomology ring of a product of p one s, then the conclusion is that x is actually diffeomorphic to a product of p one s. And another theorem by Choi and Masuda a little bit later was saying that if you have two bot manifolds and both of them have trivial rational homology.
00:05:27.830 - 00:06:14.984, Speaker A: So it's called often q q trivial homology. But you see that I'm assuming that the cohomology of x over the rationals is isomorphic to the cohomology ring of a product of p one's for both of the manifolds. So that I say, okay, great. Now, if I know that their integer cohomology of these two manifolds is also isomorphic, then the two manifolds are diffeomorphic. So in terms of our previous terminology, we're saying that the family of bot manifolds with trivial rational cohomology is cohomologically rigid. So, great. So this is another special case.
00:06:14.984 - 00:07:19.014, Speaker A: In fact, there are a number of other special cases where this theorem has been known, different theorems with a number of authors combined. Cho, Choi, Li, Masuda, Pana park, and Sioux are some of the names. And many of these focused on either more general things about bot manifolds or generalized bot manifolds. So we generalize. Sorry, generalized bot manifolds are similar to bot manifolds, but instead of having everything be p one, we allow different projective spaces. So it's a more general case. But the important thing to point out is there's no known counterexamples.
00:07:19.014 - 00:08:04.354, Speaker A: So as far as we know this theorem, the question is still open. The original question is still open. We don't know whether or not all smooth torque varieties are chromologically rigid. Okay, so that was pretty much everything that I had to say about just plain old chromologically rigidity. Is there any question, questions, or comments? Okay, great. So I guess I'll go on to the next part, which is I want to talk about symplectic homological rigidity. Okay, why is this not working? Ah, there we go.
00:08:04.354 - 00:08:38.810, Speaker A: Sorry. Okay, so now we want to talk about symplectic homological rigidity. So now instead of just looking at a family of manifolds, as you might expect, we're going to look at a family of symplectic manifolds. So let's fix m omega and m omega prime in a family. So we're going to fix two elements of a family. So now it's obviously not going to be enough. So now we have an even stronger statement about the invariance.
00:08:38.810 - 00:09:30.574, Speaker A: So if m and m prime are symplectomorphic, then there's an isomorphism from the cohomology of m to the cohomology of m prime. And obviously, since this is a symplectomorphism, it has to take the cohomology class of omega to the cohomology class of omega prime. So now the question is, suppose that we have an isomorphism for the converse. Again, we're going to ask for the converse. So suppose there's an isomorphism from the cohomology of m to the cohomology of m prime, and that isomorphism takes the class of omega to the class of omega prime. Does this imply that m is simplectomorphic to m prime? And if the answer is yes. Then we're going to say that the family is symplectically, comologically rigid.
00:09:30.574 - 00:10:27.604, Speaker A: So, right. And so we obviously need to include the assumption on the coulomology class, otherwise this will obviously be false, right. Because the two sphere can have different areas. So those are obviously the cohomology beings, the same, but not, they're not selectable. So this is obviously sort of the weakest thing that we could hope for. Hold on 1 second, I'm sorry. So we again have a very easy example, which is that symplectic surfaces are symplectically homologically rigid, because in this case all you need to classify them is the genus and the area.
00:10:27.604 - 00:11:08.328, Speaker A: And obviously those are easily read off of the ring and the class in the ring. Okay. Okay. So what family are we going to look at? So instead of looking at toric varieties, we're going to look at symplectic torque manifolds, which are more or less the same thing, but from a simple point of view. So I want to set up my definitions. So by a simple torque manifold, I mean I want a two m dimensional closed connected manifold m. So again, I'm insisting on closed and I want an integral symplectic form.
00:11:08.328 - 00:11:48.924, Speaker A: So I just mean I want the cohomology class of omega to be an integral class. So again, that's not always assumed, but I want to assume that. And then I want to have a faithful s one to the n action on m. And I'm just going to call the vector field induced by the jth s one. I'm going to call that cj. And I'm going to have a moment map mu from m to rn. Of course, this is just a map such that if I take the, if I take omega and I apply it to cj, then I get minus d of mu j for all j.
00:11:48.924 - 00:12:39.704, Speaker A: So this is all familiar to, I think, many of you or all of you, but the important fact is, by Attia Gilman Sternberg, the moment polytope delta, which is just the image of m under the moment map, is a convex polytope. It's actually a convex rational polytope. But we won't need that. So what are some examples? So really the most important example from our point of view is any smooth projective torque variety. And when I say projected here, I'm actually going to assume that my manifold x is given as a sub variety of pn. So if you prefer, you can say it has a very ample line bundle. But I'm sticking with thinking of its projective variety.
00:12:39.704 - 00:13:26.378, Speaker A: In particular, and I should say for this one, there's actually a converse that every, some flactic toric manifold is a smooth projective torque variety. So you can really look at these things as almost equivalent, and in particular, every bot manifold. So we saw them at the beginning, and in fact, I claim they are projective torque varieties, so they can be embedded into PN. And in this case, we're going to call it a symplectic bot manifold. So this is what we mean by a symplectic bot manifold. Oh, and I should say, why of course, why is a smooth projective torque variety symplectic? Because there's a symplectic form, the fugini studi form, on the projective space. And we restrict this to x.
00:13:26.378 - 00:13:53.964, Speaker A: And that gives us symplectic form on x. And that is what we mean by symplectic bot manifold. Any questions? Okay. All right. So I want to talk a little bit about symplectic bot manifolds. So, great. So let m be a symplectic bot manifold with moment polytope delta.
00:13:53.964 - 00:14:35.434, Speaker A: The first thing I want to claim is that delta is combinatorially equivalent to a hypercube. So that means that you have a one to one correspondence. So hypercube, I just mean take an interval and take n products of it. And what I mean by combinatorial equivalent is that there's a correspondence of the faces, so that every face of delta corresponds to a face of the hypercube of the same dimension. So that the faces of delta intersect if and only if the faces of the hypercube intersect. So it has a very simple intersection. And moreover, we can write this in a very simple combinatorial way.
00:14:35.434 - 00:15:36.112, Speaker A: So there's always going to be a strictly upper triangular integral matrix a and a vector lambda in zn such that the polytope delta is given by the sat of all p and rn such that if I pair p with ej is greater than or equal to zero. And if I pair p with ej plus the sum over I AI j ei, it's less than or equal to lambda j for all j. So here we see that the normals are the ej and the ej plus the sum over I. Well, I guess it's minus ej and the sum and ej plus the sum over I of AI J Ei. But this formula, it's maybe not so important that you get the details. I just want to point out that these a and lambda are exactly describing the polytope. And there's an additional fact which again, has been referred to.
00:15:36.112 - 00:16:16.214, Speaker A: But we have a very explicit. None of this is, I mean, this is just sort of well known stuff. But there's a very explicit formula for the cohomology ring of a torque variety, of a smooth torque variety. In general, we had some talks about sort of where you can extend that. But in the case, if you apply it, in this case, it's very straightforward. And you see, we get a very explicit formula for the comology ring and for the class omega. And moreover, this is somehow a very natural presentation because the XJ are actually dual to facets.
00:16:16.214 - 00:16:43.924, Speaker A: So it's, this facet is this facet gives you, so this description gives you a facet of the polytope. If you take its preimage under the moment map, you get a sub manifold and XJ is the Pocre dual to it. So again, if you haven't seen this before, it just looks like a formula. That's fine. But just note, it's a very explicit formula. That's the main point. Okay, great.
00:16:43.924 - 00:17:23.784, Speaker A: So in particular, let's talk about one specific case. What about the Herzberg surfaces? Well, if you look at the formula, we're going to say, okay, what does this tell us? It's topologically, it's combinatorial equivalent to a square. Okay, so in fact, all that's allowed in this case really is it's going to be a trapezoid. So, great. So mole polytechnops are always trapezoids. And the cohomology ring is just given by two generators, x one and x two. And it's up to x two squared.
00:17:23.784 - 00:18:02.094, Speaker A: The kernel is generated by x two squared and x one squared plus mx one x two. So that's pretty simple. And so I want to give two particular examples. We can look at the 0 hz brick surface, which is just p one cross p one. So now the moment image is always going to be a rectangle. I've chosen a particular form here, but that's fine. And sigma two, you can see, in this case, you can see the two, because the two is the slope of this side.
00:18:02.094 - 00:19:11.874, Speaker A: And generally speaking, that is what the m is going to do is it's going to tell you the slope of this side. These are nice integral polytopes for people. Anyway, these are good examples to keep in mind, the Herzebric surfaces are really the key, the key example here. Okay, great. So just like we said before, symplectic torque manifolds are easy to classify up to equivariant symplectomorphism so that's really sort of the natural and easy thing to do, but they're much harder to classify up to symplectomorphism. So it's obvious, sort of, that if m and m prime are equivariantly symplectomorphic, then their moment polytopes are just going to differ by translation. And the theorem due to Delzande is that the converse also holds that if delta and delta prime differ by a translation, then the toric manifolds are equivariantly symptomatic.
00:19:11.874 - 00:19:52.420, Speaker A: So, great. So the aquabarian case is pretty easy, but we really want to talk about the symplectic case. And so now we have the natural generalization, or analog. It's not really generalization of the question that Masouda and Sue asked, which is, are symplectic torque manifolds symplectically cohomologically rigid? And maybe, I'll go back a slide. And just from what we know, this is a very reasonable, maybe a reasonable thing to hope. At least we have one nice example. So we know that Herzeberg surfaces.
00:19:52.420 - 00:20:33.144, Speaker A: So if you look at, like, a sigma a and sigma B, two different Herzebrook surfaces, it's well known that those are diffeomorphic. If and only if a equals b, that's like a really old fact, right? That's sort of the point of herzebric surfaces is they're diffeomorphic, but they have different complex structures. So I don't even know when that's due. But it's due to Herzebrouck. And symplectically, a similar statement has been known for a long time as well. So these two polytopes here, of course, the polytopes look quite different, and there's no way to take any kind of affine translation of one polytope into the other. Those are just different polytopes.
00:20:33.144 - 00:21:17.538, Speaker A: But in fact, it's been known for, I think it's a folklore theorem, really. I saw it back when I was a grad student, and I don't know who it's originally due to. These manifolds are symplectomorphic. So you can see that they have the same area, and they have isomorphic cohomology rings. Because if you look, if you add a two here, you can see that you can find an isomorphism that, I think you take x one to x one minus x two, that intertwines the two maps. I mean, it gives you an isomorphism from one to the other. And if you check, you can see it takes this omega to this omega.
00:21:17.538 - 00:22:09.788, Speaker A: So we know there's some plectomorphic. So if you look at what we know for Hertz brick surfaces, it's very easy to check. When we first saw this, we're like, okay, great. This sort of clearly is true for herzebric surfaces from things people already knew. And so it's sort of a natural question to ask, like, okay, great. Does it work for other cases? And in fact, McDuff proved a generalization that she says, but kind of fairly special case. So if m is a symplectic term manifold, and the cohomology of m with integer coefficients is isomorphic to the cohomology of the product of two projective spaces, then is symplectomorphic to the product of two projective spaces.
00:22:09.788 - 00:22:53.546, Speaker A: So here, when I just say simple to the product, I mean, you take the fubinis, take the fubini study form on each of them and pull it back to a product symplectic form, possibly with different weights. So sort of the natural symplectic form. And there's been a number of other partial results due to Karshon, Kessler, penicill and Macduff. Sorry, I'm losing my voice a little bit. But most of these other results are not actually saying that things are symplectomorphic, or what they're saying is that there's a finite number. So this goes back to Liab's talk. So she wasn't looking at the Toric case.
00:22:53.546 - 00:23:30.234, Speaker A: But when you have a finite number of Tori, so that's not quite. If you can only have a finite number of the torii is sort of some ways towards proving this. But it's not quite it because you won't know that you actually have an isomorphism. Okay, so, oops, sorry. So now I've given the background so I can talk about our main results. So our main results look very much like these two results that I started with, but now they're in the symplectic category. So the first, the main result is.
00:23:30.234 - 00:24:46.472, Speaker A: So let m and m prime be symplectic bot manifolds. And we're going to assume that their rational cohomology ring, again, is isomorphic to the rational cohomology of the product of p one s. So again, trivial rational cohomology. So the claim is, if there's an isomorphism from the cohomology of m to the cohomology of m prime that takes the class of omega to the class of omega prime, then m and m prime are symplectomorphic. So in other words, symplectic homological rigidity does hold for this class. So really, if you don't love bot manifolds, there's a nice corollary which doesn't use that statement just if m is a symplectic torque manifold, and its cohomology ring is isomorphic to the cohomology ring of p one to the n, then m is symplectomorphic to p one to the n, where we have the synclactic form, which I'm calling omega sub lambda, which is going to take the Fubini study form, and I'm going to pull it back through PI, I is going to be the projection onto the ith copy of p one. If I take that and I pull it back, I multiply it by some real number, lambda I, and I sum it up, I'm going to get a syntactic form.
00:24:46.472 - 00:25:43.248, Speaker A: So it's sort of a standard product symptomatic form, only I'm allowing all the sides to be different. And the corollary is very easy to prove from the main theorem, because there's a result of masouda and Pana that says, under this case, m is a symplectic bot manifold. And then once you know it's a simple active bot manifold, it just follows trivially from the main theorem. And there's one note I just wanted to mention, which is that strong rigidity also holds. So there's a stronger version of this statement that says that if you have an isomorph given a specific isomorphism of Kolmogorov rings that takes Omega to omega prime, there's a simplectomorphism between them that induces that map, induces that isomorphism and cohomology. So that's the strong version. And everything we're saying, we also prove the strong version of.
00:25:43.248 - 00:26:14.794, Speaker A: And I think everything I referred to there is also a strong version. But just for simplicity, I'm sticking with the basic statement, but for experts who might care that we have that, too. Okay, so I know I haven't been getting too many questions, but I think this is a good place to start. Stop. Because now I've stated our result, and I'm going to move on to proving it. So, does anybody have any questions about what we are proving? You're not getting any questions because your talk is a model of clarity. Excellent, excellent.
00:26:14.794 - 00:26:52.954, Speaker A: That's always the hope. Whereas the fear is like, everyone's laughed and is like, you know, binge drinking with their friends someplace. Okay. Okay, great. Oops. Okay, so I want to talk about the proof of the main theorem. So what's really important is there's sort of one important new idea in this paper, which is that we need to construct new symplectomorphisms, right? So there's not, I mean, you can just sort of naively hope the theorem is true without constructing sublectomorphisms, but clearly you just don't have enough to make that work.
00:26:52.954 - 00:27:38.004, Speaker A: So you need to find some new ones. And otherwise the proof is pretty similar to what has already been done, but kind of masada sue in the smooth case, it's not identical, but it's pretty similar. So I don't think that's the interesting part to repeat. I really want to talk about what's different, and this is our new proposition, which is suppose that we have two symplectic bot manifolds. Okay, so suppose you have some k less than lucky and an isomorphism from the cohomology of m to the cohomology of m prime. So of course you need to take the class of omega to the class of omega prime. But I want to assume this isomorphism has a very special form.
00:27:38.004 - 00:28:17.854, Speaker A: I want to say, okay, it has to take x k to x k prime minus gamma xl prime for some gamma z, and it has to take xi to xi prime for all I not equal to k. So here, what do I mean by the xi? Well, go back to this slide. These are exactly the xi in this formula. These duals and the xi primes are hopefully obviously the analogous thing for m prime. So these are standard generators. So this is a very special kind of isomorphism. But in this particular case, we can prove that m and m prime are symplectomorphic.
00:28:17.854 - 00:28:58.516, Speaker A: And then it turns out to be that this is a very special kind of isomorphism. It's a key isomorphism. And everything else we can get just sort of like by hook or by crook, pretty straightforwardly, or by applying sort of standard transformations of polytopes. So polytopes that are, we may have to take a polygon polytope, sorry. And we know that if we have another one, which is an affiliate linear transformation, they're the same manifold. So we'll have to do that. So from now on I'm going to focus on proving this proposition, which, like I said, I think is the interesting case.
00:28:58.516 - 00:29:42.050, Speaker A: Why do we have a symplectomorphism in this case? Okay, so this is where torque degenerations come in. So if Magumia is here, I'm going to slaughter her paper, but hopefully, hopefully not in a bad way. So we want to start with a smooth projective variety x. So remember, that means to us it's inside projected space. So I know, I want to fix a local coordinate system on X. So I want to take a coordinate patch on X which is identified part of X with Cm. Now what I'm leaving out is a lot of what Mogumi was talking about, which is I'm going to use this, I'm going to get evaluation and blah blah blah.
00:29:42.050 - 00:30:06.058, Speaker A: I'm not going to focus on that. But great. So if we need to choose a local coordinate system, then we can apply the process that she described. And as she says, we're going to get an associated semi group. Oh shoot, there's a typo. Ooh, well there's typo s and I want to write s as the union over m. Oh no, this is fine.
00:30:06.058 - 00:30:27.698, Speaker A: Sorry. Is the union over m greater than zero of m cross sn sitting inside z cross zn. So she was talking about it. Well, q, but never mind, is sitting inside zn plus one. But the first z is actually kind of special. And I actually want to sort of just pull out that z and talk about the different layers. So it's like a cone.
00:30:27.698 - 00:30:42.070, Speaker A: Sort of. Maybe not precisely, but vaguely it's a cone. I just want to talk about each slice. I want to give that a name. The Okunkov body. So this is what she called the Newton Okunkov body. So it's defined to be.
00:30:42.070 - 00:31:26.932, Speaker A: So I take SM and I divide that by m and then I get a bunch of points and then I take the union of those over all m and then I take the convex whole and then I take the closure. And this is going to give me something that's called the kung gough body. And so there's a theorem that we're using due to hematic Hedda, which is assume that s is finitely generated. So that's an important technical condition. So then if we take c of s and take its projectivization, we get a torque, a projective torque, variety x naught with moment polytope delta. So I'm cheating a little bit. In general, this is not smooth.
00:31:26.932 - 00:31:52.274, Speaker A: Essentially what you like to do is I think of this as taking your manifold and like square squishing bits of it kind of violently. And so generally you'll mess that up. It's not smooth, but it sits inside a projective space and the torus extends to an action on the projective space. So you can just restrict the moment map from a projective space to X naught. Call that your moment map. Great. So you can still talk about a moment polito.
00:31:52.274 - 00:32:27.478, Speaker A: The main part of the theorem is there's a continuous surjective map Phi from X to X naught. And it's a simplectomorphism on an open, dense subset of X. So this is what their theorem tells us. And Jeremy was talking earlier about how this lets us have torus action on an open dense set. And that's great. And like I said, usually X naught kind of comes up kind of smushed and deformed. But if X naught is smooth, sort of a miracle, it generally doesn't happen.
00:32:27.478 - 00:32:57.442, Speaker A: But if you look at their theorem, it's clear that if X naught is smooth, then this map, phi, is actually a symplectomorphism. And this is going to be the important thing. This is where we're getting symplectomorphisms. And Megumi did. Well, I wish I could just a teeny bit about the idea of the proof of their theorem, which is you construct a torque degeneration of X. So this is just a flat family. So it's variety, Curly X, and a map PI from c.
00:32:57.442 - 00:33:32.062, Speaker A: And the generic fiber of this map is going to be isomorphic to x, and the fiber over zero is going to be x naught. And then what they do is they could take a radial vector field on C and they lift it to this curly x, and that gives you the flow. Then you integrate the flow. So it's a very brief sketch of the proof, but that's how the idea works. Excuse me, Susan, what did you mean by generic fiber is isomorphic to x. Right? So this family X is one dimension. I'm sorry, the curly.
00:33:32.062 - 00:34:09.238, Speaker A: The family curly X is one dimensional, bigger than X. So if you look at, like PI inverse of one, you're going to get a variety which is same dimension as x, and it actually is isomorphic to x. Does that make sense? You take any value other than zero and take it, take the pre image, like if you take any value a not equal to zero. If you take PI inverse of a, this will be a variety. And the claim is that I want that variety to be isomorphic to x as a variety. Algebraically isomorphic, yes, algebraically isomorphic. And with the line bundle as well, preserve the lung bundle as well.
00:34:09.238 - 00:34:35.094, Speaker A: So it's pretty strong. Yeah, it's a pretty strong, pretty strong condition. Did that answer your question? Thanks. I know I did not give adequate details of their proof. This is not meant to be complete. There's lots and lots of things to check here, right? They wrote a whole paper on it, but that's the idea. The idea is actually quite simple, which I like.
00:34:35.094 - 00:35:00.638, Speaker A: Okay. So to get into more of the details about sort of the big picture. This theorem, which is quite general. I want to talk about something we call the slide operator. So you fix a w in zn. And I don't want all the coordinates to be non negative. I want at least one negative coordinate.
00:35:00.638 - 00:35:32.504, Speaker A: So here we have in my picture is minus e one, plus e two is my w. So, right. So I've drawn arrows. So I want to take some subset q of the positive orthot. And I want to, I can slide that set along w. And the way I do it is I slide each point as far as possible within the positive octan or orthot in the direction w. So here's a very simple example.
00:35:32.504 - 00:36:09.894, Speaker A: So I can only slide along these red lines. And you see, if I look at this bottom one, oh, there's no place to slide it here. No place to slide it here, no place to slide it. But if I look here, you see, aha. I can move this dot one point this way, and I get this dot. Can you see how I got from the left picture to the right picture by sliding my dots? Okay, great. And then I just want to point out, if I take the convex whole of these dots, in the one case I'm getting the rectangle, and next case I'm getting a trapezoid.
00:36:09.894 - 00:36:51.284, Speaker A: And you may recognize these pictures, right. These are the same pictures that I got a number of slides ago that were just moment polytopes of p one cross p one and the Hertz Brook two surface. Okay, great. So that's the slide operator. Any questions about the slide operator? Because it's kind of the key. Okay, so now we're almost done once you know where the slide is. So now, in order to prove that the key proposition, which was just that, I have a symplectomorphism, in this special case, I need to prove two sub propositions.
00:36:51.284 - 00:37:35.794, Speaker A: And the first is. So let's say I have symplectic bot manifolds m and m prime with moment polytopes delta and delta prime. So I want to assume there exists k less than l and an isomorphism from the cohomology of m to the cohomology of m prime. That takes the class of omega to the class of omega prime. So I always need that, but also has this very special form that I talked about before. It needs to send xk to xk prime minus gamma, xl prime for some gamma and z, and it needs to send xi to xi prime for all I not equal to k. So again, this is exactly the form I had before.
00:37:35.794 - 00:38:23.564, Speaker A: So now I had the slightly annoying technical condition. Remember, these were associated to these upper triangular matrices, a, strictly upper triangular matrices, a. So if the Kl coordinate this of the a prime matrix, the matrix for m prime is bigger or equal than the absolute value of alk. So that's just sort of annoying technical condition. Then there exists, oops, sorry. Then there exists c greater than or equal to zero so that I can get the poly so I can multiply by any m. So I can take m delta and m delta prime just means I can expand my polytope as much as I want, is that I can get from the polytope delta.
00:38:23.564 - 00:39:15.474, Speaker A: Well, the integral points in the polytope delta to the integral points in the polytope prime just by sliding. So again, this is exactly what I had here. Why is it great? I can get from this one to this one just by sliding. And I'm saying that that's a perfectly general statement whenever I have them related to each other by one of these special isomorphisms. And then this slightly annoying technical condition is not too hard to get rid of because either sometimes you have to slide from m to m prime, and sometimes you have to slide from m prime to m, and then sometimes you have to sort of flip them over and then slide. But that part's all pretty straightforward. So in that case, I can slide from the one polytope to the other polytope.
00:39:15.474 - 00:39:47.242, Speaker A: And that's one half of the proof. And then the other half of the proof is just for any symplectic torque manifold with moment polytopes delta and delta prime. But I want these polytopes to be equal to the positive orthon near zero. So again, I can always achieve that. I just have to put them into standard position. So you see here, here are my coordinate axes. You see, if I just look at a little neighborhood of zero, both of these polytopes just look like the positive quadrant.
00:39:47.242 - 00:40:52.012, Speaker A: So that's good. I want to assume I put my polytopes into that standard form, and then if there exists k less than l and c greater than or equal to zero, such that if I take delta and its integral points or multiples and slide them along this vector, then I get the other polytope. If one polytope is the slide of another polytope, then the two manifolds are symptomorphic. And the way we prove this proposition is by finding an explicit coordinate chart that actually, sorry, well, the way we prove this, sorry, the way we prove the second proposition is saying, hey, we can prove that x naught then is going to be this. X naught is going to be m prime in this case, and we can prove explicitly that it's smooth, so. Well, yeah, I guess it is smooth. We prove that m prime is.
00:40:52.012 - 00:40:58.604, Speaker A: Is the polytope we get at the center. Okay, so I think that's it. So I'm done.
