00:00:00.160 - 00:00:24.166, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano. And to the 16 August 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So another 24 hours worth of, I guess, discussion around tornado cash, censorship, all those sorts of things that I guess I spoke about in the refill yesterday. Now I'm going to be talking about that for a little while here on the refill again today. I think this is very important.
00:00:24.166 - 00:01:26.926, Speaker A: There are timestamps, if you just want to skip to some of the news from the day. But I think pretty much like what has everyone's attention right now is this kind of, is this kind of censorship stuff, right? There's not really much else that's kind of got most people's attention. And I'm not even just talking within a theory, I'm talking like all across crypto, right? So I put this tweet out today, which I think sets the tone of what I want to talk about, where I said, I want to be very clear on this. If the Ethereum base layer ends up engaging in permanent and permanent is the kind of opportune word here, permanent censorship, then I will consider the Ethereum experiment a failure and I will move on. Thankfully, I believe the Ethereum community is strong enough to fight off base layer censorship. Now, I'm not going to rehash what I said yesterday, but I really do mean this, guys. Like, if for some reason the Ethereum base layer engages in permanent censorship, meaning that there are addresses on the network that permanently cannot be interacted with due to validators, kind of like post merge censoring those addresses or censoring those kind of like smart contracts or anything like that, I will consider that to be an epic failure of Ethereum, to be honest.
00:01:26.926 - 00:01:46.750, Speaker A: And Ethereum is an experiment, right? So is bitcoin. Like all of this is an experiment. None of this is guaranteed to work, but we obviously are all betting that it will. But I would, I would leave and I wouldn't move on to another crypto because there's actually nothing else that interests me. Like Ethereum does. Not even close and certainly not bitcoin. Like some of the, I said in my second tweet here, some of the bitcoin is we're doing victory laps.
00:01:46.750 - 00:02:07.994, Speaker A: And I said, you know, bitcoin is prone to the same censorship risks as Ethereum is. It doesn't matter if it's proof of stake or proof of work. And if I left Ethereum I wouldn't be moving to bitcoin. I'd rather leave the industry entirely than do that. And the reason why is because I believe bitcoin's social layer is fundamentally broken, and I don't want to be part of that. I would actually hate myself being part of that community. I look at it and I'm just like, I don't understand how anyone can be part of it.
00:02:07.994 - 00:02:29.370, Speaker A: I feel dumber every time I read anything coming out of that community. So without ranting too much there, I wouldn't go to bitcoin. And there's nothing, as I said, there's nothing else that would actually interest me or that actually has my attention like ethereum does. So I would move on. I would just leave the industry. And I think that's true for a lot of people. We are in this to make Ethereum the thing that succeeds for a multitude of different reasons.
00:02:29.370 - 00:03:10.034, Speaker A: I've gone through plenty of them over the years on the refill, so I'm not going to rehash that here. But the good thing is, as I said, I think the community and the social layer that we have is strong enough to fight off this base layer censorship. I think that there are a multitude of things that we can do to fight this, from social signaling, which we've been doing a lot of lately, to technology kind of like improvements such as PBS and CR lists and other things that I've spoken about before. So I don't think the risk is very high here of permanent censorship at the base layer and all the other layers. Guys like, they're going to have to be worked on in parallel. Like, I'm not going to leave the issue theorem ecosystem because some front end decided to sensor what they're, what they're letting users to do that. As I, as I explained yesterday, there are different levels here, right? The different kind of like layers to it.
00:03:10.034 - 00:03:45.916, Speaker A: All I care about in a, kind of like in a, in a maximalist way is the base layer. Everything else built on top, right? We can, it's a much easier to decentralize that than it is the base layer. The base layer is actually quite hard to decentralize and keep decentralized, especially when you have kind of like big entities in control of a lot of stake and a lot of mining power. And this is what I mean by like bitcoin and ethereum being similar in censorship risk. It doesn't matter if it's mining or staking. At the end of the day, if you have large entities in control of a large amount of the stake or hash power. They can engage in relatively easy censorship, whether they want to do it or whether they're being kind of forced to do it by a nation state.
00:03:45.916 - 00:04:01.776, Speaker A: So I just don't understand why bitcoiners don't make this connection. Maybe they do, and they just don't want to make the connection because it makes ethereum look good. I don't know. But that's. That. That's setting the tone for the rest of the stuff that I want to talk about. But there is an update here, I guess, a blog post that coincenter put out around the tornado.
00:04:01.776 - 00:04:29.454, Speaker A: Cash stuff with. With, with OFAC. You should definitely go give this a read. It's not too long of a read, but it gives a lot of good context around this and why Queen center believes that what OFAC has done is actually unconstitutional and potentially kind of like, illegal and can be challenged in the courts, which is what I think coin center is setting up to do, which is what we want to see. Right. We want to see these challenged in the courts, and we want to basically set precedence here that, you know, we already have precedent. We already have this in kind of like, in the law that basically said.
00:04:29.454 - 00:04:48.118, Speaker A: Says that code is speech, and speech is protected by the constitution in the US. So if Cody speech, then you are not, you know, you you. You couldn't. You can't sanction code. Right? That's the whole argument basically distilled down into the TLDR. This is gone, as I said, this is before, as I've said before, this is going to have to be fought in the course. This is not something that's going to play out overnight.
00:04:48.118 - 00:05:14.342, Speaker A: And this is a fight that the whole of crypto is kind of like fighting bitcoin, ethereum, every other chain out there. It's just that Ethereum is, as I explained yesterday, gone to the point where it actually kind of, like, is a concern or a threat to nation states, and they're sanctioning it. Like, I don't understand why that's actually a black mark on Ethereum. That's actually a huge validation of a theory. I'm as a technology and as a. As a kind of, like, as a platform of what we're trying to build here. We're trying to build things that give people more freedom.
00:05:14.342 - 00:05:34.870, Speaker A: Right. And I know people will make the argument that tornado cash was used for money laundering. It was used by North Korea and all this sort of stuff that's orthogonal to the point that I'm making. The point that I'm making is that we've actually been able to create tools that are literally unstoppable. Like Tornado cash is still running on the Ethereum network. It is still immutable, right? The contracts are still there. You can still interact with it if you want to, you know.
00:05:34.870 - 00:06:08.792, Speaker A: Yes. Okay. You run the risk if you're a us persons obviously, of up to 30 years in prison and all these fines. But the point is, is that it's still there, right? The point isn't that like the, I guess like meats based law is restricting you, nothing is restricting you from kind of like interacting with it on the technology side. And as I said, like earlier, the base layer, censorship is the only thing that could stop you from using it. If it was kind of like a permanent thing that most of the network was complicit in, most of the validators were complicit in. But we have a whole social layer and we have like a whole kind of like, thing, social contract behind that.
00:06:08.792 - 00:06:47.810, Speaker A: That doesn't guarantee, but gives you really high insurances, assurances that Ethereum is going to be censorship resistant. As I said, the same is true for bitcoin, the same is true for all the other chains. It's just what degree there is here. People will say, oh, you know, proof of stake, and is kind of more centralizing and less censorship resistant than proof of work. I think that's kind of like orthogonal, because, for example, and I don't actually don't think it makes sense at all, you could have a blockchain that has one miner on it, right? One kind of like entity mining the entire chain. Well, you know, it doesn't matter if it was proof of work or proof of stake. They could censor like that, being in control of the whole chain, right? So it's all about how much the stake or hash power is distributed.
00:06:47.810 - 00:07:07.722, Speaker A: With bitcoin, there is a few mining pools that can, if they wanted to. I'm not saying they're going to do this, but if they wanted to, they could censor transactions, right? If they were forced to, they could sense as transactions. Yes. Miners can change pools, right? But that's the same in staking. Yes, Coinbase could sense a transaction. Yes, binance could. But once withdrawals are enabled, users can unstake and go stake somewhere else.
00:07:07.722 - 00:07:42.774, Speaker A: That's not censoring them. Right? So, and obviously, I guess putting your stake into centralized providers, uh, is a risk that you take on as well. Just like if you're renting hash power from someone, that's a risk too. Right. You're giving your money to someone and if they don't kind of like mine for you, or if they kind of like just take the money and run, that's, that's a risk there as well. So there is all this kind of like risks associated with things that you do when you're kind of like delegating your hash or delegating your stake that you have to kind of like take into consideration. That's why I'm always a big advocate of solo staking or staking through decentralized kind of pools and things like that.
00:07:42.774 - 00:08:55.847, Speaker A: So just wanted to kind of clarify that as well there. But yeah, go give this blog post a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. The next thing I wanted to talk about was this poll that Eric Wall put out today, which I think was really great. He said, question for the Ethereum community, if a majority of stake chooses a in this poll, will you consider the censorship and attack essential? Consider the censorship and attack on Ethereum and burn their stake via social consensus, which is option x? Option y is tolerate the censorship. And he's quote, tweeting lafteris here who kind of like has, I think, I don't know if there's a poll here or basically there's a kind of like a question here that says in a question for all the major staking providers, if regulators ask you to censor at the Ethereum protocol level with your validators, will you comply and censor at the protocol level or shut down the staking service and preserve the network integrity? So if they choose a comply and censor at the protocol level, would we consider this a censorship attack on Ethereum and burn the stake via social consensus? This is what I talked about yesterday, basically social slashing or would we tolerate it? And the poll, I mean overwhelmingly is in favor of x, right? Like you can see here that y, I mean, there is a show results option for people that obviously didn't want to vote for X or Y. But just looking at X or Y in a vacuum, you can see that X is at 61.8%
00:08:55.847 - 00:09:47.434, Speaker A: and Y is at 9.3%. So overwhelmingly, the Ethereum community is in kind of like in favor of considering this a censorship attack and burning the stake via social consensus. And this brings up interesting questions about what these staking service providers would do. Let's take Coinbase as a prime example here, because they're a us based exchange and they have a lot of stake delegated to them, or they have a lot of stake kind of like in, they have a lot of control of a lot of validators through user stake if they were forced to by the US government. But right now the sanctions on Tornado cash don't force them to do this. But let's just say in the future they were forced to do this if they were forced by the US government to censor transactions at the protocol level with using their validator share and they kind of like started doing this and the community has socially signaled and told them, hey, if you do this, we're going to slash you. Like we are literally going to come together and we're going to slash you and kick you out of the network because what you're doing is an attack on the Ethereum protocol.
00:09:47.434 - 00:10:14.860, Speaker A: That social signal there is extremely powerful. It depends how seriously coinbase takes that. But I think the Ethereum community is big enough and kind of like the social signaling is enough, especially from key players in the ecosystem, that this is definitely something that Coinbase is probably looking at now and being like, okay, well this is something that we have to consider if, if this happens. So if they're being forced to by the US government, they have another choice. They don't have to do the censorship. They can basically turn their validators off. They can just shut them down.
00:10:14.860 - 00:10:44.224, Speaker A: Now, obviously, given their share of the network, this would result in what's called a quadratic inactivity leak, which means that they wouldn't just be leaking out ETH for being offline, they would be leaking out a lot of ETH because a lot of validators went offline at the same time. And then they would eventually get kicked out of the validator set and to reenter, they would have to wait to withdrawals and all that sorts of stuff. And their validators would just become useless. They'd have to eat that loss as well. And that's not their loss, that's their customer loss. So they'd have to pay for that. So there is a business case here as well for Coinbase not to engage in this censorship.
00:10:44.224 - 00:11:18.472, Speaker A: So you can see that these discussions don't really get had on Twitter. The Twitter lacks all this nuance. There's so much that goes into this, guys. It's, it's such a, such, such a complex kind of like ecosystem here that I think people look at Twitter, look at these kind of like one liners that people put out and be like, oh, if you're miss centralized, it's going to be, it's going to get censored, blah, blah, when in reality the kind of like the, the thing is, it's much more nuanced than that. And I'm trying to explain the nuance as best I can. And I'm doing this without a script or anything, so I'm obviously missing things. But I think that it's very, very important to keep that in mind, is that the social layer is our last line of defense.
00:11:18.472 - 00:12:05.854, Speaker A: We will do social kind of like slashing if we have to, right? If we can see that there is censorship going on, if it's proved beyond a doubt, which is not hard to prove, because we know kind of what validators belong to what entities, then we can get together as a community and say, okay, here is a, you know, pull request or whatever it is, to slash kind of this actor because they're engaging in censorship, and then the rest of the network can come together to do that. Now, what, coinbase risk their business for that? Because they, you know, that's, that's their customers eat, that's not their ETH. So would they risk their business to do that? I don't think so. I think Coinbase would either push their validators offline if they're being forced to censor, or they would fight the censorship. They would fight the US government on that, and they might even take it to court. Right? They, they have, you know, a huge legal team and things like that. Maybe they do that because it's not just ethereum, it's at risk.
00:12:05.854 - 00:12:22.230, Speaker A: Yeah. It's every single staking provider that they have. That's, that's the risk. And even if they have like a mining pool, which actually, I believe some exchanges do, is the same thing. Right? If they run a mining pool. So from that point of view, uh, keeping up the social signaling is extremely important. Talking about these things is extremely important.
00:12:22.230 - 00:12:52.092, Speaker A: And that's why I put out this tweet as well, where I said, you know, ethereums will always ask and respond to the hard questions. We don't bury them below ten layers of psyops and propaganda. And we certainly don't pretend that Ethereum is perfect. Ethereum is and will continue to be stronger for embracing this culture. Now, I'm obviously. Well, maybe not obviously, but I'm referencing bitcoin here because the bitcoin community tends to bury things beneath narratives, beneath psyops, beneath propaganda, because they don't actually want to openly talk about the issues. Let's take the issue of their security budget, the long term security budget.
00:12:52.092 - 00:13:14.728, Speaker A: For years and years, I've been talking about this many in the Ethereum community have been talking about this. Some even in the bitcoin community have been talking about this. How? In a couple more harbing's the bitcoin blockchain very, very much runs the risk of becoming insecure because fear revenue isn't making up for the lack of block reward or for the kind of like dwindling block, block reward. What did the bitcoin community do? They buried this. They said it was bullshit. They said it was fud. They, they literally count with propaganda.
00:13:14.728 - 00:13:40.192, Speaker A: I have a thread that I kind of like have with Dan Heddle or Dan held from 2019 or 2020, where he was literally sharing with me charts that he had drawn, predicting that the fear of anew would go up. It was a prediction. He was sharing them with me as if they were fact. So literally like that. That's how far they went to bury this, right? Ethereums don't do that. We talk openly about this because it is paramount that we attack this head on. There's no point burying it.
00:13:40.192 - 00:14:10.180, Speaker A: What, what would burying it achieve? Because if we bury this, if we say, oh no, censorship isn't going to happen, there's no risk of this happening, we're fine, we're just going to rely on, you know, rely on all the stakers being honest and not censoring and all that sorts of stuff. No, that's. That's not how it works at all. And burying it would result in a very, very kind of like, weak social layer. It would result in actual censorship at the base layer. And then the people that kind of, like, are in this ecosystem that want to see Ethereum be the most censorship resistant network in crypto, would probably leave. It's not just me, guys.
00:14:10.180 - 00:14:39.420, Speaker A: Like, I guarantee you a lot of the people in Ethereum, like, as I am, and I'm not just talking about, you know, they bought some ETH, they hold it, maybe they use some apps. I'm talking about the strongest parts of the social layer. The core developers, the core researchers, uh, the core community members. They would seriously have a crisis of confidence in Ethereum if there was permanent censorship at the base layout. Like, I'm not the only one. So how do we fight this? Well, we talk openly about it. We make sure that it is known that, hey, if you engage in censorship, we're going to slash you.
00:14:39.420 - 00:14:57.278, Speaker A: Like, as simple as that. And I think that bitcoiners look at that open honesty, especially the bitcoin maximalists, and they're not used to it. They're not used to everything being laid bare. So they automatically say, oh, look at, look at this. Look at how openly they're talking about it. Look, they're even admitting that there's a risk of this happening. It's like, yeah, because, like, there is a risk of this happening.
00:14:57.278 - 00:15:19.128, Speaker A: The, the risk is there for bitcoin as well. But it's just because you guys don't admit that it's there doesn't mean it doesn't exist. I refuse to bury my head in the sand on this. And I refuse to give in to people who tell me, oh, man, you shouldn't be kind of like, singling like that. It's, you know, it makes a theorem look weak. I don't give a fuck if Ethereum looks weak from what I say or from anywhere anyone else says. We're all about making Ethereum stronger, right? Excuse my language, but, like, I get pretty passionate about this.
00:15:19.128 - 00:15:49.014, Speaker A: We're all about making Ethereum a stronger network and stronger ecosystem. You don't do that by burying that, your head in the sand. But we have bitcoin as the classic example here. I would consider bitcoin a failed experiment at this stage. They have buried their head in the sand for so long, right? So, so long that you even see, like, the, the people who were some of the most hardcore bitcoin maximalists now having a crisis in confidence in that line of thinking and being like, oh, or maybe these people are crazy. Maybe I was part of a cult, right? Like, it gets to that point. I don't want a theorem to get to that point, and I don't think it is even close to that point.
00:15:49.014 - 00:16:24.468, Speaker A: But if we keep burying our head in the sand, or if we start to bury our head in the sand, we're going to get to that point. I'm going to. I'm going to help stop ranting on that point there, because there's a few other things I want to get through, but I feel very, very passionately about this, and I hope that you guys do as well. And there was also something here from a Twitter account, Tux here, who said, since when did any of the anti crypto people ever actually give a fuck about money laundering? Before crypto was a thing. The vast, overwhelming amount of money laundering is done by banks. Besides, tornado cash isn't even good at money laundering. Instead of having any redeeming political values, anti crypto people will just entirely throw out decades of electronic civil rights activism because they hate a digital ledger so much.
00:16:24.468 - 00:17:08.588, Speaker A: Some of you all truly have the dumbest, most short sighted minds I've ever witnessed. This is an extremely good point because of the fact is anti crypto people or crypto haters, like, encouraging censorship is just like, I mean, I'm not surprised by it, but it's just insane to me because they wouldn't be encouraging it if it was done any, in any other way. Right. Just because it's crypto, apparently it's fair game, which I think is just insane. But I just wanted to kind of highlight that because again, that's another thing that we're fighting. We're not only fighting within crypto, we're fighting the anti crypto people as well, which sucks because these people actually write letters and kind of like have the ears of politicians and they really are trying to get crypto either neutered in terms of like really coming down with regulations, with sanctions, things like that, or just outright banned. Right.
00:17:08.588 - 00:17:51.244, Speaker A: And, and if you don't believe me, go listen to a podcast that bank list did with Matthew Green, where at the start of the podcast, they discussed this letter that anti crypto people sent to Congress, basically saying that crypto, I mean, I don't think they explicitly said that crypto should be banned, but they painted crypto in the worst light possible. They basically focused on all the scams and focused on none of the good stuff as a case for them to. For the government to crack down on crypto. So we're fighting on that front as well. But we do have some people in our corner, such as the Electronic Frontier foundation, who finally put out a statement today about the tornado cash stuff by saying the EFF is deeply concerned. The US Treasury Department has included an open source computer project, tornado cash, on its list of sanctioned individuals. Tonetocash is an open source software project and website that publish a decentralized cryptocurrency mixer.
00:17:51.244 - 00:18:39.314, Speaker A: Code has long been recognized as speech, so there are clear first amendment implications whenever the government inhibits the publication of computer code in on public, on a public website. So I'm glad the EFF is standing up for us here because they have the ear of politicians and regulators for sure, and that distinctly outside, I guess, like the crypto ecosystem, they fight for all, I guess all kind of like rights when it comes to technology. So very, very good to see that there. And last up here we have Julio from the Aragon foundation sharing this pr on the builder spec here. So apparently this pr is if we manage to deprecate the builder spec, we prevent flashbots to interact with consensus layer clients, thus nullifying their OFAC compliant code post merge. Hopefully the EF also stops sending them money. I think this is a good signal to send to flashbots.
00:18:39.314 - 00:19:05.944, Speaker A: About mev boost integrating and OFAC are kind of like compliant kind of like code. I think that's a really dumb decision for them to be doing that. And as I mentioned yesterday, from everything that I've seen, everything that I read, they're not even legally required to do that. No one is. You know, there's no legal obligation for anyone to be censoring transactions at the protocol layer. But for some reason, people are going above and beyond here, which is that chilling effect that I've been speaking about. But you can read this pr as well for yourself and see some discussion there.
00:19:05.944 - 00:19:34.028, Speaker A: But I think that's going to end the, I guess, like, discussion about the tornado cash privacy, censorship stuff for today. It's probably going to keep coming up. Guys, I'm going to be honest here. I'm going to try to like not talk about it for the whole episode on the refill because I know there's other things to kind of like cover, but this is extremely important. And, you know, the, the daily Gwei and what I try to kind of like put, put out in, in my materials and everything that I do is got, has got to do with everything that I just spoke about. At the end of the day, I only do this stuff because I believe so much in Ethereum. I believe so much in Ethereum's values.
00:19:34.028 - 00:19:52.876, Speaker A: And if any, if I ran for 20 minutes on the refill about them, then so be it. Right? As I said, there's timestamps. You can skip it. You can kind of like skip onto other things. But yeah, ending it there. The next thing to talk about is merge related stuff. So you can see here that Marios last pr or pull request finally enables the merge on the Ethereum mainnet.
00:19:52.876 - 00:20:12.620, Speaker A: So this is obviously setting the mainnet TTD for the merge. And this was kind of like merged here into kind of like the Ethereum master here into get. You can see here the lines of code that were changed and everything that goes into that. But yeah, I mean, TTD is set. It's concrete. I think we're just going to have like the formal concrete. This is, you know, the TTD.
00:20:12.620 - 00:20:34.914, Speaker A: This is when the merge is happening on the all core devs call this week. But for all intents and purposes, it is going to happen on September 15 or even earlier. And Mario shared a tweet here saying that he ran some computations to confirm the TTD for Mainnet. The projected date right now for TTD is the 14 September just at 1157. Sorry. 10:57 p.m. To 02:00 a.m.
00:20:34.914 - 00:21:05.140, Speaker A: Central eastern Standard Time. I think this is central central or central european standard Time. I think that is so, yeah, I mean, it's either going to happen 1415 or 16 depending on time zone. But as I said, this can also be affected by hash power changes and things like that. So we don't know and, you know, until closer to the merge. But I do think there's going to be a large number of miners who are just going to mine to the last block. It doesn't really make sense for them to not do that because they're still ETH being paid out, there's still rewards being paid out, and they can inch out every last drop until the merge happens.
00:21:05.140 - 00:21:32.786, Speaker A: And obviously there's those proof of work chains that are. That are going to kind of continue on and try to, I guess, like get some fanfare around them. But as I've said before, I pretty much think those are all scams. I don't think they're anything worth paying attention to. But miners might, you know, just automatically switch over to that. They may switch to ethereum classic, but, you know, these kind of like other coins don't have the market caps, don't have the value to support the amount of miners that Ethereum has. So in reality, a lot of them are just going to shut down their machines.
00:21:32.786 - 00:21:53.764, Speaker A: Whatever GPU's they're going to have, they're going to just sell. There's going to be a massive influx of GPU. So if you're a gamer looking to upgrade your GPU, well, there's going to be a ton of, you know, mining. GPU's hitting the market. And the thing is, is that you may think that they've been damaged by being used in mining. That's actually not true. They're actually underclocked or run are kind of like not at their full capacity because that's actually more efficient for mining.
00:21:53.764 - 00:22:16.846, Speaker A: So they're actually fine and you can still kind of like buy them and. And be cool with them. But, you know, it's funny, I've been actually monitoring GPU prices over the last, I guess, like year or so. I think at one point in australian dollars, a 3080 Ti was $3,600 at the probably. I think that was like the peak of the bull market where obviously there was a lot of demand from. For mining. And now in australian dollars again, it's $1500.
00:22:16.846 - 00:22:37.766, Speaker A: So that's a massive reduction. And I think it's going to go even, even below that, probably below $1,000. And Nvidia is bringing out their new 4000 series GPU soon. So that's going to kind of like hit the 3000 series as well. So I really do think you can probably pick up a 3080 tier or a 3090 tier for under $1,000. And that's new. And we're talking about secondhand.
00:22:37.766 - 00:23:13.124, Speaker A: You can probably get one much cheaper than that. I'm talking australian dollars, of course, for those of you, if you just want to reference here, I think the last time I checked, the australian dollar was like $65 to there. So whatever that converts out for you, I mean, $700 would be $1,000 roughly. It's like, not exactly that, but just to give you some context, don't know what the european conversion is right now. I think it's about the same actually, last time I checked as the US dollar conversion. But yeah, my point is, is that like, GPU's are going to be very cheap. So if you're a gamer looking for a cheap GPU, you just have to wait another month until the merge hits, and then there's, we're probably going to see like an influx there and the prices will definitely collapse, I think.
00:23:13.124 - 00:23:34.024, Speaker A: All right, so apparently Argentina, Argentina's capital, Bonazer, is. Is going to be running Ethereum nodes in 2023. This is pretty cool. I actually love it when I guess, nation states are friendly with crypto, right? And I think there's nothing more friendly than running Ethereum nodes. I guess maybe the next thing more friendly would be running Ethereum validators. Right. And not engaging in censorship.
00:23:34.024 - 00:24:09.436, Speaker A: Right. Just running an Ethereum validator as you normally would. But yeah, I think this is kind of like an obvious next step for maybe smaller nations and smaller kind of like nation states around the globe to embrace crypto. I really do think that we're going to have, over the next few decades, we're going to have a very funny kind of like, thing playing out where there's going to be probably smaller nation states, smaller nations, and I'm talking smaller in terms of GDP, probably not population, but like smaller in terms of GDP. Embracing crypto. Right. Embracing kind of like aetherium, embracing these neutral technologies.
00:24:09.436 - 00:24:40.704, Speaker A: And they're going to probably see some of them that don't. I mean, you can probably already guarantee that China is not going to embrace anything open, but the US seems to be not going in the right direction right now. But maybe they end up changing course. Maybe they do go in the right direction because right now, as I said, like with the tornado cash stuff, they're definitely firmly not going in the right direction. And it was proven in a court of law that, that what they did with the tornado cash sanctions was actually uncost, unconstitutional and potentially even illegal. And that's a huge blow to them and a huge boon for us. But as I've said, that's going to take a while to play out.
00:24:40.704 - 00:25:32.324, Speaker A: But good to see these smaller nations here, such as Argentina with within borders eddies are running Ethereum nodes and kind of like signaling that they support aetherium from, I guess, like not just the kind of technical layer but also the social layer. Because for them to say, hey, we're going to run a theorem, nodes is a social signal to the world saying that we think this thing is worth kind of paying attention to, which I think is really, really cool. All right, so on September 7 there'll be bitcoin grants around 15 kicking off and this will be the biggest funding and building event in web3 and it will run till September 22. So mark your calendars for that. But there's also this thread here from Gitcoin going through all you need to know when it comes to Gitcoin grants round 15, which you can kind of read about here. And I'll link this in the YouTube description below. So I guess like the TRDR here is that there will be a main round, multiple cause rounds and multiple ecosystem rounds.
00:25:32.324 - 00:26:17.436, Speaker A: The main round is the longest standard bitcoin grant in support of web3. Open source software approved projects are open source and public goods and don't have VC funding over 500,000. So this is like the criteria here. VC funding over $500,000, don't have tokens, don't have nfts to sells and don't have promos for tokens, nfts in the grant, which, which I think is really cool. Git Coin has historically suffered from this, where some projects will issue a token and then still have a good coin grant or they'll have VC funding or they, you know, they'll, they're kind of like have some form of funding where they actually don't need the grant and that takes away money from, or takes away matching from the people who actually do need the money. So that's always been a bit of an issue for Gitcoin, but I think they've been working on it and I think they get, they're getting to a place where it's, it's actually not, you know, a huge issue anymore. But yeah, I'm definitely looking forward to this round.
00:26:17.436 - 00:26:50.518, Speaker A: It's in what? Oh, the cool thing about this round, I think I mentioned this last time, it's running through the merge, the main net merge transition, which is cool. But yeah, I guess like less than a month away, about three weeks away from now until this starts. But I'll keep you guys updated on that as it gets closer. All right, so Zksync put out a thread yesterday saying 74 days to Zksync 2.0 on Mainnet. With the dream of a ZKVM solution for the Ethereum community becoming a reality, we've seen a wave of projects launching on Zksync 2.0. Every Monday we'll be highlighting some of the members of our growing ecosystem.
00:26:50.518 - 00:27:23.154, Speaker A: So I guess like every Monday from now on there'll be one of these threads. So this is the first thread here going over kind of like the protocols that we'll be launching on ZkSync 2.0. And not just the protocols, but like middleware and things like that and infrastructure. So if you want to know what's going to be live on Zksync 2.0, you can go read this thread and then follow their account for threads every Monday leading up to the launch in 74 days. There. All right, finally here we have Galleon that has introduced galleon portfolios, a low cost way to gain simple exposure to the most popular crypto investing themes, updated and rebalanced frequently.
00:27:23.154 - 00:28:14.290, Speaker A: So you can read this full release article below and also dive into the four launch portfolios in this thread. So these are being built on token sets, of course on set protocol. So there is one called merge, which is this portfolio allows holders to capture the performance related to the highly anticipated merge event on Ethereum. Moving the network to proof of stake we provide exposure through STE staking providers and DeFi, which you can check out here. SPI, which is a synthetix ecosystem index fees which allows holders to invest in the top five protocols and networks, generating organic, consistent fees to the project stakeholders in some capacity. This is based on Mainnet and plan to release other network variants soon and votes, which ve token index allows holders to track the rise of vote escrow tokens that often influence the direction of emissions within DeFi. These tokens are appealing to other daos as they help facilitate their own protocol or growth.
00:28:14.290 - 00:28:41.822, Speaker A: This is really cool. I like this. I mean, there hasn't really been anything like this, I believe, in the past. So it's cool to see that you can now I get, I guess gain exposure to popular groups, their investing themes, as they say here, and I guess like narratives that we call them. And yeah, I mean, you can check out the blog post for full details on everything, such as allocations and where you can buy and things like that. I will disclose here that I'm investor in Galleon and I'm also an advisor to set, so a bit of a conflict of interest here. But I mean, I think these are really, really cool.
00:28:41.822 - 00:29:09.192, Speaker A: I think that what they're building is very cool. And I'm still very bullish on index, kind of like index systems or index tokens, especially as we onboard more and more of the traditional finance ecosystem and more and more of the regular user who doesn't want to have to sift through a million different tokens. They just want something that they can get nice passive exposure to and hopefully get some growth over time with that as well. So check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:29:09.192 - 00:29:14.144, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
