00:00:01.840 - 00:00:38.346, Speaker A: I'm Alex Kluchovsky from Metalabs, founder, CEO of Metalabs, and one of the creators of Zksync. And you probably know Zksync. It's arguably the most mature ZK rollup stack in Ethereum today, with by far the most number of transactions in production. There was recent Airdrop, and after the airdrop, we're still remain very high on the number of active users. So, ok, I can now move. Yeah. So ZK sync is most production ready.
00:00:38.346 - 00:01:21.780, Speaker A: ZK attack, also from the platform perspective, like from the ability to actually handle the high load. But what I want to talk about now is why we're here. I just want to remind everyone why we're here in this space. Crypto can be distracting with all the meme coins and speculation and all these things. And then there's bear market bull. Market cycles can be depressing, but the war values that this industry is built on, they were fundamental to bitcoin, to ethereum, to sovereign roll ups, and to Zksync. Zksync is based on the belief that freedom drives progress, unlocks creativity, which in turn drives prosperity.
00:01:21.780 - 00:02:18.204, Speaker A: And our mission has been from the beginning, from five years ago, to increase advanced individual freedom by mass adoption of cryptography, of crypto, of blockchain tech. And mass adoption means that, first of all, we have some properties that we want to preserve at a huge scale. We have spoken about them in the ZK credo last year, tried to articulate them in precision. I'm really happy to report that a lot of progress have been made specifically on Zksync. On many of them, ethereum probably scores higher on most by far, except for hyperscalability. By this ability to actually reach the population of the world, we have 5 billion active Internet users. And to reach them, just like the Internet cannot scale on a single server, the world of blockchains cannot be one blockchain.
00:02:18.204 - 00:02:55.332, Speaker A: It's inevitable. We all agree there must be many chains. And this is basically what Zksync 3.0 what the elastic chain is about. It's a transition from initially the simple payment application specific payment roll ZK roll up to the ZKE EVM, the first ZKVM we launched last year, to now a network of chains, which is very similar to the idea of Cosmos and Polkadot and the sovereign roll up ecosystem, but with a very important distinction. I want to talk about it in technical terms. So that's the elastic chain.
00:02:55.332 - 00:03:32.352, Speaker A: There are many chains that are connected together at the protocol level natively under single uniform, intuitive UI. So you have. Basically the metaphor is elasticity means that the capacity of the system can increase proportional to the demand. And if the demand increases arbitrarily high, the capacity can go basically infinite. You don't need to buy additional drives and attach to your laptop. You can just go to Google Cloud or whatever and have as many documents as. As much storage capacity as you need.
00:03:32.352 - 00:04:21.366, Speaker A: That's the metaphor. That's what we need to get in order to get to. Mass adoption of cryptography of blockchains and seamless ux means that you have one wallet, one account, you as a user. Like, if we're speaking about the billions of users, normal users, mainstream audience, they should not bother about technological complexities of like seed phrases, paying gas, like understanding, like bridging between chains should be like the Internet. You have your account, you interact, you just sign, you have your smart wallets, which are natively implemented at Zikasync, non natively implemented in Ethereum. And you use biometric keys, full self custodiality, but very easy to use, and you pay gas in any token you transact with. All of that should work cross chain.
00:04:21.366 - 00:05:05.250, Speaker A: But the huge problem of today's cross chain is that it's fundamentally limited. I really want us to understand this, but we have very little time, so I don't know how we're going to make it distinct. Blockchains that are not connected together look like a state with a consensus of validators that come to agreement on what the state is. And we have some accounts with some state, and let's imagine we have a separate blockchain and we want to transact. You want to send some native assets from Ethereum to Solana. You can't really do this because there is no native ether on Solana. So you need to create an asset which is going to be like virtual counterfactual representation of your ether account.
00:05:05.250 - 00:05:58.670, Speaker A: And you need to lock this amount of the token you're going to be sending in the original chain. And then you need somehow to be able to pass messages to unlock it back to ensure that this is authentic, that this ETH is valid. And this is something we cannot do between separate disconnected blockchains. Because if you take IBC paradigm, for example, from Cosmos, which says, okay, we have consensus there, consensus here, fault, byzantine fault tolerance. We can just send messages that attest that we have a majority of the validators signing this, and then the other blockchain will accept that. We will verify signatures and unlock the funds. The problem is, it's not the full picture, you don't see all the full nodes of all of like, of both chains that have subjective view on what consensus really means.
00:05:58.670 - 00:06:53.168, Speaker A: Like they are far more important than your validators because they enforce the security, the validity of the system, even if the validators are malicious. And that is very, very important. That is what gives you sovereignty, not the economic security of, oh, we have so much stake in the validators. And this, like those guys all would have to trust the other blockchain from where the bridging is coming. Like between the two blockchains, the bridging is working, but that does not scale four or 5 billion people. Because if you have thousands of permissionless blockchains, like sovereign roll ups, separate blockchains, whatever, like non sovereign roll up, you cannot subjectively convince all of the full nodes that they can trust completely unknown entities that operate those chains. That just doesn't scale.
00:06:53.168 - 00:07:38.684, Speaker A: You can pass a message from the upper left corner to this, to this, because you don't know what's in between. It's like sending an Internet message from your laptop to your bank without SSL, without cryptographic authenticity of the message. Like you don't know who's in between, who's going to do something malicious and replace your message with something invalid. And with rollups that settle on a single layer one, the problem is slightly different. You can pass messages and you need like, it's very important. You can pass messages by making a commitment to the layer one. And in reading this commitment from another L2, it requires to have ZK proofs, like you can only do it like efficiently between ZK roll ups.
00:07:38.684 - 00:08:35.376, Speaker A: You cannot do it with optimistic roll ups because you have to wait seven days for finality. It doesn't matter if you do it on layer one to layer threes, settling on L2s, you will still have the seven days finality for objective machine to machine verifiability of what's the correct state. But let's assume we have two ZK rollups. That still is not sufficient because you have all of the balances of native assets from one roll up and another roll up stored in separate smart contracts on your layer one. And so if you want to send the assets, you would need to update those balances. And that means transactions on layer one. And that completely defeats the purpose of L2s where we have one cent per transaction, whereas on Ethereum it's like $10 and now you will have to propagate this $10 and you break the UX, you break the composability you break the seamlessness of the system, not to mention the costs, which will go exponentially because you have this bottleneck of their one.
00:08:35.376 - 00:09:22.190, Speaker A: So what though? You need a shared smart contract for those chains. They would need to opt into something shared, which only stores the root hash. Now you can make the changes in the state and only update the root hash, but the assets that are pulled together are remaining in this single contract. And this is what the elastic chain is about. Like it's having this, we call it ZK router. It's the single contract that contains all the state we have ZK gateway, the aggregator that composes the proofs from the chains together, verifies them cryptographically, and then settles on Ethereum. It also does a bunch of things like state recompression for example, that makes it a lot cheaper for these chains to produce like 1 second blocks, but then settle on Ethereum with bigger batches.
00:09:22.190 - 00:10:20.412, Speaker A: But it gives you the ability to transact between any number of these chains seamlessly with full trustlessness. With those chains being completely autonomous, they are operated by separate sequencers, by separate validators, whatever. But from a user perspective, you just have one account, you can access applications on any of those chains, no matter where you are. You don't have to maintain multiple accounts, don't have to bother about gas and so on. And I hope that one day we will have this something like a ZK router, Ethereum wide, where we all agree on some standard, we have some isolation ZK proofs that guarantee with multi proofs, we guarantee that the roll ups are not harming each other and this thing is enshrined in Ethereum. And then we can do it. Cross roll ups and the entire roll up centric world can interop natively this way.
00:10:20.412 - 00:11:09.440, Speaker A: But this is probably much further down the line. I think it will be two, three years from now. For now we'll experiment on Zksync, and I think we will be the first ecosystem to actually have this native interop live very soon. Because now ZK router is live, Zksync era is plugged into it, and we have a few dozen ZK chains ready to be deployed. This year they built right now a lot of them. Those guys are on the testnet, more are in the building, they will be plugged into the system, and at least they will be connected in the elastic chain ecosystem that is seamless, trustless, and goes towards the preservation of the cypherpunk values we care about at the global level with billions of users. And it was really cool.
00:11:09.440 - 00:11:37.690, Speaker A: As a developer, you have a really interesting way to deploy your application on one of these rollups, like on DK Senkai for example. Find product market fit, build your community bootstrap in an easy way, and then once you are big, you need a lot more throughput. You can graduate to becoming your own ZK chain in the elastic world and have your own token, your own sequencer, your own validators, everything. And that is YZK, the end game. Thank you. Thank you, Alex.
