00:00:02.880 - 00:00:54.044, Speaker A: Okay, welcome back, everybody. And today we are continuing talking about characterization of any continuous local martingale as a time change brownian motion. And first, let me remind you what happened last time. So, last time we had this exciting serum of Livy, which basically said that the only d dimensional process, such as the quadratic variation of each component is t, and that different components of the process are uncorelated. This would be d dimensional brownian motion. So d independent brownian motions. In particular, what will be useful for us today are these two corollaries.
00:00:54.044 - 00:02:13.473, Speaker A: First is, well, one dimensional version. The only continuous local martingale, this quadratic variation equal to t and started at zero, would be just your standard brownian motion. And then we'll also use two dimensional version, which says that essentially the only continuous local martingale with zero quadratic variation with itself. Remember that this just means that exactly that quadratic variation of x is the same as quadratic variation of y and quadratic correlation between x and y and zero. So the only process where this z is equal to t and quadratic variation of the first component is two dimensional brownian motion. Okay, so, as I promised you last time, this leads anybody to believe that this quadratic variation is the right time. And if you have a local martingale and run it with the speed which would be your quadratic variation, then, surprise, surprise, you get brown n motion.
00:02:13.473 - 00:02:43.682, Speaker A: But it wasn't proven by livy. It was proven about 30 years later. And there are some caveats in the proof. So, let's rigorously talk about this. First, let me rigorously discuss what is time changing of a process. So, by definition, time change is a write continuous function. So s to c of s, it's a write continuous function, your parameter space.
00:02:43.682 - 00:03:25.912, Speaker A: So here, our parameter space would be positive free align, and you want each cs be a stopping time and cs to be increasing. As we will see in a moment, you cannot immediately assume that cs is just a continuous function. Lots of time changes would be, would not be continuous. And now, time change process by definition. So this is your process access head. You start with some process xt, and then you just consider it at times. Yes.
00:03:25.912 - 00:04:10.276, Speaker A: So this is exactly what you suspect it to be. And then you can also look at inverse time change. So you look at the first time that Cs is bigger than t, and this a infinity would be the limit well of aft. So e of Cs is finite. Then I infinity would be infinity. So if Cs is almost surely fine, then I infinity is almost infinity. And as with normal integration, there is a change of variables.
00:04:10.276 - 00:05:17.424, Speaker A: So, for example, the integral from c zero to c t of this hs dxs is the same as the integral from zero to t. And here, well, instead of writing time changes, I immediately plug in Cu here. So you look at the characteristic function of Cu less than infinity, because otherwise you don't know what to plug in here and here. And you integrate this function. So characteristic function of c less than infinity h at this time with respect to dx u. And this is the same as actually the integral run up to minimum of t and a infinity, right? Because this is the time when this stays bounded. Okay.
00:05:17.424 - 00:06:53.382, Speaker A: And if Cs is almost surely finite for every s and x is continuous local martingale, then this change, time change is so if. Okay, sorry, let me be very precise here. So if Cs is almost surely finite x continuous local martingale, the function now continuous, then you can actually, the time change of quadratic variation is quadratic variation of the time change. And the time change itself is a continuous local Martian so this just, again, the previous is just standard change of variables, and you can do it exactly like we did in the previous lectures by coupling with other things here. This is just optional stopping time theorem and finally another integration formula. So if you take any integrable process, so if t progressively measurable process which square integrable with respect to your quadratic equation, then of course time change would also be square integrable with respect to quadratic variation. And more than that.
00:06:53.382 - 00:07:47.324, Speaker A: Well, so what I wrote here is just rewriting of this identity. So this is integral with respect to age, time changed. And this is just integral with respect to time changed. Guys, so this would be this guy, okay, so these are just easy properties, which I would not prove here. But again, this proven exactly the same as what we did in previous lectures. And here I come to this time change theorem. So, the theorem was proven separately by soviet mathematician Dambis, whose picture I couldn't find, sorry.
00:07:47.324 - 00:08:44.104, Speaker A: And Lester Dubins and Gideon Schwartz. The theorem is exactly what I promised you. Suppose that you have a local martingale, which starts at zero. Well, that's not much of a constraint, right? You just can subtract m zero later. But this is important, you want that almost surely your quadratic, your time. So remember, quadratic equation would be this change time. So your quadratic relation just runs to infinity, and then let tt would be the first time you jump over t, or the last time your quadratic variation is equal to t.
00:08:44.104 - 00:09:25.686, Speaker A: So this is infimum of s such that mm of s is bigger than t. So again, remember that this is continuous on s. So I might as well write the thisist just to clarify what would happen next. This is the same as the supremum of s such that mmfs is equal to t. Okay, so this is definitely right. Continuous time change. These are stopping times.
00:09:25.686 - 00:10:01.346, Speaker A: Again, the reason why I first wrote this and not this is that here it's clear that this is stopping time. Here it's, well, supreme stopping times usually don't like supremums. But here, again, this works. Then the claim is that if you consider time change of this local martingale with respect to this, this is a standard brownian motion. And the martingale itself is a brownian motion. But run with this speed, quadratic variation at t. So let me emphasize something.
00:10:01.346 - 00:11:05.324, Speaker A: Quadratic variation of brownian motion is very deterministic, independent of randomness. Just t here, this is very random. So different realizations, you run your process with different speeds. Yet if you again consider brownian motion at this random time, you get your empty back. But again, very important constraints which would constrain which would bite us. Again, it's this important property that quadratic equation infinity should be infinite. Okay, so here I just restated that any local merting where for which quadratic variation goes to infinity almost surely is a time change brownian motion.
00:11:05.324 - 00:12:22.804, Speaker A: As I promised to you. The proof is not complicated, but there is a caveat here. And the caveat is this flat slurm, which is again, not that difficult to prove, but it's not something which actually immediately obvious. So this would be very important state. Why would we need it? You see, this thing is not continuous, right? Because your process can, quadratic variation can increase, but then your quadratic variation can stay flat, and it can stay flat on some subset, okay? So it stays flat with, I don't know, this probability 100, and then it goes up and this on this subset, this tt is not continuous, because, you know, first you go up to this, and then you wait for some time before you go further. But what we want to prove is that martingale itself would not change there. And this is what Vladimir means.
00:12:22.804 - 00:13:11.772, Speaker A: Okay, so this is a statement. So these two things are equivalent. So suppose that you have a subspace of probabilistic space a. And the first statement is that you almost surely constant, your martingale is almost surely constant on this side. So on time in time a, your local martingale, rather is the same as your local martingale time t. And this would be exactly the same as to say that on this set, almost surely quadratic variation doesn't change. Remember, it's increasing function, but it stays flat here.
00:13:11.772 - 00:13:43.972, Speaker A: So I'm saying that if quadratic variation didn't change, then the Martingale didn't change and vice versa, the Martingale didn't change on certain set, then quadratic equation didn't change. But what I just said, by the way, second thing, flatness of Martingale implies flatness of quadratic equation. This is obvious. Remember the definition of quadratic equation. This is just sum of partitions. And then it's probabilistic limit. Well, probabilistic limit of zeros is zero.
00:13:43.972 - 00:14:48.994, Speaker A: So of course, if on this set you stayed constant, then all these partitions would lead to zeros and nothing would change. So this implication is obviously. So what is not obvious, again, not difficult, but not obvious, is that the implication why if you stayed flat, your local Martingale stayed the same? And remember why it's not an absolutely trivial thing. Again, this is just local Martingale. It might not even have finite expectations. You just know that if you stop at certain stopping times, it would be nice, it would become Martingale and all this. And we kind of sort of had this flatness thing, but only for martingales, which are h two integral.
00:14:48.994 - 00:15:40.554, Speaker A: So let's try to make it work here. So let us define a new local martingale. This is just nt would be mt minus m at the time minimum of t and a. So basically what you want to do up to time a, a, remember, is determined very much deterministic time up to this time a and t is just zero. After this time, it just jump from time. So if t is bigger than a, this is just empty minus mi, less than mi is just zero. Then of course, the quadratic variation is just jump of the quadratic variation from time I.
00:15:40.554 - 00:16:26.954, Speaker A: Please. Well, let me be more precise here. This is true when t is bigger equals nine. Again, as written, it's true for every t because, well, if time t less or equal to a, these two processes are the same. So this was just cancel out, but we would need it for t bigger equals a. Okay? And then let's just do the standard thing we should make now. Nc the jump martingale, which want to be zero.
00:16:26.954 - 00:17:04.686, Speaker A: Let's stop it. When quadratic variation jumped over epsilon, this would be t epsilon. So this martingale t epsilon time zero is zero, right? So let's just look at time zero. Well, this is just, this is just zero. It's zero. Any time less than a and at infinity, it just. And then stopped at time t epsilon, which is.
00:17:04.686 - 00:17:46.734, Speaker A: Well, we just made it. Well, this is the first time when we jump to epsilon. So this is less or equal than epsilon. So we just showed that nt epsilon belongs to h two belongs to this hard space. So, remember, we had this exciting theorem that a martingale belongs to hard space h two if and only if its quadratic variation has finite expectations at infinity. And we just created this t epsilon this way. So, because, again, we know that expectation of nt epsilon nt epsilon is bounded by epsilon.
00:17:46.734 - 00:18:31.222, Speaker A: And again, because of this, we had this exciting formula that expectation of this is equal to expectation of the Martingale at infinity squared. So, in particular, time t expectation of nt epsilon squared is less or equal than epsilon. Okay, so, great. Now let us look at our set. This is the set where they are the same. So on this set, of course, t epsilon is bigger than b, because up to time b, there was no jump, just stayed below. Well, you just stayed the same.
00:18:31.222 - 00:19:21.944, Speaker A: So t epsilon here is bigger than b. So for every t in a b, expectation of our martingale is the same as the expectation of this characteristic function of a multiplied of n squared in minimum of t and t epsilon, because t epsilon is bigger than b on the set a. So this guy is exactly the same as this guy, because this time is the same as this time. T epson is bigger than b on this side. And of course, this is bounded by expectation of nt epsilon. So the stop martingale times epsilon, which is bounded by epsilon. Now, we let epsilon go to zero, and we see that this expectation is just zero.
00:19:21.944 - 00:20:08.644, Speaker A: So what does it mean that, remember, just mt minus mi 40, big or equal. So this is equal to zero, almost surely on a, because again, on a in integral of this guy, squared is zero. That's it. Okay, so again, not very complicated proof that we did have to do a careful reduction to the hard space case. Okay, so that's our flightmaster lemma. And now let us return to the theorem. So again, we stop our process.
00:20:08.644 - 00:20:42.354, Speaker A: At the last time, our quadratic variation becomes t. So this is definitely right continuous. And now, well, as I mentioned, there is flat moment. So let's define TT minus. This is just limit of t's. From the left. It can be less than TT, of course.
00:20:42.354 - 00:21:52.280, Speaker A: Okay, then by flatness lemma, since mm at TT minus is the same as mm at TT, we have that m s is actually the same as MTT for all s between TT minus and TT. Again. So here, a little fine point is that I stated flatness level for deterministic times. Here I applied for stopping times. But again, this is the standard argument, which I am skipping, that I assume that this TT minus is less than something, TT is bigger than something. On this interval, you stay flat on the set. Okay, so again, because our argument was if on certain sets, quadratic variation is the same, then you flat.
00:21:52.280 - 00:23:04.656, Speaker A: So it works with. Okay, so what does it mean? Now, the time change of TT is a continuous local martingale. Again, we knew that it was right continuous, but now it's continuous because when you approach from the left, you tend to the same limit to MTT minus, which is the same as MTT, and then the quadratic variation. And this is because quadratic variation of time change is time change of quadratic variation. This is just quadratic variation of m at time tt, which is just t because of the way, again, the stopping time TT was defined. So now we just have to use livy serum and see that this is a brownian motion. And again, by inverse time change, we see the second identity here, that MT itself is brownian motion stopped at.
00:23:04.656 - 00:24:10.424, Speaker A: Well considered this time. Okay, so the, we've proved the theorem. Now let's look at the complex form. Okay, so a definition here, a martingale is called conformal local martingale. Well, sorry, a local martingale is called conformal local martingale if its variation at any time is equal to zero. Okay, so what does it mean? It means that again, so here, just not to confuse you, this is now a complex quadratic equation. It's doesn't have to be an increasing function anymore.
00:24:10.424 - 00:25:09.434, Speaker A: Quadratic variation of real, quadratic variation of imaginary part. Of course, the real increasing function, this is just a combination of them. So it might as well be zero. So equivalent way of saying this is that z squared is also local martingale. So z is conformal local martingale, if and only if the square is also a local martingale, since this squared minus this quadratic variation is also local Martingale, so that we know. And then this being a local martingale, is exactly equivalent to this. And of course, if you write down this quadratic variation carefully as before, it just means that at any time, quadratic variation of real part is the same as quadratic variation of imaginary part and quadratic correlation between them at zero.
00:25:09.434 - 00:26:18.872, Speaker A: Okay, now let's play with it a bit. So take a progressively measurable, the usual thing, which we can integrate, and z is conformal local martingale. So then this guy is also a conformal local martial again, because by the integration formula, essentially. Okay, so let's write it down. Now, let's take an analytic function. So just a reminder before I do anything further, if you take two dimensional local martingale and you apply harmonic function to it, you get back a local martin. If you have a d dimensional local martingale applied harmonic function in rd, get back local martingale.
00:26:18.872 - 00:27:35.846, Speaker A: But what I am saying is a bit more if you take analytica and apply it to zt, let's just write down what would happen by complex form of theta formula which we had. So this is just the value of the naught as usual, plus e to integral of df? Dz plus e to the integral of df? Dz bar, but with respect to dz bar plus the integral of the laplacian of f with respect to zbarc relations. So again, this is just the complex form of it which we had last time. And of course, this part is dead. This part is dead. So what we are left with is a conformal local marzika. Okay? So now I want to claim that while conformal local martingales, there are also two dimensional brownian motions.
00:27:35.846 - 00:28:42.154, Speaker A: But let's be very careful here. So suppose that z is a conformal local margin. And suppose that almost surely quadratic variation of real part at infinity is infinite, so increasing function to going to infinity. Then remember that for what we just saw, that for conformal martingale, local martingale, variations of quadratic variations of real and imaginary parts should be the same. Okay? And then if you apply this time change xxt, then, well, then essentially you get zt from brownian motion. So zt is z node starting position, maybe random plus time change of two dimensional brownian motion, valid standard one started at zero. Okay, so that's easy.
00:28:42.154 - 00:30:06.644, Speaker A: Okay, and the proof would be symmetrivial now, but again, this condition is still there to byte oscillator. By the theorem we just proved what we do, we just say, okay, but xt is of course some brownian motion, one dimension brownian motion plus x naught phi t is also time change of another brownian motion, b two, but at the same time change, because quadratic variation of y is the same as quadratic variation of x. So yt is just some time change, brownian motion, the same time change, but different brownian motion started at y zero. And now since they're discrelated quadratic relation is zero, then quadratic relation of b one and b two is zero. So by Livy theorem, now two dimensional levy theorem, b one b two is a standard 2d brownian motion. So because, well, again, we had two guys and they were uncreated. That's it.
00:30:06.644 - 00:31:35.100, Speaker A: So any conformal martingale or even local martingale in two dimensions is a time changed brownian motion. Two dimensional brownian motion, well, maybe shifted so that I wrote precisely. And now we are ready for conformal variance. So suppose that we have a conformal map between two domains and x is a point on omega one. This would be two dimensional brownian motion which starts at x and t omega one would be the first time our brownian motion exits our domain. Then the claim is that after you, so you run this trajectory, you hit the domain, you map it over. Then the claim is that f is bt is a time change of two dimensional brownian motion started at f of x.
00:31:35.100 - 00:32:41.014, Speaker A: So I wrote it here. So again, I wrote it very precisely. Here we can find a two dimensional brownian motion, two dimensional brownian motion started at f of x such that for every t less than t one f of Bt is be tilde evaluated at certain time change. And time change here would be very precise. This would be the integral of square of your derivative of derivative of your conformal map with respect to time and more than s of t omega one. So if you integrate up to the exit time, you get surprise exit time of the domain omega two. So this is infinium of t when Bt tilde is not an omega two.
00:32:41.014 - 00:33:42.242, Speaker A: Let me emphasize something here. I start, I had domain, so let me start drawing pictures. So at some point x, there was brownian motions. I only consider it up to here, up to this t omega one, up to this random time. Then I have a map f, which is only defined in our domain, which maps to another domain, and this would be our f. Then I claim that you can find a two dimensional brownian motion. So it exits there.
00:33:42.242 - 00:34:41.394, Speaker A: But if you just consider this brownian motion up to the time that you exit this domain omega two, so this would be omega one. This is omega two. So if you consider second brownian motion up to the exit time from the domain omega two, then it's just the image of the brownian motion of the brownian trajectory here. And more than that, you even know the time repairametrization that you should use here. So this is a time change that you should use to get from one brownian motion to the next. Okay? Okay. So now let us play with it.
00:34:41.394 - 00:35:17.730, Speaker A: Let us start with bounded domains. Then we'll improve it. Then f of Bt is not just conformal local martingale. We know since surface conformal and analytic, then f of brownian mode of two dimensional brownian motion. By our previous calculation, it's conformal local martingale. But it's, since omega two is bounded, it's bounded conformal martingale. So it's a conformal local martingale.
00:35:17.730 - 00:36:22.024, Speaker A: So it's a conformal martingale. Remember, bounded local Martingale, Martingale. And what is the time change? Again, let's look at the itos formula, this formula where u here, so f of z t, f of z naught plus this. So this is just f prime of z d s. We take quadratic equation, this would be just integral of the square. The usual thing with how do you get quadratic variation of a Martin L. So quadratic variation of this image at time t is just this integral of f prime, b's squared by formal, this is strictly increasing since f prime is never zero.
00:36:22.024 - 00:37:13.534, Speaker A: Okay, so if you know a bit more about two dimensional brownian motion, then actually you can say that this is strictly increasing even if f was just analytic, because zeros of derivative of analytic functions are isolated and brownian motion doesn't visit them. But I didn't want to prove that this indeed happened. So let's consider a slightly easier case from the conform. So this is strictly increasing. So, because again, f prime is never zero. Now, st approaches t omega one. This f of bt belongs to omega two, but its image should approach the boundary of omega two by boundary correspondence.
00:37:13.534 - 00:38:13.786, Speaker A: Okay? Now since omega two is bounded, f of bt is a bounded martingale, right? Remember, repeatedly use it. So by Martingale conversion theorem, there exists this limit. And as we mentioned, it is supposed to be on omega two by boundary correspondence. Okay? So here we use Martingale convergence theorem f of bt as a martingale bounded has bounded limit, which again, by remembering what it is, it's a point on the boundary. So this is a non trivial statement. Look here. Now, nothing stopped us from just rotating over and over near the boundary point here.
00:38:13.786 - 00:39:02.634, Speaker A: You know, I wrote some normal domain, but suppose the domain had a prime end. For example, what would stop our poor brownian motion just oscillating back and forth inside the prime end? It doesn't happen. We know that almost surely there is this limit again by Martingale conversions. Okay? And so now another thing. This is bounded Martingale. So this quadratic variation of this is bounded. So the time, this time when we hit the boundary t is almost surely less than infinity.
00:39:02.634 - 00:39:40.334, Speaker A: So that's what happened. We had our brownian motion in our domain omega one, which was part of big brownian motion in c. We mapped it over. We just shown that in finite time it reaches the boundary. And that's it. That's good. What's the problem? Now I want to use Dampe's Dubin's Schwarzenegger.
00:39:40.334 - 00:40:20.922, Speaker A: And remember, the first thing in diameters do with Schwarz serum, which I told you would bite us, is that this thing should exactly be infinite. Let us define it. So what do we do? Well, but this is inherent. So think what just happened. We just had part a piece of our brownian motion defined, right? So we just defined our brownian motion till it hits the exit. We couldn't define it further as an image of anything because this f capital, this conformal map was not defined anywhere else. So we now need to extend it to make quadratic variation at infinity.
00:40:20.922 - 00:41:20.064, Speaker A: Infinity, okay. And that's how you do it so well, again, that's what I outlined. So the problem is that this f of bt does not have infinite quadratic variation. And this is, doesn't have, this is not important. Xx. So this is clearly violated. So what do we do? Let us pick a two dimensional brownian motion started at zero, which is independent of bt, and defining u brownian motion be as tilde to be the following up to the time t omega.
00:41:20.064 - 00:41:56.742, Speaker A: This would be just t omega one. Sorry. This would be just image of b, but at the time t of s. So remember we had time change s of t. This is inverse time change. And then we just run it as your independent brownian motion. So what happens is that we know that our image of the trajectory has a limit.
00:41:56.742 - 00:42:34.834, Speaker A: At this image, we just attach a copy of independent brownian motion. And again, the time s here is important because this would be a new type. So the time t, remember for us, denotes the time and omega one. S is the time and omega two. So be a still there is, we just attach independent copy at this point. Okay, then what happens to this tilde? It's a conformal martingale. It's the sum of two very much independent conformal martingales.
00:42:34.834 - 00:43:48.764, Speaker A: And t is the first time that this brownian motion, this brownian motion exit the domain omega two. Right? Because up to the time t b steel, they simply, well, this part simply that. So just f of the image. And exactly at this time you hit the boundary. So indeed this is the first time you exit domain. Okay, so now let us prove that this is indeed a brownian motion. So let's take a real part of this newly defined process, b's of tilde and x s would be the real part of f of a brownian motion already rescaled with this new time s and xxx is real part of this, of this guy.
00:43:48.764 - 00:44:36.174, Speaker A: Okay, so now what is the quadratic variation of this at time s? So let's just look at this formula and take and remember that everything is independent. So first, it's the sum of quadratic equation of this guy, plus quadratic variation of this guy in time is. And of course you actually started it at this random time minimum. So you just subtract it. And so this is just quadratic variation of, this is the minimum of s and t capital. This is s and this is again minimum of s and t capital. Because remember what it was, it was just real.
00:44:36.174 - 00:45:15.854, Speaker A: Part of brownian motion was brownian motion. So again, minimum first is was s. So quadratic variation of our, of real part of our new guy b's tilde is surprise, surprise, just s. So this exactly means like what we just discussed, that this is two dimensional brand union motion started at f. And we are done with bounded case. So if both of our domains are bounded, we are absolutely done. We created this new brownian motion in the image.
00:45:15.854 - 00:46:04.764, Speaker A: And then for general domains, let's consider exhaustion of omega one s, omega two s by bound domains. Besides that, of course, this domain is mapped to this domain. So omega one n is mapped by f two, omega two n. Then by our theorem, everything is true up to the exit time from omega y nine for every n. And then we go to infinity and just use consistency to see that the brownian motions that we get at each process actually create the same brownian motion at that. That's it. So we are done with this theorem.
00:46:04.764 - 00:46:47.956, Speaker A: Okay, so this is the conformal invariance of brownian motion. This is something I hinted at at the very first lecture. This is not the original proof of relief. Well, notice that we heavily used it integrals which were not available to you him. What was used is actually different thing. Well, a version of difference kakutini theorem, which I would state next was not available to him either. But what we will do now, we will prove this kakutini theorem using conformal variance.
00:46:47.956 - 00:47:25.822, Speaker A: Opposite can also be done. You can start with Kakutini theorem and proof conformal variance. So now here we go. And this is theorem of Kaputania, which I believe the picture of Kokutani already appeared before. So serum of kokotani is the following. I will state it just for bounded domain. So brownian motion solves Dirichlet problems.
00:47:25.822 - 00:48:11.734, Speaker A: So let me state it more specifically. So suppose that you have a bounded domain. Again, everything is true for arbitrary domains, but let me state it for bounded domains too. To make things easier, f is a continuous function on the boundary, and let z be a point on omega. And let's start two dimensional brownian motion. Start at z. And let's look at the first time we hit the boundary.
00:48:11.734 - 00:49:04.068, Speaker A: Then we can write expected value of f at this random point. So we run brownian motion, it hits the boundary v compute expectation. I claim that this is a solution of Dirichlet problem with boundary f. So let me state what it is more specifically. So you want function which is harmonic in omega, and here u on the omega is equal to f. Well, in some sense. So it's equal to f everywhere.
00:49:04.068 - 00:50:08.034, Speaker A: Everywhere but capacity zero. But actually we'll have another way to look at it. So let me actually skip forward a bit to this. So for me, this peron solution of Dirichlet problem is the following. So now this works for any domain use solution for Dirichlet problem with boundary value cfive for every sub harmonic function such that for every boundary point v of z undercut so lim soup, when you approach this boundary point is equal, less or equal than f of psi, then your u measure rates. So u lies above this, and the same with super harmonic function. So super harmonic function, if it over f, okay, then u of z is actually bounded by v of z.
00:50:08.034 - 00:50:47.954, Speaker A: Okay, so this is a rigorous solution for definition of rigorous solution. And I will use the fact that actually the solution always exists. So again, as I said, opposite can be done. We can just solve digital problem using brownian motion and see that it satisfies this condition. That's exactly what we would see in a moment. Okay, so let's take a short break till noon, so let me stop recording.
