00:00:00.090 - 00:00:40.374, Speaker A: Let's say Curve does flip uniswap for CBE liquidity, and that trading volume starts getting sucked into curve. Well, then now they have, like, almost 90% of trading volume with lsds, and that's going to be a massive money maker for them. Welcome back to another episode of Zero X Research. This show is made possible thanks to our incredible sponsors, chainalysis and flipside. We're recording this episode on January 3, so Happy New Year, everyone. And this episode is going to kind of go hand in hand with our last episode. So we did a 2022 in review last year and last episode, and then this one is going to be kind of our thoughts on some of the major themes we're going to see throughout 2023.
00:00:40.374 - 00:01:16.466, Speaker A: So no interview today. It's just a blockworks analyst going to rift on a couple of different topics. So we're joined by Zero X, Pibbles and Westy today. And guys, how are we doing? I'm excited to get into this one. We've got a lot of good discussions lined up for the day, so I can kind of kick things off and get into one of my ideas of what we're going to, something we can expect to kind of unfold throughout 2023. And it's really just the broader topic around liquid staking derivatives. It's been a pretty hot topic on CT over the last couple of days, and I think a lot of that has to do with Shanghai upgrade coming soon.
00:01:16.466 - 00:01:40.890, Speaker A: And of course, the Shanghai upgrade enables withdrawals. So users that have staked ETH have the ability to now unstake in the current state. That's just not possible. They're kind of like rolling out the tech gradually. This is kind of like one of the next major pieces that gets added into Ethereum proof of stake, and really kind of builds out the entire staking side of the equation here. And withdrawals enabled. There's kind of like this question around.
00:01:40.890 - 00:02:48.994, Speaker A: Okay, well, how many people that have staked are now going to unstake? And our Ethereum asset profile on Dune actually has a really cool chart that lays out at what price did each depositor stake their ETH at? And there's only like 20% of depositors are actually in the money, or they have essentially deposited at a lower ETH price than the current price today. So 80% of the people are underwater on their staking deposits. And I kind of think there's an interesting dynamic thinking about, well, okay, well, which side of the equation is going to be the one to unstake when this happens? Or maybe is one side more likely to just withdraw rewards that are now free floating and they can leave their 32 e staked, but sell off the rewards to kind of lock in some of the profits that they've made and try to fight back towards. Even so, it kind of is like an interesting thought experiment and there's really no right answer. Right? It comes down to like every depositor is going to have a different opinion on how they want to interact with these unlocked rewards. But I do think it's just this interesting kind of thought experiment to walk through, especially because after withdrawals are enabled. I personally believe the broader theme here is really that liquid staking derivatives are really going to take off.
00:02:48.994 - 00:03:46.430, Speaker A: They have improved capital efficiency given that they can be used composably throughout Defi while still earning the staking rewards. And they also provide immediate liquidity. So if I want to exit my position, all I have to do is swap it through a dex and I don't have to wait through a withdrawal, withdrawal queue. And so Ethereum kind of has this interesting dynamic where proof of stake Ethereum grew up with liquid staking, and that really hasn't kind of been something that we've seen on other major proof of stake blockchains. Like you think about something like the cosmos hub, like the atom token, it's very heavily staked, but they have a different implementation of proof of stake, right? So you can just delegate tokens like I can have two atom and stake them through another validator. Whereas with Ethereum I need a full 32 e to solo stake and liquid staking really just kind of removes that, right? Like I can have a very small sum of ether and stake that directly into the network and accrue some rewards and participate in network security. So it kind of brings about this new way of getting involved.
00:03:46.430 - 00:04:33.298, Speaker A: And because Ethereum essentially grew up with liquid staking existing, I think it's going to see a very high percentage of usage and adoption throughout 2023. And so right now this ETH stake rate is around 14%, which is very low relative to other proof of stake chains. If you look at something like the cosmos ecosystem chains, they have like a system rewards to be around 66% or two thirds of the token staked. And that just helps participate with network security, right? And if you look at something like avalanche, that's in the think around 64, 65. Salana is a bit of a tricky one just because locked tokens can also be staked. But depending on how you calculate it, that's around 60 or 70% as well. And so we're definitely going to see Ethereum's stake rate jump significantly, I think, throughout 2023.
00:04:33.298 - 00:05:10.574, Speaker A: Again, with Shanghai going live, that's like kind of this last piece in what staking really is for proof of stake. And I think that's going to give people a little more confidence around. Okay, now, if I stake my assets, I can immediately unstake them if I so choose to do so. And that just kind of like, you're not really like freezing assets, they're just be fully liquid if you want to solo stake. So I think we're going to see a massive boom in the stake rate and in a large portion of that being driven by liquid staking itself. So in the liquid staking landscape, we have a pretty interesting breakdown of kind of who's dominant and who's not. Right now, Lido has got about 60% of the liquid staked ETH market share.
00:05:10.574 - 00:05:50.166, Speaker A: Rocket pool is in that as well as well as Coinbase ETH. So it's like two decentralized options leading the way. And more recently, we've seen a large push from Coinbase, kind of pushing their users into this. And so I think the way that we're going to be thinking about this is really a trade off spectrum between yield and convenience. Right? So if you think about Coinbase, you can stake on Coinbase with two clicks, literally, you buy ETH and then stake it and agree to the terms of service, and you're locked and loaded. And because of that convenience, they take a 25% fee. So their yield is going to be noticeably lower than something like Lido or frax ETH or something of that nature.
00:05:50.166 - 00:06:05.630, Speaker A: That takes usually around 10%, is pretty much industry standard for the decentralized options. So I think this is going to be an interesting dynamic of where we see this value flow. And, yeah, I'm curious if you guys have any takes on that or love it, hate it, how do we feel about it?
00:06:05.700 - 00:07:20.066, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I definitely agree that 2023 is going to be the year of LSD, especially for ETH. Like you said, when you look at comparable numbers and the Cosmos ecosystem, ETH has a lot of ways to catch up. And I think with the Shanghai fork and withdrawals enabled, I think that's definitely going to sort of push it towards, I think it's like 70% in Cosmos, but I think it's not going to get quite that high, but it's definitely getting higher than it is now. And I definitely think the interesting conversation is sort of the players within the LSD ecosystem and how that plays out. I know there's a lot of people that think like, Lido has 60% of the market share right now, and I know the market's sort of pricing on a relative basis. These other competitors, like rocket pool, stakewise, et cetera, that have a lower Tvl to market cap ratio and are basically being priced as higher on a relative basis than Lido, thinking that Lido might lose its market share. But some people think Lido might keep its market share as well as, like you said, Coinbase is a new competitor on the market, but there's going to be a lot of institutions that want to stake their ETH and do so using a custodial service, and Coinbase is obviously the biggest one for these institutions.
00:07:20.066 - 00:08:16.854, Speaker B: And so I could see CBE definitely gaining a market share versus Lido. And then I was also looking at the Ethereum forums, the Ethereum research forums, and there was actually a post from June of this year, or June of last year, basically outlining a governance free LSD. That would be sort of the ETH base layer. And I think if that gets introduced, it also shake things up a bit because it sort of maximizes the yield, as you said, where you're paying 10% fees to most of these providers and 25% to Coinbase, whereas in this case, it says you're only paying 3% fees, which gives you higher yield. And it probably has higher security guarantees, given that it's created by the Ethereum developers and at the core level. So I think if that gets introduced, which I'm not expecting it, but it's definitely possible, given that it's in the forums and has a lot of support behind it, that could shake things up as well. And so, yeah, I'm interested to see how things shake up, in my opinion.
00:08:16.854 - 00:08:37.810, Speaker B: I think Lido maintains its dominance, but coinbase sort of catches up. And I think just overall, as a sector, the LSC, all of them sort of rise together overall, and I don't think one sort of overshadows the other. I don't know if you guys have other thoughts as well.
00:08:37.880 - 00:09:44.086, Speaker C: Yeah, so what I'm most concerned about with liquid staking is where the revenue is going, and I'm obviously going to be most interested in the governance token of a project that's actually going to share the revenue, because it's great that you make all this revenue, but what are you doing with it, and how do I profit off of it? So right now, I know that Frax has the 8% of their fees are going to go to buying back the frac shares token. We don't see anything with Lido yet, but that's something to keep an eye on, and we have to monitor. And then the second thing is we have to figure out the health of the validators. Like why am I going to go stake with stakewise, who doesn't have as much of a reliable track record for getting validator rewards and dealing with slashing? So I think some sort of dashboard that kind of ranks the health of each liquid, stating protocol, stating staking protocol, and kind of indicates the reliability will be critical infrastructure for 2023.
00:09:44.188 - 00:10:19.460, Speaker D: Yeah, strong agree there, pibbles. I also just think that you've got 10% of the rewards going to not people staking. So 90% goes to the stakers, 5% goes to the treasury, 5% goes to the actual node operators. And that's something that Lido has done really, really well. They've picked like 28 really high quality validators, so their uptime is perfect. They never get slashed, that kind of thing. I also know they're looking at implementing distributed validator technology, which should improve the decentralization of lido and kind of reduce the attack vector on the Ethereum protocol itself.
00:10:19.460 - 00:10:46.950, Speaker D: I also think that most of the unlocks for LDO are pretty much in the rear view mirror. And I'm sure there's a lot of investors who had funds during this bear market who are accumulating it, and I'm sure they want to turn on a fee switch similar to uniswap. So I think that value will eventually accrue back to LDO token holders. So I think my favorite bet going into the next year is LDO. But I also think CBE is going to garner significant market share, given all the institutions that want in on the action.
00:10:47.030 - 00:11:31.174, Speaker A: Yeah, and something Coinbase did that's really interesting with regard to attracting some of that institutional money, is their retail product charges a 25% fee, but their institutional product is only 10%, which is in line with the decentralized options. Plus they get providing this custodial factor as well, which we know institutions find quite comforting. So I do think Coinbase is really poised to take a huge gash into some of this market share. But again, the market itself is growing quite significantly. So I think there's room for a lot of competitors to kind of battle into this. But one of the interesting knock on effects of liquid staking is really just how. Okay, so you have all this liquidity, right? It's liquid staking.
00:11:31.174 - 00:12:14.386, Speaker A: Now, where does that flow into dexes? Of course because one of the key advantages is being able to sell your token on command. And so we have a chart here with Flipside's great data. They have great Dex data on curve, Uniswap, balancer and sushi, which is really where a majority of this volume is occurring. And so right now, Uniswap is by far the most dominant Dex in terms of volume. They do like 60 plus percent of all decks volume. With the exception of when you look at just LSD liquid staking derivative volume, it's actually like roles reversed with curve, and curve is actually doing like 75%, 80% of that LSD volume. And Uniswap is really only in that 20% range.
00:12:14.386 - 00:13:31.594, Speaker A: And so if we look at this chart here, we have on the screen, and for the viewers, and for the listeners rather than the viewers, we're looking at the Dex volume share of ETH liquid staking derivatives. And we have a 30 day moving average of the amount of volume divided specifically by token. And so staked ETH is responsible for around 63, 64% of all volume, and of Coinbase coming in second in there around 20%. And then rocket pool re coming in third with around ten or so percent of volume. And so if you're a Dex, you're thinking, okay, well, how do I attract this liquidity to eventually be kind of like the lead role player in exchange volume for lsds? And that's going to be an increasingly large field, right? Like if the market's growing and then now the withdrawals are enabled, so there's going to be an arbitrage opportunity that's relatively quick, probably a couple of day withdrawal queue, and now there's like a massively growing field that's very particularly liquid. I think that we're going to see an explosion in LSD volume. And I wouldn't be surprised to see some of the larger liquid staking tokens kind of being in that top three, top five of exchange traded tokens, right? So we're going to obviously have ETH and USDC most likely, that's a very common pair, specifically on Uniswap.
00:13:31.594 - 00:14:13.258, Speaker A: And I think in that top three, top five, we're going to have a liquid staking derivative token. And so if you're a Dex, obviously volume translates directly to fees, and you're going to want to be having these kinds of tokens listed on your exchange in deep liquidity. And pretty interestingly, curve already has by far the deepest liquidity for staked ETH. And that has a lot to do with the fact that staked ETH is a rebasing token that doesn't really play well with a lot of current contracts, and Uniswap is one of those. It's just not compatible with their Uniswap V two or V three. Because of that, immediately that liquidity was born into curve, and now I don't really see that changing. It's almost a billion dollar pool.
00:14:13.258 - 00:14:54.710, Speaker A: I think it's around $750,000,000 of liquidity there. So Uniswap actually does have coinbase ETH in the deepest liquidity, and that's where a lot of that volume does occur today. But pretty interesting. We're seeing a little bit of a coinbase or CBE wars starting to break out. Curve has actually increased their rewards flowing to that pool, and they increased the crv emissions. And starting next Thursday, there's actually going to be the yield on that pool jumps from 5% to 10% because the founder of Curve Mitch has increased his percentage of voting on that pool. So it's going to be pretty interesting to see if some of that liquidity flows out from Uniswap to curve.
00:14:54.710 - 00:15:35.074, Speaker A: And ultimately this kind of shows that maybe not all token emissions are created equally. And if you can effectively use token emissions to increase organic revenue in trading fees, then that's ultimately the goal. So I think it's a really smart move to see curve kind of battling in this direction. But again, we can see if curve, now, let's say curve does flip Uniswap for CBE liquidity, and that trading volume starts getting sucked into curve, well then now they have like almost 90% of trading volume with lsds, and that's going to be a massive money maker for them. And we can really see that illustrated on this chart. Just given that flipside makes this data so easy and so accessible. And they really do have the most comprehensive on chain data in crypto.
00:15:35.074 - 00:15:52.182, Speaker A: So it really gives you the opportunity to get the insights you need to work smarter. And we actually have a little bounty going on. So if you're interested in querying data and you have some SQL skills, then this is definitely for you. Be sure to check out the link in our description for an opportunity to earn some free USDC.
00:15:52.246 - 00:16:18.646, Speaker D: Yeah, that is super interesting data there, Dan. I mean, considering they're taking 25% of all staking rewards, that is going to be such a cash cow for Coinbase. And considering where Coinbase is trading kind of makes you want to dabble in it. Like, what is it at? Like three times earnings? And it's like a high growth stock, and they've got 100 million users using their app every month. So I definitely like that play. And I think it was Matt from bitwise. He was talking about how he really likes the Coinbase play as well.
00:16:18.646 - 00:16:52.142, Speaker D: But that's a good segue into my kind of 2023 prediction for the year. I think that an OG D five protocol, or Altlair one, will announce plans to launch as an l three. I don't think we'll actually see anything live on Testnet or anything like that, but I do think we'll see kind of similar to how DyDx announced their move to the cosmos in the beginning of 2022. I think we'll see a similar thing happen towards the tail end of 2023. I mean, you've got l two s. Like pretty much every l two is putting together an l three strategy. You've got the op stack, you've got Starknet moving Stark X.
00:16:52.142 - 00:17:33.126, Speaker D: So all the applications like Dydx, immutable and a couple of others are going to actually be l three s on top of Starknet. Then you have ZK sync following the l three vision as well. And I just think that projects that were born on Ethereum won't want to make the same decision that Dydx did. I think that they're going to want to remain loyal to kind of like where they started. So I think going to an l three to enhance their kind of customizability and take advantage of some of those trends is going to be something that we definitely see as a narrative going forward. I also know that Mev can be extracted as an app specific roll up. So I think that revenue will be returned to either the treasury or token stakers and then provide more utility to the tokens.
00:17:33.126 - 00:18:11.686, Speaker D: And we see this with Sushiswap right now, they're kind of running out of Runway. We've talked about it a few times the last couple of episodes, and I think there's a lot of OG defi protocols that have a lot of really good product market fit for their applications, but then not such good tokenomics. So like maker Ave comp uni. So I think that this is a really good outlet for them to try and redesign their tokens. L three s offer a lot of different advantages over being just an app on the Ethereum. L1, you're going to get higher throughput, even more so higher throughput than an l two, thanks to the recursive proofs and kind of their multiplicative scaling nature. And then you've also got better control over the tech stack.
00:18:11.686 - 00:18:51.702, Speaker D: In general, not quite as customizable as a cosmos app specific chain, but you definitely get more customizability than you would as an Ethereum dap on the layer one. I also think you'll see different data availability structures. Like you'll see a lot of validiums launch in this system where basically there's a data availability committee securing the data of the ledger. And then I also think that those committees will kind of be secured by the token. So that also provides more utility for the native token of the Dapps. And then also you get privacy with the l three scaling solutions and cheaper interoperability between the l two. L three.
00:18:51.702 - 00:19:02.938, Speaker D: L three to l three. So I think that's going to be a huge narrative going forward. I don't know if we'll actually see anything launch on Testnet, but I do think that we'll see someone announce towards the tail end of 2023.
00:19:03.024 - 00:19:44.806, Speaker A: Yeah, the l three structure is really interesting. I do have a question for you, though. Okay. So if we have this one standardized prover, then we can have a network of l three s built on top of the l two with the standardized prover that can all communicate with each other. But if we have multiple provers with multiple ecosystems built on them, then how does that become any different than like the cosmos ecosystem? Right. You're still going to need to bridge between the two l three ecosystems because they're not going to be interoperable without that standardized prover. So I do agree that we're pushing in that direction, but I start thinking about how long it's going to take to come to consensus on what the best proving technology is.
00:19:44.806 - 00:20:03.706, Speaker A: Right. If we have like five teams building it, there will probably be some that perform better right out of the gates. But then the teams that have the worst performing one aren't just going to throw in the towel and be like, oh, yours is better, we'll just use it. They're going to be like, no, we're going to build ours and make it better than yours. So I don't know. I want to hear your take on kind of like how we get to that point of standardization.
00:20:03.818 - 00:20:45.974, Speaker D: Yeah, I think Alex said it best from zksync the other week. I think that you are going to see a lot of competition in the next two, three, maybe even four or five years. But I think at some point there will be marginal progress made instead of these huge leaps that we're seeing today. And then everyone's going to kind of come together and be like, all right, this is the best standard that we should all work towards. And I think whoever kind of develops that their l three ecosystem will ultimately end up being the winner. And then applications that are built on, let's say it's starknet and they're the one who wins, I think that the l three s that were built on zksync and Polygon, zke, evM, et cetera, I think they'll all kind of migrate towards that one standard prover.
00:20:46.102 - 00:21:45.086, Speaker B: Yeah. And building on top of that, different l three ecosystems. You might need bridges to go between them, but people are also building CKIBC, which is derivative of IBC and Cosmos. And so you're going to be able to have at least better bridging capabilities from one to the other. And so it does end up looking a lot like cosmos. But I also do think this is a really good thesis, just in the fact that on our last episode, we looked back to last year, and roll ups in terms of their adoption were just up and to the right, both from a user standpoint and from a development standpoint. And once we see these ZK roll ups launch this year, and like you said, we see l three s and at least one or two are successful, I do think that one of these applications that lives on Ethereum and is very much aligned to the Ethereum ethos chooses to build on an l three or maybe even their own app specific l two.
00:21:45.086 - 00:21:47.680, Speaker B: I definitely see that in the future.
00:21:49.570 - 00:22:08.600, Speaker D: Yeah, it's definitely going to be interesting to watch it play out. I guess I feel like it's the best way to stay Ethereum native while also, I guess, providing your token more utility. So I'm excited to watch it play out, that's for sure. But westy, I know you got kind of a topic on the same vein for today, so I'll pass it over to you for your thesis for next year.
00:22:08.970 - 00:23:04.102, Speaker B: Yeah, it's definitely very well connected to yours, but mine is that essentially app chains, application specific chains will grow exponentially in 2023, both on Cosmos and as app specific roll up l two s or l three s, as you talked about. So, like I said, app specific chains are started in Cosmos, through the Cosmos SDK. You could essentially create a chain for yourself, and it can be application specific. And essentially through IBC, you can connect to other chains and have that composability. So the point of having sort of an application on a generalized l one is sort of the ease with which you can build your application. You can just sort of build and have it on the l one available to use, as well as the composability with other applications. And Cosmos essentially allows more customization at the L1 level.
00:23:04.102 - 00:24:21.358, Speaker B: So you're not basically required with whatever, let's say you're using Ether salana, you're basically tied to the design decisions they have. But at the same time, you still have that ease through the Cosmos SDK that's just available to use, as well as the composability through IBC. And I think this app chain thesis is going to gain a lot of momentum in 2023, I think specifically because DydX is migrating from Starkx to its own Cosmos chain. And I think if they are successful, which I think it's very likely that they are given just the team's capabilities and what I've heard so far, if they are successful, I think that's going to pull a lot of other developers to think along the same lines and see, oh, okay, Dydx was able to do these things that they couldn't on Ethereum previously have to do on their own chain, as well as providing more value to their token. And so Dydx sort of becomes that trial run. And I think we're also going to see a lot of other Cosmos chains launch in 2023. I can think of a few off the top of my head, like Mars, say Babylon, even stride as well, are building their own chains, and it'll just show even more how powerful these app chains can be.
00:24:21.358 - 00:25:38.198, Speaker B: And then, like Sam alluded to earlier, there are a lot of developments in the roll up space, and I think l two s, and more importantly, l three s, will become a big launching place for these app specific chains. Given that a lot of these applications built on the EVM want to remain aligned to Ethereum and don't necessarily want to just abandon ship and go to something like Cosmos. And l three s allow for most of that same customizability, as well as having really low fees and remaining aligned with Ethereum. And I also think we're going to see a lot of app specific l two s built with the op stack, as well as other different things. And I know Avo is one of those examples, which is an options exchange built on ribbon, which is going to be its own app specific l two. And I think just as the roll up ecosystem builds out and there's more composability across different roll ups, either at the l three level using the same prover, or at the l two level, I know the op stack is trying to build sort of like a super chain of their l two s. And then there's also the ability for ZK roll ups to have synchronous composability, like sort of at the l one level where they all settle down, which I think is super interesting.
00:25:38.198 - 00:25:52.330, Speaker B: And so, yeah, I think we just see an explosion of app chains, especially in my opinion, as applications on a relative basis to these generalized l ones get more value. I think they're just going to grow exponentially over the next year or so.
00:25:52.480 - 00:26:21.638, Speaker C: I definitely agree. And I think if 2022 showed us one thing, it's that the fat protocol thesis is kind of dead. And I see app chains as kind of like the revamped opportunity for big protocols that have a lot of users. They still struggle to accrue value. But I think having their own specialized app chain or roll up is the move and will probably be how the fat protocol thesis could come back to life.
00:26:21.724 - 00:27:12.994, Speaker A: Yeah, I love the concept of app chains. Right? If we think about even building a protocol in general, like, let's say just on Ethereum main chain, why is that exciting? And you can go to global wallet distribution, you can access the whole world immediately. But one of the more interesting things to me is the fact that you have a token and that doesn't exist in the physical world. It's kind of like this new design space that crypto has really invented. And then if you take that even a step further and say, okay, well then, what's different between an app on mainchain versus an app specific blockchain? Well, now you also have a token in an app specific blockchain, but you also get the expanded design space of the validator set. And seeing what gets built out into the validator set space is very, very intriguing to me. If you think about something like thorchain, they kind of use their validators to secure vaults on other chains and create this decentralized bridge network.
00:27:12.994 - 00:27:45.902, Speaker A: We had Chad Baraford on the other day kind of like walking us through what that whole process looks like. And then you think about something like, know they're coming to the cosmos. They're building an app chain specifically for the purpose of decentralizing their protocol by creating a decentralized order book that's run within the validator sets, memory, the Ram. And that's really interesting, right? That's just something that physically can't be done without an application specific blockchain. So kind of like giving developers a bigger design space is just. I'm inherently bullish on that idea, and I really don't think that will change.
00:27:45.956 - 00:28:04.870, Speaker C: Yeah. And another thing there is with protocols that didn't have their own op chains, those were so much easier to fork. Like, you saw it happen time and time again with Dexs, GMX, et cetera. So this definitely gives that bigger moat for these teams to really innovate and not worry about their stuff just getting jacked, like next week.
00:28:04.940 - 00:28:29.466, Speaker D: Yeah, strong agree with that, Spencer. Shit. Yeah, strong agree with that, pipples. Definitely agree there. And it's also kind of interesting that we were just talking about liquid staking, derivatives and LDO. I think that's also another pretty solid play in order to get some exposure on all these proof of stake networks in the cosmos ecosystem, because I'm sure they'll be super active there as that market grows. But I also wanted to take a second to thank our wonderful sponsor, chainalysis.
00:28:29.466 - 00:28:57.094, Speaker D: They're one of the leading crypto analytics providers that are helping build the tools that we need to legitimize our industry. They enable investors to track funds on chain with ease, and they also have some great research, which is available for free on their website. They also have some really cool courses that they offer in case you want to get really in the weeds of the crypto stuff. So they're definitely worth checking out, and we will link to them in the show notes. But pibbles, I know you got a pretty good 2023 thesis, so I'll kick it over to you.
00:28:57.132 - 00:29:35.154, Speaker C: Yeah, so my thesis kind of goes along with l three s, but it's a little more specific. And I'm talking on chain order books. I think amms definitely had their place in time whenever uniswap first came out. We needed an easy front end and infrastructure to kind of swap whatever tokens we want. But personally, I don't like using amms because I get terrible execution. And I'm really interested in anything that has high throughput and low fees that can kind of give market makers more of an edge and more predictable profits. I think we see a couple interesting order book protocols popping up.
00:29:35.154 - 00:30:05.358, Speaker C: Like, obviously we have say coming out on the cosmos, and I think that's going to be a really interesting case study. We'll just have to see how the actual vcs vest their tokens on us, so we'll see how that goes. But then you also have, like, Solana had serum, and now we have openbook popping up, which is just a serum fork minus the predatory vcs. I think both of these are just really promising for 2023. And we'll have to stay tuned to see how that pans out.
00:30:05.444 - 00:30:50.450, Speaker B: Yeah, strong agree with this one. I've always been saying that we need more central limit order books. I just think they haven't existed because they're not very compatible with the Ethel one. But now that we have roll ups as well as chains like Salana that have parallelization that just allow for quicker transaction throughput, that finally we can build these central limit order books. I know in amms a large majority of people who provide liquidity end up losing money. And I know there's a lot of toxic flow that goes through amms as well. And so I think just for better price execution in general, better liquidity overall, I think clobs are just better infrastructure.
00:30:50.450 - 00:31:36.970, Speaker B: But at the same time, I do think there's a place for mmms, especially with stable swap specifically because if you provide liquidity for a stable swap, you're not really getting impermanent loss. Especially if those two tokens are structurally correlated with one another and you can earn yield in a different way than, let's say, lending out your assets, I think it's a structurally better way to earn yield. And so just from that fact, I think amms specifically for stable swaps are definitely going to stay around and will achieve product market fit, whereas I think we're going to trend more towards central limit order books when it comes to trading non correlated assets.
00:31:38.670 - 00:31:57.618, Speaker D: Wesy, you just kind of hinted at how curve is better suited to kind of thrive long term because they typically target assets that know pegged one to one with each other. So what does this mean for Uniswap? Are they working on anything for a club that they're trying to launch? Or do you think there's going to be a new competitor that comes in and completely takes away the market share?
00:31:57.704 - 00:32:19.650, Speaker C: Yeah, I can comment on the Uniswap order book. I know that the labs team funded a grant that is working on building a uniswap order book front end, but I'm not so sure how that's going to work because again, you can't have it on eth main net. So what's going to happen off chain? Is this going to be an AWS order book, et cetera?
00:32:19.810 - 00:32:57.478, Speaker A: Yeah, I feel like we just don't have the tech to have a central limit order book on chain today on Ethereum, I think the l three ecosystem makes that possible. Or even like I think it was to Westy's thesis that kind of like the l two side of things get built out. Maybe you can have like an app specific roll up sort of like Avo. I don't know actually if a central limit orb will be possible in that particular environment, but I don't know. I feel like we still need to focus on building out the tech before that can really happen. But specifically on Ethereum, of course, say is trying to do this in the cosmos ecosystem. And Solana already has an operational version of this live.
00:32:57.478 - 00:33:08.966, Speaker A: But is the serum, or I guess now it's called Openbook. Is their order book fully decentralized or how does that work? It's all on chain, right?
00:33:08.988 - 00:33:36.130, Speaker C: I believe, yeah, I think it's all on chain. And actually last week I saw something and it looks like jump is already using Openbook to try to do some high frequency trading. So that's pretty neat. I think there's definitely going to be some sort of farming opportunity coming up, probably in the first quarter when they actually decide to launch an open book token. And that's going to be really fun and we'll definitely have to have a report about that.
00:33:36.200 - 00:34:16.074, Speaker A: So just recapping, we got a cambrian explosion of lsds coming to the Ethereum ecosystem. Then we have an increased number of l two s and l three s in that ecosystem developing as well as the application specific blockchain sector as well. And then we also have kind of the transition away from amms to clobs. That's like a lot of technical innovation. And when you think about that, it just kind of puts things in perspective of like, yes, prices are so shit right now, but there's a lot of different things moving in a lot of good directions. And it's crazy. It's like, yeah, the macro environment is so bad for price appreciation, but literally everything else feels so good.
00:34:16.074 - 00:34:41.666, Speaker A: We're like trending towards better tokenomics. We're improving technology from a scalability and usability standpoint. UX is significantly less shit than it was two years ago. It's actually becoming easier to use crypto and easier to say like, hey, this would be a great way to onboard some of my friends that maybe have never used crypto before. So it's just like once we kind of get through this macro black hole, maybe there's just so many reasons to be bullish. It's like so frustrating.
00:34:41.778 - 00:35:24.846, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. And there's a lot to be excited about. Like you said, from the development network level, especially with Ethereum, there's a lot of upgrades coming this year. We talked about the Shanghai fork and that upgrades implications, but there's a lot of other things being built like account abstraction is also being built, Protodank sharding will get as well. And I think there's going to be a lot of trading narratives around these Ethereum developments. So with Proto dank sharding, I think a lot of the roll up tokens will see a pump and then lsds are off the back of Shanghai as well as Eigen layer being developed, which should come around mid 2023. I think those it increases the value of ETH staking and therefore lsds.
00:35:24.846 - 00:35:33.718, Speaker B: And so yeah, I think there's a lot to be excited about at the eth core level from roll ups. And yeah, I'm just super excited for 2023.
00:35:33.804 - 00:36:13.602, Speaker A: I got a question for you, Westy, Sam, you guys are the l two gurus. So right now there's like this seems to be this huge focus on scaling l two s to get to a point where they are like mass adoption, mass adoption utensils, essentially. But when do they kind of shift that focus to actually decentralizing and becoming that fully? Right now, for example, my understanding is optimism's fraud proofs aren't even live. So it's sort of just like, yeah, it's connected to ethereum, but there's no way to challenge the validity of the state. So when do they shift into saying, okay, this is going to be a fully functioning, decentralized l two?
00:36:13.656 - 00:36:46.990, Speaker D: I can take a stab at that one, I guess. I just think these things take a long time to decentralize. And it really is just like a waiting game I would call Salana or Avalanche or some other altlar one, more decentralized than an optimism, an arbitram, or really any other l two live today. But that's also just a time thing. They've been around longer than these l two s have. Plus the technology that they built with is more similar to something like a tendermint or something that's already been built before. Whereas l two s are really just a new groundbreaking technology.
00:36:46.990 - 00:37:29.350, Speaker D: And I think it's going to take longer to decentralize that process. And I think right now the main focus is getting users, building up adoption, making the user experience as good as possible, lowering transaction fees, all of that stuff that l two s are supposed to do to scale ethereum before you actually decentralize. And if you have that base layer where you can go back to that is fully decentralized and that's like censorship resistant, I think that's the main point right now. But I do think at some point this year, we'll see nl two start to kind of take off the training wheels, as Vitalik has said in the last couple of weeks. So that would be another prediction I would make for 2023. But I don't feel as strongly about that one as I do the thesis I laid out earlier.
00:37:29.430 - 00:38:09.094, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it also depends on the specific project. So no, scroll was like very heavy on we need to decentralize the sequencers and approvers as soon as possible, whereas others are sort of more laxadaisical when it comes to decentralizing things. But at the same time, just think about the incentives. Like these projects are incentivized to have a main net that people can use, the applications are on, and that's sort of where the incentives lie less. So the decentralization, they just want something up and running that people are using, and so they're going to focus on that side of the tech. And then the decentralization security part of things comes later, unfortunately. But that's just the way it is.
00:38:09.094 - 00:38:34.080, Speaker B: And I think, like Sam says, later this year we'll definitely get some of these projects decentralizing more and more. And I think once one project does it, others are going to follow suit after them, and it is going to take time. I think later this year is when a push is going to happen, but I think it's going to take a few years, if not maybe five years, before things are fully decentralized, secure and ready to go.
00:38:35.890 - 00:39:07.530, Speaker C: Yeah, my question about Altus, I know this was an issue on arbitram like a year ago. I'm not so sure what the situation is now, but is the throughput basically limited by what the sequencer can handle? If someone was to do the other side mint right now on arbitrum, is Arbitrum dead? Is it going to be able to process all those transactions? That's something I'm pretty clueless about at first thought. I just think maybe app chains offer a better advantage there.
00:39:07.600 - 00:39:54.700, Speaker D: Yeah, I would agree in the current state, but I think it just comes down to Ethereum just recently coming into the vision of becoming a roll up centric layer, essentially for data availability and settlement. So I don't know. I guess I would just say that I think that Protodank sharding is going to drastically enhance the ability of l two s to compress their data and post it to Ethereum. And I think that's only going to get better. And it's actually kind of funny because Wesy and I like to look at that chart that's like the percentage of l one gas used to settle l two contracts for a measure of adoption. But it's kind of ironic that you really want that number to go down as transactions go up on l two s, because that would mean that l two s are scaling more effectively. Like, what we're seeing is exactly what you're pointing out.
00:39:54.700 - 00:40:05.022, Speaker D: It's starting to get congested a little bit. So I think it's going to continue to improve. But yeah, I think it's something that's still being worked out. But westy, I don't know if you have any thoughts there.
00:40:05.076 - 00:40:26.066, Speaker B: Yeah, back to pibble's question. It does depend on the sequencer. I know a lot of them use geth, which is the same as sort of ethereum transactions. And so if the other side mint were to happen, you'd probably have a lot of failed transactions, but the gas fees would be significantly less than that of the Ethereum based layer. But yeah, I agree with everything Sam said after that.
00:40:26.168 - 00:41:05.806, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it kind of just feels like ZK tech is really going to move l ones from, like, you hear the phrase zero to one, but I feel like optimistic roles were kind of the one. Now we're going from one to two, if you will, because you think about like, I wasn't trying to throw rocks at optimism earlier, but they're trying to get to the op stack state. This is far from their end state. If you think about Polygon right now, they're like a proof of stake commit chain, which is essentially a side chain. Right? And they're a bridge secured by a multi sig. Arbitrum is kind of in that same ballpark as well as the other two. And then you think about like ZK, and that's really when things can kind of like, that seems to be like the next transition point.
00:41:05.806 - 00:41:14.830, Speaker A: So once we start to get like a ZK main net live, start to ease into some adoption there, that's what I'm really excited about. And I know ZK sync is pushing in that direction.
00:41:14.910 - 00:41:56.562, Speaker B: Yeah. And as much as we're excited about the base layer technology, what I really want to see in 2023 is just one application that really takes off and has product market fit with not only crypto specific users, but with just normies in general. And I think the thing that's likely to do that is a game. And so, yeah, I'm excited to see, or I at least hope we have some sort of game that brings in a lot of people into the ecosystem. But overall, I do think the value trends towards applications versus the base layer. And yeah, all we need is some applications that really take off to really prove that the tech that we are building is worth it.
00:41:56.616 - 00:41:59.154, Speaker A: Which chain is the best chain to build a game on?
00:41:59.192 - 00:42:40.880, Speaker C: Today I'm team Solana. We saw the step in Ponzi get money token. That was killer. And they chose Solana just because Solana was equipped to handle that kind of load. And I think with the saga phone, sega phone, whatever you want to call it, I think that's going to open the door. I think there's going to be like a really successful game that's kind of as addictive as candy crush that's going to come out on Solana's phone. And I think that maybe their strategy is to have some awesome game that people are printing money on and it kind of drives orders for the Sega phone through the roof.
00:42:42.790 - 00:43:27.710, Speaker B: I personally think that once l three s are live, those are the primary place. Think first off, because really low transaction fees, but also account abstraction is really huge for games. And that you can have session keys or you don't need to keep signing signatures anytime you use a game, you just keep doing one transaction after the other really easily. As well as the fact that these games can pay for transaction fees on behalf of the user. And because they're on an l three that then settles to an l two and then the l one, the transaction fees are really small. And so that becomes really easy for the application to do. And I just think from like a UX standpoint for the developers as well as for the users, that l three s are just perfect for gaming.
00:43:29.410 - 00:43:54.838, Speaker D: I'm surprised none of you guys say this, but I would go with harmony secure bridges d five kingdoms doesn't get any better. No, I'd go with Westy. I strongly agree. I think they already have the infrastructure built out with immutable X as a primary marketplace for nfts and games. And I think when they go to Starknet as an l three, and then you see other games launching as l three utilizing their marketplace, I think that has a lot of catalysts for success.
00:43:54.924 - 00:43:57.046, Speaker A: You're going to get some hate mail for that one.
00:43:57.228 - 00:43:58.422, Speaker D: Yeah, I probably will.
00:43:58.476 - 00:44:38.434, Speaker A: So, all in all, we have a cambrian explosion of lsds, an increased adoption of l two s and l three s, and even application specific blockchains, and we see a transition from amms to clobs. So pretty exciting. Like, as I said earlier, there's just so much to be bullish about in this space right now from a technology standpoint. So once kind of like the markets calmed down sentiment kind of settles out flatlines, then it's really kind of like back up into the right, you'd want to think just because of all the development going on. So it really is an exciting place. And as always, thanks a lot for joining us. Pibbles and Westy, that was a great conversation, and we will be back next week, next Wednesday with a new episode.
00:44:38.434 - 00:44:46.980, Speaker A: We have an exciting interview with Sriram from Eigen layers, so we'll be doing some ethereum scaling sticking on the same vein. Excited for it, and thanks again, everyone.
