00:00:01.800 - 00:01:21.776, Speaker A: So actually, not the sprawl, it's actually about the lazy application thesis, which I'll explain the context for. But basically, back in 2016, there was this really popular sort of like, debate about basically, where in the stack, what in the stack, it actually captures value, what is the most important part of the stack, et cetera. And there was this whole thing called the fat protocol thesis, and people conjectured or believed that basically most of the value would be accrued by protocols. So basically, whereas in web two, basically, the idea is you have basically applications like Facebook or Google are capturing most of the value in web3, of course, because basically we can look at bitcoin, we can look at ethereum and see that their market caps and their tokens are so much more successful than any application or thing built on top, that therefore there's this fat protocol sort of structure that exists. And so basically, he's like, well, why is that happening? He's like, well, there's the shared data layer, which not celestia, he means data like user data is there. And so therefore people just build on top. They basically brings the barrier to entry, to building an application all the way down.
00:01:21.776 - 00:02:12.388, Speaker A: And basically anyone can just come on and tap into the same users, the same state on the chain, and basically build for those people over and over. And it's free, it's a utility, it's really cheap, allegedly, all these things. And then where he goes next in this piece is that basically. Oh, yeah. The other reason is, by the way, there's tokens, and tokens mean that you can basically build this network effect using a lever that you did not have in Web two. So you can, you know, and he, you know, basically, as I said, he's like sort of pointing to bitcoin and ethereum as these canonical examples of basically why, why this is the case, why this must be true. And then in basically in 2022, after, you know, there'd been all this l, all these all tell ethereum struggle to scale in the last cycle.
00:02:12.388 - 00:02:50.142, Speaker A: And so a lot of l one s come out and they launch after raising a huge amount of money. So we have avalanche, Solana, et cetera. And basically after that whole sort of thing comes apart, people, this is actually right after Terra, like maybe a few weeks after Terra. He's basically Hasu flashbots in Lido and whatnot. He basically makes this tweet that became reinvigorated, this debate. Basically what captures value in crypto, in web3. And basically what a lot of people started talking about was basically that applications, interests and chains interests are basically not.
00:02:50.142 - 00:03:47.660, Speaker A: They're fundamentally intention. And the second that something becomes successful, it has the upper hand because the users have a deeper relationship with the application theoretically than they do with the underlying chain that they're on. Basically this became a really popular trend for a little while in 2022. Basically people were talking about it for a bit and then basically the industry proceeded to, instead of doing that, that sort of playing out, instead went on this path of deploying ad ethereum, l two s and l three s. And they're mostly just general purpose chains, basically. There's no fat application sort of thesis playing out to date, but basically, and there's also of course the modular movement, why we're here. There's this huge explosion in people building infrastructure for a world of many chains or for a modular architecture, et cetera.
00:03:47.660 - 00:04:26.396, Speaker A: But what's the truth? We basically see this. This hasn't really fully played out. We don't really actually have a grasp of reality on this item. And basically what we have seen where we're at this was as of yesterday, is that basically, actually there is some kind of fat application dynamic going on. A lot of these are on Ethereum or across a bunch of chains. They're omnichanne or something. And they're basically, if you look at, I think it's like eight of the, I guess six of the top ten fee earners or fee earning things around Ethereum or EVM ecosystem.
00:04:26.396 - 00:05:12.930, Speaker A: This excludes Solana, basically are applications. And basically then there's a case of friendtech where friendtech on base because the fees came down, uh, you know, basically, you know, in the beginning, even before 444 was making, you know, mass money, they made a total of like, I think almost 60 something million dollars in fees as an application. Cumulatively. Um, and then, um, basically what happens is 444 comes out, you know, had has come out, right. And basically what happened is that you can see where a lot of the revenue, actually the item I didn't cover was that. The other point I meant to make is that ethereum still is the biggest, even as of yesterday, as a fee earning thing. In the whole, as a single fee earning thing, it is the biggest fee earning part of the stack.
00:05:12.930 - 00:05:58.770, Speaker A: And then after 444, there has been this change in what this grow to PI folks have been measuring as rent paid to l one is actually crashed. You can see it's very stark. After 444, basically all the fees from l two s, where a lot of applications now live, have basically collapsed and basically gone to zero. And that also includes things like Celestia, any trust, et cetera, in the market. But alongside that, you have this increase in for a while, there was this explosion in profit that these l two s are making. They're basically doing the same thing that Ethereum has been doing, the same fees that were going to Ethereum. As I said, almost all the chains have deployed in this local module era have been general purpose.
00:05:58.770 - 00:07:04.720, Speaker A: Ethereum l two s, they look very similar to basically what Ethereum. Ethereum itself. They're running guests, they're running something that's just, they're basically all the same apps are deploying there, et cetera. And as a result, a lot of the same, especially in this recent cycle we saw that just triggered a huge amount of profit to these l two s before people sort of started, before things cooled down and basically, or they started moving to other places. And so basically the question is like, well, have we made it? Like, is it now the case that basically we're in this era where applications are starting to capture more value or where the, you know, the fees are coming down from like multiple layers of the multiple parts of the stack, et cetera? And the truth is, of course, that most people, and if you especially have a lot of people in the Ethereum or modular community is like that, basically. No, not even close. In fact, it feels as if Solana has basically sort of taken center stage, or the underlying thesis of Solana has taken a very interesting center stage amidst basically a lot of the UX struggles of the stack.
00:07:04.720 - 00:08:13.036, Speaker A: And just the early, there's sort of this modular and l two disillusionment that sort of started as a result of basically this sort of having played out as basically the same thing as, as basically ethereal one with worse ux. And so basically on Solana, actually there's some interesting, which is that actually, because they have so much throughput and because there's so much activity there now, there are applications that often that can have more fees in a single day and even a single week in this case, than salon itself. Whereas in Ethereum, it's still, Ethereum is still kingdom is still earning more fees than any single application on Ethereum or on el two, basically, on Solana. This isn't the case, actually. In fact, radium is actually basically earning. Even in the past 30 days, it's almost matched Solana, which is really, really shocking given this is basically unprecedented for this part of stack, basically. And then the Solana folks actually, they explicitly are like, actually we like this.
00:08:13.036 - 00:09:58.424, Speaker A: We actually unlike, say, Ethereum folks around Ethereum, we think that we're really successful when there's actually, and Austin says there's ten plus applications making more fees than the l one, basically, which I think probably would be, isn't possible on Ethereum, but obviously certainly could become possible on Ethereum l two. But the point I was going to make is here, does that mean that. Ok, well, given that we now have a substrator, a platform or protocol where basically everyone, you can deploy an application and you're basically being extracted from so minimally that you actually can earn all the fees that otherwise would be create the friction or limit the ability to grow your application to mass adoption scale, because Solana handles that for you. And does that mean that everyone should be onboarding to anchor framework? And a lot of people are like, what even is anchor framework? It's how most people build stuff in Insulana. It's still pretty low level, it's pretty specialized, et cetera. So it doesn't really scale to the distribution of like developer, you know, the total developer population of the rest of the world that would basically want to build these applications. And the other thing is that going back to what I said before about this protocol thesis that people had, like, say a while back, basically there was this, basically, what it actually looks like is the guy's idea around, basically his idea of shared data layer, user data being on one chain, and then everyone just coming in and building new stuff, new applications for the same people, the same users.
00:09:58.424 - 00:11:10.946, Speaker A: And in fact, if you actually sort of strip it away, what he's really saying, or what you really take away from success of Solana, is that, well, that's what it looks like when you have really high throughput and distribution without bridges, basically, without any of the l two constraints, any of the frictions that have been basically holding back a lot of the sort of the type of ux that a lot of people would like to see from ethereum, l two s, or just a modular stack generally. And it's actually what I think the real takeaway. The interesting thing is that when you really step back, you're like, well, what are people even doing in those Solana applications? What even is going on over there? It actually just, you realize it's the same exact thing in a weird way as always happening in the fat protocol world. It's just that instead we're doing with l two s, and now that we're scaling l two s and we have Solana taking off and everything, basically the same exact thing. It's just instead of it being what we've really done is we haven't scaled the ability to allow anyone to build an application with all the freedom and flexibility and instant distribution that they expect in web two. What we've actually just done is make it so that everyone can take bitcoin, theremin, and any individual community everywhere is just launching a token like a Zealia is launching mother. There's pump fun.
00:11:10.946 - 00:12:17.564, Speaker A: If you go on there, you'll have a seizure probably looking at all the new token creation. And then you have blast, of course, which is a whole other can of worms. But the point there is that obviously could not have existed without the scaling to l two. But there are really nice signs of hope. One of them, I think, is basically that if you're coming from scratch, if you're going to build an application of scratch, one of the challenges right now, historically, has always been where do you get these users from? And so it just kind of warps the like, you know, basically the incentives and the possibilities are severely constrained by the fact that you can really only tap into the users on these really poorly, historically relatively unscalable general purpose chains. So the difference like where we're going is like in frontext case, right, privy, obviously, like sort of set the stage for this because you could just bootstrap frontec, which is literally built on top of this Twitter social graph. And then in the case of polymarket, you have basically all this off chain data.
00:12:17.564 - 00:13:57.994, Speaker A: You have these items, these things like the election, for example, in the US, where basically it's very topical and you just onboard and it has a very web two experience to coming on, but it does something that really is uniquely better with crypto than not. Basically, my point is, historically, if you go back to this era, it's really about getting the same users, the same people, same liquidity, just maybe a little bit bigger each time around, and basically just sending it through the same, basically a Rube Goldberg machine of incentives and whatever to basically just recreate the same thing over and over. What I want to leave everyone here with is that a lot of what we're doing at Celestia is basically uniquely suited kind of to like, I think, a hard write or like a swerve from that past reality. And I think it's going to take quite a while to bootstrap off of reality, off of not just the same existing users and whatnot, but basically Celestia, by offering, I think these four things basically, basically get you to a point where what I was showing there with, like, with Solana can actually look much more like traditional web two, basically architectures where actually the underlying infrastructure basically does not. Bigger than anyone thinks AWS is. You don't necessarily assume that it's definitely taking way less fees from Uber than Uber is earning. So it looks a lot more like the Solana case, but with an absolute extreme diversity and hierogeneity of different types that are built on top.
00:13:57.994 - 00:14:22.010, Speaker A: What are the things that enable that in the roadmap that Ismail presented is basically like abundant DA, of course. And so that, and I'll get to that after this, but abundant DA. The fact there's no execution. So Mev and the skimming fees off of execution are handled at higher layers. There's no values needed. Right. Like you don't have to launch something even more scalable than Solana.
00:14:22.010 - 00:14:50.270, Speaker A: You don't even have to stand up a valuer site. You can just go do it with NL two and Celestia. And then the last one is that we can bootstrap off reality similar to we have with things like friendtech and polymarket. We can bootstrap off reality to get to onboard any developer with many vms, et cetera. This is actually just actually playing out, especially in recent months. Let's look at the 444 data. Celestia is there on the bottom, Celestia underneath, I guess.
00:14:50.270 - 00:15:28.170, Speaker A: And basically it's basically you have, where we were with call data and we've come down about 90%, then celestial is another 90%. Most of that actually, the gas overhead, I think, of posting blobs or something, but basically it's just dramatically cheaper. And in fact, we're seeing it in practice. This is a little misleading because I'm cutting off the rest. But the point is, the top five chains, what are they? The three of them are things using Altier and two of them are based in Arbitra one. So where there's a huge economic incentive to post a lot of data. And so basically we're seeing this start to play out.
00:15:28.170 - 00:16:19.704, Speaker A: And basically, like, I think where we sort of come in is like we have this opportunity to like, basically, instead of it being constrained to, you know, basically the same, you know, basically like basically just redeploying the EVM over and over and over nauseam. We actually have this opportunity to like kind of like basically bootstrap off reality with any vm. And even more, this is kind of like the core meta mission that will just keep improving and improving Asia's roadmap plays out. And so basically, and as I was saying, this is kind of really embedded in the mission, and it's going to continue to play out. Basically, it's like, basically, the core idea is basically that like a customized little blockchain, like any of those vms, it can boost off reality and just be as easy to deploy as any of those apps on those l two s. Sorry. And basically, okay, here's where I was trying to get to.
00:16:19.704 - 00:17:03.470, Speaker A: Basically where this goes is like, instead of sort of there being this fat application thesis, fat protocol thesis, whatever. The core idea is that actually it's not even about where value accrues anymore. It's actually about how easy is it, how trivial is it to basically build your thing, get and get users and get distribution. And so I think what I wanted to present kind of as the core of idea, what's enabled by both the celestia, like, you know, existing, even existing celestia. We're seeing a lot of signs of this. But what's especially going to be possible as the roadmap develops is basically like these three things, which is basically that instead of people caring about where does value accrue these sorts of questions. Instead what we care about is basically like providing people with just these things that they cannot bootstrap for themselves.
00:17:03.470 - 00:17:53.960, Speaker A: And so what you cannot, as a developer or a user, et cetera, or someone who wants to deploy a chain or an application get for yourself, is basically these three things. I think it's basically, you don't want bootstrapping security, you don't have to recruit validators, et cetera. Maybe you don't even want to, you don't have to be told where you should be getting your distribution from. So that's the second one. It's basically you should be able to just launch an application, launch a chain, you just get distribution from everywhere else. You don't have to worry. And not just that, you get distribution from reality through all the things that are being built, things like TL's, tes, et cetera, to start connecting blockchains to the real world in a much deeper way, as well as the last one, which is, as I was saying before, bootstrapping off of existing developer communities, which basically means that you don't have to just go through existing EVM, go back to the same five solidity devs that people feel safe working with.
00:17:53.960 - 00:18:34.960, Speaker A: The last one is just as part of the roadmap that Ismail presented. It's basically the block size just going to keep getting bigger. From the lazy perspective is that basically you don't have to, you basically ideally won't have to worry about whether the underlying scale that you're tapping into is enough long term. And so basically that, and then the last, the second one is that, and this is again part of that frustration. You can check out Lumina, which you've been soft launching here at modular summit, which is that the light node, the celestial light node is getting really small, is getting smaller and smaller, and it's usable even in the browser now. And so we actually have the ability to embed it everywhere. We're basically just like these things.
00:18:34.960 - 00:19:08.346, Speaker A: Like if you think of it, almost like how Solana talks about, yeah, we're just going to get faster every year. We just have to get bigger every year. We just have to get more distribution of the light node to do that safely. And then lastly, this distribution from everywhere. So to sort of summarize is like this point, I think is something that people have. You know, there's people who sort of talk about this, like Sundee's presenting the aG layer, there's people presenting all sorts of visions of interop. This is going to be a very like long process, but basically this is something, this is from Israel slides.
00:19:08.346 - 00:20:39.040, Speaker A: But basically, I thought this was like an interesting point is like basically you think of it as like it should really be that simple. Like it should really be that you have like any asset or whatever, or someone wants to do something here and execution can just happen somewhere. And as someone basically building an application, you just have to basically start posting data to this chain and start posting proofs to this, basically verifying proofs on this chain, et cetera, with whatever, or to some proof aggregation layer or whatever that sits in the middle, whatever. And then basically, hopefully your users, all they have to do is basically sign a message and underneath, and basically they're just getting it somewhere else, doing something else, whatever. And that to me is basically the last step, or in terms of what's needed for the on chain piece, I don't have time to really go into this bootstrapping of how else we can bootstrap off the rest of the world, but in terms of user data. But the point is all of this stuff together is actually presenting something that gets us out of this. This, yeah, this like, and we basically enter the era of like actually being in like the real world where it's like actually, you know, you actually have applications that can boost up the existing value, but you can also basically just tap into any existing, any existing distribution, whether from a developer perspective, from a user perspective with your own data, et cetera thanks.
