00:00:00.560 - 00:00:46.558, Speaker A: Welcome to Galaxy's comprehensive overview of our new report, the Digital Asset Investable Universe. In this report we provide a framework for thinking about and breaking down this nascent sector. Specifically, we cover the general infrastructure companies that provide products and services for crypto and blockchains. We look at crypto specific infrastructure things like staking, mining and building on chain oracles. And we talk about crypto use cases and applications companies and projects that build applications to operate on blockchains. We break down the sector into dozens of subsectors to help you understand what's happening in digital assets. The industry is big.
00:00:46.558 - 00:01:40.390, Speaker A: Already 580 million people use or own crypto worldwide and the total market cap of cryptocurrencies is over $22 trillion. There's a lot of reasons why people are owning them, more particularly institutions. In fact, institutional sentiment about Bitcoin and digital assets has only improved over time, with 67% of institutional investors surveyed saying they view them as having a role in investment portfolios. Part of the reason for that is increasing regulatory clarity, but also growing usage. Crypto is in fact on par with early Internet adoption, and it may even be exceeding it now. When you ask institutional investors why they still might not want to invest in digital assets, the top answer is still volatility. If we look at bitcoin, volatility has been trending downward for years.
00:01:40.390 - 00:02:43.234, Speaker A: And when we compare to the magnificent seven equities, Bitcoin's right in the middle. Looking around the world, cryptocurrency, regulation and clarity have improved significantly, and probably about half of the world's population live now. In a country where crypto is broadly legal, why might an investor choose to gain access to digital assets and their portfolio? Obviously, the returns, if you look farther back, have been astronomical. Bitcoin and other digital assets also offer unique portfolio diversification benefits. And there are also thematic reasons why investors are looking at Bitcoin and other digital assets, including hedging against geopolitical uncertainty or inflation, or seeking out unique market neutral strategies only available inside the growing crypto ecosystem. If we look back over the last 10 years, Bitcoin and Ether have been among or the top performing assets in almost every year. There is some cyclicality to this, although past performance is no guarantee of future results.
00:02:43.234 - 00:03:19.400, Speaker A: But but Bitcoin famously has a fixed total supply of 21 million coins, making it an extremely scarce asset. And that fixed supply is enforced by a quadrennial halving in the monetary expansion rate. Those so called halvings have typically preceded major bull runs. Let's Step back a little bit and talk about the broader digital asset industry. Of course you can invest directly in tokens, cryptos like bitcoin, ether or other tokens. And there are probably more than 15,000 individual tokens. We were able to track about 14,000 of them.
00:03:19.400 - 00:04:21.370, Speaker A: But increasingly there are institutional ready vehicles like ETPs. And there are 220 or more ETPs tracked by Bloomberg, including in the United States. There's also a large venture industry which has invested more than 100 billion across almost 20,000 deals since 2015. And increasingly mainstream companies, public companies are doing things with public blockchains. And there are at least 320 such publicly traded equities that have excess or exposure to digital assets. The digital asset industry has progressed sufficiently now that there are many different ways to gain exposure, each with their own unique pros and cons to think about. But in particular, the availability of institutional grade investments, particularly through liquid funds and venture investing, has never been higher.
00:04:21.370 - 00:05:11.390, Speaker A: Almost 7% of the world owns cryptocurrencies, 16% of US adults and that's according to the White House. Today bitcoin is almost 10% of gold's market cap and it still dominates the digital asset ecosystem by market cap. Stablecoins are becoming increasingly important in the global flow of remittance payments and cross border payments. With more than 5 billion average daily transaction volume. There are many ways to construct and analyze a portfolio. However if we look at a standard 6040 portfolio over the last five years, Bitcoin only improved the Sharpe ratio the more exposure it had. One of the most important properties of bitcoin and crypto assets is that they can be stored without the involvement of any intermediary.
00:05:11.390 - 00:06:27.020, Speaker A: However, the technological challenges with that or regulation may make that infeasible or impossible for institutions. Increasingly qualified custodians have emerged to provide custody for institutional investors. There are over 220 blockchain and crypto related ETPs tracked by Bloomberg. And at the end of quarter two 2024, more than 1200 US institutional investors disclosed exposure in spot Bitcoin ETFs. Today the asset management industry has embraced bitcoin and digital assets with the world's largest asset managers now offering funds in the US and globally. The institutionalization and maturation of the digital asset industry is visible if we look at the number of crypto related ET ETPs over time. When spot based Bitcoin ETFs launched in the United States in January 2024, it was a significant milestone for the world's first and most valuable cryptocurrency Indeed, since launching the Bitcoin spot, based ETFs in the US have seen a net positive inflow of over $18 billion, making it the world's most successful ETF launch in history.
00:06:27.020 - 00:07:51.770, Speaker A: Venture investing has also been one of the most popular ways to gain access to digital assets, with over 100 billion invested across more than 12,000 deals by venture investors just since 2017. By our count, there are 200 crypto venture funds and Galaxy itself has exposure to 66 portfolio companies. Venture investing by deal count and capital remains strong despite a drawdown since the 2021 Covid E, but allocators themselves are still slow to return, leaving significant opportunity for more seasoned venture funds to find strong deals. One of the most exciting new segments in crypto is the convergence of crypto and AI. AI has obviously been one of the hottest investment sectors both in public equities and in venture capital, and it's not hard to understand how the super supreme abundance of artificial intelligence might pair with the digital scarcity of cryptocurrencies and public blockchains. Increasingly, publicly traded companies are doing more and more in the digital asset space, with over 320 of them touching it in some way. Indeed, these companies do include crypto specific firms like bitcoin miners, but also fintech companies, technology companies and payments companies.
00:07:51.770 - 00:08:55.470, Speaker A: Many companies now hold Bitcoin on their corporate balance sheets. That includes both crypto native firms like Galaxy, but also non crypto native firms. At Galaxy, we offer institutional investors exposure to digital assets through a variety of products and services from three main lines of business. Our global markets business includes perhaps the world's largest institutional trading operation as well as an investment banking division that provides bespoke advisory services. Our asset manager offers single asset, multi asset fundamental and venture strategies both directly and in partnership with some of the world's largest asset managers. And our digital infrastructure solutions business includes institutional custody technology from GK8 and proprietary mining operation and institutional staking. Together these three units overlap and provide a comprehensive exposure to the entire space.
00:08:55.470 - 00:09:35.050, Speaker A: Galaxy Asset Management provides institutional grade access via passive, active and venture strategies. We've partnered with some of the world's largest asset managers to bring institutions into crypto State street and Invesco in the United States, DWs in the EU, CI Global Asset Management in Canada and ITAU in Brazil. Please note that nothing included in this video represents investment advice or an offer recommendation or solicitation by Galaxy or any of its affiliates to buy or sell any securities.
