00:00:00.200 - 00:00:34.792, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Danthony Cisano, and today's the 27 July 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So the first thing I wanted to talk about was this tweet that I put out today that, I don't know if it was controversial, but there were some people that disagree with me on this and I'd love to just kind of go through this with you guys and see what, what you think about it. So I said in this tweet, I think there's really only two ways that a coin token will be able to accrue long term value. The first way is becoming a money slash store of value. Second one is becoming equity like such as sharing a protocol revenue with token holders.
00:00:34.792 - 00:01:30.248, Speaker A: And then I said that assets that do both will become the most valuable. Now, in the first kind of a category here, I gave examples of Ethan BTC. I don't think there's any other assets in crypto that are a money or a store of value or like, or something like a commodity, right? There are kind of like assets that have commodity like properties, but definitely not on the level of something like an ethnically money and definitely a store of value, right? And I think the most obvious kind of evidence of this, to me at least, is the fact that both Ethan BTC trade at many multiples of their price to sales kind of like ratio. BTC in particular trades at like over 2800, I think, on price to sales ratio. So it's obviously not valued based on the revenue that bitcoin network is generating. Otherwise it wouldn't be valued as highly as it is. And same is true to ETH for an extent, I think eats price to sales is 140 x, which is not, you know, anywhere near as kind of like high as bitcoins.
00:01:30.248 - 00:02:08.856, Speaker A: But I think it's just like one piece of evidence that we can point to. But obviously ETH is used as money a lot more than bitcoin is within the ethereum economy, at least probably not outside of it that much. But yeah, I mean, there's no doubt that both of these are money slash store values. I think that's pretty clear. And the second category pretty much applies to basically everything else. So these equity like tokens that share protocol revenue with token holders, we don't see many of them, obviously because of regulations and laws and things like that, and project kind of like teams being scared to turn on the fee switch, so to speak. Like, obviously, the perfect example here is uni, where the Uniswap protocol keeps growing, keeps generating record revenues.
00:02:08.856 - 00:02:49.258, Speaker A: But uni token holders are seeing none of that because they're because of kind of like regulatory concerns. And there hasn't been a vote to kind of like turn on that fee switch yet. And there are some protocols out there that do have kind of a fee take, but, you know, they don't generate that much fee revenue for the token holders, and thus they're not valued as highly as people would like them to be. But obviously, there is also going to be a notion of kind of like growth potential baked into these price prices. And obviously, crypto assets are kind of like pretty much correlated in general. So if, like BTC and ETH are going down, the rest of them are probably going to be going down more. So there are other factors here, but I'm talking about long term value accrue, and I mean, like many, many years sort of thing.
00:02:49.258 - 00:03:33.088, Speaker A: So if you look at all the assets that have done really well over the long term, there isn't that many of them. It's really ETH, BTC, and a few assets out there. But if you measure these assets against USD from, maybe they're kind of like bottoms of what when they were trading. I mean, it does depend where you measure it from, but if you measure it from the bottom of the kind of like range, or you maybe take like a six to twelve month kind of like weighted average of their price over that time and see where they are today. Well, a lot of them haven't really performed against ETH or BTC. I mean, pretty much all of them wouldn't perform very well against Ethan BTC. Maybe they performed well against USD, but I think that it can be discounted a bit because of the fact that whenever BTC and ETH go up, it kind of raises the rest of the ecosystem value up as well.
00:03:33.088 - 00:04:28.046, Speaker A: So it's kind of difficult to measure those sorts of things these days still, because of the fact that the crypto market is so inefficient and it's so correlated with each other. But I think it's still a good way to look at things. Now, obviously, there are other like, kind of like ways to drive value to tokens. People mentioned staking as one. I think staking for the sake of staking is not going to drive value, and staking just to get inflationary rewards is not going to drive much value because if the inflationary rewards are too high, that's going to put downward pressure on the price, right? Yes, you'll get, probably get a lot of kind of like tokens locked up and a lot of people staking, but it's going to put downward pressure on the price because these people obviously going to want to realize that that kind of like that stake reward and they have bills to pay and kind of like taxes to pay and things like that. Same is true for Ethereum. You know, I'm not, not trying to say that kind of like a theory is different here, but there are some protocols out there that have like 1520, 25% kind of like staking yields, right.
00:04:28.046 - 00:05:01.934, Speaker A: That's just insane because you can clearly kind of map that to the inflation of the token and then you can take into account any other tokens that are coming to market from maybe insiders, you know, VC's team liquidity mining programs, outside of that, you know, ecosystem reward programs, all that sorts of stuff. So those are definitely things to consider there when talking about staking. But usually when you stake, you get a reward in obviously the kind of like inflation of the network token. But you also get like the fear revenue. So it's the same thing. It's like, yeah, you're getting the share of the fear when you be just kind of like locking up your token to get it. It's not enough to hold the token in your wallet.
00:05:01.934 - 00:05:27.698, Speaker A: You don't get that. You have to kind of lock it up to get it. Whereas there are other schemes like obviously AIP 1559 and Ethereum where ETH is burnt that acts as a pseudo dividend. And that's why I said assets that do both of these things, you know, become a money story value and become more equity like are going to be the most valuable. And that's ETH really, at the end of the day, ETH does, does all of it. Like ETH is an amazing asset and I've been through this before on the refill, so I won't, I won't rehash it again. But most of the tokens aren't equity like at all.
00:05:27.698 - 00:06:00.996, Speaker A: You know, they may have those kind of like governance properties that equity has, but it's really a meme. Like at the end of the day, because no one really values these things based on their governance rights. Maybe long, long term they will. For the really successful protocols it'll make more sense. But these days it really doesn't. So long term value accrual is, I think, just going to be bucketed into these two things. And there are other things out there that people have tried such as, you know, the algorithmic stablecoin thing, where you basically have like this Ponzi esque mechanism that we saw in terra, where the better the stable coin does, you know, the better the kind of like token does.
00:06:00.996 - 00:06:40.856, Speaker A: And it feeds off of each other, right? You have like, ust and Luna feeding off of each other. Then you have some other things like protocol owned liquidity, which is basically like a kind of a share buyback, so to speak. I mean, it is using it for productive purposes. So it's buying kind of like the tokens and then providing liquidity for it, or buying kind of like the LP shares, which is buying, obviously, half the tokens, half something else, and things like that. But again, it's very similar to just kind of like, I guess, sharing protocol revenue, just in a roundabout way. So I think if you want to look at it from the highest level, it's basically these two things, a commodity and a security. If you want to talk about them in the traditional sense, obviously, no one, no tokens want to be classified as a security, which is kind of bizarre to me.
00:06:40.856 - 00:07:13.326, Speaker A: I think long term, most of these tokens being classified as a security is actually a positive. I do think securities laws need to be updated for crypto assets, but I don't think them being labeled a security is a death sentence, because think about it, some of the largest or most of the largest assets in kind of like in the traditional finance ecosystem are securities. I mean, go look at the stock market. It's all securities, right? And we have some trillion dollar companies in there, such as. As Apple. So something being labeled as security is not a death sentence for it. It could actually end up being a boon for it.
00:07:13.326 - 00:07:42.116, Speaker A: But I think for that to happen, there needs to be securities laws updated to reflect kind of like, the intricacies of crypto assets. And the exchanges would also need to be registered to trade securities. Obviously, a lot of the exchanges aren't registered to do that, and there is a lot of red tape around that. So that, I guess, is why they don't want to be registered as securities. But there are decentralized exchange alternatives, too, and there are kind of, like, different ways to trade these things depending on what you want to do. But, yeah, I kind of, like, get it there. Whereas a commodity, right, is a totally different thing.
00:07:42.116 - 00:08:33.312, Speaker A: And I think it's funny because ETH has the properties of both a commodity and a security, if you're looking at it from a kind of, like, traditional point of view. But I don't think ETH is a security at all. Obviously BTC is in a security, but I think BTC definitely on the money SoV side and much less on the equity like side because BTC holders don't have a share of anything in the network really, because there's no proof of stake and there's also no kind of like fee burn. And, but on top of that as well, you also have the fact that SOV and moneyness of an asset, it's not so much based on fundamental drivers, is based on belief. As I said, like BTC being viewed as a money slash store of value means that it is trading at such a huge multiple of its big of its kind of like network revenue, which means that's belief. Like people believe that bitcoin is a good story, value is a good money. They want to buy it.
00:08:33.312 - 00:09:09.406, Speaker A: They think it's going to be worth more in the future. Obviously there's an element of belief to pretty much all assets, but I think it's much more pronounced for a money slash sov because at the end of the day, you know, we all know it. Even the money that is issued by government, governments even fear it's all a faith based system. At the end of the day, it is not really kind of like, you know, if we value something, like if I value this kind of like fiat and you value this kind of fiat and you'll accept it, well, it's kind of like exchange for goods and services like that. Right. And I think store of value is even, is even bigger. I mean, there's, I mean, the reason why gold is worth so much and it's considered a story of value is because we made it that way.
00:09:09.406 - 00:09:38.550, Speaker A: Like, it's kind of like use within the industry and just industrial use would make its market cap much lower than what it is. So I think, you know, as much as I think it's a meme, BTC and gold are pretty similar in that sense. But I think ETH transcends that because ETH has all of those properties, but as well, also they have the equity like, sorry. Also it has the equity like properties, too. So when you put all that together, that's why I think that assets that do both of these things will become the most valuable. And obviously, I'm very, very bullish on ETH. So that's kind of like my thinking around this.
00:09:38.550 - 00:10:05.246, Speaker A: Maybe you agree with me, maybe you don't. I'd love to get your thoughts on this in the YouTube comments below or in the Discord channel. You know, let me know if you think that I'm stupid for thinking this, or if you think it's accurate, I'd love to hear from you. All right, onto the next update. If my mouse wants to work. So, onto an update from optimism today. So they've launched a new onboarding flow designed to introduce optimism to new users in an accessible way regarding regardless of their previous experience with crypto.
00:10:05.246 - 00:10:34.192, Speaker A: After completion, you'll be able to claim an NFT without reflecting your interests. This is really, really cool, guys. Like, I think optimism has outdone themselves here. You can actually see the first page of kind of getting started with optimism. And they have three things, things to kind of like, I guess like three categories here where, you know, you can select your starting your journey so you're completely new to crypto, or that you've used centralized exchanges, or that you've used other blockchains. And now there'll be different steps depending on what you select here. So if you're selecting, I'm just starting my journey.
00:10:34.192 - 00:11:04.892, Speaker A: They'll walk you through how to download a wallet, how to add optimism to that wallet, or the optimism network to that wallet, how to deposit Ethan to the wallet and get your free optimism NFT. I think this is really cool. It's something that's obviously pretty simple and something that doesn't probably apply to most of us or if not all of us, on the refuel. But I think it's just really cool that optimism is doing this because, as I've said plenty of times, guys, like, it's all well and good to build all this cool technology, but we need to make it easier for people to be on board it. And it's great that optimism is taking the initiative here. They didn't have to do this. They could just leave this up to the application layer, but they're taking it seriously.
00:11:04.892 - 00:11:34.494, Speaker A: And then this is really good for adoption of optimism in general as well. So I really, really like this. And the NFTs are really cool that they've kind of got here as well. And you can kind of use it with Rainbow Wallet, which I'm actually going to talk about in a sec. Not in a sec, a little bit later in the refill here. But yeah, I mean, you can get the kind of, like, I guess, full details here in the get started section on the blog. But then if you want to see this in action, you can basically go to the website with, which is app optimism IO get started and you can see the different options here.
00:11:34.494 - 00:11:47.568, Speaker A: Well, okay, mine's not in dark mode. I'm going to put a dark mode on. There we go. So you can go, I'm starting my journey. And then I've used centralized exchanges, you know, download the wallet, all that sort of stuff. I've used other blockchains. And then you just have to basically add the optimism network.
00:11:47.568 - 00:12:15.146, Speaker A: So it basically tailors it to, to kind of like what skill level or what I guess, like familiarity you are with, with crypto, which I think is very, very, very cool. So kudos to optimism for doing this. I'm excited to see what else they've got cooking up on the onboarding front as well. So speaking of upgrading the onboarding process, arbitrum has upgraded their bridge page. Now, this page has been notoriously kind of like called out as not being user friendly. Well, they've updated that. They now have kind of like the Albatram Bridge here.
00:12:15.146 - 00:12:39.080, Speaker A: And it's saying that I'm on the wrong network. I think it's because I'm on polygon right now. Let me just change that to Ethereum main net. There we go. So when you kind of like have selected the Ethereum main net, you'll get like the nice bridge interface here where you can select how much ETH that you want to bridge into arbitram one. Now I have my sassle dot ETH address loaded up here. So if I was to enter kind of like one ethnic, and then it'll show me kind of on average from one, what I'll be able to get, and it'll give you all the details here.
00:12:39.080 - 00:13:11.480, Speaker A: So you're moving one ETH. You'll pay this much in gas fees pretty cheap right now, guys, if you're thinking about bridging into L2 is probably a good, good, good time to do that. And it'll break down, like what the l one gas cost is and what the l two gas cost is. Obviously, bridging into an l two doesn't cost anything on the l two, but it does on the l one. And you can kind of like click move funds to arbitrum. And that's basically it, like very, very easy onboarding process, which I really, really love to see. And then there'll be a status page after you've gone through it, as you can see on the GIF here that basically says, you know, probably about ten minutes till your funds are onboarded into arbitram one.
00:13:11.480 - 00:13:44.724, Speaker A: So very, very cool to see this. I think, obviously, as I was saying about the optimism thing, the more ways and the easier ways we make it for people to be onboarded into these L2s, the better. Obviously the easiest way for people and the cheapest way is probably always going to be centralized exchanges. But for people who don't want to do that, for people who have existing assets on ethereum layer one, we need to make that as easy as possible as well. People obviously want to go back and forth between layer one and L2. I do think that layer one is still going to persist for a while. There are a lot of people that are fine paying the fees, even if the fees go up to like $50 a swap or something.
00:13:44.724 - 00:14:19.104, Speaker A: Again, I think people are fine paying that because usually when they go up that high it's a bull market and it's kind of like worth it for them. So I do think layer one is going to persist for quite a while. It has such a huge network effect and making it easy for people to kind of like bridge in and out of it. For those who want to do that with L2s is going to be very important. Because L2, just because they have cheaper fees doesn't mean they only appeal to people who can't afford the layer one fees. They also appeal to anyone who wants to use applications on there, wants to make money on there, wants to get value out of the products and services on there. So having a good bridging experience in n out is very, very important, I think.
00:14:19.104 - 00:14:57.484, Speaker A: Alright, so speaking of kind of like bridging, there's kind of a tweet here from Toggerell who is a senior researcher at scroll about connecting about, sorry, hot protocol enabling support from scroll, scroll layer one to scroll L2, which is really, really cool to kind of like see here. So if you're wondering why it's called scroll layer one, tograil kind of mentions this in the replies. It's saying it's running on a private fork of Ethereum for now. Hence why the naming. So seems like scroll is kind of making moves. Here they are. I mean I mentioned them a couple of weeks ago about how they have the ZKVM, kind of like alpha Testnet, I believe, or pre alpha testnet kind of out there right now.
00:14:57.484 - 00:15:24.016, Speaker A: But they're making moves definitely. They are going to be, I think, a big player in the ZK ecosystem. It's funny because I always see people mentioning, obviously a polygon, ZK sync and Starkware in the ZK race, but don't sleep on scroll guys. Like they really are some of the smartest people in the ecosystem. They've just been under the radar and mostly in stealth or I guess like in quiet, in pseudo stealth for a little while now. So definitely check them out. If you haven't yet checked out the technology that they've got, I think, you know, they're there.
00:15:24.016 - 00:15:58.272, Speaker A: Maybe. It's kind of hard to say like which networks are going to be live on mainnet in a capacity that devs and users can kind of like get value out of on the ZkVM front. They're all in a race right now. We saw them all kind of like announced the zkvms at the same time in the same week, and there was a big discussion last week about that. But it's going to be an interesting, interesting thing to see, like what the race is like. Because obviously I said to you guys, the race isn't just a kind of like a short term thing, it's a long term thing. So even if, for example, Polygon and Zksync launched before scroll, it doesn't really mean anything.
00:15:58.272 - 00:16:31.904, Speaker A: I think what means the most, as I've said lots of times on the refuel, is kind of like the marketing, the business development, the onboarding users, the supporting infrastructure, all that sorts of stuff. And developers obviously is a big kind of like thing there as well. So love to see kind of when this stuff goes live, but very cool to see that scroll is kind of like working on their bridging and it's. I think this is hot protocols interface. So I don't know if this is hot protocol, kind of like helping them with it, or they forked hop and did something and did this cut to kind of, I guess like test out some things on their back end. But we'll have to see kind of like what happens there. But it's cool to see a little teaser here from scroll today.
00:16:31.904 - 00:17:01.464, Speaker A: All right, so Polygon has published their quarter two stats of the Polygon Pos chain and it actually grew in the second quarter. So you can see here that the POS chain is now home to 5.34 million unique addresses, a 12% increase from Q one. Total Qt q two transactions increased 4% to 284 million and network revenue was 5.56 million. Average cost per transaction fell 49% to about two cent here. And then they go into more detail about this.
00:17:01.464 - 00:17:32.609, Speaker A: Very, very cool to see this. I know the polygon pos chain is kind of like divisive thing amongst people, but guys like take it from me, I do think when polygon has their mature ZkVM out, they're going to convert the pOS chain to a ZkVM. It makes too much sense for them to do it, and I think they really, really want to do it. The POS chain inherently has limits. It is kind of like a patchwork. It's good, it works, it's fine, but it is a patchwork kind of solution. It is one of those kind of like bridging short term solutions until we had more mature kind of like zkvms and stuff like that out there.
00:17:32.609 - 00:18:36.382, Speaker A: So when you, when I'm seeing these stats, I think it's really cool because if polygon, which I think they can do this, but if they can basically get to a point where they're like, okay, or we're ready to basically turn the POS chain into a ZKVM and we're going to be able to do it without erasing any history, without kind of like interrupting the user flow, without interrupting anything. Sort of like how the merge is being done for ethereum. If they can do that, that is insane, because that basically means that the POS chain goes from being a kind of like more or less a standalone chain, right, to a full L2 ZKVM on Ethereum with all of the network effect that it has accrued as the POS chain. So this is what I've been talking about in the past about how these layer ones, these other networks, these side chains could, all these standalone networks could in theory, kind of like change over to a roll up or whether it be a ZKVM or an optimistic roll up or something like that. And in doing so, they bring all of their network effect, they bring all of their kind of like users and developers and all the activity and all the apps and everything with them, which can't be said for new ecosystems that are spun up. New ecosystems are fine. I have nothing wrong with that.
00:18:36.382 - 00:19:22.844, Speaker A: I'm very bullish on those two because they can very quickly be spun up these days. But in the, in the, in kind of like in the meantime, uh, these other networks can kind of like gain ecosystem kind of like traction game network effect, and then be converted into a L2 into a roll up, which I think is incredibly bullish. So good to see the polygon POS chain growing. I'm definitely eager for the day that the POS chain gets converted to a ZkVM. Probably won't happen anytime soon, just because obviously they'd probably want to release the ZKVM first on Mainnet, then let it bake for a while and see kind of like how it plays out, and then convert the POS chain over eventually here all right, so I mentioned Rainbow before, which is the mobile wallet app that I've talked about on the refuel plenty of times now. So they announced today that they now support nfts on Mainnet. So Ethereum, Mainnet, the polygon, pos chain, arbitram and optimism.
00:19:22.844 - 00:19:50.842, Speaker A: Optimism. So you can see here the interface of kind of like seeing your NFT collectibles inside Rainbow Wallet. I think they've teased this for a little while now, and I think I've covered the teaser, but very, very cool to kind of like see this supported here. And as I said before, optimism. It kind of like showcased this here on their, kind of like their own NFT in the rainbow Wallet, which is very cool to see. But if you are a rainbow wallet user, you can now basically view your nfts there. If you're an NFT collector as well, even if you aren't NFT collector.
00:19:50.842 - 00:20:26.246, Speaker A: Like, I don't consider myself an NFT collector, but I have a lot of nfts on Cecil ETH, which I really kind of like treasure and I think are really cool, especially things like the EIP 15 nine NFT, obviously, and the daily gray anniversary NFT. So being able to kind of like just see them at a glance in a, in a wallet like rainbow is very, very cool. Obviously, Zappa released their v two last week, which has a heavy focus on nfts as well. So I look at them in there, but I think, you know, this is the magic of Ethereum. We don't just see our kind of like ETH and tokens. We see our defi positions, we see our nfts. We see Dow related things like, you know, governance forums and stuff like that and voting and all those sorts of things.
00:20:26.246 - 00:21:14.050, Speaker A: And we see web3 related stuff too, with lens protocol. Like your Ethereum wallet is not just a place to store your Ethan tokens, it just, it really is a passport into the entire ethereum network, which is obviously much more than kind of like just kind of holding tokens, right? Holding ETH, like, which is obviously the bull case for Ethereum, Ryan, something that we all get excited about, but very cool to see rainbow supporting nfts here. Definitely check it out if you're a rainbow user. Alright, so Mira has introduced web3 subscriptions today. So what web3 subscriptions are is basically a way for people to subscribe to any mirror publication with their wallets, and then you can receive an email when new content is posted. So they go on to say Mirror has always been a place for web3 creators to publish and make announcements. But until now, there hasn't been an easy way for communities to stay engaged through notifications.
00:21:14.050 - 00:22:02.368, Speaker A: Mirror takes subscriptions a step further by centering them around a web3 wallet rather than an email address. Web three subscriptions open the door to building a wallet based community that can be used across web3. As I was just saying about how an Ethereum wallet is more than just something to hold tokens in, this also falls into it where you can subscribe to people's kind of like publications using your wallet and then have an email address attached to it and then get the kind of like updates sent to your email. I believe this is also privacy preserving as well, which is very, very cool. So there's also a bunch of other things like identity related stuff that fall into this, but this is awesome. It's something that I've been waiting for for quite a while because I want to start kind of like publishing the Daily Gwei on Mira as well as Substack because I currently published a newsletter on just Substack because they had a way people to subscribe to it, whereas Mira didn't. Well, now Mira does.
00:22:02.368 - 00:22:45.414, Speaker A: So I can basically do kind of posting on Mirror and on Substack, which would just broaden the reach of the newsletter and maybe one day just kind of like move away from substack altogether and just use mirror. So very, very cool to see this. If you're a content creator, whether it be kind of like writing blog posts or you create content for a project that you're working on or anything like that, you should definitely check out web3 subscriptions. I think it's very, very cool. And I think it's a very unique use case of web3 and something that it's uniquely enabled by having an Ethereum wallet. Like people always say web3 whatever, like there's no real use cases doesn't really have a advantage over the current web to ecosystem. Well, I think this is one of the big advantages, being able to basically kind of like subscribe to publications with your wallet.
00:22:45.414 - 00:23:11.692, Speaker A: And then in these publications there are also embedded things like nfts that you can just do from all from the one tool, which I think is very, very cool. So definitely check out this announcement for further details here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Alright, to finish up today's episode, I wanted to talk about a thread here from Vance Spencer where he basically said webassembly is the future. It's written in JavaScript, it's written in rust. Subnets are the future. It's written in move scaling via hardware, Libra, data availability.
00:23:11.692 - 00:23:37.238, Speaker A: It's a settlement layer. It's modular. It's written in move. It's monolithic parachains, app chains. And basically what he's poking fine out here is all the buzzwords that people in crypto talk about all the time. And he continues this thread and basically has a couple of tweets here, which I really liked, where he says, what I actually care about is, if you aren't ethereum, how good is your business development team? Right? So really, at the end of the day, this is exactly what I've been saying for so long. Like, all these buzzwords, all this stuff, it doesn't matter.
00:23:37.238 - 00:24:07.222, Speaker A: Like, no one outside of the crypto natives, which is a very, very, very small percentage of the population, cares about this sort of stuff. It's good to care about the tech and build the best tech. But at the end of the day, the best tech is not what wins. Right? What wins is, as Vance said, the things with the best business development and marketing. Because Ethereum, the network, is objectively not the best tech there are. There is kind of like much better tech out there at the end of the day. But Ethereum has all the network effects.
00:24:07.222 - 00:24:41.080, Speaker A: Ethereum has a bustling L2 ecosystem that is handling all the business development and marketing on that front, Ethereum has a really, really strong community that does a lot of marketing as well. So, you know, there's all those kind of, like, things that play into it and these other things that we all talk about, like settlement layer, data availability, roll ups, all that sorts of stuff. That's for the in crypto crowd that is not for the mainstream. And at the end of the day, even within the in crypto crowd, none of this shit really matters. Like, you know, I remember last year, people were kind of like shilling Solana being like, oh, my God. You know, Solana has rust as rust support. People can write their smart contracts in rust.
00:24:41.080 - 00:24:58.212, Speaker A: It's so much better than solidity on Ethereum. It's amazing. Blah, blah, blah. Now I don't really hear that anymore. And now I'm starting to hear people go on about this move language that was created by Facebook's DM project and this kind of like, these new networks like Aptos and Sui. And it's the same kind of, like, thing as last year. It's just a different network and a different language.
00:24:58.212 - 00:25:14.594, Speaker A: People saying, oh, my God, moves amazing. It's better than solidity. It's, you know, Aptos is better than a theorem, blah, blah. It's time and time again. This is obviously, it's not just solar and aptos. It's so many of these other kind of like networks out there. Like at the end of the day, most of these networks, most of these other layer ones are completely useless.
00:25:14.594 - 00:25:57.766, Speaker A: There are certain ones that are literally just being made to extract money out of the ecosystem. A lot of the VC's that get involved with them are seriously just trying to extract value out of them. They don't actually care about anything except making money and kind of like pushing a narrative. They probably know deep down that these networks aren't going to have any long term sustainability, but they do it anyway because there's money to be made. There's a lot of money to be made. I mean look at layer one season, the, the second half of last year, anyone that exited that, you know, anywhere near the top and that was it kind of like got in early as a VC or something, made a lot of money from that. And there were a few VC's and funds especially that kind of like exited around there and made a lot of money, potentially billions of dollars, which is just crazy to think about because all of that money came from speculators and retail investors.
00:25:57.766 - 00:26:26.548, Speaker A: And at the end of the day, these ecosystems seem to be getting abandoned. At least most of them are, which is, you know, again, as I said, like just extractive and crazy. But I think just Vance put it really well here. At the end of the day, everyone talks about these kind of like tech things. Everyone tries to pump up an ecosystem by talking about them, but it's not about that. I think he's right in saying it's mostly about business development and marketing. But I also think it's about having a strong, long term oriented social layer, a strong community that obviously creates that social layer.
00:26:26.548 - 00:26:54.372, Speaker A: And I spoke about this yesterday or the day before about social decentralization. And our ethereum obviously is very strong. I think bitcoin has a strength there too. There's not really any other networks that I can point to that have that. And you can see that reflected in both the ecosystem and in the market price. And when you think about it like that, I think it's very easy to see why a lot of the people that have been in this ecosystem for a while just scoff at all of these sorts of things. They scoff at new networks because we've been here before, we've seen this play out before.
00:26:54.372 - 00:27:36.184, Speaker A: We're tired of it. Like, honestly guys, I am so tired of new layer ones, like, we don't need them. I'm not just saying this because I think Ethereum has already won. I just, I'm saying this because there's been so many attempts at this in the past and, you know, there's very, very few, if any, other layer ones besides Ethereum and bitcoin that actually look like they're going to have long term value. Like, could you point to anything except ethereum and bitcoin and say that you're confident that it's going to be relevant in ten years? It'll probably still be around in some fashion, but could you say that it's going to be relevant in ten years? I can't point to anything else. Even in some of the most hyped up things today, I can't confidently point to them and say, I think this thing is going to be relevant in ten years. As I said, I think they'll be around because there's still money to be made.
00:27:36.184 - 00:28:12.272, Speaker A: But relevancy, I don't think so. And, you know, if you go out more than ten years, right, you can kind of like, start to see that even if, like, it just depends. Like, ethereum and bitcoin are relevant today, but in ten years, like, we'll, we'll see what happens. Like, I obviously, I believe that ethereum, bitcoin and I have full, kind of like, confidence that they'll be around, but some people don't. So, you know, ten years is a lifetime in crypto. Ten years ago in crypto was 2012, guys, even before the first big bubble of bitcoin in 2013, with the whole Silk Road thing, 2012 was literally, I think, people just buying BTC to use it on Silk Road, really. So.
00:28:12.272 - 00:28:41.408, Speaker A: And a lot has changed since then, right? I mean, the whole ecosystem has changed completely. It's, it's un, I mean, if someone from 2012 time traveled to 2022, they wouldn't even know what to think of today's crypto ecosystem. So imagine what crypto is going to be like in 2032. Like, it's impossible. There is no way to predict it. But I have confidence, and I personally believe that in ten years, ethereum and bitcoin will still be relevant, but very relevant, probably more relevant than ever. But I don't, and I can't say the same thing for anything else out there.
00:28:41.408 - 00:28:52.984, Speaker A: And that's, that's just my view on things. I think we're going to have to see how it all plays out. Maybe I'll kind of like, think back to this refuel in ten years. And be like, oh, well, let's see what's relevant. Maybe ethereum is not relevant. I don't know. No, I don't think that maybe.
00:28:52.984 - 00:29:15.996, Speaker A: I think it's definitely going to be relevant. But it's kind of like funny when you think about it from that perspective and you kind of like take the decade view instead of maybe the week to week or month to month or even maybe year to year view. Once you start looking out much longer term, like ten plus years, you start to see some different kind of like, patterns emerge there. But, yeah, anyway, I think that's going to be it for today's episode. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up.
00:29:15.996 - 00:29:19.644, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
