00:00:05.610 - 00:00:38.810, Speaker A: Hey, can you see me? I think so. I'll be sharing my screen. Can you confirm that you can see that?
00:00:39.980 - 00:00:41.240, Speaker B: We can see it.
00:00:41.390 - 00:01:21.370, Speaker A: Great. Thank you very much. Today was a phenomenal day. I am filled with a ton of optimism for the future of public goods funding. You we have heard from fantastic set of speakers about many different kinds of projects and mechanisms and tools for how to do public goods funding. And so I wanted to just kind of leave you with a set of ideas for the future and then kind of think about a little bit of what's next. So we talked about polygoods the whole day and we talked about many mechanisms for how to get more of them to exist and how to reward groups and participants for creating them.
00:01:21.370 - 00:02:39.810, Speaker A: I wanted to kind of touch a little bit on why I think crypto presents an extremely optimistic potential for actually having an impact on public goods funding. So of course public goods have been funded by many groups and organizations throughout history, especially governments with massive funding scales. But it looks like crypto networks might actually be able to start reaching the level of funding that some nation states have provided. So as a good example for this, it's useful to think about kind of like the R and D budgets of nation states. And so this is roughly kind of like the distribution of R and D spending across different nations across the world in 2020. You can see also there's an amazing graph of this that shows it animated and kind of like you can see this changing over time and it's a fascinating, really useful thing to look at. I'm especially partial to science funding because I think science is one of the most important and valuable public funding, most important and valuable public goods in a sense.
00:02:39.810 - 00:04:04.888, Speaker A: And we talked earlier about how the innovation chasm is holding back tons of the science discoveries from having significant impact in the world. But here's a sense of the funding scale that just one of the bubbles here spends on non defense funding. So it's really useful to kind of separate non defense funding because defense funding ends up being kind of about as big as this whole stack. So a lot of the US's focus on scientific funding came out of after World War II. And one of the kind of seminal works in kicking starting all of this was Van Over Bush's Danless Frontier and this was Van Overbush had led one of the agencies that had overseen all of the R D work during the war effort. And so he presented this kind of pitch for the US. Now turning towards scientific funding and science has the endless tier meaning channel all of the energy and efforts that the entire kind of industrial might of the US during the war had mobilized.
00:04:04.888 - 00:05:03.280, Speaker A: And now channel all of that towards super strong set of discoveries in public funding, in basic research, and doing all kinds of R D throughout the landscape. And this pitch ended up turning into seeding the formation of the NSF and many other agencies in history. And so you can see here in the graph when the US sort of became super committed into driving kind of a lot of this R D funding. And of course this doesn't look at defense. So defense was actually a very large portion of this because a ton of the R and D was going into defense funding at the time. But if you look at the amounts of money and this is kind of in billions of constant, this is in billions of $20. So just before inflation, this amount of money is actually within the realm of possibility for crypto networks in the future.
00:05:03.280 - 00:06:12.516, Speaker A: So if we consider crypto networks and their value increasing by just two orders of magnitude or three orders of magnitude, which sounds like a ton, that is a lot. threeers of magnitude is an enormous amount for kind of an industry that's in the trillions now. But if we think about kind of all of the forms of value that is transacted through assets that could eventually be transacted through crypto, things like real estate and derivatives and all kinds of other structures like that, then crypto networks might actually start commanding a level of capital comparable with top nation states. So right now already crypto networks are larger than many nation states in terms of economic size. And so eventually these crypto networks might actually be able to fund entities and agencies at the scale of nation states. And so that's an extremely both amazing and kind of very promising feat. Because it means that if we can get the mechanisms right now, if we can prototype a lot of these structures and we can figure out how to do it.
00:06:12.516 - 00:08:09.804, Speaker A: Well, then, as crypto networks continue rewiring the economy, we can end up with a massive amount of funding for public goods in the long term. So a lot of the experiments that our communities are running now with kind of sizable amounts, but objectively small amounts relative to the rest of the world, these might actually form the structures or will inspire the structures that might end up organizing vast amounts of resources to do all kinds of long term R and D and public goods funding in a larger scale. So if you already thought what you were doing is pretty important for your communities, now consider that you might be running a lot of the critical experiments that we're going to need and we are going to retroactively thank you for in terms of finally arriving at extremely good structures that we can rely on for larger scale funding. So one other thought that I want to kind of leave the community with is we've talked about kind of the differences between kind of project funding in sort of for profit endeavors and these kind of not necessarily nonprofit. It's not for profit, not nonprofit. It's rather kind of public goods funding, public goods efforts that tend to not be for profit and tend to not be well rewarded by markets. And so I think what we effectively need to get to, and this is one of the things that the Protocols is going to be focusing a lot on in the coming years is create a structure that really enables teams to form and have access to a kind of staircase of funding similar to what the startup ecosystem has.
00:08:09.804 - 00:10:05.180, Speaker A: So the startup ecosystem has developed an extremely successful staircase of funding to identify really promising businesses and then over time fund them at different levels once they've proven out the results and then eventually kind of have some reward for all the prospective speculative investments of participants along the way. And so we got to get to a point where we can have a similar kind of ecosystem developing around these kinds of public goods or network funded structures. And so I think we can arrive to that with kind of like thinking about the possibility of all of the value generation that will be created by public goods and then use smart contracts to vault a lot of that value back into our time to then get us into a success case. And so I think this is kind of like an era of prior to utopian crypto economics can now start taking hold. I think the thing that a lot of people underestimate about the crypto space is that it just sort of feels for people outside of the crypto space, it sort of feels like just kind of a new important in development, in technology and so on but it doesn't feel that fundamental. And what's really going on is that we've coupled the world's most powerful superpower machine, the internet, and sort of like computing the software development and deployment platform that we've built with one of the most powerful components of our societies, which is mechanism, design and economics and so on. And so we've turned all of that into a fully programmable structure.
00:10:05.180 - 00:11:19.960, Speaker A: And so that means that the impacts of the crypto space are going to effectively rewire how most of our organizations and economic structures function. And the success rate is so fast and so promising it's extremely difficult to kind of make a case against it. I agree with Talic when he said earlier today that even now he's dramatically more optimistic this year than any year before in terms of crypto being here to stay and crypto being a really strong force economically. And so I think it'll of course be rocky along the way. And as these new structures emerge there'll be kind of many difficult challenges solved, things will get built that won't be right and we'll have to go through iterations of correcting those mistakes and so on. But I think it's an extremely promising potential and just to kind of illustrate the power of mechanism design in general. I always like using the example of bitcoin, right? So bitcoin is the output.
00:11:19.960 - 00:12:44.150, Speaker A: Bitcoin today is amassing and organizing a massive amount of energy and a massive amount of computing power effectively even though it's not very useful computing power. This staggering amount of energy use is organized just by a few mechanisms thrown into the internet. And so this is like the just raw power of mechanism design and we've had very direct experience with this as a community. Of course, many blockchain projects exist in the faculty network we just passed a year and just by weaving a set of mechanisms onto the internet, we managed to create a massive storage network, 13 megabytes amass in like one year, which is staggering. I don't think any I don't know for sure because there are many storage networks that are not only private but secret by several nation states and so on. But this seems to be like one of the fastest growing storage networks ever assembled. And that's one of just a staggering kind of show of the capability that you get out of creating mechanisms like this.
00:12:44.150 - 00:14:06.780, Speaker A: I'm really interested to see what's going to happen once we finally get structures for understanding economic flows in all kinds of goods that today have been sort of implicit or only factored into the economy kind of end to end or where the transactions don't actually quite match what's really happening. I think today with the power of blockchains and smart contracts and so on, we get the ability to identify all kinds of value flows and make them programmable in a way that they weren't before. So these kinds of things I think are extremely promising. So as those different kind of transaction flows can get composed and can get connected and interlinked, we might see these kind of massive royalty networks, not exactly royalty networks, just value flow networks emerge. And so I think this kind of stuff can start very small. I think one of the very successful things about the blockchain space has been the strong emphasis on small composable improvements released out into the network that people then end up building on. So I think something like this could get started just by developing the tools and primitives to create distributions of impact.
00:14:06.780 - 00:15:33.684, Speaker A: For example, if you could easily go to a website today and describe a list of participants and their rough, some weight in the distribution of credit that they might receive and just create that as a smart contract that just flows value whatever value goes into it, into its account, it just flows out to all of the other accounts according to that distribution. And if you make that distribution updatable over time, that component just on its own could start forming all of these networks over time. And so I think right now mirror can do something close to that. I think they call it a split but this hasn't really been done at a larger scale and for any other kind of components. I think just that primitive could enable reusing all of the NFT infrastructure to now couple many different kind of assets and property and so on with entire networks of value generation which would be extremely interesting. And just as an example of the scale of value that could flow through these things, this is just kind of the stats on the NFT art market. This is mostly art some amount of gaming now but it's pretty staggering to see kind of the level of transactions and the level of funding going through these systems.
00:15:33.684 - 00:16:30.764, Speaker A: I would expect this to keep growing a lot and especially change a lot once physical real estate starts joining. Right, so when actual property is transacted, houses and land and so on starts getting transacted in blockchains this will grow tremendously. I think we talked a lot about Dows today. I think it's been amazing to see the rise of DAOs as a new organizational primitive that many groups are experimenting with. It's been really great to see kind of the success cases so far. There's been a lot of cases where Dows have been successful in achieving a lot of things but we haven't yet seen Dows that do kind of like robust long term planning and kind of achieve really efficient outcomes in terms of time spent and so on. I think that'll be a place to watch.
00:16:30.764 - 00:17:50.628, Speaker A: I think once we should come up with some test cases for what Dows should be able to achieve and at what degree of quality and with what sort of resources as kind of like a test case for Dow designs to evolve towards to get to be extremely successful. I think this also presents the promise of potentially coming up with new organizational primitives for many different kinds of structures that exist today. So, for example, it'd be really cool to be able to create kind of a new version of a research lab or an R and D organization which is just sort of constituted or formed on the blockchain. And all of the participants that keep contributing to its projects and so on get tracked in credit assignment networks across the history of those projects. And then over time, you can sort of either potentially subdivide those labs as those labs grow and kind of like nucleate out into smaller labs or get it kind of like interrelated in some ways. And then you could then apply all this public goods funding kind of structures, especially retroactive public goods funding work to then yield a totally different way of funding science and funding R and D. I'm super excited for all of the things that the community is building and that are going to get built.
00:17:50.628 - 00:19:38.760, Speaker A: I really hope that this today has been useful in kind of exploring a lot of these structures. I would love to see kind of certificate of impact markets actually emerge. I think it's one of these ideas that once it gets built well and we can have large volumes of transactions around certificates of impact, this might turn out to be one of the most important contributions in the entire space. And so I think this is one of those ideas, kind of like cryptocurrency, that once it gets built out and gets tested out at scale and once we work out all of the problems and so on, this could be one of the most valuable contributions maybe perhaps in a decade. So I think this is the stuff that people should be experimenting with and building on and so on. Finally, I think I wanted to kind of create a hope that I think we could create a crypto powered ARPA level institution and create it in kind of a composable way by being able to kind of commission roadmaps. Publicly be able to integrate those roadmaps into kind of tech trees, then commission kind of a scoping of individual experiments that need to be done or project plans for kind of achieving unlocking those potential technologies and then create funding pools and networks to then sort of invest into the generation of new scientific results and the translation of those scientific results into new technology and crossing the chasm and so on, and kind of feed all of that back on itself.
00:19:38.760 - 00:20:32.324, Speaker A: And so I think we might be able to arrive at sort of like the world's best science and tech R and D institution. But this won't quite be a single institution. It'll be a network of institutions composed through mechanisms publicly. And I think if we can build the right primitives into pieces and test it out with, I don't know, at the scale of, like, tens of millions over the next year or so, and we find a good model that works, we could potentially scale that out by two or three orders of magnitude over the next five years. Five to ten years? And so that's an extremely promising thing because that would start being able to fund all kinds of efforts that today are totally underfunded. So I think that this is pretty interesting. So again, thank you for working on this area of the chasm.
00:20:32.324 - 00:21:10.310, Speaker A: Let's try and get more groups to cross. I'll plug again the amazing talk from Eric Drexler on Paradisopia and gold alignment. It's one of the most useful ideas that I think our communities can benefit from. And I want to give a special plug to Patreon because I think it's one of these things where perhaps in the future we should ask them to give a talk about this as well. This is one area that has been experimenting with public good funding in a kind of a pretty decentralized way. And this is totally outside of the crypto space, but extremely interesting. It's really cool to see that all the stats are around it.
00:21:10.310 - 00:22:27.096, Speaker A: The last thing I wanted to mention is kind of this idea of funding staircases, which is there's one really useful structure around the investment landscape is the ability to kind of very easily start projects and test them out and get to the next level of impact and use that experience to kind of raise more funding and so on in the investment landscape. In for profit businesses and so on, is filled with tons of investors across this entire landscape, giving many different levels of funding based on kind of really well established impact metrics. And there are tons of organizations doing this. So I think one of the really useful things is looking at just how much capital gets deployed this way. So it's on the order of now at least VC, so there's much more in other parts of investing, but just VC alone is on the order of 300 billion a year nowadays and this is deployed by a very large decentralized network. So we're talking hundreds of thousands of angel investors, tens of thousands of VCs and millions of investors in public markets. This is like a pretty large decentralized network of funding.
00:22:27.096 - 00:23:31.488, Speaker A: And so it'd be really amazing to be able to create a similar structure for public funding where today there is a very large amount of funding, but it's very decentralized in the small scale. So in the smaller parts of the staircase it's very decentralized. There's tons of individuals donating tons of money, but in the larger scales it's actually quite small. There are a few large agencies and sorry the text here didn't get updated, but there are a few large agencies and tons of the funding ends up being overseen by small groups that fall prone to kind of all kinds of groupthink and bad decision making that we know about happen in kind of like large organizations. And so it'd be extremely interesting to see what happens when this entire landscape gets way more decentralized. So again, get involved, I would say, if you're interested in working on any of this kind of stuff. So evaluating impact, impact markets network OKRs, compostable funding via blockchains reach out to us.
00:23:31.488 - 00:24:37.530, Speaker A: We would be super happy to evaluate proposals for funding, so things like grants and so on, or potentially retroactive funding, contact us, we'll apply this kind of funding circuits approach with different levels and as Evan mentioned, we are hiring for public funding teams and you also saw the plug for the S process developer from Andrew. Definitely if you are interested in any of these, definitely apply and thank you so much for an amazing day, thank you for working on this area and I wanted to kind of end with a huge thank you to all the organizers and all the people and all the groups that were involved. This was a huge amount of effort and a ton of labor over the last week. It was a fantastic day overall and thank you so much Carla for running an amazing show today. I'm super in awe of your amazing ability as a host. So thank you so much and that's it. Perhaps see you around another time.
00:24:37.530 - 00:24:41.830, Speaker A: Great.
00:24:41.900 - 00:25:07.020, Speaker B: Thanks for that call to action and opportunity. And thanks again for joining us for the funding the Commons Virtual summit. Remember that it's our goal to have more of these events, so please use the Telegram channel to continue the conversations we began here today and follow the research twitter at protoreesearch to learn about upcoming events in this series. From all of us at protocol labs, meet Global. Good morning, good afternoon and good night, and we'll see you at the next event.
