00:00:00.170 - 00:00:31.766, Speaker A: Today we're diving into Aptos, the latest layer one chain to come out on the market and position itself as a safe, scalable upgrade to web3 infrastructure. Aptos was born out of Facebook's defunct Libra and DM projects. It has been hailed as the Solana killer. It has huge backers like FTX Finance and Andreessen Harowitz that have allowed it to raise hundreds of millions of U. S. Dollars before even having a single user. But all that hype was a double edged sword, as on its first day of trading, it plunged 40% from the get go.
00:00:31.766 - 00:01:23.286, Speaker A: So what is Aptos, and who's behind it? Well, you've come to the right place to get apt to speed. So what is Aptos? If we want to get to the bottom of what Aptos is, then we need to go back to 2019, when meta, the company formerly known as Facebook, decided it wanted to get into the crypto game. That's when Meta came up with a stablecoin project called Libra, a permission based blockchain with its own digital token that was supposed to be backed by a basket of currencies from around the world. That idea was then squashed by regulators, which led Meta to go back to the drawing board, where they rebranded the Libra to create a much simpler token called the DM, which was supposed to be pegged to the US dollar. But when the DM failed too, the DM association that ran the project decided to sell the assets and the intellectual property to the cryptocurrency venture known as Silvergate Capital, for 182,000,000 U. S. Dollars.
00:01:23.286 - 00:02:01.470, Speaker A: Meta may have realized that regulators would block any path towards it becoming a central player in the blockchain ecosystem. But that didn't stop ex Meta employees Mo Shaik and Avery Ching from taking up the mantle and trying to realize the vision of the DM blockchain. They named their new venture Aptos, and it quickly raised over 350,000,000 U. S. Dollars, receiving the backing of many big name VCs, including Silvergate Capital, who, as we just mentioned, had bought the assets and intellectual property rights of DM. Other big name investors include FTX Ventures, jump crypto finance, Andreessen Harowitz, Multicoin Capital, and Circle Ventures. A good beginning for Aptos.
00:02:01.470 - 00:03:01.474, Speaker A: But would it be a sign of bright days to come? We'll have to find out in a moment, after a quick word from our sponsors, who make sure to keep the lights on around here. Singularity Dao is a decentralized portfolio management protocol that manages crypto assets using AI and advanced data analysis. Dynasets are non custodial vaults of tokens created to outperform holding popular assets such as bitcoin and Ethereum. During the previous trading window, dynasets outperformed their underlying assets by more than 50%, with users of Dyne ETH doubling their Ethereum holdings. The Dynaset contribution window is open now and will close in a few days. All you need to do is use the referral code defiant when depositing to enter a prize draw of 500s dow for five winners and benefit from their advanced trading strategies. And we are back to Aptos so when Salana was just getting launched in 2020, it was being hyped up as the ETH killer because transactions were faster and cheaper than the ethereum network.
00:03:01.474 - 00:03:45.970, Speaker A: Flash forward to today and Ethereum is still around. It hasn't been killed and Solana is also still around. And although the transactions are faster and cheaper on the network, its networks have been affected by outages lately that have called the blockchain into question. So when Aptos was announced, it suddenly was being labeled the Solana killer. But why? Both blockchains run on the rust based programming language, and both apparently have similar transaction speeds due to their parallel execution technique. What excited some people about Aptos was the possibility to create a blockchain incredibly well suited to smart contracts and the claim that Aptos would theoretically be able to process 160,000 transactions per second. In fact, just before the launch, Aptos boasted an astonishing 130,000 tPs.
00:03:45.970 - 00:04:37.926, Speaker A: But as we would soon find out after the launch, the actual rate of transactions per second was closer to four, which is even lower than bitcoin. In a response to an email from the Defiant, a spokesperson from Aptos clarified that TPS displayed on its block explorer showed current transaction speeds, not the blockchain's maximum capacity. So we'll have to wait and see whether Aptos can come close to its promise of 100,000 plus TPS. When launch day of the Aptos Apt token arrived on October 18, critics were not impressed by Binance, FTX and Coinbase for listing the token without even knowing the emission schedule or total supply of coins. In fact, no tokenomics overview had even been published by that point. And what makes things even more dodgy is that the exchanges, finance and FTX are actually big investors in Aptos. The first day of the Aptos token launch was not pretty.
00:04:37.926 - 00:05:49.222, Speaker A: The price of the token immediately plummeted by 40.5%, and Aptos Labs felt inclined to freeze their discord and telegram groups because of the overwhelming backlash they were receiving for never coming close to their promised TPS rate and, well, for not ever releasing any tokenomics. Eventually they did release a tokenomics article, but that only fanned the flames of criticism even more. But why? Where to begin? To start with, the tokenomics article revealed that a massive 49% of the tokens were already allocated to developers and private investors, with the other 51% going to the quote community. But look a little bit deeper as to what they mean with community and you will see that 51% is actually going to core developers, early investors, and the Aptos foundation. Among the concerns around how the community was actually supposed to access this 51% token supply, suspicions that investors already had the tokens ready to dump on retail began to rise, causing CT to erupt with even more pump and dump cries. Aptos then went on to announce a surprise 20 million apt token airdrop for early participants of the network, with each wallet getting around 150 tokens per wallet.
00:05:49.222 - 00:06:46.190, Speaker A: That brings us to Paul Fadika, a dev who built on Aptos but then stopped after an inside look into the project made him realize that this thing is about to get a lot of FUD. He went on to Twitter to point out that the tokens that went on for sale were already owned by centralized exchanges, FTX, Coinbase and finance, though we cannot confirm if that's entirely true. But a thing he does correctly point out is that Aptos is not at all community run, as all 101 validators were handpicked by Aptos labs themselves. So much for decentralization. It is red flags galore when you start to nitpick the tokenomics of APT, and it's also highly questionable that exchanges are even allowed to list their tokens without the tokenomics being released. However, at the end of the day, the fact that Apt crashed before it could even take off shows that many of us in crypto are tired of hyped up layer ones who promised to solve every single problem in web3 before even launching that's it for today's quick take. We'll see you tomorrow.
