00:00:00.240 - 00:00:22.550, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delegate refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host. Anthony decided today's the 14 August 2023. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So we have an update on the SEC versus Coinbase case here from Metalawman. On Twitter, he says six securities law scholars file a devastating amicus brief in support of Coinbase.
00:00:22.550 - 00:00:56.430, Speaker A: Law professors from Yale, University of Chicago, UCLA, Fordham, Boston University and Widener filed an amicus brief last night, last night being August 11, that absolutely shreds the SEC's investment contract theory. So, you know, this is just continuing the trend of seeing people being on Coinbase's side in this case. And obviously, as I mentioned last week, the SEC continues to be this big bully that kind of has disregard for the law. They lost their case against ripple. Well, part, you know, parts of the case against ripple because of that. Right. They were disregarding what was actually written in the law.
00:00:56.430 - 00:01:13.694, Speaker A: And it seems that that's what they're doing with. With Coinbase. Yeah. And I, you know, I've said this before. I've gone through it before. I basically said that the only thing that can change this or the only thing that can. That can kind of, like, make this a more positive outcome is if Congress is that is, was to actually legislate on this and make the.
00:01:13.694 - 00:01:30.718, Speaker A: Make it a lot clearer for companies like Coinbase. Otherwise, the SEC would just use the ambiguity to go after these companies. And, you know, some of the time they'll force them to capitulate. Other times they will fight and then capitulate and then some. Sometimes they'll lose. Right? They lost against ripple. I expect them to lose against Coinbase.
00:01:30.718 - 00:01:45.750, Speaker A: But they won against Kraken. Right? The Kraken agreed to shut down their staking service and paid a fine. They won against. Against eos back in the day. Right. Which, I mean, back then I did. I mean, I saw them do that and I was like, this is crazy.
00:01:45.750 - 00:02:38.882, Speaker A: They find them, what, $24 million? And then they got away with like $4 billion or something like that. But it's all about what they're going after them for, right? They're going after them for issuing an unregistered security. It's different to them going after, you know, Coinbase for trading unregistered securities and all that sorts of stuff. And then I think recently, yeah, I mentioned that the bit Rex thing, the SEC went after Bitrex, and again, Bitrex just settled because they're like, well, we're in bankruptcy anyway and we'll just pay you out of the bankruptcy kind of filing here. So as I mentioned last week, SEC just continues to be that bully, just continues to be that mafia mob like entity that basically gets protection money from these companies in the form of settlements or fines. So great to see that these law professors put filing amicus briefs on behalf of Coinbase or in support of Coinbase against the SEC's kind of frivolous lawsuit against them. So great to see that.
00:02:38.882 - 00:03:14.712, Speaker A: And I'll keep you guys updated if there are anything, anything else on that comes out. But you can check out the tweet, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, Chandling, God put out a really great tweet over the weekend where he basically summarized some of the, the really exciting stuff that's been happening over the last few months when it comes to user experience. So he's got a list of things here. And I wanted to briefly go through each thing, each of those things on this list because I think that's pretty, really important. So the first thing is account abstraction or AIP 4377. So account abstraction has been a pretty big topic in the Ethereum community this year, especially over the last six or so months.
00:03:14.712 - 00:03:57.818, Speaker A: There's been a lot of work happening on that in the background. I've highlighted a bunch of it. There's been a bunch of work from different teams such as Argent, that has been, that have been working on it for quite a while, few a now. But really the, the wheels seem to be turning, right? I mean, they need to be turning, you know, albeit slowly, but, but turning on account obstruction and making the user experience generally better for users. At L2. I mean, there was an EIP that was going to, I think it's 4377 or no, I think it's actually another EIP that wanted to, I wanted to allow people to convert their externally owned account or their normal Ethereum address into us into a smart contract, which would essentially make it, I guess, an account abstraction wallet, depending on the terminology that you use there. So there's all that sort of stuff happening in the background as well.
00:03:57.818 - 00:04:37.553, Speaker A: But yeah, it is, it is a slow kind of chug here. Now, next up we have paymaster gas fee sponsors. So what this is, is basically what I spoke about last week when it comes to visa allowing people to essentially pay gas fees in whatever token they want using their debit or credit cards. This has been a thing that's been around for a while, basically in the form of something called meta transactions, where essentially you could pay a fee in any number of supported coins or tokens and then obviously it would be converted in the back end to eat. Because ETH is the only coin that you can use to pay fees on the Ethereum layer one network. You have to settle in ETH there. But it was abstracted away from the user and it obviously made the user experience and makes the user experience a lot better.
00:04:37.553 - 00:05:17.370, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day, let's just say a user has been on boarded. They're just doing stable coin stuff. They have some USDC or some dire whatever it is, and they don't have any ETH. Well, they shouldn't be prevented from using the Ethereum network, from using the L2s. So just because they don't have ETH and now with stuff like Paymaster and of course meta transactions, things like that, once they've been, you know, once they get added as support to various wallets and various other infrastructure providers, we can allow for that uh, that abstraction away of gas fees. And as I said, it's still ultimately paid in ETH in the backend, but for the user it's displayed to them in whatever token they choose, really. I mean, I do think that the end state would be ETH and stablecoins.
00:05:17.370 - 00:05:41.966, Speaker A: I don't imagine people paying for gas fees in many other tokens, to be honest. Considering that, Ethan, stablecoins are definitely the most liquid, they're the most used, they're the most logical for it to be used as gas fees. But ultimately it doesn't matter if you're using stable coins. As I said, it's still settled in ETH. Then there's passkey authentication, which was something that I mentioned last week as well. Turnkey has been, has been pioneering this, has been using this. They had a demo with Goldfinch.
00:05:41.966 - 00:06:18.138, Speaker A: And you can go look at last week's episode for a breakdown of that. There's NPC and secure enclave custody, which is not necessarily new, but has been getting more and more traction. I know Clin based wallet uses it. You have obviously the l two s optimistic and Zk roll ups just absolutely taking off, right? I mean, I think they've taken off more than people thought they would, considering it's a bear market still, and considering like how quiet the market is right now. And I'm going to talk about that towards the end of the episode, but obviously that's making huge strides. And I've talked about that a lot. We have proto Dank, sharding or ERP 4844 coming in hopefully November, as I've said before, as part of the Den Kun upgrade.
00:06:18.138 - 00:07:01.724, Speaker A: And then of course cross chase chain messaging such as chain links CCIP solution there, which I talked about a couple of weeks ago, basically allowing for arbitrary message passing between different chains, allowing for mint and burn of tokens on different chains. You don't have a honey pot of tokens on these bridges. So yeah, a lot of exciting stuff happening there. And chain link God basically finished off this tweet by saying the user experience of web3 is becoming rapidly abstracted and simplified. And it really is, it really is. It really feels like we're having this UI UX renaissance within the crypto ecosystem right now, where we know we have the infrastructure in place, you know, l two s, we know they're getting cheaper over time. We know that we can get the fees down to sub cent.
00:07:01.724 - 00:07:41.246, Speaker A: We know that there is going to be a massive influx of users at some point, and there is a lot of demand for these sorts of things, and we just need to abstract away as much of this stuff as possible for the end user so they get the best user experience possible. As I've said plenty of times in the past, the future is not metamask, guys, like, the future is not metamask interface. The future is much closer to what we see from a wallet like rainbow and uniswap. But even then, and coinbase wallet, of course, but even then, it's still not simple enough. It's still not abstracted away enough. It needs to be as dead simple as possible. And I've talked about it on the refill, of course, where essentially we need, you know, just two clicks max of someone to be able to do something within crypto using a wallet.
00:07:41.246 - 00:08:20.134, Speaker A: And I think we're going to get there. We're going to get there pretty rapidly in terms like relatively rapidly, I mean, I say rapidly, and maybe some people will say we'll think, oh, we're going to get there in six months. No, I mean relatively rapidly, and it's probably going to take a couple more years. And Ui Ux is always improving, but it definitely feels like we're on the precipice of a renaissance in Ui Ux in the crypto sphere here. All right, moving on. So ethwave, this Twitter account put out a tweet today where they basically summarized the activity of staking around since ETH withdrawals went live. So they say here, since 8th withdrawals were enabled, which is what, three months ago now, April, May, June, July, August.
00:08:20.134 - 00:08:54.524, Speaker A: I think it's three months, three or four months. I'm not doing the math correctly in my head. Yeah, it actually is, because the 14th was when it went live, I believe, back in, back in April there. So since then, there have been over 10 million ETH deposited slash accused for the beacon, for staking, over 6 million net ETH flow to the beacon chain. Over 460,000 ETH burned over, and that translates to $18.5 billion deposited, $11 billion net flow, and over $850 million burned. So, yeah, I mean, the Ethereum network is such a powerhouse.
00:08:54.524 - 00:09:21.282, Speaker A: Doesn't matter if it's staking, if it's burning fee revenue with ERP 1559. There is so much economic activity going on. And as I mentioned before, it's still a bear market, guys, we're in, like, the depths of the bear market. I actually think that I was looking at the chart the other day in terms of volatility across the BTC and ETH. I think this is the lowest point almost in history of volatility for, for those two coins there. And what that means. As I mentioned before, the market is, is dead right now.
00:09:21.282 - 00:09:40.216, Speaker A: There's no new money coming in. And as I said, I'll explain more about that towards the end of the episode. I have a tweet that I want to, I want to talk about. But in the face of all of that, we still have massive growth of ETH staking. We still have a lot of ETH being burned. And I'm telling you guys, this is all not being priced in right now. This is all going to be priced in when demand comes back.
00:09:40.216 - 00:10:16.630, Speaker A: But right now, it definitely isn't. So there is definitely kind of, like, opportunity there in my mind, but, yeah, great to see this breakdown of things from the ETH wave here. All right, so Eigen layer has announced that they'll be raising the cap for their LST restaking on August 22 at 07:00 a.m. Pacific time. So they say here there will be a global pause that takes place if any one LSD hits approximately 100,000 ETH restaked. So essentially, they're going to be raising the limit up to 100,000 ETH, I think, per LST. But there'll be a global pause that happens once, once one of them reaches that limit.
00:10:16.630 - 00:10:46.990, Speaker A: So, for example, if 100,000 are, is restaked, but only, like, 60 or 70,000 ste, it will still be paused, so you won't be able to enter into the ste pool anymore, which I guess like makes sense since they're still doing their guarded launch here. But this is crazy, guys. This is actually really crazy that this is. I actually do believe that that caps gonna get hit very, very quickly. I mean, the, the appetite for restaking is just insane. There is a kind of like tool that you can use to track it. I think nethermine built it yet here.
00:10:46.990 - 00:11:18.456, Speaker A: I'm just bringing it up now at restaking. Dot nethermind, dot IO. You can actually see the caps here. So the caps right now are quite low compared to what they're going to be raised to. There are 15,000 ETH per per lst here as well as beacon chain ETH, which is natively restaked ETH there. So what they've said is that they're going to be raising all of these caps to 100,000. But as I said, if Reth reaches 100,000 before ste than CB 8th, then it would only be, it would only global pause, as I said.
00:11:18.456 - 00:11:41.004, Speaker A: Right, it would globally pause everything and you wouldn't able to enter into any of these here. But yeah, just keep that in mind if you want to get in and you want to restake some of your ls t's. It's going live, I guess, like the cap is being raised at 07:00 a.m. Pacific time. So that's PT. It's Pacific time in the US. There, there's more details about this in the Twitter thread, which I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:11:41.004 - 00:12:32.884, Speaker A: All right, Diva has announced that their first operator, Testnet, is now live. They say here it's fir, it's, it's the first Ethereum liquid staking solution powered by distributed validator technology. So in this tweet thread, they explain exactly what a diva node is and links to the relevant kind of places to get started with this. But they say a diva operator node enhances Ethereum by efficiently performing validated duties. It connects to ethereum coordinates with other Diva nodes for key management using MPC, DKG and collaborates for validation using Diva's distributed validator technology. So very cool to see that we're getting, I guess, differentiated liquid staking protocols now because obviously we have a bunch of them out there right now. But, you know, rocket pools, decentralized, decentralized LST, you have Lido, you have stakewise v three.
00:12:32.884 - 00:13:03.988, Speaker A: And obviously all of those can integrate distributed validated technology into their stack. But d various seems to be doing it from the get go. You know, they're launching basically as a new LsT with DVT, you know, at launch basically. And that, and that's on the Testnet right now. And they'll be main, on Mainnet obviously at some point in the future here. But yeah, I love seeing products differentiating themselves here. I love seeing more of these taking products come online, especially, obviously, because at the end of the day, competition never hurt anyone, I think.
00:13:03.988 - 00:13:56.542, Speaker A: So if you're interested in becoming a diva operator on Testnet, and potentially on Mainnet as well, Testnet will be good practice for you. So you can go check out this tweet thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so I was just talking about overall crypto user experience and user interfaces before, and I came across this interesting tweet from Brian Armstrong, of all people, actually, over the weekend where he said, one thing that on chain summer, which is base's on chain initiative, is exposing is just how broken our user experience is in the main Coinbase app for NFTs Dapps and l two s today, sorry to say, but true, if we face the truth, we can get motivated to improve it. These need to be first class experiences. And on chain summer is a great impetus to have every employee feel that pain ourselves and fix it. Coinbase wallet is farther ahead on this dimension, but still lots of work to do there as well.
00:13:56.542 - 00:15:05.294, Speaker A: The good news is that we have just about every employee dog feeding these flows now. And if you have a pain, if you have a ux pain point or something not working, you, you can send Coinbase feedback in the replies to this tweet and they'll try to prioritize it. So the reason why I wanted to hide this tweet in particular is because how often do you see a CEO or founder of a company shitting on their own products? Basically, that's what Brian is doing, right? He's basically saying that our Coinbase wallet, while, you know it, is farther ahead in, in UI Ux, in the UI UX dimension, and it is decent. It's also not great, right? Needs to improve. It needs to improve, be improved radically. And there needs to be a lot of work done in order to abstract certain things in order to improve the overall experience. And I think this sends a strong signal out to the ecosystem that not only is coinbase serious about things like base and serious about obviously their exchange and fighting the SEC and stuff like that, but they're also serious about making sure that they can essentially improve their wallet, improve coinbase wallet, which, as I said before, is already great, but they're serious about improving their wallet infrastructure in order to, to basically onboard the masses.
00:15:05.294 - 00:15:28.102, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day, that's what they're trying to do with base. And if the front door isn't a friendly user experience, they're going to, they're going to lose people because it's all about the funnel at the end of the day. Right. There is this kind of, I mean, there's a concept of this funnel where essentially you have at the top you have all these people funneling in, and then deeper and deeper that you go through the funnel, you lose people for various different reasons. And it's typically used in marketing. You have a marketing funnel at the top. You have all these people coming in.
00:15:28.102 - 00:16:27.038, Speaker A: So you have like a thousand people coming in from the top because they've seen your ad and they all click on it. But then once they've come to your site, right, because you've marketed them some kind of product, say you've, you've tried to sell them some clothes, they come to the site and the vast majority of them will click off and you'll be able to tell sometimes why they clicked off. Maybe they, they clicked off because they just lost interest or it was too expensive for them or any, a number of other reasons. A lot of the time you won't know where that, why they, why they clicked off, but there'll be a small portion of those that actually make it to purchasing a product. So let's just say that ten people out of that 1000 actually purchase a product in the end. And then you do like a cost benefit analysis here of, okay, well, did our ad spend actually result in a profit from those ten people spending on there? And, you know, is that the conversion that we wanted? So the same is true for something like a crypto wallet. If a thousand people download the wallet, but only like ten people are using it semi regularly, let's just say ten people log in each week out of the thousand of a thousand people that have downloaded it.
00:16:27.038 - 00:17:03.646, Speaker A: Well, that's not a very great conversion. Okay, so why are people not using it? Is it, is it this reason? Is that reason? And really the only way you can tell is through direct feedback. I mean, the only real way you can guess through other, other ways of measuring these sorts of things. You can do a b testing, all that sorts of stuff, but really you need the feedback from the users themselves. And this is Brian Armstrong sending out that strong signal being like, hey, we want your feedback on this. And hey, here's me giving feedback to our own products. And here's me really just shitting on our own product, which I think makes other people feel more comfortable in order to send that honest and potentially harsh feedback to coinbase that basically says, you know, this sucks for this, this and this reason, and then they go ahead and fix it.
00:17:03.646 - 00:17:43.238, Speaker A: And that's exactly what we need. Sugar coating things doesn't help anybody. And I'm glad that Brian put out this tweet because, as I said, it sends out this strong signal to the market or to the crypto ecosystem that coinbase is serious about improving their wallet. And they, they really want to be at the forefront of crypto wallets here. So on that note, if you do have feedback about Coinbase wallet, be sure to reach out to coinbase and give them feedback on this. You can do it on the tweet itself from, from Brian's tweet here, or I'm sure Coinbase has a bunch of forms on their website for you to use to give feedback to them there. All right, David Krappers here has put out a new blog post titled roll ups are real roll up economics 2.0.
00:17:43.238 - 00:18:32.486, Speaker A: So I think I may have highlighted his original roll up economics blog post a little while ago on the refuel. But essentially, if you are at all interested in how roll ups and l two s handle the economic side of things such as fees and like shared sequences and, and, and staking and kind of a gas fees and costs and profits and all that sorts of stuff, this is a must read post. And I'll of course, link it in the YouTube description for you to check out. But not only is it great, a great read, it also has a really great bunch of diagrams here that basically allow you to visualize what the flow actually looks like. And you can see in this one here, the flow goes from users, the l two fees goes into these services, that goes into shared services, and potentially back down to the l one. And then they split these things up into like, data costs, operational costs. You know, at the end of the day, it really does come down to economics at the same thing as an l one.
00:18:32.486 - 00:19:09.314, Speaker A: L1 has economical considerations known as an l two, and that's exactly what they're doing here. Sorry, what this blog post is doing, it's basically explaining the differences between this and how the robust incentives group, I believe the ones doing this at the Ethereum foundation, is thinking about this. So you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Speaking of L2 things you should read. Raul from the off chain Labs team here put out a tweet thread over the weekend saying last week we announced bold, our new dispute protocol at off chain labs, which can enable a permissionless validation for arbitrary technology.
00:19:09.314 - 00:20:02.080, Speaker A: The security property, along with fraud proofs, are what make arbitrary technology decentralized and safe. But why is bold unique? So if you're interested in diving in deeper into what bold actually is and how it all works, you can go check out this Twitter thread from roll. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But the reason, another reason why I bring up this tweet thread as well is because I wanted to use it as a springboard for a little discussion around l two s generally, and in particular l two s like optimistic roll ups. So there's been a bit of discussion I saw over the weekend around this, and I've talked about this a lot on the refill before about how right now arbitrum has fraud proofs, but they're permissioned, but they have a roadmap to getting towards permissionless validation and fraud proving on the arbitrum networks. But the other, the other popular optimistic roll up is everything built on the op stack, right, of op mainnet base. Zora Avo, there's a bunch of these.
00:20:02.080 - 00:21:05.492, Speaker A: Now, right now, optimism doesn't have fraud proofs as part of the op stack. So none of these chains actually have, have fraud proofs enabled. So essentially what the security model boils down to is really it just the operator of the actual l two of the op stack of the op mainnet of base. So in reality, you could say that these optimistic roll ups, I mean, are really optimistic roll ups and also their security guarantees are as good as a centralized exchange, really, when you really think about it. Now, this is a temporary thing, hopefully. I do believe that optimism is going to, is going to release either their fraud proof technology soon and implement it, implement it soon, or just leapfrog right over it and go straight to validity proofs, which are ZK proofs that that'll definitely come, because I think it's a liability for them not to do that, not only for security reasons, but also for themselves, because they obviously want to decentralize out as much as possible. But keeping these things very centralized is also not a great look and not, not great for the users either, obviously.
00:21:05.492 - 00:21:38.136, Speaker A: But also on this note as well, I saw some comments on Twitter saying that, you know, it's kind of hypocritical that so many people in the Ethereum community gave, you know, Polygon shit over the Polygon Pos chain and about how it's not a real l two, blah blah. Right. But then you have the op stack kind of not really an l two at all right now because they don't have fraud proofs implemented into their, into their stack. So you know, why people not calling that out? And I think that's totally fair. I mean, you guys know I'm a huge fan of, of both of those teams. Obviously, I'm an advisor to Polygon. I'm also an investor in optimism, a huge fan of them.
00:21:38.136 - 00:22:11.242, Speaker A: But you have to call a spade a spade sometimes, right? And really realistically, the Polygon pos chain is, is much more secure than an op stack chain because the pos chain has independent validators that verify the network, right. Has the, has those crypto economic guarantees as well. And obviously there is a bridge as well between Ethereum and Polygon Pos chain. But there is a time locked multisig, last time I checked on that bridge. And the multi SiG holders are from independent entities as well. Whereas the op stack chains don't have anything right now. They really just have a very centralized setup.
00:22:11.242 - 00:22:33.250, Speaker A: Now, as I said, I don't think this is going to be the case for very long. I do think that either fraud proofs or validity proofs will get enabled. But until then, you know, I can't in good conscious tell people, hey, you know, this is somewhere where you should park lots of money on. I've been saying it for a while now. I don't think that you should put lots of money on these things. Not because I don't believe that if something were to go wrong, these teams wouldn't fix it. They 100% would.
00:22:33.250 - 00:23:02.666, Speaker A: But it's also got to do with the fact that, okay, how much do you trust these teams? Because it really is. Just trust me, bro, finance right now on these things, right? It's like you put money there. You trust that the team operating at is not going to rug you. Obviously, the chances of, you know, the optimism team, the optimism labs team, or Coinbase team running off of the funds on base or op main net is extremely low, if not pretty much 0%. But that's not the point. The point is, is that it can happen. The point is, is that those funds could potentially even be frozen for one reason or another.
00:23:02.666 - 00:23:46.016, Speaker A: Maybe the, you know, they get a subpoena to freeze the funds or something like that. So you should never trust your funds on something that is not decentralized and secure. That's why for me personally, I I have the vast majority of my wealth still on ethereum l one. I mean, I struggle to to bring it to to bring it to L2s, let alone other l one s. And I don't. Normally I do have things that I play around with on on various different addresses out there, but at the end of the day, I would never store my entire net worth on on one of these l two s at this point in time when they eventually get to a point where they're fully decentralized, where you've always got the option of exiting via l one with the escape hatch, and where no one could take that ability away from you, then of course I'd feel much more comfortable. But right now, really, none of the popular ones are like that.
00:23:46.016 - 00:24:23.558, Speaker A: Arbitrary is the closest to getting to that. I do believe that they'll all get there eventually, or at least most of them will get there eventually, but right now that's not the place that they are so good to keep that in mind there. But yeah. Anyway, as I said, I'll link roles tweeter Twitter thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, just to round out today's episode, I had a tweet that I put out that I alluded to earlier in the episode and the tweet reads, the crypto market is not pricing in anything right now because there's no new money coming in. This is why we see a lot of positive news not translating to sustained upward price action. This will not last forever, and it's why I think now is the best time to accumulate.
00:24:23.558 - 00:24:52.656, Speaker A: Now. I should also just say before I dive into this that this is not investment or financial advice. I am not telling you that you should buy anything right here. I'm just giving my perspective on things now. This is not news to regular refuel listeners and watchers. I've talked about this a lot of times on the refill of the last probably six months at least. But what I really wanted to just quickly recap on was that the funny thing about the market right now, as I alluded to earlier, is the volatility is as low as it's probably ever going to get.
00:24:52.656 - 00:25:29.244, Speaker A: It is almost that all time lows from the charts that I've seen. Now, is this going to continue going lower to new all time lows or are we going to bounce from here? You know, what's the price action going to look like? I can't tell you that for sure. I have said before that I think that the rest of this year will be that kind of low volatility crab market and that, and then next year will definitely be more positive. I mean, I say definitely like it's a sure thing. I mean, I think, and I believe it could, it should be a sure thing. But obviously that's not a kind of like crystal ball prediction. It's just me making my own prediction based on a number of different factors that I've gone through before.
00:25:29.244 - 00:25:54.976, Speaker A: But, but what I really wanted to focus on was not so much that, but more that this thing of the positive news that we have a lot of positive news, obviously, last week we had PayPal and Visa announcing they're building on Ethereum and the ETH price did absolutely nothing. Right. We have all that positive news coming out. We have all this adoption happening. Even if there's no new money coming in, we have a lot of people just using these different kind of tools. Base obviously had a great launch. There's a lot of NFT activity happening on the polygon pos chain.
00:25:54.976 - 00:26:27.240, Speaker A: For those of you have been paying attention to that. So just, just a lot of various different things happening here. And also outside of crypto, I'm talking to a bunch of teams that are doing stuff, uh, with crypto technology that isn't necessarily on chain yet, but is happening outside and affecting real world, um, real world products and services that will eventually come on chain. But similarly, as well, someone commented on my tweet here, uh, saying, you know, and a lot of the negative news is not translating to downward price trends either. And that's exactly right. Right. During this kind of low volatility crab environment, it doesn't matter if it's positive or negative.
00:26:27.240 - 00:26:46.938, Speaker A: It's not reflected in the price. Now, I do think that on the negative side of things is because we've really just run out of sellers. Right. We've, we've completely run out of sellers. No one wants to sell. The people that are there around right now are traders that are just trying to scalp some volatility and long term investors who are stacking and obviously are in it for the long haul here. They're not going to be selling at these prices.
00:26:46.938 - 00:27:05.744, Speaker A: They're hoping to sell at much higher prices. Right. Um, and then on the flip side of the, of the positive news not leading to upward price action is because, as I said, there's no new money coming in. There's not, uh, there's not new money coming, coming in to push it up. And as I've explained before, the people that are buying right now are limited in how much they can buy. They have to wait until they get paid and things like that. Right.
00:27:05.744 - 00:27:38.400, Speaker A: Whereas if there's new money coming in, there's no need to wait for that. You know, you just essentially have all these new people coming in with new, new money, and it pushes prices up relatively quickly rather than the accumulation kind of zones that we see typically during the tail end of bear markets. And that's why, as I said before, I believe we are at the tail end of a bear market. I believe that next year is going to be a lot better because we're out of sellers. Everyone that was going to blow up has blown up. Right? I know there's rumors still about binance blowing up or tether blowing up. Those things have been around for ages.
00:27:38.400 - 00:28:25.346, Speaker A: I mean, especially the tether stuff that's been around for a long time now. But generally the stuff that we can see, the stuff that has played out since basically, I guess, like Terra blew up and even before then, all of that has been flushed out. So now what we have is we have the accumulators, we have the kind of like sideways price action that we've seen that will probably continue to the woods the end of the year, but next year will be, in my mind, a lot more positive. I do think towards the end of next year, there is a really strong chance we see new all time highs on Ethan BTC and then leading us into a proper bull market in 2025. Now, I could be completely wrong on this. As I said, this is not an investment or financial advice. Do not do stupid things with the, you know, with the kind of prediction that in 2024 and 2025 you're going to make all this money, that's not how you should play it.
00:28:25.346 - 00:28:57.162, Speaker A: How you should play it is that if you really do believe that, like I do right now, that the, they're in accumulation zone, that all this positive stuff hasn't been priced in yet and will be one day, then you would be accumulating right now if you believe that. And that's exactly what I've been doing. But I'm in the same boat, right? I don't have, I don't have any spare fiat left from when I cashed out during the bull market. I mean, I've deployed pretty much everything. So now I'm really just earning yield from various different places and, and buying ETH with it. Obviously, the yield that I get from ETH staking, I already have ETH. I don't have to buy the ETH with it.
00:28:57.162 - 00:29:32.678, Speaker A: It's just stacking it there, but yield from other sources. I have to wait for that to pay out, right? I have to wait like a few days or a week or two weeks, just depending on when I feel like kind of selling it and things like that. And then I can go into eat. So it's a slow trickle in. And that's exactly why you see this time based capitulation that I've discussed before, which I think we're at the tail end as well, but also why you see things going slower. But eventually there will be new money coming in, it will start pushing the price up, and then it'll just become a self fulfilling thing from there, where it just snowballs out of control and we get a fresh new bull market. So there is your daily dose of hopium, I guess, or weekly dose of hopium on the refuel there.
00:29:32.678 - 00:29:43.574, Speaker A: But that's going to be it for today's episode. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
