00:00:04.970 - 00:01:55.490, Speaker A: Oracle networks are the interface between everything on chains and everything outside of chains and between chains. So the role that oracle networks already play is by feeding the largest amount of cryptographically verified data into chains, providing various computations that they can't do themselves, and now also connecting various chains, both in the public chain world and in the private chain, bank chain, capital markets world. So this interface is quite important because the reliability and the security and the deterministically guaranteed nature of chains need to be maintained, and that needs to be maintained whatever technology they interact with, even if they interact between two chains. So the interaction between AI and blockchains, I think, will basically have to happen through some kind of verifiable, secure, decentralized interface, which is really what Oracle networks provide and have successfully provided within the chainlink framework for the longest time that they've been around, because the chainlink framework originated decentralized Oracle networks, and the fact that there has been 8.5 trillion in transaction value processed by those systems, and that the largest amount of cryptographic truth has been generated on the chains, and that now we're successfully connecting some of the most secure chains from some of the most security sensitive bank and capital markets users with Oracle networks, as that mechanism basically shows that oracle networks are the right interface to connect both everything in the external world and everything between multiple chains. And AI is one of those things. And AI will want to take information from chains as a reliable source of truth that they might even be forced to use in order to function in a way that's predictable.
00:01:55.490 - 00:02:44.940, Speaker A: And they will want to be used as computational services by smart contracts and chains, because smart contracts and chains will be the mechanism through which all the world's value is secured, transacted and managed. And so what you're really asking about when you ask about the intersection of blockchain and AI, is how will the future computing technologies of the world in the form of AI, and the future value storage, value transfer and value management technologies in the form of blockchains and oracle networks and verifiable application work together. And the answer to that is that they'll need an interface that meets the security needs of the blockchains and the verifiable applications, and is advanced enough to be able to interact with AI technologies in a useful way. And that's what the chainlink network is.
