00:00:00.480 - 00:00:28.378, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gui refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 26 March 2021. Alright, let's get into it, everyone. So just before we do that, actually, I just wanted to give a huge congratulations to Gitcoin on another successful Gitcoin grants matching round. This is, this was the biggest one yet. And of course a big thank you to everyone who donated to me at the Dailyguay and also to Ethub's Gitcoin grant. Hope you all got your donations in time.
00:00:28.378 - 00:00:46.618, Speaker A: You know, it was, as I said, it was a big round, right? You can see here a walkie from, from Gitcoin. Gitcoins founder, basically put out this kind of chart with some stats here. In round eight, 1.1 million was raised in round nine, 1.9 million. So another 800,000 on top of that, obviously. Kind of like smashing the record there.
00:00:46.618 - 00:01:15.678, Speaker A: And you can see, you know, we've been kind of like, I guess that the earlier rounds started off quite, quite small, you know, round one at 42k, round 2156k, round 396k. But, you know, there was, there was growth there, right? Some of these happened during a bear market too. I think one, two and three happened during 2019 from memory. So, yeah, so to keep that in mind as well. But yeah, since then it's just exploded up and particularly the last three rounds of where it's. Where it's been really big. Right, like 763,000 for round seven, 1.1
00:01:15.678 - 00:01:47.176, Speaker A: million for round eight and 1.9 million for round nine. So really awesome to see this. And there's also, you know, much more people contributing now as well, I think, which is, which is very positive too. So, yeah, thanks to everyone for, for donating to, to myself and all the other grants out there. And walkie also put out a tweet here basically saying that 82% of the ground surround nine contributions were done via L2, which is ZK sync. So you probably would have used DK sync if you were donating because it's much cheaper to do that then, you know, donates on layer one.
00:01:47.176 - 00:02:10.368, Speaker A: Ethereum, of course. So that's a, that's a pretty, you know, hefty number. 82% doing it on L2, which is, which is awesome. I mean, it just shows that this technology kind of works. You know, people are willing to use it once it's, you know, rather seamless, I think, you know, it can be more seamless than what it is, there's still a few kind of like, steps that you have to go through, but once you've kind of like, set up your wallet and everything and funded it, it's very seamless. So. But I think it'll get better with time.
00:02:10.368 - 00:02:50.016, Speaker A: And, you know, I'm looking forward to a big round ten as well here. So the. I guess the biggest news from the last 24 hours, and as I was talking about yesterday, I thought this was going to happen. But I guess, like the TRDR here, is that the optimism public mainnet has been delayed until July of this year. Now, obviously, we were all expecting this to go live in March, which obviously I mentioned on the refuel, I think, a couple of times now, where I thought that it was going to be delayed because we hadn't heard anything for a little while. And also uniswap launching in May kind of like, was kind of, for me, was just like, okay, well, they're very close to the optimism team and they'll probably want to go on L2 as well. It's probably not.
00:02:50.016 - 00:03:24.924, Speaker A: Not ready yet. So July is, is, I like, I mean, that's like, what, three months away? That's an eternity in crypto, right. But again, I mean, I wrote about this in the Daily Gray newsletter, so I won't, I won't kind of like, go too deep into my thoughts here. But I did want to kind of give the thoughts for, for those just viewing and listening. Basically, this is probably one of the hardest decisions a team ever has to make, is whether to go to Mainnet with a product that they don't feel is ready to go to mainnet with that they don't feel is something that they'd be proud shipping. Right. Or delaying it by three months and dealing with the kind of short term fallout from that.
00:03:24.924 - 00:03:49.924, Speaker A: Because obviously, optimism, you know, their kind of L2 solution has been hyped to no end. Right. Everyone's hyping it up. You know, it's gonna, it's gonna save Ethereum, blah, blah, blah. You know, I've probably played a little bit of a part in that, too. But at the same time, you know, delaying it would not have been an easy decision here, and they would have only have done it for, for critical reasons. And they explained some of their reasons in the post, saying they want to make sure their partners are, you know, up to speed on it.
00:03:49.924 - 00:04:25.842, Speaker A: The bridges that they're going to be able to bridge in are working, you know, that are all the wallets and everything are, like, compatible. So basically they want to make sure the user experience is as good as possible before, before going live here, which I totally get right. I know, I understand people's frustrations and disappointments here, but at the same time, this is bleeding edge technology. This is stuff that's never been done before. This is stuff that he's dealing with real money. So I'd rather like the teams move slower and, you know, and make sure everything's okay and, you know, safe for people to use rather than rush to mainnet just for the sake of it. Now, in saying that, it's not like optimism isn't doing anything now.
00:04:25.842 - 00:04:52.562, Speaker A: I mean, they have a public, sorry, a private main net, I guess you could call it, that's live right now. It has been live for a little bit, and synthetix has been using it. I'm sure there's other teams building on it in stealth right now. But the way the private main networks, I guess you could call it, is that it's basically a whitelist process. So unless you are whitelisted by the team, you can't deploy any smart contracts to their network and it's completely centralized. The team obviously has complete control over it. They can reverse kind of transactions if they wanted to.
00:04:52.562 - 00:05:39.334, Speaker A: They could pause it, they could shut down the system and there wouldn't be much you could do about it. So from that perspective, it's not the dream, it's not what we want. We want basically a public, permissionless kind of L2 system that anyone can build on, but that doesn't mean no one can build in it right now. And in the post, optimism also mentioned that they have, you know, about a dozen projects going live on their technology lined up so far. So if you consider that those dozen projects are already working on getting the implementations going, they're obviously going to be whitelisted. We can say that two of those are synthetix and uniswap. I still think, you know, uniswap is going to go live on optimism in May, you know, and that'll be like a nice experience for people to kind of like get them, I guess, like using the technology before it goes live to a, you know, in a public fashion in July.
00:05:39.334 - 00:06:15.874, Speaker A: But yeah, just a bit of disappointing news, bit of sobering news, but at the same time, I think it's, it's, it's going to be okay in the long term. And, you know, on the same note, I guess, you know, if you look at the rest of the L2 ecosystem, we have a lot of things live right now. You know, loop ring, of course, I talk about a lot Zksync. I spoke about Arbitrum's mainnet candidate being on, on the Kovan testnet. I'm expecting them to go live in April with on Mainnet, with a fully public main net that anyone can build upon. And that's just, you know, competition that optimism has to deal with. And they've kind of like, seeded some ground to now because, as I said, three months in this space is an eternity.
00:06:15.874 - 00:06:36.608, Speaker A: So that. And they would know this as well, the team, they would realize that delaying by three months is they're going to lose some market share because of this. You know, they're obviously going to lose a little bit of community favor, but they're doing what's best, what they believe is best, and I can't fault them for that, of course. So we'll, we'll, we'll see what happens. I mean, I know immutable X is also going to go live soon. They've been teasing it for a while now. Any day now.
00:06:36.608 - 00:06:59.928, Speaker A: Loop, bring diversify. Already live. Zksync already live. A lot of you have used it, you know, but at the end of the day, we can say that it's already live and everything like that. But unless it offers, like, a very similar experience to layer one, then most people aren't going to kind of, like, use it or care about it now. Loop ring is great and everything, but of course, you know, their Dex isn't anywhere near as liquid as uniswap is, for example. And, you know, it's becoming more liquid over time.
00:06:59.928 - 00:07:42.102, Speaker A: Same with diversify, but it's not there yet. It's like we're rebuilding Defi, essentially, you know, and we're trying to, like, speedrun it, which I think we will. But at the same time, you know, people were hoping optimism would go live with a bunch of star apps like Synthetix and Uniswap and even Chainlink and stuff like that. And then, you know, there would be, like, an ecosystem on there from day one. And, you know, there probably will be, by the time we get to the public mainnet release, there probably will already be synthetix and Uniswap and Chainlink, and maybe it's a bunch of other apps on there so that when, you know, we go to the public mainnet, there's going to be plenty of things for builders to tap into when they're building on top of optimism. So, yeah, I mean, you can go read the full post. It's, it'll be linked in the YouTube description.
00:07:42.102 - 00:08:16.830, Speaker A: But yeah, I personally, I wasn't surprised by the delay. I was surprised by the fact that they delayed it to July. You know, it seems like it's weird because, like, I know teams can get ahead of themselves, but the fact that they said march and then they had to delay it by three months means that they weren't ever going to launch in March, basically. So from that perspective, I get like, sometimes teams can get ahead of themselves and do these announcements, but if they had just not announced that they were coming in March, it would have been a lot better. Right. I think maybe this is a lesson to a lot of other builders out there, and this is lesson. This is something that a lot of builders don't do, that, you know, they don't really give dates.
00:08:16.830 - 00:08:45.824, Speaker A: I don't like to give dates. You know, everyone always asks for dates and things like that. But, you know, anything can happen for a number of reasons. And you, you know, by giving even a rough day and then missing that kind of target and having to delay it, you inevitably lead to disappointment. Now, you know, is it worth the disappointment of delaying something or is it worth kind of like just not giving a date, right. And just dealing with people maybe complaining about that? I think it's worth just not giving a date, right. And then giving a date when you 100% know you're going to launch or just launch it, right.
00:08:45.824 - 00:09:17.660, Speaker A: Instead of even, you don't even need to give a date, just launch it, right. Get it out to mainnet and surprise everyone, you know, I think that's probably the better way to do it. But anyway, I understand how difficult of a decision this was for that team. They've been working nonstop on this for quite a while now, and I think it's the future still bright for them. I think they're going to, they're going to kill it. We're just going to have to wait a little bit longer for that to play out, I think so. Robert Leshner posted on Twitter today just a bit of a teaser here, that he said he had the opportunity to present DeFi and compound to the Federal Reserve staff.
00:09:17.660 - 00:10:14.230, Speaker A: And then he goes on to say eventually the banking system will run on shared open ledgers. Each day we get closer and he gave a bit of a teaser with, with a few slides that he presented to the Federal Reserve here. Basically like very simple slides, kind of explaining how compound works, kind of explaining how the interest rate model works on compound and kind of like how, I guess, like users can interface with banks, which can interface with DeFi protocols which I think is interesting as well. And on this note here in this image, you know, I've said it before, but I think we're going to have a bunch of centralized services tapping into these decentralized to offer, you know, certain kind of things like yield and other kind of apps. And, you know, some people might call it cedify, which I think is a dumb term, but I mean, I guess like it describes what this is, you know, centralized defi, I mean, doesn't really make much sense, but you know, it's just basically the concept of centralized institutions tapping into the defi ecosystem and offering a, I guess like a solution to end users. Right. And that's what this, all, this is all about.
00:10:14.230 - 00:10:43.758, Speaker A: At the end of the day, I think it's fine that this happens and this is inevitably, inevitably going to happen, but the point is having choice here. So, you know, you obviously want to have the choice whether to go through. I mean, it's probably not even going to be a bank, just any kind of like centralized institution, you know, that's offering you this stuff. You can go through them and you have the peace of mind of that. Right. There's probably going to be built in insurance and things like that. And that's fine for users who want to do that, but then you're also going to have the opportunity and the, I guess the option of going straight to the protocols themselves.
00:10:43.758 - 00:11:26.146, Speaker A: Right. And that, I think is what a lot of users are going to trend towards, you know, maybe not most of them for at least the short to medium term because a lot of people do trust these kind of centralized institutions. But as time goes on and the more I guess, like the easier we make it for them to tap into defi protocols without, you know, difficulty I think is going to be really bullish there. But yeah, I hope Leshner kind of shares the, I guess the deck, the full deck that he showed here and maybe goes into a bit more detail about what he presented and how they reacted to it as well. I mean, as, as Ryan, Sean Adams says here, like, so what was their reaction? I mean, I would love to know that as well. I don't think he, he replied down here. But anyway, you know, on that note, really cool to see this.
00:11:26.146 - 00:11:54.884, Speaker A: I, you know, the Federal Reserve probably was just like very cautious. They're going to move like super slowly on this sort of stuff, I think. But, you know, the fact that Leshner was already talking to them and he's obviously the founder of, you know, big DeFi protocol in compound finance and investor by, via his robot ventures kind of fund. He. He's probably one of the best people to kind of like, I guess, quote unquote red pill, the Federal Reserve on Defi. So yeah, really, really cool to see this from, from Robert today. So a few upgrades came to loop rings L2 exchange today.
00:11:54.884 - 00:12:30.056, Speaker A: So they have basically made it 30% cheaper to add and remove liquidity on their amm. In general. All blocks are between ten, two to 10% cheaper due to transaction data compression. So yeah, this is their L2 getting just more efficient over time, which is really cool to see. There were some other upgrades here. They added a fee for AMM deposits, but this actually reduces the overall AMM LP fees since pool exits are cut by greater than this amount. So essentially, like just reshuffling the fees here, but making them lower all fees on layer one and L2 are now dynamically adjusted with gas and the ETH price.
00:12:30.056 - 00:13:03.284, Speaker A: And the wallet is available. The mobile wallet app is available in Spanish. So, I mean, you know, I've spoken about loop ring so much, and I know I say this every time I speak about loop ring so much, but they just continue to silently, you know, kill it. And I don't think they get enough appreciation because they've been live on L2 for quite a while now. And I was just talking about how, you know, before I was saying there's plenty of L2 solutions that are live today. They just need more users, they need more liquidity, and that's slowly coming over time. And I think loop ring is one of the kind of like forerunners here, along with diversify, which I'm going to talk about a little bit, a little bit later.
00:13:03.284 - 00:13:41.208, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, if you haven't used them yet, I mean, I highly recommend going and just trying it right, even if it's just like a test transaction, maybe just like a $100 swap or something like that, just to see how cheap it is and how fast it is. And like getting back to, I guess, that feeling of, you know, Ethereum, mainnet or layer one when the fees were like, I guess, you know, one way or something like that. So, yeah, I mean, I mean, I use loopring whenever I can. It is definitely a very, very smooth experience. They've done a really good job, you know, and they're always improving it. So kudos to them for this. Speaking of gas fees, one of my favorite websites, and I use their chrome extension, you can see in the top right, is gasnow.org
00:13:41.208 - 00:14:17.094, Speaker A: dot. Now, this website, a lot of you would have used that basically forecasts gas prices. So it tells you rapid, fast, standard or slow. And it updates in real time because what the Gasnow website does is it actually looks into the Ethereum mem pool to see what the real time transaction cost is. Now what they've added here in, you know, the bottom of this picture here, they've added estimated costs and transfer of transfers and interactions for popular kind of things. So and ETH transfer of course is listed there in ERC 20 transfer such as USDT DAI transfer or NFT transfer. And then on the right hand side they have like what a Uniswap trade is going to cost.
00:14:17.094 - 00:14:48.308, Speaker A: You want a uniswap, adding liquidity is going to cost you. Removing liquidity is going to cost and then compound and opensea. So this is, I mean really cool for a reference kind of thing. Like if you want to kind of see, okay, you know, gas fees might be low right now it's maybe 100. What's my, I guess like uniswap trade going to cost me right now? And right now, I mean at time of the screenshot it gets, which is, which is relevant to right now, it would cost $22 to do it in a rapid fashion. So basically to get it into the same block or about $21.70 to get it within 1 minute.
00:14:48.308 - 00:15:09.924, Speaker A: So this is really cool, really important here. I think gas now, I mean they're doing great, great work with this. It's my favorite kind of, I guess like gas website to look at to estimate prices. I mean it works pretty well. Like whenever I need a rapid transaction done, I always reference their rapid kind of amount here. I set it and then it basically works. So yeah, great, great little feature that they've added here.
00:15:09.924 - 00:15:44.604, Speaker A: So the Rainbow mobile wallet app has added a new kind of a section called Discover. So basically what this allows you to do, it allows you to explore all the best opportunities across Defi. So you can see here in the picture they've got like a top movie section. At the top here they've got like you know, a little banner here with the Defi Pulse index, which is really cool to see. So you can quickly tap in and buy it different lists and you can add like favorites and a watch, and a watch list here are, or what's trending. Then you scroll down, you can kind of like add and remove liquidity to like uniswap pools and things like that. So yeah, pretty big upgrade here.
00:15:44.604 - 00:16:06.836, Speaker A: Pretty big feature thing here. If you haven't kind of checked out rainbow yet, it's, it's a mobile wallet app. I highly recommend going and checking it out. I think I've spoken about it before, but it's really cool. It's one of the most beautiful, if not the most, most beautiful Ethereum mobile wallets I've used. I mean, Argent is definitely up there too, but, but, you know, I think this is just really great. And Rainbow, you know, is definitely ethereum native.
00:16:06.836 - 00:16:46.460, Speaker A: Like the founder and the team is very, very deep into the Ethereum ecosystem. And I spoke, yeah, I spoke about yesterday on the refuel, how they're going to be supporting L2, specifically optimism, like out of the gate now. You know, I think the wallet space is pretty crowded in general, there's a lot of mobile wallets. But I think what Rainbow is doing is they're taking the approach to becoming, like the best Ethereum mobile wallet app, right. And having, like, everything you want in there, from defi to nfts to L2, all the good stuff. So, yeah, if you're interested in trying out a new wallet, especially on, on mobile, definitely go give Rainbow a look here. So Cl, on Twitter, put out a really great tweet today, basically saying.
00:16:46.460 - 00:17:31.566, Speaker A: He basically says, why isn't anyone talking about how NFTs being settled in? ETH means ETH is now potentially the base currency of all Internet culture, history, memes and digital art. I mean, I think I've spoken about this before and I kind of replied, saying I had tweeted something similar to this. You know, this is something that a lot of people seem to be underappreciating. The NFT economy is priced in ETH, right? That's a, that's a big part of it. But also, if you look at a lot of the NFTs, they pay homage to ETH. If you look at the art pieces, there's, there's, you know, a lot of them have like an ETH logo in them somewhere, right? Or like the videos that have an ETH logo, a lot of the NFT, like, collectibles have something to do with ETH. So it's becoming like a cult, like, I guess, like a cultural symbol within the NFT space, because a lot of these NFTs are on ethereum.
00:17:31.566 - 00:18:18.728, Speaker A: And, you know, that's basically kind of like saying, and I guess, like, coupled with the fact that ETH is being used as the currency or the money of this ecosystem, it's basically cementing. ETH is this kind of beautiful base currency of, of this kind of like, as Cl says, this Internet culture, history, memes, digital art, all this good stuff here, very, very, very important, I think, for, like, the narratives around ETH as an asset. I mean, you can see here that for scant has basically said ETH is art money is better than ETH as ultrasound money. And it's funny because I like the ETH is ultrasound money meme. I think it's fine. But I think, you know, every time the ethereum ecosystem comes up with, like, a new meme, for some reason people think it's cringe. And I kind of often joke that I say, like, the actual good meme that Ethereum has is the fact that our memes are cringe.
00:18:18.728 - 00:19:02.390, Speaker A: Now, you know, take that as you. As you will. But in general, I do think this makes a lot of sense and this resonates with a lot of people because if someone hears ultrasound money, they're going to have no idea what that means, right? That's like a very insider meme. But if you tell someone that, like, you know, ETH is like, you know, the, the NFT economy runs on Ethereum, right? It's, you know, ETH is used to buy and sell these sorts of stuff that's a lot easier to digest because you can make like a, I guess, a comparison to video games and say, okay, well, you know, if you're playing World of Warcraft, what is the economy there? Well, I mean, it's gold, right? You have gold, silver and copper, and then there's a whole economy built up around that as currency. And then, you know, someone asked, okay, well, you know, the ethereum, there's an economy on there. There's like nFts. Okay, well, what do I use? It's like, well, I mean, technically, you could use anything, right? You can use stable coins.
00:19:02.390 - 00:19:32.600, Speaker A: You can use other tokens. But, you know, what most people use is ETH, and that's because it's the most widely held token, most widely, widely liquid, you know, largest market cap were most well known and just easiest to kind of accept here. So I think this bundles together a bunch of the different memes that we've kind of, I guess, tried to make happen over the years, like Ethy's money. And I think Ethy's ultrasound money falls into that. ETH is like a base currency for this new economy on Ethereum. And I think Seal just put it really, really well here. And, I mean, you can see the popularity of his tweet.
00:19:32.600 - 00:20:02.230, Speaker A: A lot of people seem to agree with this as well. So, yeah, I mean, it makes sense. And I think it's just overall bullish for ETH in general too. So EPNs announced that they had raised, I guess like an extended seed round here, an additional 666,000 from a bunch of different investors. Now for those who don't know, EPNs is, it stands for Ethereum push notification service. They're basically building a decentralized notification service for Ethereum disclosure here. I am a seed investor in EPNs here.
00:20:02.230 - 00:20:29.298, Speaker A: They're a great team. I mean, I spoke to them really early on. They're really, really passionate team out of, out of India working on something that I think is actually needed in the ecosystem. Right. I mean we all have like notifications that come from, I guess, metamask where our transaction is confirmed. But metamask isn't giving you confirmations about certain things like it's not going to tell you when you receive tokens in your wallet, it's not going to tell you when your cdp is at risk. I know there's some solutions that already do that, but I think we need a standard for it.
00:20:29.298 - 00:20:53.554, Speaker A: And EPNS is building this standard and I think we need one that's decentralized as well. So obviously APNs is going to have a token and they're going to try and decentralize this whole kind of ecosystem out here. I think they're going live rather soon. But basically congrats to them on this race. It's going to give them a bit more kind of Runway here. And they brought on a bunch of different, like, I guess, VC's and investors here. And you can kind of read this in the, I guess, YouTube description below.
00:20:53.554 - 00:21:38.088, Speaker A: But yeah, really great to see this here. And I can't wait to see them kind of, I guess, keep pushing forward here. You know, once they get the token out, I'm sure they're gonna get a lot more, you know, attention because that's what happens when you launch a token, right? People came a lot more attention to your project, but if you haven't been paying attention to them yet, I definitely go recommend checking them out. They already have a mobile wallet as well you can check out too, so, and you know, you can set up some alerts and things like that. So you know, the product is definitely live, but I think they're gonna kick it into high gear over the, over the coming months. So speaking of tokens, diversify have announced that they've, they're introducing their new token called the DVF token. Now for those who don't know, I guess like the diversify ecosystem has a token already called nectar or neck.
00:21:38.088 - 00:22:16.920, Speaker A: But this was like a token that came over from ethnics before they were known as diversify. So it kind of had a bit of baggage there, I think. And so they're doing kind of like a token swap from, from what I can see here, based on a snapshot, 77% of the DVF supply will be distributed as an airdrop to neck holders. You know, and then, you know, they're basically going to be using this as part of the, the diversified platform here. So they go through their kind of like, I guess, logic here and why they're doing this and stuff like that and, and what the distribution looks like essentially here. So, you know, net holders get 7% usage airdrop. So retro plus future is up to 8%.
00:22:16.920 - 00:22:37.120, Speaker A: Strategic supporters got ten to 15%. Liquidity labs, the company that created diversify IKA team, gets 25%. And liquidity mining, future community distributions get up to 60% here. So I guess strategic supporters are the investors. And I really like this. Ten to 15% to investors is, I think, on the lower end, which is, which is great. 25% of the team.
00:22:37.120 - 00:23:10.900, Speaker A: I mean, you know, pretty standard things. So if you take 15% and 25%, that's a 40% split for team, 60% for community here, which is, you know, I mean, obviously it's not like the, you know, the 90 ten split. You see some, some projects do, but at the end of the day, you know, there's some, there's a lot of ways to do token splits here. And I think, you know, just getting tokens into the hands of as many people as possible is cool. You know, these strategic supporters can be a number of people as well. Doesn't just have to be like the evil VC's, right? Or the evil funds. It can be, you know, people in the ecosystem that have participated in these rounds that can actually add a lot of value.
00:23:10.900 - 00:23:38.606, Speaker A: I mean, personally, I've participated in a few strategic rounds and there's lots of people in them. It's not just like five people, right, is there's like, you know, sometimes hundreds of people in these rounds that are like key ecosystem people that you want on board. And, you know, from that perspective, I think that's really, really great here. And, you know, they're dropping 7% neck holders as well, which is really, really cool. And I mean, just to caveat here, they do say this is not, not final, but this kind of just gives you a basic estimation here on that. So. Yeah, definitely go check this out.
00:23:38.606 - 00:24:09.806, Speaker A: If you want more details about what they're doing here with the DVF, token. So it's funny, I, you know, I mean, I was speaking about kind of like L2 just before, and about how there's like lots of hype behind it. I think one of the most hyped L2s right now is immutable x because they've been hyping it on Twitter for like, I mean, pretty much this whole month. They've just been going really hard about it. So at this point, I mean, I'm expecting it to launch like any day now. You know, possibly. I mean, definitely in April, but like, maybe it could be in March, I don't know, but I'm expecting them to launch any day now.
00:24:09.806 - 00:24:55.308, Speaker A: And for those who don't know, just a refresher here, immutable x is going to be a decentralized exchange focused on nfts at L2. They're going to be using starkware. They're going to have instant trade confirmation, 9000 plus transactions per second and zero gas fees. Obviously, as a L2, they inherit Ethereum's security and decentralization, which is extremely bullish. And I spoke about the other day how starkware demoed that they were able to mint 600,000 nfts at a cost of ten gas per NFT on L2, which effectively is a 33,000 time cheaper minting of nfts than what it is on Ethereum mainnet. So, yeah, this is incredibly bullish. I mean, you know, even though we have to wait till July for an open public kind of optimism, there's still a lot to be optimistic about, right? There's immutable x.
00:24:55.308 - 00:25:35.008, Speaker A: I mean, I mentioned before, arbitrum and ZK sync and, and loop bringer, diversify, all that good stuff. And, you know, if you're not using them today, I suggest definitely going and just checking them out. As I said before, I think that, you know, you can probably feel, oh, L2 is not here because, you know, I am. Optimism is not here. I just don't think that's very accurate. And I think that you should definitely try out, you know, all the, all the ones you can and kind of like, don't leave it, especially when gas is cheaper on layer one because, I mean, unfortunately you have to spend gas fees on layer one to get funds onto L2. I think eventually that'll be ironed out with like, you know, batched onboarding from layer one, you know, fiat onboarding and centralized exchange onboarding and things like that.
00:25:35.008 - 00:26:10.232, Speaker A: But, you know, we're all pioneers here. I mean, I've said it before, like the fact that we're pioneers means that you're gonna have to just like, I guess, you know, it's, it's a bit, maybe a little bit crappy to save you. We all have to kind of deal with this for now, right? And, you know, the kind of opportunities come with this. And you know, I guess like the, the yield being high comes with the fact that not many people know about this. It comes with the fact that a lot of people actually priced out of this. You know, the fact that you can buy tokens really early because not, not a lot of people know about it is, is really promising, too. So I guess when you really think about it, the high gas fees are basically just like the price of alpha in this ecosystem.
00:26:10.232 - 00:26:38.406, Speaker A: The price of the high yields, the price of, you know, the, the token prices, you know, being, just being early in general to tokens and things like that. That's not to say like it's a good thing necessarily. And that like, I think that people should be paying hundred dollars, you know, fees just to do like a couple of uniswap trades. Not at all. But I think, you know, in the meantime, you know, there's already solutions you can use. And of course there are like other kind of like chains that you can use as well. Like the Matic pos chain is very popular.
00:26:38.406 - 00:27:21.342, Speaker A: Xdai is very popular, you know, and there's other layer one blockchains that have, you know, some kind of like, you know, things you can do on there like yield farming and stuff like that. So that's all going to happen. And you know, I've kind of warmed up to the idea over the last few months of like the quote unquote multi chain kind of ecosystem playing out. I do believe the majority of the, I guess, net network activity is going to remain on Ethereum on both layer one and L2. But there's no denying that these other kind of networks, layer one networks are going to find their own niche. They're going to find, you know, what, what they're going to basically be good at and what they're going to, you know, offer users that Ethereum can't and they're going to lean into it, which is, which is fine. You know, a perfect example of this is the utility chains like Filecoin and arweave that are doing decentralized file storage.
00:27:21.342 - 00:27:52.402, Speaker A: I think they're super interesting, right? I think they're really, really great. I think they add a ton of value to ethereum specifically because Ethereum, you know, with L2 is data hungry. So if, if L2s can tap into these other kind of like places for data that maybe cannot be stored on Ethereum, layer one data such as I guess the NFT kind of like images and things like that. Cause it's too expensive to store it on layer one Ethereum, then that's even more positive. So yeah, definitely. I mean people call me an ETH maximalist sometimes. I mean I don't think so.
00:27:52.402 - 00:28:31.148, Speaker A: I mean I've gone through why I don't think I am before and if I was, I would think everything else is a scam. But ethereum, I think very few things are actual scams in this ecosystem. I do think that there are just a lot of ill thought out projects and projects that are kind of pointless. But at the end of the day the market will decide, you know, users will decide what they want to use and you know, maybe a lot of these other projects act as like a way to kind of like, you know, breed this competition between, you know, Ethereum, the other chains, you know, and L2 and things like that. So yeah, I definitely think it's all positive, but you know, I'll leave it at that for now. Won't go too down, too deep down that rabbit hole. I mean I could talk for hours about what I think about the competition in this space right now.
00:28:31.148 - 00:29:08.830, Speaker A: But again, it is a completely open question right now. I'm placing all my bets on Ethereum, of course, in the ethereum ecosystem in terms of like the time I spend and the capital I deploy. But that's just because it's, it's where I can spend most of my time and get the most kind of value out of both at the social level, at the kind of like, I guess, intellectual level and the, I guess like monetary level as well. And I think, you know, a lot of you watching, you know, especially if you're watching me do daily ethereum recaps, every day would feel the same way about this. So yeah, really, really bullish times all across the board, I think. And I can't wait for more of these L2s to go live. Alright, that's it for today, everyone.
00:29:08.830 - 00:29:18.134, Speaker A: Thank you again for watching and listening. Be sure to subscribe to that channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
