00:00:25.090 - 00:00:25.350, Speaker A: Everybody.
00:00:25.420 - 00:01:02.138, Speaker B: Welcome to Diffusion Live. Happy New year. This is the first recording of 2021. We'll be doing these every week on a Wednesday. 04:00 p.m. UTC today we're going to be talking about the emerging value net and Wall Street API with Maple Leaf capital, led by an anon Degen, meant in a complementary way, who is dedicated to web3 speculation and building. He's anonymous because he's got a day job in private equities, and I think it's really exciting to see people like him coming into the space and providing a really high level of professional analysis.
00:01:02.138 - 00:02:11.734, Speaker B: You can follow them@mapleleafcapital.org how we know them is they produced two reports now, I think the Twitter account has been going for a couple of years, since 18, but they provided two reports, one in the summer and June 1, recently in December, where they give kind of an evolving thesis and framework to analyze what's happening in DeFi and the wider space. And so it's become required reading at outlive ventures amongst myself and the analysts. This particular session we're going to do today, we're going to talk about, as I said, the emerging value net Wall Street API, subject of the second report in December, in particular ETH based DeFi, as well as more broader DeFi interoperability and how DeFi is becoming a Wall Street API. We're going to talk about how institutional investors may begin to adopt DeFi, what are the kind of requirements for them to do that, as well as the whole regulatory landscape. So we're going to cover off a lot today. But firstly, I want to welcome, let's just call him Maple for now.
00:02:11.734 - 00:02:12.562, Speaker B: Welcome, Maple.
00:02:12.706 - 00:02:23.066, Speaker A: Hey, Jamie, thanks for having me. And by the way, calling somebody a dgen in DeFi today is like the highest compliment you can get to. I really, I really appreciate that.
00:02:23.248 - 00:02:24.220, Speaker B: No problem.
00:02:24.910 - 00:03:07.640, Speaker A: And just to tell you a bit more about myself, I fell down the rabbit hole in 2018. But even today, and during that, I work at a global public and private equities firm. We look at stocks globally, and it's a small world. So forgive me for not giving away too much, because I think once you hear my voice and once you sort of know a bit more about what I do, you kind of can tell who I am if you're in this space. So apologies for that. But I fell down the rabbit hole in 18, and I figured there's no better way to be corrected of my mistakes than have people yelling at me on Twitter. So that's what I did.
00:03:07.640 - 00:03:28.880, Speaker A: And also through that it was a very fruitful journey to sort of get to know a lot of people in this space. So that was definitely great. I'm doing this on a part time fashion, the time being, but already I think it's already generating a lot of interesting feedbacks from the time which I've been doing it.
00:03:29.330 - 00:04:10.742, Speaker B: Yeah. And given that I know you do these reports at the weekend, it's a huge amount of work, incredibly comprehensive, and I really like that approach of kind of thinking out loud. I think it's really beneficial for this space. And so personally, I'm really encouraged to see people like you not only paying attention, but increasingly beginning to inform thinking and help people understand fundamental analysis about how we might begin to understand where value will flow accrue in this emerging space. I guess a question I always ask for somebody like yourself with the background that you have is, at what point does this go from being a part time hobby to a full time profession?
00:04:10.886 - 00:05:16.786, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a good question. I think we're going to go into this later, but I feel like the frictionless value transfer is going to be a big thing in the next ten to 20 years, and actually it almost feels inevitable. So with this megatrend potentially happening, if I were to do this full time, I want to make sure it's done right with the right partners, setting up the structure the right way and then going to market the right way. Right now I'm talking to a few parties and I'm putting something together, but I think 2021 will be a pretty big and interesting transitional year for me. And if I were to ever do something, it will probably be mid year to second half of the year. But maybe the bull market will be over that. Who knows? But then again, there's no better way to deploy capital when it's a bear market because I do feel like the space needs a few more iterations to work, and we're sort of in the Internet ages of 1990s, and lo and behold, Facebook and Shopify didn't really happen until early 2000.
00:05:16.786 - 00:05:17.540, Speaker A: Sorry.
00:05:17.910 - 00:06:02.030, Speaker B: Well, it's no doubt that if you've been in this space long enough, you get used to the bumpy rides. But I do think it's interesting that we're getting to the point where the point in the cycle or the level of maturity whereby people like you are even considering making the jump from your day to day world into this. Obviously, there's, I guess, an increasing correlation between the two that we're going to talk about a little bit later. So as I understand it, we're going to break down today into two parts. As I said, this is specifically referencing the latest report you did in December. 1 part is going to be valuenet. What is the value net? Understanding this multi chain future and the various actors.
00:06:02.030 - 00:06:25.560, Speaker B: And then second part is going to be around Wall Street API, understanding the kind of constituent parts of that and how and where it would be adopted and how players in that space can begin to grow. Market share, accrue value. So I believe the first one I'm going to do is we're going to jump into subject one, which is this emerging value net.
00:06:26.250 - 00:07:27.590, Speaker A: Great. I think whenever we have something that's new, right, whenever we have something that causes the cost of doing something to go down significantly, a paradigm shift, let's say. I think new frontiers of possibility becomes, happens. I think if we dial back to the 1990s when Internet first happened, if you really abstract it, I think you can call the Internet a much more frictionless way, both in cost and ease of transferring bits of information, or just information through space and time. And you can see on the left of this chart, which is historically, we've had these things happen before, right? Whether it's a printing press or whatever. And every time, the cost of transferring information went down quite meaningfully. And the power of information, like the books, went from the plaything of nobility to every commoner.
00:07:27.590 - 00:08:48.290, Speaker A: And through that, new businesses formed, and we're all better off. I mean, who would have known when you told me information is freely transferable? I'm going to think of, oh, I can write a letter to my wife and it'll get there instantaneously, like, takes a month. But that's thinking too small, because as we then saw, okay, you have infinitely searchable information through Google, you have infinitely social networks through Facebook, and then, you know, a tv anytime you want it, or entertainment anytime you want it, through TikTok and Netflix, and then you have any cabs that you want it, transfer information through Uber. So to the tam, sort of expanded meaningfully through the Internet as an enabling technology. I went into that in depth because I think the magnitude of impact to the society today through the value net that's emerging right through this game, theoretically guaranteed transfer of value is potentially similar in magnitude versus what the Internet is. And if you really think about what it is, value as we know it today is really just a very special type of information. Your number, your bank account is really just numbers on Morgan Chase or HSBC centralized ledger.
00:08:48.290 - 00:09:10.298, Speaker A: And the reason you know it's yours, because there's violence behind it. There's violence behind it. As long as they're not honoring their promises or that there's something wrong, you can sue them and the government, through their violent bodies, take care of it for you. But of course, as you know, that violent body carries the cost. There are standing armies. There's legal system. A bunch of lawyers have to pay if something goes wrong.
00:09:10.298 - 00:09:55.686, Speaker A: And if we abstract it further and take a step back. Well, what is the real cost of value transfer today without this new emerging game, theoretical guaranteed value net? Well, it is two costs. It is the cost of data, the servers, as well as the cost of potential recourse, in the sense that if nothing goes wrong, you pay nothing. And if something goes wrong, well, you got to go to court, you got to shoot them or what have you. And if you blend out to an average, could actually be significantly expensive. And if you really think about value, a lot of our world today is very digitized. And you can really say it's just bits, right? But it's very high value bits.
00:09:55.686 - 00:11:01.406, Speaker A: It's line item on a ledger. And what Satoshi sort of came out and what sort of ethereum improved on, is that what you're really allowing for? It is a game theoretic mechanism, where you have a token, and the token is almost the cost for which to secure the copy and paste, sorry, the cut and paste of some information on a ledger. It is a cost of which it's used to transfer, and it's used to not transfer bits of information on a ledger. And that cost carries a public market cost. And because of the cost associated with it, you can actually put a lot more value on this. And unlike the real world we have, it's something when we look at Morgan Chase or when we look at just sending money between you and know it is actually very simple. Transfer information.
00:11:01.406 - 00:11:57.940, Speaker A: And that can actually sit on a central ledger, whereby the real cost of transferring that data or restoring that data is twofold, is the servers. But it's also the cost of recourse to you and I. If we sort of violate our treaties, if we violate the trust between us, there are cops that come out after us. And if it is a simple value transfer, and if it is within a simple time horizon and it is within very sort of adjacent and the same jurisdiction, that cost of recourse can be very low. And a lot of times, if we trust each other, that cost is nonexistent. But whenever that cost becomes very small or very massive and it becomes sort of very complicated, that transcends space and time, the cost of recourse associated with it could go up exponentially. Or the value is so small that the cost of recourse is not even worth it.
00:11:57.940 - 00:13:20.940, Speaker A: However, in this sort of game theoretic way of transferring value which blockchain enabled, I actually think that the blockchain could allow for this kind of value transferred, however small or however more complicated, through space and time to actually occur. So if you extend that, then it seemed very likely to me that this kind of value transfer of Internet would emerge out of this technology. And the first use case is obviously bitcoin and then ethereum. But I sort of see that as time goes on and on, the cost of value transfer, hopefully, while retaining the same security characteristics, will continue to scale and decline over time. And at the same time we could see a parachain future whereby there is a whole host of security scaling that is tailored to various type of value transfer events. And ultimately it's the same parallel that I draw in 1020 years. You don't know what kind of business model this can enable, but I think just imagining us being sovereign to not only information but also to value, I think it could be a much better world and we can almost live everywhere and sort of, I think the world become a better place in the end state.
00:13:20.940 - 00:13:33.460, Speaker A: So let me just pause there because there's a bit more topic on what this parallel multichain valleyneck could look like. But that's a lot of details. But let me just pause there and see if you have any questions before I jump on.
00:13:34.070 - 00:14:30.926, Speaker B: Yeah, no, I think definitely continue certainly around the thinking around cross chain, because obviously most people, when they think of Defi, they think of Ethereum. Despite some of the constraints, it still resides there. Clearly both with what's happening with Cosmos, IPC and then Polkadot, there is the promise of power chains and alternative systems which can allow for more bespoke design and solution. But realistically, do you think that Ethereum has a defensible moat when it comes to DeFi, or do you think it's much more nuanced than that? You think elements of DeFi will remain on Ethereum and others will migrate to more bespoke networks?
00:14:31.038 - 00:15:38.600, Speaker A: Yeah. So there's two questions there. How defensible is this and how is scaling happen? I think DeFi on ETH isn't particularly defensible and it really depends on how the existing protocols scale to adjacent rails. What do I mean by that? First of all, in the real world, like the finance industry, if we just take fintech apart, there isn't really that much mode between one bank and another, I think it really comes down to people and then your cost structure, right? You have the client relationship, you can sort of win deals, you can sort of draw deposits, but in the end it's all just capital. And I think their mode is really to the new entrants, you need a license or B license. I think the kind of money Legos and Defi primitive is actually infinitely forkable. I think it will be trivial for protocols on Polkadot or even protocols on the DM network by Facebook to fork everything that exists today within the.
00:15:38.600 - 00:16:42.378, Speaker A: It is, you know, thousands, tens of thousands of code, and it's a very primitive liquidity redirection. But why does DeFi only exist on Eve today in the same form? And I think it's because it's really interesting because in real life, just off a tangent, in real life, finance comes after first you have business activities, right? I need to buy your cow and I only have chicken. So let's do trade. And when trade proliferates, you need finance to transfer value across space and time to allow for flexibility. I constantly joke that if the business activity is like addition and subtractions, finance is really the multiplication, right? It's a multiplier and it is the scaling that sort of stipends value from a to b. That's what happens in real life. In crypto world, it's sort of in reverse.
00:16:42.378 - 00:17:51.758, Speaker A: Which is what is the business use case today? Well, it's speculation and gambling. It's like Vegas and Defi emerges service that and DeFi itself sort of emerged before the business application existed. So if you only look at this very limited set of use cases, then you look at, well, where is the most gambling happening? Where is the most wealth residing and where is the most amount of people residing? Well, it's on the Eiffe ecosystem, right? So it's only natural then you go to Vegas to gamble, right? That's kind of what's happening today. And why is that sort of really strong today? Well, because there are no assets anywhere else, there's nothing to gamble on the other ecosystems. And if you're starting a casino or if you're starting any kind of degenerate gambling project, you need to be going on east, because that's where the capital is. But if we look forward sort of three, five years, it is our hope that business application will come on top of it. Ideally we would get ten x 100 x more users.
00:17:51.758 - 00:18:23.610, Speaker A: And then it is a question, well, will that happen on Eve, or would it happen somewhere else. And I think whoever captures that incremental business centric user is of real question. And I think it's up to the eve community to scale the network to accommodate that kind of use cases to emerge. So I don't think it's a done deal. I think scaling on EF is promising. Whether it's through ZK or optimism or side chains. I think we're actually making huge strides in those regards.
00:18:23.610 - 00:19:53.500, Speaker A: But I think it's Eevee's game to lose at this point. How can you scale faster than sort of other chains taking your incremental users when business application happens in terms of other chains? I think Polkadot got a lot of financial backing going behind it. But what something to really watch out for is what I call open permission network such as that of diem, and then the sort of closed permission network such as central bank digital currency. Because why I think that's important is because what those two other networks have is they have significant amount of users and that they can force if, if your Facebook messenger app becomes your swiss bank and you can start transferring value left and right there, or your WeChat becomes that, I mean in day one you can start harboring business applications and let alone the recourse that the government can induce on people using those networks. Right? Like all of a sudden you have potential credit use cases and you have real business activities. I still think that open permissionless network like Eve will be a black hole of talent and capital, but you need to scale and you need to really prepare yourself up for the influx of new users and business applications. That sits up so well for the other two competing type of.
00:19:53.500 - 00:20:07.440, Speaker A: So I think it's Eve's game to lose and I think they're going to starting to face serious competition from this permission node enabled networks that is like DM and that's like CBDC in the next sort of one to three years.
00:20:08.930 - 00:20:47.530, Speaker B: Interesting. And so maybe before we jump into, I don't know if there's more that you wanted to show from the report around interoperability. I know you had some visualizations there, but just before we do, you obviously started out with use case zero, as in bitcoin. Given everything that's going on with price at the moment and given where you're sat in the world, I'm going to have to ask you for if not a price prediction, at least your feeling on where we are in the cycle. Do you think that we are kind of due a correction, a severe correction like we had previously? Or do you think something's different this time.
00:20:47.680 - 00:21:47.934, Speaker A: Yeah, we were talking about before the show started, which is the joke of you go through a few phases of recognition of some new technology, which is you don't see it and then you see it, but you laugh at it and then you curse at it, right? Because you fear it and then you accept it. With crypto, when you fear it and you sort of accept it, you actually go back to not seeing it again because the price goes up and down. I think this cycle, I think we are reaching that stage of you don't laugh at it and you sort of fear it and accept it. But this time around, what's really different is that at least in the traditional finance community, all these asset managers, they have somebody they hugely respect. The titans in the space coming out, endorsing this space with a highly cogent argument, right? It's like I joke that nobody shows better than Wall street. And when Wall street showing it, that's when you know they're ready.
00:21:48.132 - 00:21:49.562, Speaker B: The real djens.
00:21:49.706 - 00:22:32.422, Speaker A: The real djens, I mean, the apes like Paul Tudor Jones, I mean, when they're aping, they ape pretty hard. I just feel like this time, the buy in from this community and the sort when you're idol and when the legends speak, like think, you know, most asset managers really take a pause and start questioning their own belief. Am I the one who's wrong here? And by the way, I called this a bubble like four or five times already. Each and single time it didn't die. So am I making a mistake here? And I think we're finally reaching that point of potentially a mental model switch from the guys who really have the money. So I think this cycle is a little different. I think Covid definitely accelerated that.
00:22:32.422 - 00:23:18.300, Speaker A: And to your question on where we are in the cycle, I think the cycle, more than any others, is that the players have significantly changed the capital base. Today you have an even bigger dichotomy of the capital composition. You have the really long dated money that are just going to hoddle. That is the pension funds, the insurance fund, and then you have really sharp degenerates that are well trained in the financial market that can just change your mind and ape in and ape out on a dime. And retail, that distribution is much wider than retail. In retail, you either hoddle, but you could sell when life comes at you hard, or you sort of don't particularly have conviction. I think that's a compositional difference.
00:23:18.300 - 00:23:55.670, Speaker A: But what it also introduced, I think is a stronger dose of macro correlation. And I think this cycle more than any others. I actually think we see more violent moves on the way up. And I think a lot of that move potentially would be highly correlated on what the Fed does and how the vaccine and the COVID plays out and particularly sort of how inflation and sort of central bank policies and stimulus packages play out. I'm on edge right now. Well, not so much. I think that the metric now has shifted.
00:23:55.670 - 00:25:05.950, Speaker A: I think on chain data analytics is always important. But I also feel like more than ever you need to start thinking about how are the bigger asset managers who are aping today or have a cost basis of 10,000 are going to think about this asset class when the Fed potentially raised rates because inflation is 4%. And more than ever, that playbook is highly relevant. And the thing I'm watching out for is when is the Fed going to taper back its QE and when is it going to start thinking about thinking about raising rates and when is that traditional market going to sniff that out? And I was having a debate with somebody the other day about like, okay, well, the COVID it is a insolvency driven, fear driven, derisking a risk off. And in that case, bitcoin is a pristine collateral gets sold because it's liquid and you just need cash and you sell it. But this time around it could be, and we see it today with the Georgia democratic suite. This sell off in the risk market, if it happens, it could be an inflation fear driven sell off, right? It's a long end of curve going up and inflation going up.
00:25:05.950 - 00:25:47.900, Speaker A: I'm actually not sure if that kind of risk comp is going to really hurt bitcoin because that incremental inflation might actually show up on bitcoin as a potential inflation hedge. But it's a long winded way of answering a question. But I think we are in inning four both in where we are in this bull cycle, as well as where bitcoin is in terms of adoption as like a real asset class. I think we got some more to go and the cycle and the peak would be, I don't want to call the peak just because it's so dependent on how the big money thinks about this and the macro cycle. But if I were to own bitcoin, I'm definitely not selling it anytime soon.
00:25:48.430 - 00:26:20.018, Speaker B: Yeah, it's interesting. I mean, having been in the space myself for several years now, it's interesting that there's beginning to become a correlation between what happens in bitcoin and wider macro environment where previously, sometimes things would happen with no kind of logical sense behind them. So was there anything else you wanted to touch upon or build upon around the multi chain future? Or did you want to kind of move now into defi primitive as the Wall Street API?
00:26:20.194 - 00:27:06.774, Speaker A: Yeah, just a little bit on that. I think just the last bit is I think the future will be multichain. And like I said before, it's very certain to me in the next ten to 20 years that valid transfer seamlessly will occur. It is unclear to me how we get there. It is particularly unclear to me that e plus DFI is the way it's most probable, I think, given the debesian friar we have today. But I'm not sure how we get there. So what is the sort of easier way to bet on it, and I sort of can think of three ways, is you either go for picks at shovel place that are layer one agnostic, right? Like the chainalysis of the world, because they're going to be selling to c, to b, to g in any phases and they can upsell, they can cross sell, they can go on any chain and just do just as well.
00:27:06.774 - 00:27:48.146, Speaker A: It's like a lower beta but sort of easier play. Or you go for sort of web two network effect businesses that already own the customer relationship and sort of pick out the ones that can exponentially monetize their users with the value net feature turned on, right, because it is all sunk cost and they're the first to benefit. Or you sort of look really hard on the applications that emerge out of this value net that sort of build network effect slightly differently. And all three of these sort of don't really leverage. They're layer one agnostic. If e fails, then go to Polkadot. If Polkadot fails, then go to the next one.
00:27:48.146 - 00:28:05.478, Speaker A: So you sort of really lessen your platform risk in that sense because it'll just suck I think to see the future of smartphone, but you hopped on Symbian or BlackBerry, it's just a disaster. So you kind of want the app layer to sort of straddle all sort of layer ones.
00:28:05.644 - 00:29:00.010, Speaker B: So maybe just on that you mentioned the web two plays, you referenced Facebook earlier and why they have a good chance of succeeding. Or I guess any other regional equivalent, especially when you're looking at integration around cbdcs. But you didn't mention fintech. So do you. Classic fintech startups as an equivalent where they've got a user base, most of them are probably still loss making, right? And we've already seen Dorsey make some very smart moves. I think he's pretty much offset most of the losses, if not all of the revenues are currently being driven via what they're doing with bitcoin. Do you see fintech as an on ramp to Defi, or is that something that sits within your Wall Street API thesis?
00:29:01.390 - 00:30:04.970, Speaker A: I do. I think it will be easy for the plate of the world to onboard eth or build their own value network or work with Facebook. I think that the issue with that with fintech is a lot of the issue with fintech is a lot of them base their business models on a few things. It is a prettier UI Ux, a more millennial go to market strategy, and then the sort of significant compliance and sort of piping work when it comes to working with the patchwork of legacy financial system that we have today. Well, the thing is, the first two, the fangs of the world, do incredibly well. And then the last bit, arguably, they are on the same starting point. And I think it's entirely trivial for Facebook to just completely bypass what Morgan's of the world had built and just build their own, almost certainly.
00:30:04.970 - 00:30:46.490, Speaker A: So I think it is a very exciting time for fintech companies. I think the touch points and the hooks they have built with all the ecosystems out there is extremely valuable, but I think they have to pivot fast when they see the trend before sort of being really left behind by other players that move faster. I think the players like Facebook and Square and Twitter of the world have a distinct advantage because they own the user experience and sort of touch point. It almost seems trivial to me to sort of on top of that touch point, add some value transfer features.
00:30:47.950 - 00:31:17.350, Speaker B: Yeah. And I think that's definitely true when you start to consider things like NFTs, right, which aren't pure play financial assets, but you can speculate on them. That might be a way that a lot of the web, two platforms, social platforms, content platforms, onboard people into a form of digital wealth, which will then subsequently lead them to leverage things like DFI, where the NFT is an asset that's borrowed and lent against. So let's jump into Wall Street API. Can you talk us through that? I know you've got a few slides that you want to show us.
00:31:17.500 - 00:32:18.198, Speaker A: Yes. Wall Street API is my fancy lingo that I created to call what the DeFI stack is emerging to become. But basically, I think of this future where when value transfer is seamless, right? That means person to person, person to corporate, person to machine, and the three parties sort of transferring with each other. But it's also allowing any body to sort of assess and provide for global liquidity, I think we're going to see a world where liquidity and wealth and value has no boundaries. And it could be as simple as plugging into an API. You are literally have Wall street on the palm of your hand. Well, at that point we might all have chips in our brain, but let's assume cell phone is still the go to.
00:32:18.198 - 00:33:11.250, Speaker A: I mean, it's literally in your cell phone. You not only have a swiss bank which you can deposit and send money, I think that's like underselling. I think you have Wall street on your pocket. I think there is a world where for any individual, what's really previously reserved for kings issuing bonds, like the great British Empire, the king of the Great Britain, or today the corporates, the Michael sailor issuing convertible bond, or Tesla, I think that right for kings and for noblemen would now be enabled for you and I adjust similarly to how the Rothschild have their dove sending information. I mean it's a really nobleman thing. But now you and I have arguably better information transparency than the Rothschild in the 16 hundreds. And all of that would be accessed through a simple paying off the API.
00:33:11.250 - 00:34:14.990, Speaker A: And that's what I see sort of DFI on top of layer one and layer zero is enabling today and to build on top of that. And you can see in this chart here, I think the users will be on the left, they're going to go through a tool infrastructure through a front end, but everything gets built on top of the layer zero and the whole stack. And on the other end, on the right hand, you have businesses that utilize all sort of infrastructures and tools to sort of enable this stack to be built. I think within the eve ecosystem today, you have a very burgeoning primitives that are effectively replacing every function Wall street have to have, with perhaps the exception of anything that touches credit. And what I mean by credit is unsecured lending. When we get there, I think it will require recourse, it will require repeated game, and will require a lot of sort of identity for us to get unsecured lending. But even just in the face today, I think a lot of the primitives on exchanges, asset management and bank functions are being replicated.
00:34:14.990 - 00:34:54.550, Speaker A: What's the best way to put this? I think it is inevitable that some of these protocols today. Hold on 1 second. I think it's inevitable that some of these protocols today would continue to amalgamate. Right. I think most of them start off with one features, but over time, as they build up enough of a capital pool and enough talent, they will start building a bigger empire. Right? They're going to start doing everything, which I think uniswap and Aave will start doing, but they will also go buy it in a horde like fashion. They will start building ecosystems.
00:34:54.550 - 00:35:48.006, Speaker A: It's like cathedral and Bazaar. And that's what Wi Fi is doing. It's hard to say which of which is better, but what I would say is the barrier of entry on EFI has never been higher, because whatever you're working on doing, I think as of this point, the only barrier to somebody forking your code and doing something similar, leveraging their own user base, is that they don't have the time and attention and capital to do it. But when they do, when they get to that five to $10 billion market cap, maybe they can, and I think they will. So we're probably going to start seeing larger financial conglomerates emerging that kind of do everything. And only those protocols also will have the firepower to start bridging into treadfi and or sort of opening up branches and other chains which allow them to sprint faster. There's a lot to unpack.
00:35:48.006 - 00:35:50.854, Speaker A: Let me also just pause there. I'm kind of rambling a little bit.
00:35:50.992 - 00:36:42.334, Speaker B: No, that's great. I mean, of course, there's lots of elements to that, right? I think. At what point how does a protocol leverage its capitalization in order to grow? And this has been a problem for most protocols out there. Doesn't matter how good the infrastructure is and often even how big their treasury is, they need to effectively deploy that in order to grow and acquire market share, or at least grow the market or acquire market share from other protocols. And at the moment, it's primarily about growing the market. So it is interesting to start thinking about might protocols via their ecosystem funds begin to acquire on ramps. So rather than going through the process of trying to get a license themselves, just acquire a bank that already has one.
00:36:42.334 - 00:37:25.142, Speaker B: Right. Especially in the US, where you have a lot of, kind of, very kind of localized banking. I also see in the diagram that you showed earlier, you highlighted this idea of a cooperative. And I didn't know whether you meant in the context of a dow or in terms of cooperatives and the role that they play in a financial system. Because, again, I think this is a really overlooked thing, both globally and then even in the context of the US, there's a huge amount of capital locked up in banking cooperatives. Right. That are woefully behind from a technological perspective, but very philosophically aligned with web3 and DFI.
00:37:25.286 - 00:38:34.610, Speaker A: Yeah, there are two questions, like how do they scale and then how do they grow? How do they scale? And then what do I think of the sort of stakeholder mutual idea, right? The cooperative. Let me tackle the second one first. Where's that slide? Cooperatives exist today, but they fail to reach scale in this capitalism world because it takes capital to grow and win market share. And a lot of times the flexibility of taking outside capital allow corporations to move faster. I think there is room, but here's a downfall to it, is that if you're building a network effect business, yeah. You take in equity capital to scale to where you are today. Then upon a certain scale, you start become rent extracting upon scale upon the same users and the same suppliers that made you so successful.
00:38:34.610 - 00:39:43.426, Speaker A: Now, assuming that the same users and suppliers are then the same, if they are in an alternative world, if they are the stakeholders, if it's a co op, and somehow they solve the issue to scale problem and they solve all the mechanism design issue. It seems likely to me that this business that is stakeholder driven, stakeholder owned, will have a significant cost advantage to the shareholder equity owned businesses. That's kind of what I'm referring to as the co op driven. And by the way, why is this possible? Well, it's possible because the cost of complicated value transfer goes down significantly. I think previously, if you want to do really fancy stuff with a co op, there's a lot of regulatory requirements, a lot of paperwork, a lot of recourse stuff. But now it seems to me that the barrier is more so on what business model it is and how do you design the mechanism. I think the value transfer side increasingly becomes more trivial, which I think is exciting.
00:39:43.426 - 00:40:51.126, Speaker A: There's a lot of problems to solve to the other question, which is how do these protocols grow and scale? Let's take Aave, for example, and by the way, this is all my personal opinion, I think I will see a multi chain future where chains harbor various security and permissionless degree of permission characteristics. Right. It could very well be on DM. It could be a JPMorgan chain, it could be a china CPTC chain. I think to succeed in that know well, I think a protocol itself, to grow, need to be able to straddle that and find use cases that touch the end consumer. So in the example of Aave, what I can see them, you brought up a great example is that can they acquire a bank? And the answer is they can, because they should then be able to do all sorts of custodial services and really move seamlessly in sort of the realm of the United States Kingdom or the european kingdom.
00:40:51.318 - 00:41:16.446, Speaker B: And you can see that. By the way, I spoke with Stan a some time ago on a podcast that we've got, and he was talking about this vertical integration, acquiring an FCA license, the regulatory acquired license here in the UK, and pursuing that as a strategy versus certain protocols which are just trying to stay horizontal. So it's interesting that you focused on them specifically.
00:41:16.558 - 00:42:14.758, Speaker A: Yeah, because I think you owned a touch point. You get closer to your customer, right? You're very close to your customer on Defi today. But if you sort of feel like the users come to in a different way through Facebook, I mean, God, you better be a node on the Facebook network, you better have your app on your Facebook network, and ideally you have a bank that allows you to operate with those customers. And the other thing I think they can grow is they have to really start looking for horizontal. What can you do better within your own protocol and what kind of product can you offer to your customers when they eventually come? And there's a certain extent of business development aspect to it. And the last bit I would say in particular for Ave, I think eventually a cross chain and custody solution will be a big business, right? I would love to, if I own an apartment or a house, I would love to put that thing on the chain and have the global liquidity for a mortgage. If I can't now, today, it's very hard because there's also the problem.
00:42:14.758 - 00:43:09.654, Speaker A: But eventually when the governments do buy in and when you have a trusted custodian, and when the cost of capital in the global liquidity defi space become cheap enough, that is entirely possible. And it might actually be cheaper if you're a lending protocol God, you don't want to be the second tier citizen that plugs into a custodian that may or may not use to you want to be that custodian and face the customer. So there are all sort of directions that a protocol like Ave can go into. I think buy and burn as a token design mechanism. It's good longer term, but it's only when you run out of growth opportunities. I think these are all liquid vc startups. And with companies in hyper growth phase, I think their priority should be placed on using your capital for growth because the ROs is so much higher and people go hard bond to buy back.
00:43:09.654 - 00:43:20.970, Speaker A: I think it's because the level of trust in the space is so low that this way gets you better multiple on your token. But if you already trust it, I think actually going for growth gets you even higher multiple.
00:43:21.490 - 00:43:44.290, Speaker B: Yeah. So maybe to start closing off cognizant of your time, as we've already acknowledged, you do have a day job. So two things. Firstly, what do you think is required for DeFi to become a. Interesting and b adoptable by institutions?
00:43:52.670 - 00:44:32.710, Speaker A: I think there are three things. I think there are three things that are needed. Some sort of protection and downside support, I. E insurance for the smart contract risk. A way for institutions to actually interact with the protocols, whether it's through custodian or through somebody like Fireblock and then real businesses on top of it, so people can wrap their head around where the yield comes from. Insurance and smart contract for cover your ass purposes. But also I think it's nice to have, and I actually think it's possible treadfi insurance companies start underwriting these risks.
00:44:32.710 - 00:45:21.542, Speaker A: I think for institution the most important thing actually is how do you. In the asset manager framework it's pretty important to make sure that you yourself as a GP cannot just take the LP's money and run away. So there's a bunch of checks and balances needed. And I think exploration in that regard. I actually could see Coinbase and fireblocks and all these custodians doing a very good job in sort of integrating these things. And the last bit is, I think the last thing, once those two are solved, they're also going to wonder, is this yield sustainable and who's providing the yield? And the answer today is, well, because it's so speculative and it's the djans that are providing the yield. But once you see real businesses exist on top of this, I think it'll be much easier to sell the idea to their own lps or for them to get on board.
00:45:21.542 - 00:45:33.500, Speaker A: Because look, what we are doing is that through Defi we're funding ABCDe and that's where the yield comes from. And I think that they can get behind. I think those three things are needed.
00:45:34.030 - 00:46:39.210, Speaker B: And I guess the yield will increasingly be driven by income bearing assets. Right? And this kind of feeds into my next question, which is the regulatory. You know, we know you're based in the US, I guess it's implied where you might be in the US, but there's a lot of things that are going on right now and I'd be interested to get your perspective. So on the one hand you've got actions against ripple and whether you think that's just a clearing of the deck or something else. And in parallel you had the recent news, I think today or yesterday with the OCC, where federally chartered banks can use public blockchains and stablecoins for settlement. So generally, what's your gauge on what's happening in the US? Do you think they're preparing for a professionalization of the space and then linked to that? How far away do you think we are from having income bearing assets being used in things like defi by institutions?
00:46:39.370 - 00:47:12.890, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm going to preface this by saying I don't know the regulators, I don't talk to them. All information is my own imagination. And from talking to people, there's a saying that when you occupy a mountain and set up shop, you clear out the bandits first. And I think that's what the US is doing. And I don't think anybody would be, maybe except for the people within XRP. I don't think anyone in crypto is sad about XRP blowing up. In fact, we might cheer it.
00:47:12.890 - 00:48:06.460, Speaker A: In fact, I'm certain we'll cheer think. And this is me speculating. I think after seeing the action coming from the CBDC in China and realizing the potential, where's the future of the world going to? Right. There's various industries that harbor all the sort of next spurt of growth. I think the US is slowly realizing that maintaining the dollar dominance is very important for it to realize that future. And one way to do so is to leverage your existing hypervibrant fangs to effectively colonize other countries in the world by placing swiss banks in everybody's pockets. I think it will be hard pressed for a turkish citizen to use turkish lira when they can send us dollars left and right when they're using a Facebook app.
00:48:06.460 - 00:48:27.298, Speaker A: And by the way, paying taxes to the turkish government is really up to Facebook whether they want to pay it or not. So I think that's what the US has in mind. And to realize that future, you want to destroy bad actors and then have your own good actors sort of fill in the shoes. So I think that's what. Sorry, and what's your second question?
00:48:27.464 - 00:49:21.390, Speaker B: Well, no, I think that's pretty much it. You answered it. I think this mean that would imply that like we've seen with big tech generally, both in the US and in China, that jurisdictions will pick a national champion, right? One that is close to the state that's going to abide by the rules and then hopefully not get too big, like in the case of Alibaba. And I mean, that's an interesting thought. I haven't actually considered to what extent there might be, let's call it capture. Could some of the more centralized on ramps to defi become much more integrated into existing regulatory environments from a national strategy perspective.
00:49:21.470 - 00:50:16.214, Speaker A: Yeah, it almost seems like the Democrats are in the house today, right? And they have all three of the branches and mean like they're backed by Silicon Valley. And you can only imagine what's going to happen. It's just me speculating. But also the other thing too is I think it's almost a certainty that one day sec and the US government is going to come out and just find a scapegoat in the DeFi movement. They're going to find somebody, they're going to lynch them and they're going to kind of force them into sort of somewhat type of compliance that they will for sure come. I just don't know when I actually think that kind of action could be good for the space because it sort of really forces the bad actors out. Because I think that sort of 1020 year future would be a future not necessarily of us all becoming digital nomads or it will only get there after the government sort of bought into the idea.
00:50:16.214 - 00:50:32.620, Speaker A: Because ultimately for credit to exist, you need violent recourse to enforce it in the real world. But I think the reckoning is going to come at some point. But at the end of the day, I think whoever is in DeFi will come out of it better off.
00:50:33.950 - 00:50:53.730, Speaker B: Really interesting. Maple, thanks for coming on. Really appreciate your time. I definitely recommend that people follow your Twitter account and I don't know if you've got the next report planned. Firstly, could you. So your Twitter account handle is next your image below. Maple leafcap at Maple Leafcap fairly easy.
00:50:53.730 - 00:50:57.540, Speaker B: When are you next expecting your next paper?
00:50:58.070 - 00:51:15.846, Speaker A: I don't know. It's a lot of work. I did this one because this space has changed so much and there really isn't much going on between, say, thanksgiving and Christmas. And I'm just bursting with thoughts that I want to put it down on a piece of paper. I don't know, it's a lot of work, so I had to think about it.
00:51:15.868 - 00:51:37.470, Speaker B: No promises, very non committal there. Never mind. Anyway, I recommend people definitely follow you. Maple, thanks very much for coming on. Last few words before we go. So for those that don't know, Outlive Ventures is a web3 d five NFT accelerator. All the buzzwords.
00:51:37.470 - 00:52:33.780, Speaker B: We will be accelerating around 50 startups this year. We did just under 32,020, almost doubling in 2021. We're about to begin cohort four literally next week. About half of that are DFI projects, or I think, sorry, one third of that are d five projects, another big chunk are NFT related. In parallel, we're beginning recruitment for base camp five, which would start in spring. So if you are working in the space precede to seed, make sure you apply at Outliventures IO basecamp. Also, we are formally launching something we call ascent to continue the mountaineering analogy for later stage projects that are close to the point of token issuance, distribution, fair launch, whatever it may be.
00:52:33.780 - 00:53:29.650, Speaker B: And we'll be working with about ten of those in each cohort a couple of times a year. So we're actively recruiting for that ascent program, which will start again beginning of Q two. So whether you're precede c stage startup with an MVP all the way up through to revenue generating business, we've even got some live networks that are looking for our help in fixing fundamental token design, growing the network, some of the themes that we discussed earlier today how do you actually begin to grow market share, acquire market share. So if you're interested in any of those things, go to Outliveventures IO and hit us up. So other than that, we will be doing this every week from here on out. So it's roughly 04:00 p.m. UTC UK time every Wednesday.
00:53:29.650 - 00:53:48.380, Speaker B: If you follow our LinkedIn channel, which is just outlive ventures, so the company page or our Twitter handle which is ovo hq, then you'll automatically get updated when we're doing these than that. Have a good week and happy new year.
00:53:48.830 - 00:53:49.560, Speaker A: Thanks for having me.
