00:00:00.680 - 00:00:29.546, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I discuss the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's date is December 8, 2020. Let's get right into everything today, guys. So I discussed rvs v two launch yesterday, and I actually missed this. I think this came out actually shortly after I did yesterday's Daily GUi refuel. But basically, you can easily migrate to aave v two using this instadap kind of tool here. So.
00:00:29.546 - 00:00:58.730, Speaker A: So I mentioned yesterday that Aave is going to have a tool that lets you migrate from v one to v two eventually. But if you don't want to wait for that, you can use Instadapp's tool here. So this is really cool. Basically lets you swap your positions out instantly, basically, you know, with an easy to use tool. And for those who don't know, Insta dash been out for a while, so you know, they're trustworthy. It's not just some random app on the Internet or something like that. So you can trust them if that's something you wanted to do with, with your other position.
00:00:58.730 - 00:01:18.574, Speaker A: So definitely go check that one out. It looks pretty cool from what I, what I've seen here. I haven't used it yet myself, but I am planning on using it eventually. If, if not, I'll just use the aave tool. Right. It just depends. Like, at the moment, as I mean, as I mentioned yesterday, there's no rush to kind of migrate across just yet.
00:01:18.574 - 00:02:03.780, Speaker A: And there's lower liquidity with v two. So it's kind of a risk, like a little bit of a chicken and egg. But I expect over the next few weeks, people will continue to migrate and there'll be more and more liquidity there. So definitely go check that one out. All right, so this was, I mean, today on Twitter, there was a bit of rumors around, like impending regulations for crypto coming, I guess, in the next maybe month, month to maybe five to six weeks as the Trump administration leaves office and the, the Biden administration comes in, there's a lot of rumors that the, the Treasury Department's going to be doing more regulations for crypto. And, you know, this isn't like new, this news. This has been around for like a few weeks now.
00:02:03.780 - 00:03:02.396, Speaker A: If you remember, Brian Armstrong put out a Twitter thread, I think it was a couple weeks ago at this point where he basically explained that they're hearing rumors about a possible kind of like, ban or, you know, heavy regulation coming in towards self hosted wallets. So, you know, you wouldn't have the ability to basically withdraw crypto from a centralized exchange into your own wallet, or there'd be extra regulations around that and you'd have to jump through all these hoops. I mean, I went into more detail about this in today's Daily Gray newsletter, if you want to go check that out there. But to focus on this kind of article here. So it's from the block and it says that at the recent G seven meeting, crypto assets was discussed during that meeting. And they basically, what, all the countries that the G seven kind of agreed on was that there needs to be more regulation to prevent the use that the use of cryptocurrencies for malign purposes or illicit activities. Now, I mean, we've heard this all before, right? This is the typical spiel.
00:03:02.396 - 00:03:46.628, Speaker A: Anytime the governments want to ban something or regulate something to death, they always use the same terminology. But this has kind of reverberated throughout the crypto community. And people are kind of, you know, somewhat not cautious, like, okay, what are these regulations going to be? Are they going to be centered around what Brian Armstrong talked about? Are they going to be more heavy handed than that? I mean, if I was to speculate, I actually think it's going to be centered, definitely centered around tightening up regulations, around withdrawing to your own address. I think that's just, you know, it makes a lot of sense for them to focus on that. If they did want to regulate certain things. I think a big thing as well will be maybe they say, to exchanges or centralized exchanges based in the US. You can't let your users withdraw to more than maybe two of their own addresses, for example.
00:03:46.628 - 00:04:15.266, Speaker A: Right. Because a lot of people tend to use centralized exchanges to, quote, unquote, wash their crypto through to maintain privacy. So I'm sure you've done it. I mean, I've done it a bunch of times where I send crypto to an exchange, I especially an exchange that lets me generate new deposit addresses, right. And then I'll send it out to a new address so that it's very, very hard to track me. Right. Because once you send it out to a new address, it comes from, like, coinbase is called storage, so it's not tied to you directly.
00:04:15.266 - 00:04:50.640, Speaker A: You know, there are still ways to track that, but it becomes a lot more difficult for, for the observer. Like, obviously, the exchange has a record of what you're withdrawing to and, and where you're depositing from. But, you know, it's, it's, I mean, most of the time it's fine if the centralized exchange knows that because you're not trying to hide from them, you're trying to hide from people that might know your address. You know, maybe they somehow doxxed you or something like that. So I actually think that they're gonna. That the regulators are gonna come along and be like, okay, we need to prevent this from happening because this is just wash trading, not wash trading. So this is just like money laundering.
00:04:50.640 - 00:05:24.924, Speaker A: You know, it's easy for people to wash money through exchanges because of this, which I think is a bit silly because a lot of these exchanges already have KYC and AML in place. The US based ones especially. And these regulations wouldn't apply to the offshore exchanges because of the fact that, you know, they're not based in the US or one of these seven nations. Something like binance for example. You know, they're not untouchable. But it's a lot harder for the US to kind of go after binance and regulate them rather than something like a coinbase, right. That's a fully regulated entity within the US and based in the US.
00:05:24.924 - 00:06:00.374, Speaker A: So again, all speculation, this is not something to be taken as a truth or anything like that. I'm just speculating here. I think it's good to keep in the back of your mind this can happen in the next few weeks probably. You know, we might see it happen before Christmas or something like that. I think exchanges are definitely expecting some more heavy handed regulation here. I just hope it's not something ridiculous like banning people from withdrawing from exchanges to their own wallet. I think that would definitely be the worst case scenario and that would kill a lot of the momentum we have right now.
00:06:00.374 - 00:06:32.830, Speaker A: It would force a lot of kind of companies to probably go offshore. I mean, it's just bad all around. So I really hope that that's not the case. I'm, you know, I have a little bit of faith, not too much faith after what I've seen the past few days from different people on Twitter discussing how to regulate things. I mean, I discussed the stable act thing last week, so yeah, I'm holding on faith, but we'll see what pans out here over the next few weeks. All right, really cool post from Hayden Adams here, actually. Oh, I forgot to retweet this.
00:06:32.830 - 00:07:45.880, Speaker A: I'm going to do that right now. So I make a governance proposal was put forward yesterday to add the Dai ETH and USDC ETH Uniswap liquidity tokens as collateral. So for those who don't know, for those who aren't aware, whenever you add liquidity to Uniswap, you get a liquidity provider token as that represents that liquidity. And, you know, well, if you were to send that token to another person, they could then go on Uniswap and actually withdraw the liquidity that you originally put in there, plus the fees as well. So what this makeup governance proposal would do, if it was integrated into maker, you would be able to use those tokens as collateral and then draw Dai against it. Now, this has been requested for a very long time, I think years at this point, that this has been kind of put out there where people were like, you know, bugging maker, being like, you know, you need to do this, you need to, to implement this, because it's just a no brainer, right? Because say you do the USDC ETH liquidity token, I mean, you know, that means your position is collateralized by USDC and ETH 50 50 split, right, as a typical uniswap pair there. And it also is, I mean, as Hayden notes here, it increases the capital efficiency for this liquidity.
00:07:45.880 - 00:08:45.982, Speaker A: Um, and it modifies their exposure in a meaningful way. I think it actually is like less of a risk as well than just straight ETH, right? Because, you know, you have a split between USDC and ETH here, so that's cool as well, I think, you know, you, you have less of a chance of being, I guess, liquidated, depending, I guess, on your collateralization ratio as well. But this is just, I mean, this is money legos at work. This is super fluid collateral at work, a term coined by Dan Ellitzer a while ago, where he basically said that, you know, anything that can be used as collateral will be used as collateral. So if you can tokenize anything on chain, then why wouldn't you use it as collateral? So I think that's exactly what we're seeing happen here. You know, I mentioned the other day, Avez has their tokenized debt, debt tokenization with v two that could be used as collateral and things like that. So there's a lot of things going on here, basically, and a lot of really cool things happening with Maker.
00:08:45.982 - 00:09:29.100, Speaker A: I mean, lately, maker has kind of copped a lot of heat, especially over the token price, right? The MKR token price hasn't been performing too well over the last, I guess you could call it years at this point, right? The, the chart doesn't look very healthy, that's for sure. But that doesn't mean the maker system is suffering. The DAI supply is at all time high, right. They keep adding new assets to be used as collateral for better or worse, you know, I mean, just in general, dice that makers and dies network effects are growing. So it remains to be seen if this has any impact on the token price going forward. Maybe people still think that the token is not designed very well. It's one of the, I guess you could call it original designs of a token.
00:09:29.100 - 00:09:53.788, Speaker A: I think. I personally think that Maker should rethink their token and redo their token economics, just like Ave did when they transformed from ETH, lend to Aave. They completely rethought their tokenomics. They called it arvinomics. And there's a lot, a bunch of other protocols doing this as well. So I'm hoping to see Maker do that eventually, but might be a bit hard with Maker because they're much, I guess they're much bigger there. There.
00:09:53.788 - 00:10:22.084, Speaker A: I mean, they have a governance process that tends to move very slowly as well. So, yeah, remains to be seen what happens there. An interesting tweet from Jesse Walden here. So I guess a lot of you would have seen Mira protocol the other day. So they airdropped a bunch of their Mir tokens to uni token holders. And I think there was another token holder that they airdropped it to, but I can't remember. I know a lot of people got the token because they were holding uni.
00:10:22.084 - 00:11:14.474, Speaker A: Basically, I think the minimum was like 200 uni that you had to be holding or something like that. But basically what mirror protocol does is it now lets you basically invest in things like Amazon, you know, stock, Tesla, Google, things like that. And these are kind of synthetic assets that mirror basically what is happening in the real world, right? So all, as Jesse notes here, all these synthetic assets created on mirror are reflected on aetherium and traded via Uniswap. Of course. I mean, of course you're gonna trade these things on Uniswap. So this is just, you know, more assets flowing to aetherium, right? I mean, synthetix is doing this too, with, with a bunch of their synths as well. But I think Mira is maybe a bit of a competitor here, and they have like their yield farming, of course, and things like that.
00:11:14.474 - 00:12:15.234, Speaker A: And Jesse notes here that airdropping Mir to uni holders was like a. Sorry, a user acquisition strategy, right? I think this is actually really, this works really well. I think, like, as a user acquisition strategy, say, okay, for example, say you have the Uniswap airdrop that happened, and there was 400 uni airdrop to everyone now say that those people are still holding their uni, right? Say you survey the blockchain and you see that these, these people slough their 400 uni and they haven't sold or anything like that, and they want to be long term holders. Okay, well, those people are more likely to hold your token if you airdrop it to them. So why not do that? Why not reward these kind of defi crypto native people who want to hold this stuff? So I think that's exactly what Mira has done here with their mir token, and it seems to have worked. I have a lot of people that I know talking about this. And funny thing is that this isn't totally like an Ethereum native protocol.
00:12:15.234 - 00:13:08.758, Speaker A: They actually are working with or from the people working with Terra money. So for those of you have heard of Terra, which is actually based on Cosmos technology called tendermint. So it's kind of like, I guess like a blurring here between two worlds, because you have these assets on Ethereum, and then it was done by, you know, launched by terra money or the team behind that. But this is goes back to what I've written about in the daily way before in the newsletter about Ethereum being this economic nexus that all these values just going to pass through, right? So I think that this just speaks to that. And I think Ethereum has definitely won the race, I guess you could call it, to be this kind of global settlement layer for all these assets. And we're just going to have a bunch of different things sitting around Ethereum as that economic nexus, for example. So expect to see more of this, you know, coming online, expect to see more assets tokenized.
00:13:08.758 - 00:13:59.210, Speaker A: I mean, back in the day, tokenized, the world became a meme. But I think that's still going to be a reality, going to tokenize absolutely everything that we can, whether that is as a synthetic asset, whether that is as, you know, a normal asset, crypto native asset or anything like that. It's just a no brainer to do, right? Tokenize it, trade it on uniswap, make it composable, plug into the amazing kind of system that is Defi, and away you go. So, looking forward to seeing more products around this. Speaking of Defi, I really love this chart that ceteris paribus, I think that's how you say it puts out from time to time. So they've been tracking Defi tokens since the Defi bottom. And what this kind of chart here, a chart table here shows is the returns on Defi tokens since November 1, roughly the defi bottom, as he calls out here.
00:13:59.210 - 00:14:28.758, Speaker A: So the I guess like the token that's returned the most is sushi from sushiswap. Now, without a bit more context here, this can be a bit misleading. So I don't think he's trying to mislead people here, but it could be a bit misleading if you just look at the data like this. On the surface, sushi was one of the most kind of, I guess, brutalized coins during the defi bear market. It went from a top of, like, ten or $11 to, like, $0.61. You can see here. And now it's back up to $2.43.
00:14:28.758 - 00:14:49.398, Speaker A: So, you know, everyone who bought above, I'm sure there's a lot of people who bought above $2.43. I still not, you know, feeling this 300% gain from the bottom. Right. And same with things like Wi Fi. Wi Fi bottomed at lower than $11,000. I think it bottomed at maybe seven and a half thousand. Right.
00:14:49.398 - 00:15:15.504, Speaker A: And most people did not buy between, you know, one and $10,000. Most people bought after that. So again, they're not feeling this kind of gain here. But for the more astute event investors among us and for the people that are more plugged in and used to this rodeo, you know, if you had bought at these bottoms like you saw. Okay, this is getting ridiculous. You know, I'm gonna buy here because these things are already down like 70, 80, 90%. I've seen this.
00:15:15.504 - 00:15:33.486, Speaker A: This play out before. I'm gonna buy. You would be sitting pretty, pretty well right now. And there are fundamental reasons to buy too. Sushiswap has obviously got a lot more attention lately, a lot more usage. They kind of did another vampire attack on Uniswap, for example. You know, Ave has continued to grow.
00:15:33.486 - 00:16:00.836, Speaker A: V two just came out Wi Fi. They're working on their v two. You know, Wyun is kind of like doing this whole wire and ecosystem now, as I've spoken about before, you know, I don't know that much about Thor chain, but from what I see, they seem to be delivering as well. Same with Hedgehog. Not, don't, you know, not familiar with BZX too much or power pool or things like that. But I won't go through the whole list. But just like, I guess the point I'm trying to make is that these tokens aren't just, like, going up for the sake of going up.
00:16:00.836 - 00:16:39.776, Speaker A: There is actually fundamental reasons why a lot of them are going up, and more so than others. You can actually see that there are some that haven't gone up very much. I was just talking about how the maker token hasn't really done anything right, and that it didn't even do anything during the defi bull market, really. It just stayed flat for one reason or another. And, you know, this is against USD. If you actually measure it against ETH, it looks even worse, right? Because ETH has gone up a lot since then, too. So I think that actually, it'd be interesting to see this measured against ETH, not just USD, to see the gain here, because when you're investing in these sorts of things, and this is an investment advice, but this is just how I think about it, I want to outperform, you know, ETH, right.
00:16:39.776 - 00:17:05.616, Speaker A: Because I want to stack more ETH. Um, you know, with, with. I mean, some of these things are my long term holds, for example. But a lot of them I tend to try and just like flip, right, and make more ETH with if I'm trading. Um, but even still, even if it's like a long term hold, if you haven't, you know, outperformed ETH and you traded ETH for it, especially, then what was the point? You may as well just held ETH. Same with like bitcoin, for example. But I measure against ETH, obviously, for obvious reasons.
00:17:05.616 - 00:17:34.044, Speaker A: I don't have to go into reasons why I measure against Ethan, sort of bitcoin, but yeah, so that's how I kind of think about it. And there are a few down here, like, you know, pickle and idex that are still down from there. They kind of like bottoms. I think, obviously pickle is because of the hack that happened with pickle. You know, there are other things that. Where the fundamentals didn't really increase too much. I think maker is an exception here where the fundamentals have kept increasing, kept getting better, but their token price is just flat.
00:17:34.044 - 00:18:16.482, Speaker A: But stuff like air swap, I mean, I haven't seen too much activity there outside of like revised tokenomics and things like that. And, you know, there's a bunch of other projects here. You know, it is actually quite weird because harvest finance has actually been growing quite, quite strongly. And I actually have a friend who's really into harvest and I, I spoke to him and I kind of said, like, yeah, this, you know, I mean, harvest is growing and everything, but for some reason, the tokens not going up. And I gave a bunch of reasons, like, I mean, I think that harvesters brand, for example, can be better. I think because they were hacked, there's like a discount on the token now because of that and things like that right there's, you can't just look at raw numbers to explain price movements. You have to look at everything else around it.
00:18:16.482 - 00:18:48.142, Speaker A: And, you know, I mean, I could go through this whole list and give you probably reasons for most of them as to why I think they've performed or haven't performed. But I'm not gonna get too, too into the weeds here. But it's still very interesting to look at. I like whenever he posts this, I definitely pay attention to it. So yeah, I will, I will pay attention to this going forward and probably share it in a future episode. Again, really exciting update from Tim Baiko this week on ERP 1559. So I think it's here, right? Yep.
00:18:48.142 - 00:19:21.272, Speaker A: This is the fourth state of EIP 1559 update. So the TLDR is that, I mean, he mentioned that we have the extensive economic analysis done by Tim Roughgarden that I talked about. They are building mainnet size testnets to analyze 1550 Nine's performance, which is a huge kind of step. There's already a testnet going, but they aren't like as big as Mainnet. Right. So obviously we need a bigger testnet to test everything as the best we can. They've made progress on addressing the transaction pool issues caused by changing the base fee.
00:19:21.272 - 00:20:05.508, Speaker A: They have new simulations that analyze the behavior of legacy and 1559 style transactions on a single network. So this is what I was talking about the other day where I said that we're going to have this hybrid style for a while where you can send a 1559 style transaction or you can send a normal transaction. So I spoke about that the other day, and a bit of big news here is open Ethereum is hiring a full time engineer to work on 1559. So if you are interested in something like that, that'd be really cool to work on. Right? You're gonna be delivering an upgrade that pretty much like the whole Ethereum ecosystem once. So definitely go check that out if that's something that you think you'd be a good fit for. And then yeah, Tim breaks down everything here into more detail.
00:20:05.508 - 00:20:38.216, Speaker A: Of course I'll link this in the show notes. I'm not going to read through the whole thing on the video, but basically I think there was ten key takeaways from Tim Rough gardens analysis here. I won't read through them all, but the number one analysis that I'm glad that he pointed. Sorry, takeaway that I'm glad that he pointed out was that, and I'll just read it out. He says no transaction fee mechanism. 1559 or otherwise is likely to substantially decrease average transaction fees. Persistently high transaction fees is a scalability problem, not a mechanism design problem.
00:20:38.216 - 00:21:12.118, Speaker A: Now this is something that I've tried to get through to a lot of people when writing about this sort of stuff. This, yeah, I mean, as he says, this doesn't lead to lower transaction fees in any substantial way. It provides a better fee interface and a better way to do fees on Ethereum, which may lead to lower transaction fees, but it's not going to do like a 50% reduction in transaction fees or anything like that. You might get a 10% 20% reduction, which is still good, but it's not substantial. Right. The high transaction fees can only be offset by scaling. Right.
00:21:12.118 - 00:21:47.436, Speaker A: Right. And that's coming with, I guess, sharding on layer one and then L2, we have a bunch of different tools and things like that. So I definitely wanted to point that that takeaway out, and I'm very, very glad he called that out because that's been something that I see people talk about. They're like, oh, we'll just wait for 1559 and we'll fix our, you know, it'll fix all the fee issues. It's like, unfortunately that's not the case. I wish it was, but that's not the case. Most bullish thing for 1559 is that he greatly improves the transaction fee mechanism so that fees are more predictable so that you don't have fees going from like, you know, 30 gray to like 60 gray in an instant.
00:21:47.436 - 00:22:06.044, Speaker A: And then, you know, you just put a 30 gray transaction through and now you have to wait because it spiked or whatever. So it kind of alleviates those issues. And of course it burns ETH. That's another thing that most people are excited about. But go read the full post here. It's quite lengthy. I mean, I'm just so impressed by, by Tim's leadership here with 1559.
00:22:06.044 - 00:22:38.534, Speaker A: I've spoken about it before, but I mean, I love these regular updates. This is, this is what kind of coordination and leadership looks like. And this is exactly what Danny Ryan does for ETH two is exactly what the ETH cat herders do as well for ETH one. X. It's just really, really great to see this sort of stuff. I'm glad that we have these kind of people working on this and, and taking this seriously and putting this stuff out there for us to keep up to date with because perusing all the different, you know, githubs and forums and everything is not something people have time for. So having a nice breakdown like this is definitely very welcome.
00:22:38.534 - 00:22:59.990, Speaker A: All right, last thing to talk about. So Larry Cermak from the block has put out this chart today that basically says. He says Coinbase's traffic increased from $23.7 million in October to 37.5 million. Not dollars, sorry, visitors in October and 37.5 million visitors in November.
00:22:59.990 - 00:23:28.378, Speaker A: So that was a pretty massive month on month increase for Coinbase. I don't think that's very surprising. Right. BTC and ETH were going up, and where do people do their BTC and ETH trading a lot of the time? Centralized exchanges. Right. And Coinbase is obviously the front door there. This means that I think either, you know, we have a bunch of new people that came in over the last two months or that we had people reactivating their accounts and coming in and buying more, or people selling, of course, right.
00:23:28.378 - 00:23:51.658, Speaker A: Going to their fiat off ramps to cash out to. But whenever this number is high, and he mentions here that this is the highest number since he started tracking that, this metric almost two years ago, this is a good sign. There's. I mean, this is a very positive sign. It means that we have new people flooding in that are coming into this ecosystem. They'll start with Coinbase. They'll venture out.
00:23:51.658 - 00:24:05.668, Speaker A: They'll come to Defi. Right. They'll come to a theorem. They'll use the Ethereum network. They'll do all these really cool stuff. I think we're gonna see this keep increasing. I mean, I've mentioned multiple times already that I think that we're heading into a new, like, fresh bull market.
00:24:05.668 - 00:24:31.962, Speaker A: The next kind of year or so is gonna be quite good for crypto. I mean, you know, pending any bad regulatory news. Right. As I discussed at the start about these, this regulation that might be coming in the next few weeks, that can always kill things. But, you know, as I said, I'm hopeful it won't. But, yeah, I'm really glad to see this, to see this traffic growth here. And obviously, it's not just centralized exchanges that are growing.
00:24:31.962 - 00:25:13.576, Speaker A: We saw a lot of DeFi growing. But the reason why, like, looking at centralized exchange growth is important is because it's more likely that the people, that the growth is coming from new users rather than existing users, like existing crypto users. Because with Ethereum and Defi and Defy summer, I really doubt there are actually new crypto people doing that, like the majority. I think what happened was we had the people already in crypto putting more money in, doing more things with their assets. Right. Unlocking their assets and doing yield farming with them. And then people from outside of the Ethereum community, like in the bitcoin communities or general crypto community, seeing all the, you know, the money that was being made and like fomoing in, right, and taking their bit.
00:25:13.576 - 00:25:52.244, Speaker A: We saw bitcoin come over to Ethereum in a big way because of it all these sorts of stuff. And not just like regular users, but also big funds and big traders and market makers and all these, this sort of stuff as well. So yeah, I think for me, the two biggest indicators of new people coming in is like Twitter follower growth. And not just my follower growth, but like on a net for everyone that I know. If their followers are going up then like at a more rapid pace than it usually is, then that's kind of a good indication that new people are coming in. And of course centralized exchange, traffic light coinbase, because that is the front door for the US as well. So gonna keep an eye on this.
00:25:52.244 - 00:26:10.932, Speaker A: I like that Larry tweeted this out and I like that he keeps us updated with this and he's a great follow as well. So at Loremaster on Twitter, he is one of my favorite follows. So definitely go chuck him a follow if you're not already. I'm sure a lot of you, a lot of you are. But if you're not, go. Go ahead and do it. Alright, that's it for today's Daily Grey refill, everyone.
00:26:10.932 - 00:26:25.324, Speaker A: Thank you again for watching, listening. I hope you have a great day. If you haven't subscribed to the YouTube channel, definitely go do that and give the video a like. If you liked it, subscribe to the Daily Gwei newsletter as well and join us all on Discord. And I'll see you tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
