00:00:00.200 - 00:00:18.486, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sasano. And today, 7 November 2022. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So, as usual, some drama in the crypto world over, I guess, like the last few days now. Just some background on this.
00:00:18.486 - 00:01:15.814, Speaker A: Basically, there is a bunch of rumors going around right now that FTX, the popular crypto exchange run by SPF or Sam bankman Friedman, is insolvent. Now, this is, I mean, these rumors started a little while ago, but they kind of ramped up over the weekend because CZ, the CEO and founder of competing exchange Binance, basically put out a tweet, I think, today or yesterday, saying that they were going to be selling their FTT tokens that they got once they exited their investments from investing in FTX a while ago. Now, I think they have billions of dollars worth of the FTT token. They basically said that they were going to be selling it over, over a period of months. Then one of the people that work at, or at, at FTX, or I think her name is Caroline, I think she's like the CEO of Alameda, maybe. I'm not exactly sure on her position, but she's high up there. She basically said to CZ that they'd be happy to buy all of the FTT.
00:01:15.814 - 00:02:09.656, Speaker A: Ha, he has at $22 per token. Now, the current price is, I think, $23 or something like that. So instead of CZ just selling those tokens into the open market over the next few months and possibly getting a worse execution price than that, he could just sell it to, to, you know, FTX and Alameda themselves. Now, the reason why this has stirred up the rumor, I guess, like Mill, is because there was a report that came out from Coindesk, I believe, last week that showed that FTX or Alameda has collateralized a lot of their loans using the FTT token. And obviously, at a certain price point, those are going to come under stress and they're going to possibly be liquidated. So people had coming up with these theories that essentially what CZ is trying to do is get them liquidated and force them into some kind of insolvency by pushing the price of FTT down. Now, I did say it's billions of dollars worth that CZ has, but to him, that's really dust.
00:02:09.656 - 00:02:37.702, Speaker A: I mean, the man is worth much more than that. Binance is absolutely massive in terms of volumes and activity and, and everything that goes along with it. I mean, they are the world's biggest crypto exchange by far. So if he wanted to take out a competitor, which obviously FTX is a competitor, this would be the way to do it. And, you know, you don't even have to materialize this either. All you have to do is sow enough doubt that you can cause a bank run. And that's actually what happened with FTX, is that there was a bunch of people wanting to get their money out.
00:02:37.702 - 00:03:01.710, Speaker A: Because even if there's a 1% chance of this being true, and I should go on the record and say that I don't know if this is true or not, I don't. I mean, I highly doubt FTX is insolvent or anything like that, but even if there's, like a 1% chance, you're better off taking your money off of that exchange, leaving it on there. And that's exactly how you get bank runs. Right. Just from the sheer panic. It doesn't even. The funny thing about bank runs is that doesn't even have to be any truth to it at all.
00:03:01.710 - 00:03:53.486, Speaker A: There just has to be enough people who actually believe that it's truthful for the them to want to withdraw their money and for the exchange to run out of active liquidity. Because a lot of exchanges, they run hot and cold wallets, where the hot wallet, they just have as like a reserve that needed to meet their daily obligations, and their cold wallets, where most of their crypto is stored. Because most people just leave their crypto on exchanges, they don't actually withdraw a lot of it a lot of the time. But when there is a bank run, you know, they have to go through their whole cold storage process of withdrawing from cold storage into hot storage. And then if they've got stuff that's existing in bank accounts, for example, like actual us dollars, they have to wait for the bank to open to do large withdrawals, depending on where they are. So there's a whole mess of things that can happen. And I think on that front as well, there was a bunch of discussions from people around this proof of reserves concept, where, uh, someone, I think Nick Carter popularized this.
00:03:53.486 - 00:04:23.949, Speaker A: But people have been trying to get centralized exchanges and services for years to do a proof of reserves, uh, where they basically prove what crypto they have and they cryptographically sign it saying, hey, these are our cold wallets, and these are our hot wallets, so to speak. Now, I don't believe many exchanges have actually done that. I don't think binance does it. Don't think. Obviously, I really don't think FTX does it. I think Kraken does do it, and they've done one recently, but most of them don't do it. And I put out a tweet today as well by saying, uh, that every day is proof of reserves day in Defi, because you don't actually need to trust anyone.
00:04:23.949 - 00:04:55.350, Speaker A: You can just go on chain and look like you can see all the collateral backing up the liquidity positions on uniswap by just going and checking the chain. You can see all the collateral backing up Dai by going and looking at maker and so on and so forth. Whereas with CFI, you. You kind of. You get it from third party services, like doing analytics, Nansen, coinmetrics, a bunch of others that may look at it and do best guesses of the addresses that belong to these exchanges and services. But as I said, they're best guesses. They're not actually something that can be heavily relied upon.
00:04:55.350 - 00:05:24.354, Speaker A: Right? So there has been that bush for push for quite a while for exactly instances like this. As I said, I don't believe that FTX is insolvent, but it doesn't matter what I believe or anyone else believes. All that matters is that if enough people believe that they are in insolvent, then it leads to a bank run. Right? Which is what we saw. And I think FTX is having trouble with their USDC reserves for the reasons I outlined. And they're. But they're trying to get more USDC into process withdrawals, all that stuff.
00:05:24.354 - 00:05:40.442, Speaker A: And that's obviously just lending more fuel to the fire. And even, I mean, CZ even put out a tweet today comparing it to Luna. Obviously, everyone compares every single bank run to Luna at this point. I put out a bunch of shitposting tweets saying, you know, steady lads, deploying more capital. It's one of my favorite. Oh, sorry. Deploying my capital, deploying more capital.
00:05:40.442 - 00:06:04.650, Speaker A: Steady lads. It's one of my favorite crypto memes, like, by far. Even though, like, it's really dark when you think about it, because a lot of people got wrecked because of that. Like, one meme. It's just so perfectly describes this ecosystem, I think. And the reason why I say that is because, like, when Doequan first said that you had to fully trust him and him alone, that's it, right? We're not building. What we're building here is systems to not trust anyone.
00:06:04.650 - 00:06:57.450, Speaker A: But in that moment, during that collapse, you have to trust that this one guy had it all under control and that everything was fine and that he was going to have you back and he was going to backstop everything and deploy enough capital to keep the peg of UsT. Whereas in true Defi, and I say true Defi because there's a lot of masquerading going on lately where it's not true Defi, there's just people trying to pretending to be defy. But in true Defi, you don't have to trust anyone, right? You can look on the chain, you can see what's happening there, you can see the collateral, you can see the reserves, everything you want to see, and there's no need to trust a third party. That's what we obviously are working on and working towards. But C five is still going to be around for a long time. So I do hope that more exchanges take up the proof of reserves thing over time. But yeah, for now, I mean, if you have coins on exchanges, my advice generally doesn't matter when it is, doesn't matter if there's rumors circulating of insolvency or whatever.
00:06:57.450 - 00:07:39.266, Speaker A: I think we've seen enough exchanges blowing up, enough centralized financial services blowing up that you should just custody your own assets. Like, I'm always a big proponent of that, you know, not your keys, not your crypto sort of thing. And I understand that depending on how much you have, custodying your own assets can be daunting. I mean, if it's a substantial part of your net worth, it can be very daunting. I totally get that. But look, the way I see it is that, is it more daunting than leaving your funds on a centralized exchange and then not being able to access them at all? Like your risk of loss on a centralized exchange is 100% over a long enough timeframe. Right? I don't think, I mean, there's very few centralized exchanges that will probably last over the long term.
00:07:39.266 - 00:08:05.550, Speaker A: Right. Whereas self custodying, really, I mean, it's not that difficult. You just get a, you get a hardware wallet, you write down and protect your seed phrase. I think the most difficult thing is making sure that that seed phrase is protected and never touches a computer and you store it correctly and make sure that it can't, you know, be burnt in a fire or whatever. I guess that's the hardest part of it. But there are other solutions, too. Not, you know, to like urgent social recovery things like that.
00:08:05.550 - 00:08:38.120, Speaker A: Those are, those things are coming and getting better and better over time. But yeah, you guys know, I'm just a general proponent for not your keys, not your crypto self custodying, but yeah, anyway, I'm gonna keep tabs on this story as it develops. But yeah, that was the big news, I think, from the weekend in the crypto space. But now on to the next thing. The big news in the, I guess like aetherium space was an updated roadmap from Vitalik. So an updated Ethereum roadmap diagram that, and he actually added a whole section to this diagram. So, you guys know there was the merge, the surge, the verge, the purge and the splurge.
00:08:38.120 - 00:09:08.826, Speaker A: I've talked about these plenty of times. Well, now there is the scourge. Now this whole scourge section covers Mev and censorship resistance and all that good stuff there. Now this had already been part of the roadmap, right? Things like PBS and CR list. It was already part of the roadmap. But given that censorship resistance has become such a critical thing over the last few months, Vitalik has taken that on board and basically added it to his roadmap here, where then you've got the scourge. And in that roadmap, a lot of it's obviously got to do with MeV.
00:09:08.826 - 00:09:40.786, Speaker A: You can see PBS. Is there MeV burn, is there something that I covered last week or the week before? Domothy had a proposal about that, and then some stuff like distributed builders tracks and other sort of stuff there. And also it wasn't just the scourge that was added, there was a bunch of other updates made to this roadmap too. There's the progress bars as well, obviously. Now he explained that there's, you can see the blue boxes here. The tick in the blue box doesn't mean that it's complete. It means that it is a major milestone for that section.
00:09:40.786 - 00:10:22.692, Speaker A: What's complete is on the left side of the dividing line you see on each of these sections here. So obviously the merge is complete with the surge. Obviously the 4844 specifications complete. Now we're into implementation phase. The scourge extra protocol, MEV markets, aka Mev boost that's been developed, the Verge, all the serious EVM DOS issues have been resolved, or most of them have been resolved basic like client support with sync committees has been implemented. The purge, you have beacon chain, fast sync, ERP, triple, quadruple four specification, eliminate most gas refunds, and the splurge ERP 1559 and ERC 4337 specification. So there's still obviously a ton to do here.
00:10:22.692 - 00:10:46.716, Speaker A: As I've said before, the Ethereum roadmap really is only 40% ish complete. That's what Vitalik said before. And I've covered that before because there's always things left to do. But as you can see on each of these boxes, there's a little bit of a green shading to it. And that's Vitalik's estimation of how far along these things are. And you can see that it because I've mentioned before that this roadmap isn't sequential. It's not like the surge is going to happen.
00:10:46.716 - 00:11:26.742, Speaker A: Then the scourge and the verge and the purge and splurge it all, it's all happening in parallel, and there are different tracks for different kind of things happening. And whatever ready, whatever is ready gets implemented. And you can see that's true because on the left side of the dividing line what's been completed, there's something from every single section here. So this isn't a sequential thing, this is all paralyzed and something that's going to be developed in parallel until, I mean, there's no end to the Ethereum roadmap but like for years to come, obviously. So yeah, you can check this out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I am so excited whenever Vitalik post these things, especially with the progress that we're making. As you can see, I guess with, with the merge, the merge thing up here you can see that withdrawals are almost done.
00:11:26.742 - 00:12:05.400, Speaker A: Distributed validators, stuff like oval, that's almost done, right? And then EIP 4844 implementation that's being worked on Proto dank sharding. I've talked a lot about that on the refill already and then a bunch of other things. Yeah. But yeah, the main thing is that addition of the scourge, which I'm really, really happy to see because it means that the community is just taking it much more seriously. And I think, look, we've always taken censorship resistance seriously because that's why we're building Ethereum and public decentralized blockchains in the first place. But we've never had a test of a blockchain censorship resistance at scale until the OFAC sanctions happened. When you really think about it, up until that point there had not been a test of it.
00:12:05.400 - 00:13:00.158, Speaker A: And as I mentioned before, it became a very critical issue very quickly for Ethereum because of MeV. If this had happened on bitcoin, it would be an issue, but it would probably be, at least in the short to medium term, less of an issue than it is for Ethereum because bitcoin doesn't have meV. I mean, there's nothing, there's no value to extract from, from the bitcoin blockchain. And as I said before, the issue with what we're seeing with the censoring has gotten really nothing to do with people wanting to censor and everything to do with MeV leading to these negative externalities, and one of them being censorship. And that's what the scourge is trying to address here. That, that root of the issue, really that that is the root of the issue because I mean, in the past there hasn't been any kind of censorship. And if we didn't have these relayers that were basically outsourced block builders, I don't think we'd have anywhere near the amount of, I guess, censorship that was happening in terms of percentage of the network, because validators just wouldn't care to do it.
00:13:00.158 - 00:13:18.446, Speaker A: Because validators are located in different jurisdictions, right. They'd be building their own blocks. They wouldn't care to do it. Whereas the relay is because they, I guess, centralized block building, so to speak. And there's not that many of them. That's why we get that. But I've gone over this and that's why we get the censorship, I should say, I should say, but I've gone over these plenty of times on the refill.
00:13:18.446 - 00:13:55.824, Speaker A: I'm not going to rehash it here, but you can go check out Vitalik's roadmap diagram. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And on top of that you can check out pseudo theosis thread all about. He's got a list of resources diving deeper into each of the things in Vitalik's diagram. So this is really useful actually, because you may be wondering what a lot of these things are. Well, you can start with this thread from pseudotheos and go from there and dive deeper into each of them, which I'll also link in the YouTube description below. All right, so speaking of withdrawals, Alex Stokes put out another update over the weekend saying design doc for extending the staking CLI with support for the upcoming coming withdrawals feature.
00:13:55.824 - 00:14:27.536, Speaker A: If you want to make a very valuable contribution to the Ethereum ecosystem, you could open up some prs following this guide and there's a link to a guide here which you can check out. But on the withdrawals note, just wanted to mention that I think there's pretty much like a 99% chance that withdrawals are going into Shanghai at this point. I don't really need to see any more confirmation than that. The reason why I don't say 100% is because I never say 100%. Right. I didn't even say 100% about the merge going forward in a certain month, even when it was confirmed to go forward in, in mid September, just because anything can happen. Right.
00:14:27.536 - 00:15:02.546, Speaker A: But 99% certain withdrawals, big and chain withdrawals are going to be enabled in the Shanghai update. I'm getting more and more certain about ERP 48 44, but as I've mentioned before, we won't know until probably the end of November if it's going to go into the Shanghai update. So the clock is ticking still another 23 ish days left of November, but we'll see, we'll see how that pans out there. I'm, I would say it's a coin toss at this point. I think I've said that before. But as we get closer, I'll have a better picture to share with you guys there. All right, finally, on the Ethereum protocol side of things, Graystroke actually from the discord channel pointed this out to me.
00:15:02.546 - 00:15:32.930, Speaker A: It seems that the full node distribution in terms of geographic distribution is getting much better. So you can see here on ethernodes.org, which tracks the execution layer clients, that the United States share of execution layer clients has actually dropped. I think it was at 47% a few weeks ago. Now it's at 42.4%, which is awesome, right? Like that. That's absolutely amazing because basically the US is becoming less and less of a share of the geographic distribution of full nodes, which is what we want to see.
00:15:32.930 - 00:16:01.920, Speaker A: We want to see as much distribution as possible. It's actually funny here how second place is Germany with 13.7%. And then you have Singapore, Japan, United Kingdom. I actually love this because you have the US, then you have obviously european, then you have Asia, Asia, Europe again. Yeah, Europe. I guess if we're talking about continents, not the EU, because United Kingdom is not in the EU anymore. Ireland, Hong Kong, you have a pretty good geographic distribution here, just across the continents, which I really, really like.
00:16:01.920 - 00:16:13.504, Speaker A: And then as you go down the list, you see more and more. Australia has got a 1.8% share. We're doing okay. Australia, right? 126 nodes, maybe 100 of them are mine. No, I don't. Joking.
00:16:13.504 - 00:16:45.974, Speaker A: But yeah, the distribution's gotten much better. And also on node watch IO, that tracks a full, the full nodes, like the consensus and execution layer clients. You can see here that actual ethereum full nodes looks even better. United States is only 36% of the network here, which I believe it was. It was well over 40% before, with Germany obviously in second place again at 16%. But then Finland actually comes in third place at 7.7.5%, whereas Finland on this list is on the other list from ethanodes.org
00:16:45.974 - 00:17:21.176, Speaker A: is in 8th place, I believe. So cool to see that there, but similar, I guess, like countries in the top ten, but great to see this. And I'm not trying to pick on the US here, but they are the most dominant. And also like, given the fact that the US is becoming more and more hostile towards crypto, you want to be seeing that geographic distribution improve, which it is so awesome to see that and I hope it continues. I mean, I would love to see, and it's never going to happen, but I would love to see a really equal distribution across the globe, but. But I don't expect it to happen. I think this roughly, I guess, like reflects the kind of people that are in the ethereum ecosystem and where they're from.
00:17:21.176 - 00:17:47.334, Speaker A: Basically, definitely us and then Europe. In terms of the continents here, I guess the US isn't a continent, but you got. I'm saying, yeah, in terms of the participants within the crypto ecosystem, that makes a lot of sense because their population is obviously massive as well. I mean, there's so many people in the US and Europe's a big place where it's not like the US where they're all joined together. You split them out into different countries. But. But yeah.
00:17:47.334 - 00:18:13.194, Speaker A: Anyway, good to see that improving there. And thanks to Graystroke for putting that out. All right, so I was going to cover this Friday, but I wanted to let it bake a little bit over the weekend, so I'm covering it today. But I was nominated as part of a rocket pool's Odao. So to become an Odao member of the rocket Pool network here. So this is a great honor. I was honestly blown away to be nominated here because there was only two other participants or two other entities that were nominated here.
00:18:13.194 - 00:19:03.960, Speaker A: There was git coin, the rocket scientists, which tagged Ken here, one of the OG rocket scientists, and myself, obviously the founder of Daily Gray and a theorem community member. Now, I'm really excited about this because obviously a rocker pool is one of my favorite projects within the Ethereum ecosystem. I've been wanting to give back to them in some sort of way. I know that the OdAo membership is a paid role. I'll be getting RPL tokens for my work, but I'm currently trying to figure out a way to funnel that towards public goods rather than myself. The only problem with that is that I think that I would still need to pay tax on it. It's so weird with the staking rewards or with any kind of, like, token rewards in crypto, I think I would still need to pay income tax on it, which sucks because it just basically deletes half of it to taxes.
00:19:03.960 - 00:19:44.942, Speaker A: So I'm trying to, like, figure out a way to do that now because honestly, like, I don't want to be seen as someone just, like, spinning this up and, like, taking the money and just taking it for myself. I want to spread the love, so to speak. I want to donate more money to public goods and all that good stuff there. So that's my way of kind of giving back, especially giving back to the rocketball community, which has been so amazing for so many years now, and is actually trying to build decentralized, pooled staking infrastructure for Ethereum, where no one else was really trying to do this. I mean, they've encouraged stakewise to do it. I think stakewise has basically not copied their model, but it's taking a lot of inspiration from them being like, let's make a decentralized staking pool as well. Like, obviously, we don't want just rocker pool.
00:19:44.942 - 00:20:08.584, Speaker A: We want more and more, but Rockpool's just been building for so long now. So, yeah, as I said, great honor to be nominated for the Odell here. I can't wait to be on boarded, but also. And then I'll also be, um, sitting alongside superfizz as part of this role as well. Obviously, everyone knows superfizz at this point. I've talked about him a bunch on the refuel. He's been a very long time Ethereum and rocket pool community member being so active within both communities.
00:20:08.584 - 00:20:44.804, Speaker A: So again, another honor to just be sitting alongside him on this. But as I said, like, I'm trying to figure out a way of what's best, best use of the funds that I'll be getting as part of this. And also on top of that, if, I guess, related to that, sorry, if, you know, if you're in Australia and, you know of a good way to do this from a, I guess, like a tax perspective, please get in contact with me, because, yeah, it's. It's murky, it's messy. There's no real good guidance. I mean, it's the same everywhere, right? There's no real good guidance on crypto taxes. And you kind of have to guess, but I don't want to put myself in a position where I kind of guess wrong, so to speak, and then end up owing all these taxes that I don't have the money for.
00:20:44.804 - 00:21:07.474, Speaker A: Right. Um, so. So, yeah, if you do have any information on that, please get in contact with me. Um, but, yeah, great to, great to be part of this and great to be, I mean, nominated alongside really strong communities like Gitcoin and rocket scientists. Like, it just really is an honor and thanks to, I guess, the rocket pool community for this. All right, so a tweet that I came across from. Mahalo.
00:21:07.474 - 00:21:48.498, Speaker A: One of the co founders of Polygon over the weekend was really interesting where he said, our preferred strategy is to test ZKVM in production at a smaller scale and then upgrade the Polygon Pos chain plus make it available to supernets. We're still working on this. Too early to commit or comment more. I guess my point was that we will soon have production ready. ZKVM. Now, this was part of a thread continuing a conversation over the weekend that was talking about how, I mean, Polygon was getting some hate from the community, saying that they were parasitic and saying that they were just going to pivot and stop building L2s on a theorem and build L2s on the Polygon pos chain, which is total bullshit, honestly. You guys know I'm an advisor to Polygon.
00:21:48.498 - 00:22:18.852, Speaker A: Like, obviously I'm biased here, but I think that's total crap, right? I think that there's just people just coming up with conspiracy theories. Doesn't make any sense. Um, but the plan has always been to transition the Polygon Pos chain to a true L2, and ideally a ZKVM. But that can't be done when there isn't even a ZKVM live. And when it does go live Polygon ZkVM, it's going to be in like an alpha slash beta state, right. Uh, the Polygon Pos chain has a very vibrant ecosystem on it right now. It has a lot of funds on it.
00:22:18.852 - 00:22:54.856, Speaker A: And actually doing the migration is not easy. So people expecting them to just do the migration, like today, tomorrow, in a few months time, I don't think they understand the complexity behind it. It's not that they don't want to do it, it's just that it is not a simple task. Now, if the ZKVM gets to bake for a while, when Polygon launches their ZKVM, once that gets to bake for a while, and, you know, the bugs are ironed out and it starts, you know, being more like a beta than an alpha. And then the path becomes clearer for them to transition the poS chain to ZKVM, they will definitely pursue that. I truly do believe that. And it wasn't just Mahalo saying this.
00:22:54.856 - 00:23:15.560, Speaker A: There were other co founders of Polygon saying this on Twitter as well. One of them even said that we'd have more news about this in the next few months. So they definitely are actively working on it. But yeah. And I think that the hate towards Polygon lately has been very unwarranted. I mean, I know everyone's going to say, oh, you're just biased because you're an advisor to Polygon. I mean, you can say that as much as you want.
00:23:15.560 - 00:24:03.600, Speaker A: Doesn't change. The truth is that, like, how much value has Polygon added to the Ethereum ecosystem at this point? I think it's undeniable. They have spent over $500 million acquiring ZK teams, giving them basically unlimited funding to build as things like ZKVMS for Ethereum. They have, with their business development efforts, played extremely defensively for Ethereum. They obviously, the people that they on board, are going to go to the Polygon pos chain because there isn't a ZKVM live yet from Polygon. There isn't a L2 live yet from Polygon. But in saying that, what it, what it's and why I say it's a defensive move is that who do you think is in these business development meetings alongside Polygon? Or I guess like competing with Polygon, I should say who, what other ecosystems do you think are in there? I can tell you who's in there.
00:24:03.600 - 00:25:02.582, Speaker A: Solana Avalanche, you know, Aptos, Sui, probably all those as well. They're all in there competing with Polygon to land that partnership. So from that perspective, would you rather these things, these big companies, like meta, go to Solano Avalanche, like direct Ethereum hostile competitors? Or would you rather they go be on border to the Polygon Pos chain, which is an EVM compatible network, by the way, and then polygon migrate them to a ZKVM once it's working. I know what I'd rather, right. And I think that without Polygon and their absolutely amazing business development efforts that they've done over the past couple of years, the Ethereum ecosystem would be in a much worse position when it comes to onboarding these big, these big corporates and large companies. I truly do believe that. But, yeah, I mean, you guys can have your own opinion, form your own thoughts on this, but I don't think there's actually any evidence to show that Polygon wants to abandon Ethereum or wants to pivot away from Ethereum and have their ZKVM settling on the pos chain.
00:25:02.582 - 00:25:38.932, Speaker A: I haven't seen any evidence of that at all. I don't think that's going to happen at all. I truly, I mean, I don't, I struggle to ever say I have 100% certainty in anything, but, like, I have pretty much 100% certainty in that. Like, from everything that I've seen. Not, I'm not just saying it because I'm an advisor and I talked to the co founders directly. I haven't spoken to them directly about this because I try to keep, you know, as unbiased view as possible and as clear head as possible here. But just based on the publicly available evidence of what Polygon has done over the last couple of years, I see nothing to indicate that they would abandon Ethereum and everything indicate that they are supporting Ethereum with everything that they've got.
00:25:38.932 - 00:26:07.628, Speaker A: So yeah, anyway, I'm going to stop ranting on that one there. People are going to call me bias for that. But whatever, whatever. There's, there's tweets here, there's commitments to transfer, transition the POS chain to a true layer to on Ethereum. So I look forward to that day. All right, so speaking of L2s, Matt Feinstone here has a thread about Tyco, which was that new ZKVM or type one ZkvM that's getting built on top of Ethereum here. So just wanted to highlight this because I saw actually Vitalik retweeted.
00:26:07.628 - 00:26:35.740, Speaker A: Whenever I see Vitalik retweet something, it's definitely worth the read. So definitely go check this out. I'll link in the YouTube description below. If you want to learn more about Tyco and type one ZK evms. Now, I've just realized I've only got a few minutes left, so I'm just going to get through the rest of these updates relatively quickly here. Optimism released something called pragmatism over the weekend, which is a figma library and design system created by and used for the optimism collective. We're releasing it to the wild so you can use it to kickstart your optimism projects design effort.
00:26:35.740 - 00:27:01.382, Speaker A: So this is basically, basically a standardized little thing here on how to kick start your design within the optimism ecosystem. So they've got a bunch of different figma boards here that you can check out. So if you are a designer or, you know, front end developer or anything like that, you should definitely check these out. I'll link them in the YouTube description below. But this is cool. I haven't seen a team really focus on this before, especially not a L2 team. So I think Polygon has done something similar to this.
00:27:01.382 - 00:27:27.244, Speaker A: I can't remember what exactly what their solution was called, but they have done something similar to this. But they're the only other team that I remember doing this. So it's great to see optimism do this as well. And I hope to see the other L2 is another projects do this because at the end of the day, like, one thing that we definitely still suck at within crypto and Ethereum is a front end design and making things simpler for people and just general UI Ux that'll get better over time. And these tools will definitely help with that. That's for sure. Sure.
00:27:27.244 - 00:27:48.404, Speaker A: All right, so Hayden is teasing some things. He put a tweet out over the weekend. Hayden from Uniswap, I should say. He put a tweet out over the weekend where he said Uniswap Labs has been quietly building during the bear. Our team has grown from 30 to 100 plus so far this year. Redacted, redacted, and redacted are almost finished and a lot more coming after that. Shipping season starts soon, and once it starts, it won't stop.
00:27:48.404 - 00:28:01.614, Speaker A: I don't know what the redacted's are referring to here. I think I can guess. Maybe like at least one of them, which is Uniswap V four. I think that would be a given. The other two kind of like, don't know. Right. Maybe one of them's got to do with NFTs because Uniswap has.
00:28:01.614 - 00:28:32.194, Speaker A: Uniswap Labs has been doing a lot of work in the NFT ecosystem lately. Maybe it's another NFT related acquisition and then potentially maybe one of them is something like a uni chain. Now, people have been talking about Uni chain for a while, and I think I've covered it on the refill before. I don't know how much sense it makes, but it might be something that Uniswap Labs thinks would be value additive. Now, whether that uni. That that uni chain is a L2 or is its own sovereign app chain remains to be seen. You guys know my views on the two.
00:28:32.194 - 00:29:06.002, Speaker A: I don't believe sovereign app chains are really sustainable or really that good. I obviously believe more in the L2 app chains, but who knows if that's even going to be a thing. Like, I'm not convinced. I think it's like a coin toss on whether they'll develop something like that or not. But if I had to guess, definitely Uniswap V four as one of them, you know, coin toss, probably about another, about something to do with NFTs, more likely probably another acquisition that they've made and then maybe uni chain, I don't know. But I'm excited to see Uniswap has always been a killer team when it comes to shipping. Sorry, I should say uniswap Labs.
00:29:06.002 - 00:29:36.910, Speaker A: So definitely excited to see what they have in store over the next few months. All right, so influence is a game that I believe I have highlighted on the refill before, but they have an update out over the weekend where they said first look at some of the new features to hit the influence testnet soon. So what, influence is just a refresher. It is a grand strategy. Space based MMO set in a distro distant asteroid belt with a player owned open economy. Build mine, explore, trade. How will you expand your influence? That's the bio that I just read out for you guys.
00:29:36.910 - 00:30:02.544, Speaker A: Just, just to refresh it here. But yeah, if you're interested in following along with this game, you should go give them a follow. But they did put an update here, a three minute video with someone talking over all the new features that are here and what it kind of looks like in game as well. So very, very cool. As you guys know, I've said before that I'm pretty bullish on crypto games that do things differently, not the ones that just tack on NFts and call themselves a crypto game. I'm bullish on ones that are building stuff from the ground up. And influence is actually built on Stocknet.
00:30:02.544 - 00:30:36.448, Speaker A: So yeah, I'm excited to see what, what can be done there. All right, so XMTP announced over the weekend they have partnered with Lens Protocol to provide a secure and private profile to profile DM layout for the entire lens ecosystem. Man, lens has actually been growing a lot lately. The lens ecosystem, it's been growing faster than I thought it would. I think maybe it's partly due to the fact that Elon Musk bought Twitter and some people may be silent, protesting, being like, you know, screw Twitter. I think it's going to go to shit. I'm going to go use a decentralized alternative.
00:30:36.448 - 00:31:10.472, Speaker A: And partly also because lens protocol is just a new ecosystem ecosystem for people to explore and something that actually looks like it could work as a decentralized social media ecosystem. And now XMTP, which is a cross chain messaging protocol, has enabled their technology for lens protocol for, as I said, secure and private profile to profile DM layers. So I, I should actually mention here that I'm an investor in XMTP, but you can go check out the blog post for full details on this. But very cool to see this integration. I think, as I said, lens protocol is growing. XMTP is growing. It's a great marriage of the two.
00:31:10.472 - 00:31:46.882, Speaker A: And if you are a lens protocol user, you can go take advantage of this today. All right, last up is a tweet here from Sebastian from Makerdao where he said Makerdao is now generating 50% of its revenues from real world assets, mainly MIP 65 short term bonds. ETF and GUSD rewards doubling revenues over the last few weeks. And it's only the beginning. I'm starting the discussion to reward die holders to supercharge growth. I've talked about makers path, I guess, over the last few months, and how they seem to be taking a more tradfi approach to things these days than a true defi approach. And I think it's okay.
00:31:46.882 - 00:32:47.968, Speaker A: I've come around to the fact that I think it's okay. I think that them becoming the bridge between Tradfi and Defi is actually probably the better use of their resources than trying to be a truly decentralized stablecoin and just being pure like ETH backed and pure decentralized asset backed. And the reason why I say that is because just over time I've becoming more and more convinced, and I've gone through this on the refill before, but I've become more and more convinced that a truly decentralized, stable coin is not possible to create. I just, I'm so, I'm becoming more and more convinced of that as time goes on. And as I mentioned before, I think that if anything, a truly decentralized, scalable global payment asset that acts as a stable coin will end up just being something like ETH. I really do believe that, and this is obviously long into the future, and I've discussed stability as a concept before and how if you're measuring stability against USD, well then obviously everything's volatile against it. But the way I look at it is that you should mention measure stability of any asset against purchasing power.
00:32:47.968 - 00:33:24.208, Speaker A: Like that's, that's how I've always looked at it. Not always. I mean, I shouldn't say always because I haven't always looked at it like that, but over the last couple of years, that's how I've looked at it. And it's, I'm becoming more and more convinced that, you know, makers approach here is actually the correct one for the maker system rather than trying to brute force their way into building a, you know, truly decentralized, scalable, scalable stable coin that's pegged to the US dollar when I don't think that's, that's going to be possible. But anyway, that's a discussion for another time. I mean, I've gone through it before, but maybe I'll discuss it again sometime in the future. But I've gone over time, so that's going to be it for today.
00:33:24.208 - 00:33:33.104, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
