00:00:00.280 - 00:00:26.170, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Deliberate Refuel, where we get the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and the new designer. And today's the 5 July 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So a pretty brutal time in the markets over the last couple days in particular, really just over the last kind of 24 hours, July 4, obviously being a holiday in the US. And, well, while the US was celebrating their independence, the rest of us were celebrating our independence from our net worth.
00:00:26.170 - 00:01:03.082, Speaker A: But I wasn't actually going to talk about the markets today. But I did put out a tweet that I felt resonated with, with a lot of people that I wanted to expand upon on the refuel. And obviously, I know that the market plays a big part in crypto, and I know that a lot of you guys are probably looking for maybe not reassurance, maybe that's not the right word, but looking for more of a broader outlook on what the market looks like right now. Because obviously, there's a lot of people out there questioning if we're still in a bull market, if we're just going to go down only from here. You know, why is the price going down even though everything's really bullish? Because it's not just eth going down, of course, it's the rest of the market. It's a market wide sell off. And the funny thing is, is that these things are completely normal for bull markets.
00:01:03.082 - 00:01:28.694, Speaker A: If you go back and look at previous bull markets, 30, you know, 20, 30% sell offs are completely normal. And you may think that that's crazy. You know, the stock market doesn't do this when the stock market crashes, 30%, that's, you know, that's really bad, right. That's like a 2008 level kind of catastrophe for the stock market. But you have to, I guess, put into context what that 30% is and what people are looking at when they're looking at the stock market. They're looking at an index. Looking at the SPX, right, the S and P 500.
00:01:28.694 - 00:01:45.922, Speaker A: They're not looking at individual stocks and individual assets. It's an, it's an index. Now, as much as we kind of treated BTC and ETh as indexes for crypto, they're not. Right. They're, they're single assets. Like, they're going to trade like single assets. And that's why you see such pronounced volatility here.
00:01:45.922 - 00:02:18.550, Speaker A: And because there are actually not very many great assets to put in an index in crypto, even if you were to make like an index of, I don't know, the top 500 crypto assets or something like that. One, it would be one of the worst assets to hold in my opinion, because it just tracks so much garbage. But two, it would still be quite volatile. So yeah, it might seem funny to say 20, 30% is normal. Normal, but it is for crypto. It is very normal for crypto from a number of different reasons. Now, when it comes to Ethan particular, that's where I put my tweet out today because obviously Eve has its ETF launching any day now.
00:02:18.550 - 00:02:44.514, Speaker A: You know, could be next week, could be the week after. But it's happening. I mean, I think the consensus is like it's 99% going to happen in July. Like just, I want these things to start trading at this point. But people are asking no, how? Why did we retrace from 4000 down to below 3000? Right. And I actually do want to quickly shout out to someone, graystroke in the daily way. Discord channel had been falling for 3100 and getting a lot of shit about that for the last few weeks from a lot of people, including myself.
00:02:44.514 - 00:02:56.418, Speaker A: So huge credit to him for getting that call. Right. He actually said that he thought it could even go below 3000, which was right as well. So just wanted to give credit there. I was wrong. I didn't think it would go below 3000. But hey, my bullish bias gets in the way and this is why I don't trade.
00:02:56.418 - 00:03:20.774, Speaker A: But anyway, enough on that note there. But yeah, I mean, we went to 4k, right? On May 20, 20th, 21st when the news came out that the ETF's were going to be approved. ETH rocketed up from 3000 to 4000 in a single day. And then since then it's been down only for Ethan. I mean, not, not totally down only, but obviously we retraced that entire pump and then some. And people are questioning, you know, why is this happening? You know, the ETF's coming. This doesn't make any sense.
00:03:20.774 - 00:04:06.666, Speaker A: Like, well, actually if you contextualize this, it does make sense. And I did that in my tweet today where I basically said that if you look at that $3000 to $4,000 move, that could be seen as a pre approval pump just happening in a single day instead of over like three months. Because we all know that before the BTC ETF's were approved, there was a pre approval pump for BTC for like, I guess you could say the better part of three months, right? Until January 10. And then BTC sold off. I think it went down 20% from where it was when the ETF's launched to, to where it bottomed out. And then obviously it went up from there and back up to all time highs. Now the reason why it happened over a period of many months for BTC was because the market was very confident that BTC, the spot BTC ETF's were going to get approved from October onwards because of that grayscale case.
00:04:06.666 - 00:04:28.382, Speaker A: And I believe it was that, that the SEC lost. I believe it was late October. So yeah, November, December and some of October, some of January equals about three months there. Right. So that was the market kind of pricing that in. It was a pre approval pump. But we had the exact opposite with ETH where for about two to three months the market became convinced that the ETH ETF's were getting denied for such and such reason.
00:04:28.382 - 00:04:59.506, Speaker A: Whatever reasons people came up with now because of that ETH, the denial was priced in, ETH was stuck at about 3000. No one wanted to bid ETH because they're like, you know, denials price. Sorry, the denial is coming while we buy ETH right now. But then of course when things changed basically overnight and the ETF's got approved basically three days after the odds changed to be very high from basically 0%, the market had to price in all of that, all at once. And it did that now. It did that and it's now retraced that. Similar to what it did with BTC where it pumped for three months.
00:04:59.506 - 00:05:41.358, Speaker A: It didn't retrace its entire pump I think, but it sold off, over, sold off after that. So I do believe that the same thing has happened to Ethio. And that's me basically saying that. I think that at this point, like the bottoms pretty much in, like I can't, like I'm not gonna say that the exact bottoms in it could go lower than here, but I feel like if I had the spare cash right now, I don't have much money left to put into ETH at this point because I just, I've been buying so much of it at any point. But like if I was had a lot of money right now to put into ETH, I couldn't think of really a better risk reward adjusted kind of price at this point in time to buy ETH for a long term time horizon. I'm not talking about buying it for next week or next month. I'm talking about buying it for years to come.
00:05:41.358 - 00:06:27.336, Speaker A: I just can't think of a better time right now because the ETH ETF's are still launching guys, like, they're still launching the ETH outflows that everyone is very bearish on. I explained why that is probably not going to play out the same way that we saw with GBTC, and I even mentioned that in my tweet here. And the funny thing is about ETH, Grayscale's ETH product is that it's, as I've said before, it's been trading at a discount for over, you know, whatever it is. Like, I think not two months, but like six weeks now, it's been trading at a under 2% discount. So if you really wanted to get out of this product, you could have for a very little discount here, for very little off the top here. Most of the time it was, it was under 1% or around 1% discount. But then on top of this today, if they actually went into a premium again, so it is at a premium to fair value at by 0.3%.
00:06:27.336 - 00:07:12.516, Speaker A: Not much, but it's at a premium, which means that if you sell your ETH now, you will get more for it, because at a premium. So not only were you before able to get able to exit if you really wanted to, from Ethi without taking much of a haircut, now you can do it at a premium. Now, of course, ethy trades, I guess like on the tradfi market. And obviously this premium may not last because people want to exit and then it will go back to a discount. But at the same time, the discount, as I said, has been really low as well. So I just can't imagine there's that many people left who are waiting until the ETF conversion happens to sell out of ETH and then just go to cash and go somewhere else. There will obviously be rotations from Ethy to other ETF's because I don't think Ethy's fee is going to be as low as the other ETF's.
00:07:12.516 - 00:08:03.638, Speaker A: There will obviously be rotations here, but I don't think that's going to be net selling pressure. And I do think at this point, like the, the price of ETH is so relatively low and we've come off of, you know, such highs and we've got all these inflows that are going to be coming with the ETF's launching that it just doesn't seem like the right place to be bearish at this point in time. And I really, really do believe, I know I'm bullish biased here on ETH, but I really do believe that ETH is going to be very, very strong going forward from here, because I just, I look at it all and I contextualize it all, and I try to form a practical, unbiased, like, analysis of the market. And of course, you guys know that I'm always going to have some bias here. Like, the problem with, with me and why I don't trade is because when it comes to Ethan particular, I am always bullish, biased on Eth. I was bullish as fuck on ETH when it went down to 880. I was bullish as hell on ETH when it went to $80.
00:08:03.638 - 00:08:48.896, Speaker A: I've just always bullish on eat because I pay such close attention to what's happening in the ethereum ecosystem that I actually do the flip of what I tell you guys not to do. Whereas, you know, focus on the long term, don't focus on the short term. But the problem is, is because I'm always in there every day and focusing on the short term tech stuff and the short term fundamental stuff, I tend to let that cloud my, my judgment on eth a little bit. And I bring forward my bullishness on etH, if that makes sense. Right? So even though I'm a long term investor, I still, my judgment still gets clouded here by this. And this is why I'll often say things, especially on Twitter, where I'll be like, you know, $4,000, ethy's cheap because I'm thinking, you know, years into, into the, into the future. But the problem is, is that because I'm thinking that, and I'm saying eat at $4,000 is cheap, I'm not giving that context there.
00:08:48.896 - 00:09:10.444, Speaker A: So essentially what happens is that people take that and like, oh, okay. I mean, it's, you know, it must mean, like, over the next few days or next few weeks, something like that. When. I don't mean that. I mean in the longer term here, in the years, long, long term here. But yeah, I mean, I don't want to spend too much on the markets here, but the TLDR is basically that I just don't see any fundamental reasons to be bearish going forward on ETH. Like, I'm not talking about the other stuff, guys.
00:09:10.444 - 00:09:49.634, Speaker A: Whenever I'm talking about the market, I'm generally talking about ETh. And I guess BTC as well. The rest of the market I have no opinion on, like, other than I believe a lot of it is overvalued generally. But the thing is with crypto is that, like, things can stay overvalued for a very long time and a lot of the time they actually won't even go back to what you think is going to be the fair value. Like there are so many things in the top 20, top 30 I look at and I'm like, this should be worth $0, but it's not for a number of different reasons. But when I'm talking about being bullish, when I'm talking about being optimistic on the market going forward, the market to me is really just Ethan, BTC, you guys know, I don't really play in the rest of the market. I do my angel investing on the side.
00:09:49.634 - 00:10:12.062, Speaker A: But that is completely different to playing in liquid tokens. I do have some liquid token bags. Like you guys know I have my RPL because I've staked that with Rocketpool, but I don't really plan to do anything with that. It's staked, it's part of the rocker pool, mini pools that I've got right. And it's part of the ODR bond that I've got as well. I don't really plan to do anything with that. And also on top that I have some other kind of, I guess like liquid bags, you could call it.
00:10:12.062 - 00:10:40.718, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that like I do plan to sell those one day in the future when I feel comfortable doing so. But other than that, I'm not actively buying anything on the public market except ETH because I just don't think anything is investable. I mean, you guys know my, my views on a lot of the tokens out there that are high, fully diluted value, low circulating supply, locomotive low mark market cap. Yeah, they can go up. But the thing is, is that I want to invest for years to come. I don't want to be playing the markets month to month, week to week like that. That's just insane to me.
00:10:40.718 - 00:11:00.518, Speaker A: Like this is why most traders lose money is because it's so hard to do. So. Yeah, it's just not my style. And obviously for you guys it's different. You guys, obviously a lot of you, I know, talking to you in the delegate discord channel, you're in a very different position. You want to build your wealth, you want to, you know, you're comfortable taking that risk, comfortable doing a bit of gambling here and they're doing a bit of dj and stuff. Nothing wrong with that.
00:11:00.518 - 00:11:28.050, Speaker A: But I think you've always got to contextualize it and realize that high risk, high reward, sure. But at the end of the day, you do need to be doing more, some, some long term investing too, and being okay, well, I have my e stash er. I have my altcoin stash here, or meme coin or whatever you want to call it, stash er. And then make sure you keep those things separate so that you don't blow yourself up. That's always the number one rule in crypto. And that's, that's how I ended this tweet. I said, your main objective in crypto remains the same as it always has been, to survive.
00:11:28.050 - 00:12:02.868, Speaker A: That's your main objective. Just survive the cycle, survive the volatility, and, you know, be in the right assets too. Like, I think that's the, the biggest thing here, but that's part of surviving by being in the right assets, not sitting 100% in some random meme coin that got spun up the other week because you're suddenly really bullish on it because it went up 100 x. No, right. If it's gonna gone up 100 x, I'm sorry to say, but like, you're not getting much out of that anymore, especially if it's something like a meme coin. But anyway, I digress on, on that point there and on the market talk generally, there's a bunch of other stuff to talk about, but I just wanted to bring that up for you guys. And you can read my full tweet if you want.
00:12:02.868 - 00:12:37.290, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Jumping into the complete opposite of the price into some tech related stuff here, I guess, like tech fundamental related narratives. So Matt here on Twitter had an amazing tweet. So huge kudos to him for putting this out there where he basically started off by saying, I'm kind of fed up with all the negativity around Ethereum and roll ups when the whole ecosystem is shipping out of its mind right now. People who look at what we have now and still think Ethereum should have scaled l one first. Are you all out of your minds now? It's a pretty long tweet, so I'll link it in the YouTube description below and you can go read it for yourself.
00:12:37.290 - 00:13:06.796, Speaker A: I'm not going to read the whole thing here, but really, he's just summarized, I think a lot of what I guess us hardcore ethereums have known for a while and have been watching for a while, and obviously anyone listening to the refuel will be very familiar with all of this. But essentially the high level here is that layer one, Ethereum is in the best place it's ever been. We're about to do our largest network upgrade in Petra early next year. And it seems to be getting larger every day. But, hey, we're in the best position we are right now. And that's just one part of it. There's also the funding part.
00:13:06.796 - 00:13:19.740, Speaker A: Protocol guild exists. That's really great. We have all these clients. We had a new one come into production recently with reth. Right. So the l one in particular is in the best place it's ever been in and only getting better. And then you move on to the l two s.
00:13:19.740 - 00:13:40.068, Speaker A: And that's even better than the l one. Like, the l two s are growing like crazy, right? You look at any metrics, you got to grow the PI or l two b or roll up. WTF. You look at anything there and it's growing. It's growing really, really substantially and really, really well. And the textures getting better and better on each of these l two s as well. Yes, there are lots of l two s being spun up, but that's the great thing about l two s.
00:13:40.068 - 00:14:15.408, Speaker A: We get to run all these experiments in parallel. It's a positive thing. It is not a negative thing. And also, on top of that, I was actually talking to a friend about this just before. You know, there's always this discussion around the apps, like, oh, when's the next app going to come online that brings in the next millions of users? You know, when's the breakout app going to come online? When are we going to have hundreds of millions of Daus, or daily active users on an app? And. And so on and so forth? And I was kind of discussing this with him, and I was saying, look, there's Daus as they exist in web two. It's a web two metric, right? Where essentially you log on to Twitter every day.
00:14:15.408 - 00:14:28.576, Speaker A: You log into Facebook every day. You go onto YouTube. You know, you're a dau of that. And. And that looks good to advertisers who want to advertise their stuff to you. And obviously they pay for that. And these companies make billions of dollars, right? But when it comes to on chain, what.
00:14:28.576 - 00:15:07.112, Speaker A: What is the predominant use of on chain right now? It's Defi. It's finance, it's gambling. Right now. In that environment, if you're looking at Daus, it doesn't really make much sense, because if you're doing something on chain, such as taking out a loan against your assets, you're not gonna be doing that every day, right? Let's just say you put, like, ten eth into Aave, you borrow against it, and then you go use those stable coins to do whatever. Maybe you go buy more eth with there because you're a leverage ape, whatever it is, right? Like, and you sit on it and you sit on it for weeks, you sit on it for months and you do nothing else with that. Like are you not a user of, of, are they still. Yes, you are.
00:15:07.112 - 00:15:58.862, Speaker A: Are you not a user of ethereum still? Yes you are, but you're not like a quote unquote daily active user. And this is exactly why in the traditional finance ecosystem, no one uses daus to measure how popular a bank is or how used a bank is. They use AUM assets under management, or as we like to call it in, crypto TVL, total value locked. Not a perfect metric, but that's how you usually measure our finances, because the more money in a bank, the better off the bank is because they get to make more money from that. That's why the banks, I mean, the bank's main purpose is to get you to put their, your money into them and then they can use that money to do a bunch of other things, right, and make more money for themselves and make tons and tons of profits. So when you're looking at usage on chain, and to get back to my original point, if you just look at DeFi, just defy as a sector, year on year, for the last five years, Defi has been growing. That is what we should be looking at.
00:15:58.862 - 00:16:31.784, Speaker A: We shouldn't be looking at Daus and what's going to be the next consumer crypto app that brings in all these millions or tens of millions of users, so on and so forth, that, that to me shouldn't be what we're looking at. That to me is not the right metric to optimize for. The right thing to optimize for is sustainable growth over the long term, year on year sustainable growth. And I think obviously the crypto market doesn't do that. The crypto market, especially with, with prices, doesn't do steady, steady growth. It does very volatile growth over time, but it does do steady growth over the longer term, like year on year as well. Year on year.
00:16:31.784 - 00:17:17.818, Speaker A: For a long time now, eth has been up, you know, up only. So even from that perspective, it makes a lot of sense. But, yeah, so that, that was basically the, the l one and l two side here and the app side. But then, you know, Matt also called out a lot of the stuff happening on each of these specific l two ecosystems, like for example, base and arbitram, breaking their usage records, especially something like base, who Coinbase has put so much effort and so much work into scaling it up, scaling the execution side of things, scaling up USDC on there and so on and so forth. And then also the fact that we scaled the l one by scaling the l two s by putting blobs in, we brought l one gas fees down, right? Like normal l one gas fee market down for everyone. And, and I mean, this tweet is full of these things. As I said, it is a fantastic tweet.
00:17:17.818 - 00:17:43.136, Speaker A: You should go give it a read for yourself. It made me even me bullish because I love just seeing a summary of all the stuff that, you know, I talk about on the refuel, but also a lot of people in the ecosystem talk about it's just the golden age of Ethereum, as I've been calling it for the last year. At least. We really are in the golden age, the golden era of Ethereum. Anyone who's bearish right now is, in my mind, out of their minds. And again, I got a, got to clarify that by saying that I'm talking longer term here. I'm not talking like day to day, week to week bearishness.
00:17:43.136 - 00:18:12.418, Speaker A: It's more longer term. Probably not even month to month, like year to year sort of thing here. And Matt didn't even, as far as I know, mention the tradfi stuff happening as well and the regulatory stuff happening. For a theorem, this is just within Ethereum. Like, then we have all of this stuff outside of Ethereum, like the ETF's, the regulatory landscape for ETh getting a lot better. Because now that that kind of specter of ETH being classified as a security is pretty much gone. Blackrock being involved with Ethereum, doing their tokenized fund, there's just so many tailwinds, guys.
00:18:12.418 - 00:18:50.244, Speaker A: Like, it is insane that people are so negative around Ethereum on crypto Twitter. But crypto Twitter is an insane place. And, you know, it's funny, I think, I don't know if I've mentioned this on the refill before, but many months ago, I was talking to some friends about this, and I was trying to come up with an analogy of what crypto Twitter is like. And I think I came up with the perfect one, and apologies if I mentioned this on the refill already before, but essentially, the way I think of crypto Twitter is that imagine if you were able to walk into a casino floor and read everyone's thoughts. Imagine the chaos, right, of that. Like, just, just sit on that for a second and try to imagine what's going through everyone's head in a casino as they're gambling. That's what crypto Twitter is.
00:18:50.244 - 00:19:20.438, Speaker A: Right? So, like, if you're expecting signal from crypto Twitter these days, you're not going to have a good time. I think for the most part, there is going to be some signal here and there, but for the most part, probably not. Like, for example, I mean, at a casino, there's still some signal. Go to a professional poker table and you might learn how to play poker better. Right, but go to the slots and people are going to have all their narratives and stories for why their slot machine is going to be the one that pays out the most or why the next spin that they do is going to pay out the most. Right. Or everyone's going to have their own strategy at the blackjack table or at the, at the roulette table.
00:19:20.438 - 00:19:53.988, Speaker A: So it's the same on crypto Twitter. Everyone's got their own narrative that they, they're shilling out into the open and that they're kind of justifying their investments to, oh, it's a meme coin super cycle, or all these celebrities are going to bring all their fans on chain, it's going to pump the coins or I'm going to bid the base meme coins, because Coinbase is going to bring the normies onto base and then they're going to buy my bags. Like it's the same kind of thing. Right, but. But the thing is, is that people like to vocalize it on crypto Twitter, whereas in a casino, unless you're actually there talking to these people, you're not going to get exposed to that. Whereas if you were able to read their minds, it would be fucking chaos. And that's what crypto Twitter is like, at least to me.
00:19:53.988 - 00:20:23.464, Speaker A: But anyway, go give this tweet a read from that. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so EPBS Ethereum proposer builder separation has been spoken about for a long time within the Ethereum ecosystem. I spoke about it forever on the refuel. And as of July 4, EPBs has an EIP number. So from now on, it'll be referred to as AIP 7732. And POTUS here has put together a short thread on exactly what this EIP entails here.
00:20:23.464 - 00:20:57.252, Speaker A: So sorry, the EN EPBS stands for enshrined proposal builder separation, not Ethereum proposal builder separation. I knew it was enshrined. I don't know where I got Ethereum from, but just the correction there. But essentially that means that this is basically moved on from the research phase into the EIP phase, which does have research that goes along with it. But usually how it works is that there's gonna, there's deep research on something for a little while, and then it's put forward as an EIP. More research is done. You know, Devnets might maybe spun up around it and then it may eventually make it onto mainnet by inclusion in ethereum network upgrades.
00:20:57.252 - 00:21:38.776, Speaker A: So if you're a curious to see what the current thinking is for epbs and what it might look like when it goes live on the Ethereum network, this EIP is what you're going to need to pay attention to. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. And just a reminder here on what EPB epbs tries to do. It essentially wants to make, I guess the best way to put it is that it wants to constrain the power of builders and proposes and essentially make it so that we can make the network more censorship resistant. Because right now it's not very censorship resistant given the centralization within builders, given the centralization around things like mev boost. So epbs aims to address some of that. But you can go give this all a read as well as protestors thread.
00:21:38.776 - 00:22:30.756, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, Oval has another big announcement out of their ecosystem. So I think I mentioned this the other day, but Oval V one went live with their, I should say Sharon V one, which is Opal's tech, went live in a production environment. And then the next day, which was yesterday or the day before, they announced something called the Oval collective. So you can learn more about this@ol.org but essentially this is a collective of entities, individuals, companies within the Ethereum ecosystem that are involved within staking, all coming together to better improve Ethereum staking. In particular, better improve Ethereum staking with technologies like DVT or distributed validator technology in order to essentially get Ethereum to a more decentralized state, get a theorem to a healthier state and make it so that more and more people can stake within the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:22:30.756 - 00:23:24.386, Speaker A: So you can see here on each of these pages, they explain kind of what you can do, how to run your own staking node, so on and so forth. This is just a really great resource, a really great initiative from Oval and all of their partners here to basically get more people involved within the Ethereum staking ecosystem. And it was funny last night at the meetup that I was at, so I was at a meetup at upside, which is a crypto co working space in Melbourne here, and I was talking to someone about this and about how for a while Lido had like a near monopoly on ETH staking. Besides obviously solo staking. Then other protocols came along, like rocket pool. And then obviously centralized exchanges came along as well. But over the last year in particular, there's been a lot of protocols coming online, a lot of staking protocols, a lot of staking project coming online that are eating into that market share for the simple reason of, like the Ethereum staking market is absolutely massive and it is definitely still anyone's game.
00:23:24.386 - 00:24:00.244, Speaker A: I remember I showed you guys the other week this ETH two staking dashboard and how Ethify had actually climbed up to number three on in terms of like the total amount of ETH staked per entity here, you can see them here. So either fires at 4.9% compared and that's that. But that puts him in third place, whereas lighter is 29% and coinbase is almost 13% here. Now, as you guys know, I'm an advisor to either fire, but I'm not bringing them up because of that. I'm bringing them up as a perfect example of something that didn't launch until very recently. I believe their main net launch was maybe, what, nine months ago now or something like that, and they were able to get to number three.
00:24:00.244 - 00:24:38.926, Speaker A: Now they are beating out binance, who has been doing staking for a long time, Kraken, that has been doing staking for a long time. Kiln and Figment, same thing. Rockerpool as well. But I think Rockerpool is going to have a nice little resurgence soon with their upgrades that they've got coming. They're kind of limited by, unfortunately, by their current mechanisms in terms of not being scalable for big players right now. But yeah, I mean, the point I'm illustrating here is basically that new entrants to the staking market can grow and can grow really, really quickly by leveraging different things. For those of you who don't know, maybe, maybe it's not obvious to, but ETFI essentially was one of the biggest liquid restaking tokens.
00:24:38.926 - 00:25:20.326, Speaker A: One of the first, I should say, sorry, to do liquid restaking through Eigen layer and do the points farming, where essentially you could farm points as a pseudo solo staker with eat the fire, because either fire was spinning up eigenpods, whereas the LS T's were capped. So essentially it was a loophole that they exploited in order to get a lot of growth here. And they've also just got a kick ass product as well, right? Like the product's really good. They have a lot of value added products on top of that. They're vertically integrating a lot of stuff there. But my overall point here is that doesn't matter who it is, there is opportunity here within the Ethereum staking ecosystem and it's going to keep growing, it's going to keep being, becoming more decentralized over time. And I'm really glad to see that Oval has put together a collective here to basically focus on that with all of these partner companies.
00:25:20.326 - 00:26:16.224, Speaker A: You can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Umbra, a project that I have covered a couple of times on the refuel before, announced something today, I think, or yesterday where they said that ERC 50, ERC 55 64 and ERC 6538 have been finalized, marking a major milestone for EVM stealth address standards. So there's a quick thread here with details about this and what this actually means. But for those of you who don't know, Umbro is trying to build a stealth payments kind of infrastructure on top of Ethereum here, where essentially you can have private transactions using stealth addresses on Ethereum, which is something that I think Vitalik has written about before, and obviously falls into the wider work around privacy on top of a theorem and trying to make a theory transactions more private over time. And that's definitely one thing that I think we still need to do a lot more work on. One area that we need to do a lot more work on.
00:26:16.224 - 00:26:56.834, Speaker A: Unfortunately, we had a few steps back because of the fact that the governments around the world have been so hostile towards crypto privacy. And generally they're hostile towards any form of privacy, especially financial privacy, but also communications. Like how many, how many governments around the world have tried to go after encryption or go after encrypted messaging? Right. They don't want us to have privacy, whether that be within our communications or especially within our financial privacy. They don't want that because if you have financial privacy, they can't track your transactions and they can't, they can't track you for tax purposes, essentially. So, like, and it's not just tax purposes. I mean, it's just a general huge financial surveillance scheme that they got going on in order to try and stop.
00:26:56.834 - 00:27:31.838, Speaker A: Well, they justify it by saying they wanted to stop money laundering from happening. They want to stop bad actors from accessing the traditional finance system. But we all know that bad actors are able to use the tradfi ecosystem all the time and do so, and anyone caught doing it isn't really punished. I mean, how many times have big banks been caught laundering money for, for these bad actors and been fined? No one goes to jail over it, right? So it's all just bullshit. It's all just more control. Governments wanting more control here, and crypto really is one of our last ways and last bastions to fight back against this stuff. And I think we need to be doing more around privacy.
00:27:31.838 - 00:27:57.854, Speaker A: I understand why people have taken a step back because there is definitely personal risk involved here. But yeah, I mean, I think we can do it in a way where it doesn't involve too much personal risk, where it can still add a lot of value to the world. But I understand why some people, or a lot of people don't want to get involved with this. I mean, I probably don't have the guts to do something like this. I'll promote the privacy tools and I'll tell you guys to use them if you feel comfortable doing so. But I probably wouldn't build one myself. I just.
00:27:57.854 - 00:28:29.628, Speaker A: I don't know, I feel like putting a target on my back is just something I don't want to do. And if that makes me a coward, I guess so be it. But I'll do what I can to promote this, and I'll do what I can to make sure that this becomes a reality, that that privacy is preserved on Ethereum and gets better over time. But anyway, enough ranting about that. You can go check out Umbra's news for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, last up here, I just got a thread from Kane, who is the founder of Infinix, and you probably better known him as the founder of Synthetix.
00:28:29.628 - 00:29:29.066, Speaker A: But the reason why I wanted to bring up this thread is because one, you should go read it right now. It is an amazing thread about tokens in general and really speaks to some of the stuff that I've been talking about over the last few weeks with regards to tokens and how tokens are broken right now and have been for quite a while, and about how we can potentially fix them, but also how they're basically not unfixable, but like we can't fix them to the point where we want to get them without better, I guess, regulations and without a less hostile sec or regulatory body in general. But the reason why I wanted to talk about this is because Keynes thread is basically in the context of Infinix, where Infinix is currently doing a campaign called Crate run where you can essentially liquidity mine or yield farm the token. So Infinix is obviously going to have a token here. I am not involved in Infinix as an advisor, investor or anything like that. So I'm not shilling my bags here or anything. But the reason why I bring it up is because I spoke to Kane at length in Sydney about Infinix and about his plans for it, not just as a product.
00:29:29.066 - 00:30:18.174, Speaker A: For those of you who don't know, Infinix is trying to be a decentralized exchange that matches a centralized exchange in terms of ui and ux, whether that be on the scalability front, but, or on the kind of like asset management front as well. And, and they've built a killer product, by the way, you should actually go use it. But they're also trying to change the meta around tokens. So they're trying to make it so that most of the tokens actually are in the community's hands, not in some treasury and not with VC's and the team and Mo. And they're trying to make it so that they can have as high as a float as possible from day one of the TGE and reward people and allow them to basically earn the token through this crate run campaign. Now I'm not going to tell you guys to go do this. I'm just going to basically say that it is something that you could, it is opportunity within crypto that you can go take advantage of right now that could potentially go somewhere.
00:30:18.174 - 00:30:51.394, Speaker A: But it's very different to what we've seen in the past. I do think they'll probably do an airdrop or something like that, but, but they're not doing like a points campaign. It's, it's, they're, they're doing something different. I mean you could argue that it is similar to a points campaign in that like they're farming your liquidity. But the thing is, is that you're getting a transparent thing out of it. They're basically telling you if you do this, you get this crate which then you can open it, earns you bonuses and then you'll be able to earn these nfts that may give you access to, you know, to the token sale when they do it and to getting tokens and so on and so forth. So they're really trying to change the meta here.
00:30:51.394 - 00:31:14.578, Speaker A: But Kane does a better job of explaining all of this than I can so definitely go read his thread if you haven't yet. I'll link that in YouTube description below. But I do want to, but I do want to caveat with one thing where basically one of the reasons I'm bringing this up is because I think Infinix is going to be a killer product. I have spoken, as I said to Kanek at length about this. I've seen presentations given on Infinix. I've seen the team, spoken to some of the team members. They really get it.
00:31:14.578 - 00:31:41.422, Speaker A: They're actually a really young team. They're very hungry, I think, to change the meta here. And they have a leader in Kane who has been around the block for many cycles now. He understands this industry very deeply. He understands how to build products within crypto, how to build successful products within crypto, and he understands the meta when it comes to tokens and crypto generally. So I really do think that Infinix is going to be a killer product within, within crypto. I can't wait for it to go live here and people to get their hands on it.
00:31:41.422 - 00:31:51.550, Speaker A: But yeah, anyway, I'm going to end it there for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
