00:00:00.280 - 00:00:15.998, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of Deliberate refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is. I know it's the 5 March 2024. All right everyone, let's get into it. So actually a relatively slow news day over the last 24 hours. Not that much to talk about. And I think it's obvious why.
00:00:15.998 - 00:00:45.358, Speaker A: The price of everything is going up and there's meme coins flying and all this stuff's happening and I guess that's what everyone is focused on right now. But there is still a bunch of stuff to talk about that I want to get to, but just, I wanted to spend a couple of minutes here talking about, I guess, like, what's been happening in the markets, obviously, market is super hot. BTC basically hit all time high today. I mean, it didn't technically hit its all time high, but it basically did. And then it sold off as it usually does when it hits all time high. Didn't sell off that much. I mean, I think it did go down like 7% or something.
00:00:45.358 - 00:01:17.544, Speaker A: People didn't even notice because the meme coins were flying and then BTSA was going down. But then ETH went up and like, time of recording eats at 3700 or something. Looks like it's wanting to go to 4k any day now, right? And then obviously onto its all time high. But the, the mania is beginning to really go into full swing now. I think, you know, I said maybe a couple of weeks ago or something that we were in the mid of the bull market and we're basically accelerating. I mean, the thing is, is that the early cycle of the bull market tends to last longer than the mid and late cycles, especially the late cycle. The late cycle doesn't last that long.
00:01:17.544 - 00:01:44.320, Speaker A: Like I would expect the late cycle to last three months. As I said in the past though, like, it's really hard to tell because of these ETF's. And obviously the BTC ETF is still getting record inflows. If you've been looking on Twitter, the ETH ETF's, if they're approved in May, like we all hope they will be, and like I believe they will be, you know, that's still a couple of months away. Then there's just so many catalysts, so many positive things happening. So this stuff can go on for a while. I'm not sure how long the mid bull market will last for.
00:01:44.320 - 00:02:30.656, Speaker A: I mean, I'll tell you guys when I think we're entering the late stages, but we're still in the mid stages here, I think that retail or new investors or normies, whatever you want to call them, they're definitely flooding back in. But the thing with them is that, like, you'll have the initial kind of spike of like 1020 percent of them will come in and then it'll accelerate from there and we'll go 30, 40, 5100 percent of them all coming in. And that's when you start seeing the absolute craziness right towards the late cycle where literally everything is just pumping indiscriminately. It makes zero sense at all. These old coins that no one talks about anymore, like, to call them dino coins or dinosaur coins, just going nuts. Like, nothing makes sense. You know, Coinbase is number one on there, on the App Store for, you know, all apps, not just for finance app, for all apps globally, you have mainstream media non stop talking about it.
00:02:30.656 - 00:03:02.336, Speaker A: You have people posting articles saying everyone's getting hilariously rich and you're not because of crypto. Right. So, like, when you start seeing that kind of craziness, yeah, you can be relatively certain that we in the later stages of the late cycle sort of thing there. But obviously, it's very exciting right now, especially for all of you who have been with us through the entire bear market, really. I mean, it would be super exciting for you because now you're seeing the fruits of your labor, so to speak. And I know what that feeling is like. I mean, these days I'm a jaded old boomer, so, like, I'm not feeling euphoria, euphoria or anything about this.
00:03:02.336 - 00:03:29.546, Speaker A: I don't even feel anything, honestly, when the price goes up because I'm just an old jaded boomer who made what I made from it. And now I'm really focused, like, pretty much 100% on the tech. But I do, I do pay attention to the markets because I understand the markets have obviously a heavy influence on the tech. And, you know, most of the stuff happening on chain is speculative, so that's obviously heavily influenced by the market action as well. But just generally, you know, I see ETH going up and I kind of expect it. Like, I look at ETH at like, almost four k, and I'm like, yeah, okay. I expected that.
00:03:29.546 - 00:04:00.664, Speaker A: Like, that's not anything surprising to me. You know, it's not anything unexpected. And then when ETH goes to ten k, I'll probably feel something there because I said that ETH was going to ten k back in 2019 with when ETH was like $100, so. And ETH was considered dead back then guys, like, by the majority of people, except the die hard ethereum. So, I mean, I think I'll feel something off that because just like a long term kind of thing, it's only going to be like five years by the time that happens there. But if we kind of broaden that, that stroke out to basically everything else, I look at these meme coins, and I'm just kind of like, yeah, okay. I mean, it makes sense.
00:04:00.664 - 00:04:22.830, Speaker A: You know, people that are in crypto right now, they think the retail investors are coming back. The noobs are coming back. And last time, the noobs really loved meme coins. So let's front run them and buy the meme coins. But what I think people don't understand is that, like, last time, the stupidest meme coins pumped. Not, I mean, dogecoin obviously pumped, but, like, people are bidding on all these meme coins that have been around for a while. And yes, they've gone up a lot, and obviously they're speculating on it, and they're, you know, if you've.
00:04:22.830 - 00:05:01.446, Speaker A: If you got in early and then you sold, you made a lot of money, obviously, uh, if you were able to kind of time that, right? But I think that people kind of analyzing this stuff are already making the wrong moves because when these noobs come along, they're not bidding these things. What they're bidding is like the actual dumbest shit. Last cycle, we had something called safemoon, and we had something called come rocket. Those were the two main meme coins back then, besides Doge, obviously, and Shiba InU. But I'm talking about, like, things that no one saw coming at all. Like, Shiba Inu is another dog coin, right? Like, obviously, people didn't really see it coming, but it was in the same theme of things. But then you had, like, this just absolutely just ridiculous things, right? Like safe moon.
00:05:01.446 - 00:05:27.232, Speaker A: It was. I mean, it was ridiculous. Like, it was nothing. Basically, you had COmE rocket. I mean, just listening to me say that, I feel I'm cringing, right? But that's the kind of stuff that happens because these people coming in after all time highs, they are some of the lowest information investors. They have absolutely no idea what's going on with Crypto. And they're going straight to YouTube, right? They're going straight to the depths of Crypto, twItter, going straight to subreddits like the CryptoCurrency SubREddit.
00:05:27.232 - 00:05:52.684, Speaker A: And they're just getting the worst information possible and then making buying decisions based on that. But as I've said plenty of times in the past, nothing wrong with that. I am actually glad people have the ability to do that because people should be able to do what they want with their own money. But that's where the more experienced investors come in. That's where you come in where you're kind of like, you see those signals and you're like, okay, well, maybe it's time to start taking some off the table. Maybe it's time to DCA out because this stuff's just going absolutely bonkers. You know, it, no one can win.
00:05:52.684 - 00:06:07.948, Speaker A: You know, not everyone can win in the market. Most people don't win in the market. And then you kind of think, okay, well, now's the time to scale out. But anyway, spent about five minutes there on the market stuff. Didn't think I'd spend that much there. But obviously it's becoming more and more relevant as the market gets hotter and hotter. I know you guys enjoy it when I do talk about the markets.
00:06:07.948 - 00:06:43.030, Speaker A: Hopefully I get to do an episode with Eric this week for the drive thru. Not sure if it's happening this week or next week because we actually, I actually want to talk to him about the small potatoes comment that, that the ETF guy, Eric, that I spoke about yesterday made. Not Eric Connor, obviously, the other Eric from, from Bloomberg. We, we definitely were dming on telegram about and just laughing, basically just laughing that the amount of times people have just faded ETH for ETH just to come, not come back to ETH just to like, prove everyone wrong. Just hilarious. But anyway, enough about that. I think staying on the theme of markets for a sec, though, I did want to kind of reiterate this point.
00:06:43.030 - 00:07:00.494, Speaker A: So today, Blackrock spot ETH ETF application was delayed by the SEC. Not denied. It was delayed. And I saw some people talking about it being, oh, it got delayed. It's like, what do you mean? Ooh, it got delayed. Like, this is expected. Like, I don't understand why people are doing this same dance again where they kind of like, oh, it's delayed.
00:07:00.494 - 00:07:29.506, Speaker A: You know what that means? It's going to get denied. That didn't happen with the BTC ones. The BTC ones got delayed until January 10, which was that final deadline. And I think the same thing's going to happen with the ETH ones. And I put out a tweet where I said, spot ETH ETF delays are fully expected and we, and are not a concern or any sort of signal on whether the ETH ETF's are getting approved or not. That should be obvious because they weren't any kind of signal around the approval for the BTC spot ETF's. The fact that people are just, I don't know, they have like the shortest memories.
00:07:29.506 - 00:08:01.454, Speaker A: Were you not around like three months ago? Maybe some of them weren't. I mean, to be fair, but like, a lot of the same people that I'm seeing say this, like, you guys were around during this whole thing. Like, why are you just doing it again? Like, why are you doubting this stuff again for the same, you know, reasons that you were doubting BTC Sport ETF's? I don't know. Some people just have, I don't know. I don't know if I'd call it a mental illness, but they have just like a weird way of approaching things. But anyway, I continued and I said the only date that matters is May 23 when four of the spot ETH ETF issuers have their final deadlines. Everything else is noise.
00:08:01.454 - 00:08:39.908, Speaker A: And I stick by that. Guys like, yes, I've said before that these ETF's can get approved technically before the deadline, before that May 23 deadline. They can get approved anytime from like now, between now and then. But if we're actually looking at what the SEC has done historically, it's been delay, then start the back and forth with the issuers maybe like a couple of months before they go live and then put them live on the first, final, first deadline batch. Basically because Blackrock isn't until August and some people know, come at me and say, you know, Blackrock's final deadline is August 7. Everything else is noise. Like this guy here on the replied to me and I'm like, that's not how it works.
00:08:39.908 - 00:09:07.564, Speaker A: If the SEC denies all of the other ETF's just to approve blackrocks, then they will be sued into the underworld. Like, they will be sued so hard. Like Grayscale has already shown that they're willing to sue and Van Neck is one of the applications as well. They definitely got, would be willing to sue as well. I just, I don't see it happening because, because of that. And, and then I said Blackrock's BTC ETF deadline was in March, but they got all got approved on January 10. Same thing will happen with May 23 for the ETH ETF's.
00:09:07.564 - 00:09:22.284, Speaker A: So if the ETF's do get approved, it'll happen by May 23. That's it. Guys like that, that's all you have to worry about. Everything else is noise. And if they get denied, it'll happen by May 23. I mean, it could happen earlier. The SEC could, there is a chance that they could ask the issuers to withdraw their applications.
00:09:22.284 - 00:09:53.178, Speaker A: I don't really think that that's a, you know, it's something that's, that's necessarily going to happen, because if it was going to happen, you'd think that they would have done it by now. But maybe. I don't know, maybe Gensler wants to play hardball. I mean, he's always playing hardball with crypto. But regardless of any of that, the most relevant deadline is May 23. And by then, you know, if it hasn't been denied before then and it gets denied on May 23, that'll obviously sting a lot. But, yeah, I think that not, you know, not looking at the kind of delays as any kind of signal is, is the way to go.
00:09:53.178 - 00:10:34.682, Speaker A: Yeah. All right, so, you guys know, yesterday I did a bit of a rant about Eric calling Ethereum small potatoes, but I just wanted to address this again today where I put out a tweet and I basically said, you know, imagine calling Ethereum small potatoes when Ethereum has been transforming this industry and bringing huge amounts of money in since day one. And I don't just say this because, like, I'm, I guess I struggle to call myself an ETH maxi, but I don't just say this because, like, I obviously love Ethereum and I spend all my time in Ethereum. And it's objectively true. Every bit of innovation that has happened in this ecosystem. I mean, maybe not everything, but, like, 95 plus percent of it has come from Ethereum. And all the big things that brought in money have come from Ethereum.
00:10:34.682 - 00:10:56.896, Speaker A: So we had icos in 2016 and 2017. People don't actually realize that icos started in 2016 with the Dow, which happened in mid 2016. Obviously, it blew up. And there's that whole drama with Ethereum, classic forking off. But that was the biggest ICo to that point besides the ETH ICo, right, in 2014. And then from there, people did more and more icos. Then it accelerated into 2017.
00:10:56.896 - 00:11:16.630, Speaker A: And we know what happened after that. Right? It just, everything just blew up, basically. But icos were the main thing that brought in money in 2017. Like, that's undeniable that it was. And that was all on Ethereum. Like, no, there, there was really nothing else out there or no other chain out there that was doing icos. Then in 2019 and 2020, you had Defi and yield farming.
00:11:16.630 - 00:11:43.750, Speaker A: Defi Summer was in 2020. That's a huge driver of what kickstarted the last bull market and a huge driver of new capital into the ecosystem, especially into Ethereum nfts in 2021. No denying that those were absolutely massive. Again on Ethereum, staking, restaking in 2022, 2023 and beyond. Again, self explanatory. $115 billion worth of each staked. Guys like this is not something that I have to spend much time on because it's just self explanatory.
00:11:43.750 - 00:12:18.524, Speaker A: Layer twos in 2023. Obviously, we've had L2s for a little while, but they really started accelerating last year, and they're going to accelerate even more now or this year and beyond because we have ERP 48, 44 and dank shiding rolling out as well. Lots more l two s coming online, lots more stuff happening there. And then, of course, the ETF's for ETH hopefully going live in 2024, like as we, as I believe they will by that May 23 deadline. So, I mean, the ETF's could be argued that it's not like an Ethereum specific thing. Obviously, it's got bitcoins in that as well. But everything else on here is very much ethereum specific.
00:12:18.524 - 00:12:45.416, Speaker A: So when people say that Ethereum is small potatoes, I just laugh because, like, it's not. It's big potatoes. It's the biggest potatoes in crypto. I would argue that it's actually bigger than bitcoin in terms of what drives the innovation of this ecosystem, what brings money into this ecosystem. Yes, bitcoin has a larger market cap. Yes, bitcoin has more mainstream awareness. But the fact of the matter is, is that everything interesting that happens in crypto happens on ethereum first, and then Ethereum exports that to other ecosystems because the other ecosystems copy it.
00:12:45.416 - 00:13:08.720, Speaker A: Because obviously it's all open source. You can just fork it and so on and so forth. So, yeah, anyway, gonna leave that tweet at that. Just wanted to kind of talk more to the small potatoes bit because you, as you guys can tell, that's, that's annoyed me. But it's a little bit of a meme now, which I like. I kind of like it when something we basically meme something out of a silly comment. But anyway, moving on from that, I saw this tweet from Brian Armstrong today.
00:13:08.720 - 00:13:34.446, Speaker A: So he tweeted out, quote, tweeting the stand with crypto Twitter account where he said, packed house at stand with Crypto's rally in Los Angeles. Having Nass I perform certainly didn't hurt. Visit stanwithcrypto.org to learn about pro anti crypto candidates and please vote in Super Tuesday tomorrow. To decide who will be on the ballot this November. America can't afford to be left behind any longer. We need to protect, we need to elect pro innovation candidates who understand crypto.
00:13:34.446 - 00:14:35.060, Speaker A: And the reason why I wanted to talk about this, I mean, there's two reasons. First reason is that I'm very glad that crypto is getting more and more loud in the political circuit because you, if you want your way in politics, you have to be allowed and you have to be seen and you have to obviously donate to the right people. I think crypto is doing all of that right now, and that is obviously net beneficial for all of crypto for us to push back against the overreach of the US government and the US regulatory apparatus, such as the SEC, into crypto and make sure that we can potentially get some clear rules and clear guidelines and clear legislation put in place, or just simply make sure that the US kind of political apparatus doesn't come up to crypto in such a way that it stifles innovations. That's one of the big points here. And the second reason I want to talk about this was just to remind you guys, all of you in the US, this applies really mostly to the US, because anyone who's not a us citizen cannot vote in the US elections, obviously. But if you go to stanwithcrypto.org and you click the politicians tab at the top, this will give you a list of all of the politicians that.
00:14:35.060 - 00:15:02.822, Speaker A: That are up for kind of, um, that, that are part of the different parties, the Democrats and the Republicans, I should say. And whether they are for or against crypto. So what their stance is with crypto, and it's not just like a binary thing. It's like strongly supportive or just supportive or against. Strongly against, so on and so forth. Now, obviously, the usual suspects at the, at the top here, such as Elizabeth Warren and Brad Sherman, strongly against crypto. That's no, that's obviously no surprise.
00:15:02.822 - 00:15:40.896, Speaker A: But then you have Cynthia Lemmas, who is very active within the ecosystem from political standpoint, who is strongly supportive of crypto, Tom, Emma, as well. And then, you know, the list goes on here. But what's interesting is that it's not just all Republicans being pro crypto and Democrats being anti crypto, which is something of a popular narrative within the crypto ecosystem. A lot of it is much more balanced than that, as you can see here. Yadira Hope, I'm saying her name, right, is strongly supportive of crypto and she is a Democrat. Here you have Dean Phillips, who's supportive, who's also a Democrat. The others, obviously have Republicans here, and Trump, of course, is a Republican and he's supportive of it.
00:15:40.896 - 00:16:08.898, Speaker A: And then you have like another Republican called Roger Marshall who's strongly against crypto. Right. So there is. And then you've got all the, you know, the less, maybe the less well known politicians here, but it really is a mixed bag. Guys like, and there's actually a lot of them that are strongly supportive of crypto. You can see here, like, that they're strongly supportive of it. And it seems like the ones that are strongly against are just the ones like Elizabeth Warren, who have made it her whole platform to be like anti banker or anti crypto, bro, or whatever, whatever she's doing here.
00:16:08.898 - 00:16:45.346, Speaker A: Now, you can also click into each of these, and I believe some of them will. Yeah, if you click into them, you'll be able to see information about what they've said about crypto, what they've been doing for crypto, what their policies are, and so on and so forth. Now, I know for all of the non us people listening to the podcast, this means nothing to you, but obviously the US is very consequential within crypto. And getting friendly politicians into power to advance the crypto agenda in the US affects the global kind of markets as well. So, yeah, if you are in the US, and obviously it is an election year, so your vote is going to count this year for a lot. You of definitely need to study this. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out.
00:16:45.346 - 00:17:02.442, Speaker A: But an absolutely amazing resource. It is put together and run by Coinbase and maintained by Coinbase. So it's not just some random thing that someone put together in their basement. It is Coinbase who is the biggest. Who are the biggest company in the US when it comes to crypto. So obviously not small potatoes here. All right, moving on.
00:17:02.442 - 00:17:37.908, Speaker A: So there is this really bad narrative within the crypto ecosystem right now that the only thing being built within Ethereum is infrastructure. And this is a narrative that has come out of the camps of the other layer ones specifically, I think, Solana, a lot of Aslana people that I've seen have been saying this, which is really disappointing because, you know, people are saying, okay, well, we need to be friends with, you know, with each other. We should. Should be building each other up. We should be kind of like working towards the same goal. But then every time I think about trying to do that, I just see so much fud. It's not just this narrative, it's like the gas fee stuff, people posting layer one gas fee screenshots.
00:17:37.908 - 00:18:06.084, Speaker A: Like, guys, we moved off layer one like a year ago, where we're on L2. Now everyone knows we're on L2, but you're still coming up with this absolute bullshit. Like we've told you so many times that the layer one fees are going to remain high for the foreseeable future, maybe until we have like the verge and verkle trees in. But. But regardless, they're still going to remain higher than L2s. And the fact that people know this, they do know this because it's not a secret, because they even make fun of L2s. But the people fact people know this and they still fight Ethereum with those kind of gas fee screenshots.
00:18:06.084 - 00:18:30.236, Speaker A: And it definitely is a lot of the Solana camp doing this. It just, it really kind of makes me really upset and sad because I'm like, well, there's no bridge mending going to be happening here at all if this is going to continue here. I know it's not exclusive to them. I know in the Ethereum community, people make fun of Solana when it goes down. I've avoided as much of this as possible because I just don't think it really is any point to it. But it just get. It just really sad when you kind of think about it.
00:18:30.236 - 00:19:00.226, Speaker A: And then there's, as I said, there's another kind of narrative about that that's being pushed, saying that all the people in Ethereum are working on infrastructure. No one's, no one's building apps. And then Jesse Pollack basically said, you know, don't listen to the fake news about a lack of app builders. I met literally hundreds of builders creating apps completely blown away. And he met them at, um, at ETH Denver. The world is going to come on chain because builders are building incredible on chain products. You really have to be just burying your head in the sand to think that ethereum is only building infrastructure.
00:19:00.226 - 00:19:27.686, Speaker A: Because let me put it to you this way, a theorem l one alone is doing tens of millions of dollars of fear of revenue per day. People are using the apps to generate that fear revenue. You guys know, if you go to ultrasound money, you can actually see which apps and which contracts are consuming the most gas. If you scroll down here and I'll show you over the last 30 days, uniswap is uniswap, not an app. People say. Some people say, oh, well, it's infrastructure, right? It's a. It's an amm.
00:19:27.686 - 00:19:34.158, Speaker A: It's infrastructure for swapping things. Like, no, it's fucking not. It's an app. Like, don't twist words. I've seen people say this. It's like, no, it's not. It's an app.
00:19:34.158 - 00:19:50.222, Speaker A: Right? Tether, it's a stable coin. That, to me, is an app. Like the application of a stable coin. Yes. Okay, I'm using a bit of loose terminology here, but it's an app. Banana gum, which is an NFT router app. Arbitrum is an l two that hosts apps on it, obviously.
00:19:50.222 - 00:20:03.092, Speaker A: Right? Same with Zksync. Zero X is an app. Optimism, same as arbitrum. Zksync. Metamask is a wallet. Literally an app. Right? Like, and you just keep scrolling down this list, one inch app, blur app.
00:20:03.092 - 00:20:58.558, Speaker A: Like, come on, guys, opensea app. Like, to say that we're only just building infrastructure and, like, it's just a ghost town on a lot of this infrastructure, and no one's using it, no one's using apps on it is just mind bogglingly stupid to me. And something that I really hope doesn't become like a sticky narrative because it makes no sense. It's not based in reality, and it just furthers the toxicity that exists within crypto that I've personally tried, at least over the last year, to not further myself. But until these people just stop saying, like, absolute crap about Ethereum and stop fighting Ethereum, you know, it's just going to keep happening. And the worst thing is, is that there are so many legitimate criticisms of Ethereum, the L2s and everything in between, and yet people go for just the bottom of the barrel shit. Like, you can criticize the L2s over things like multi sigs and centralized sequences, but like, even when people do that, they don't do it in a constructive way.
00:20:58.558 - 00:21:36.256, Speaker A: It's more of a, oh, you know, the l two s don't count because they're, you know, as scaling Ethereum because they've got multi sig. It's like, okay, like, that's a bit of a silly logic because there are apps like defi apps, for example, on both Ethereum and other channel on Ethereum and other chains that have multi sigs on them too. So does that mean they don't count as an app because they have a multisig? And then, like, I've said this to a few people, and it's kind of like that NPC meme where their brain starts loading because I don't know what to say next. And I'm just like, you guys are just so stupid with this fud. Like, at least be constructive with it. Like, yeah, I don't know. Anyway, I'm ranting here, but that's how I kind of feel about that.
00:21:36.256 - 00:21:49.398, Speaker A: But yeah, I just wanted to highlight that. That's a new narrative that I've seen out there. But it is so untrue. There are so many people building apps. I've invested in so many of these kind of teams building apps. Guys like, yes, I've invested in infrastructure as well, but the infrastructure is here. It's been here for a while.
00:21:49.398 - 00:22:29.494, Speaker A: I remember writing a newsletter in the Delaware newsletter like two years ago, or even more than that, where I said that we're going to get to the point where we're going to have more block space than we know what to do with. And then, you know, we need to, there's going to be apps being built to take advantage of that block space, which is what's been happening over the past six months especially as well. There's a lot more kind of apps being built. So for, if you see anyone saying that it's all infrastructure, no apps on Ethereum, tell them that they're, they're silly. Just, just tell them that they're silly, because they are, they are being silly. Anyway, moving on to an exciting bit of research out of paradigm today. So obviously there has been a lot of talk about how to and when to raise the gas limit on Ethereum.
00:22:29.494 - 00:23:04.822, Speaker A: L1, this has been going on for a few months now. I remember I did an episode of the refuel where I explained all of this. But just to quickly recap it for you guys, the gas limit of ethereum is its block size. Essentially, the higher the gas limit, the more TPS or the more transactions can be kind of processed by the network, which I guess in a roundabout way, for at least the short to possible medium term would reduce layer one fees. But the thing is that when you increase the gas limit, you, there's trade offs to this. You increase the burden on the network overall. And there are different kind of parts of the network that you increase the burden for.
00:23:04.822 - 00:23:50.870, Speaker A: And paradigm does an excellent job of breaking down each of these parts in their blog posts here. So there are three main parts. There's state growth, history growth, and state access when it comes to, when it comes to the, the, uh, I guess like the ethereum network and raising or lowering the, the gas limit here. And they analyze each of these in the context of network I O, storage size, memory size and storage I O. And they came to the conclusion that the Ethereum gas limit can actually be safely raised quite a bit from here without negatively impacting, impacting the network and without kind of a kicking off solo stakers and all that sorts of stuff. So that's some really great kind of research that they've done here, putting numbers to it. And they also have this really, really great interactive, I guess, tool here where you can click into them and you can actually see what's taking up the state of Ethereum.
00:23:50.870 - 00:24:24.406, Speaker A: So you can see here ELC 20 tokens are taking up 66.9gb of state, which is 27% of the total state of Ethereum. And then you can actually click into each of these and see essentially what is, you know, within that, which ERC 20 tokens within that are taking up the state. And you can see here that Zen, which is I think some kind of like meme coin or something on Ethereum, is taking up a whopping 3.5% of the total state of Ethereum. And if you click into that, it'll kind of expand and then you can kind of see, kind of expand out from there. If you click click and you can expand out from there.
00:24:24.406 - 00:25:19.166, Speaker A: But the whole point of showing this is showing that there is a bunch of kind of things that we can do here around state expiry. So they, I don't remember the exact percentage, but they said that there's a certain percentage of, of disk space being taken up or state being taken up by contracts or by things that haven't been interacted with in a very long time. So we could expire those things where essentially if you wanted to interact with them again, you basically bring your, your proof and basically say, okay, well I want to, I want to wake this contract up with my proof and you pay for that. And then it kind of wakes it up from there. I guess it's less state expiry and more kind of like putting the state into I guess, hibernation sort of things, or state hibernation. But yeah, anyway, you can go give this post a read for yourself, a link in the YouTube description below. It is probably the best and most comprehensive kind of analysis I've seen so far on the, I guess, consequences of raising the gas limit.
00:25:19.166 - 00:25:43.926, Speaker A: And this is just part one as well. So this is really, really great. This is just focused on state growth here. So yeah, go check that out. But I do think that post blobs, after a few months the gas limit will probably be increased. I do think that's going to happen because obviously we want to wait till blobs goes live on the network to see how the network kind of fares with that, what the maybe three month to six month network looks like after that. And then once we've got a clear picture there, we can seriously consider raising the gas limit.
00:25:43.926 - 00:26:08.566, Speaker A: And just to refresh your memories, again, it does not require a hard fork to increase the gas limit. What the validators do within the network is that they basically vote up the gas limit themselves. So if the majority of the validators say, hey, I want the gas limit to be double what it is today, well, then the gas limit goes to double what it is today. And that's generally kind of how it works. I think there is a limit to that, though. I'm not sure if that limit still exists or not. I remember reading about that somewhere.
00:26:08.566 - 00:26:54.098, Speaker A: But anyway, you can go give this post a read for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so with 4844 going live soon and with blob data being temporary, where it expires after 18 days, there's obviously been this discussion for quite a while now around who is going to persist the blobs. And what I mean by this is who is going to store the blobs past 18 days. Because even though we expire the blobs, it, you know, it's fine for the security of the l two s. If you expire the blob, essentially what you lose is the ability to go back and see what, for example, the balance of an account was. So for example, let's say you're doing transactions on l two, they post the blob, you know, they post their kind of like data to blobs, and then the blobs expire within 18 days.
00:26:54.098 - 00:27:39.560, Speaker A: And then no one stored that blob. Well, you would never be able, like if no one stored that blob and you haven't stored it yourself and you aren't able to retrieve that data, you will never be able to actually go back and see what your balance was past that 18 days. So, for example, if you want to go back six months and see what your ETH balance was six months ago on base, for example, you wouldn't be able to do that. Now, obviously, that is not a big deal for most use cases. But the, the two use cases that it is a big deal for is one, data analysis, being able to analyze what's actually been happening on these l two s and keep persisting that. And two, tax, tax is a big one where essentially you want to know what your balance was. And you want to know what trades you did at such and such time and what the value of those trades were, because obviously you need to do your taxes based on that if you're not recording them.
00:27:39.560 - 00:28:11.758, Speaker A: So those are the two major things here. Now, Anthony Rose, who is working on ZK sync, put out a tweet thread today asking who is going to persist it. So I think that it seems like doing analytics is going to be persisting. These block native is going to be persisting. These token flow is basically, I expect like all of the, all of the infrastructure, existing data analytics platforms, existing infrastructure around that, to persist them. And what it means by persisting them, it means to store them essentially past those 18 days. Now, we don't know how long they're going to store them for.
00:28:11.758 - 00:28:51.630, Speaker A: Like, do they do it forever? Do they do it only over, only over short periods of time? I think that you could do it forever, but the problem then becomes like storage costs. Now you can store them on hard drives, but to retrieve them off of hard drive drives, if you're trying to offer this as a service, doesn't work. You need solid state drives to do that. Now, solid state drives are very cheap these days, but still more expensive than, than hard drives. So I think that you're going to have a thing where people do store, you know, everything forever on hard drives, but then in terms of what's readily accessible, will be on solid state drives and may only go back like a couple of years or something like that. But again, you can store the data yourself too. All you have to do is run ethereum full node and then turn off blob pruning.
00:28:51.630 - 00:29:20.248, Speaker A: Because what happens is that the reason why the blobs expire is because by default the clients will expire them. But if you turn that off in your client, in your full node, you can just keep the blobs yourself. And the reason why you would, uh, that you, you would leave it on is because obviously if you, if you, um, if you turn it off, that your disk space is going to going to grow, um, and it's going to be terabytes within the year. Uh, but if you want to keep that data for yourself, you can't, there's no one stopping you from doing that. So, yeah, I mean, that's another way of doing it too. And then you can obviously offer that to people as well. Like imagine being like this.
00:29:20.248 - 00:29:54.026, Speaker A: Like someone wants to retrieve data that no one else has and you have it. I mean, I think that'd be really cool to help them out, right? I mean, you could obviously sell it as well and make money off of it. But yeah, there are opportunities here for people to do that. But anyway, you can check out Anthony Rose's tweet here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, last up here, just a cast from Jesse Polak, who said, FYI, coinbase and base have done a bunch of consumer research and the term on chain outperforms every other word that people use for crypto. If you're using blockchain, web3, crypto, et cetera, find a way to switch to on chain and you'll be more successful.
00:29:54.026 - 00:30:35.520, Speaker A: I think that the on chain terminology will be our Internet, essentially. So for those of you who don't remember, I mean, I don't remember this because I was a baby, basically, or a little kid when this happened, the Internet used to be known as the information superhighway, right? Like, and it had a few other names as well. Now, those names obviously didn't stick. And I mean, Internet stands for interconnected network, right? I think it does at least, but yeah, it eventually, you know, turned into Internet. And these days, actually with the younger generations, they just say Wi Fi. So Internet and Wi Fi are the two terms that are used to describe the, you know, the global kind of network that we have, that we all know and love. Whereas with crypto, I guess, like, we're gonna have two terms as well.
00:30:35.520 - 00:30:58.144, Speaker A: We're gonna have crypto and on chain. Whereas I guess, like, crypto is a very, very broad term and it talks about not just doing things obviously on chain, but also kind of like just the assets themselves. Right. So I think crypto is going to stick as a term, but then on chain is a much better term than something like blockchain. Web three unfortunately died because it just got abused as well. Right. And there were a few other terms out there.
00:30:58.144 - 00:31:24.510, Speaker A: But I do think on chain is going to stick. I do think on chain is also very good because it's just very easy people to understand because they already understand online. You know, that's, I guess that's another terminology that people, people use to describe the Internet. But online isn't used as much these days because by default, everyone's always online. Like, whether that's on your mobile device or on your kind of like pc at home, you know, by default, the vast majority of people are always online. So it's not like, oh, I'm going to go online. No, you're already online.
00:31:24.510 - 00:31:44.874, Speaker A: Right. Whereas I guess back in the dial up days, especially, you would be like, okay, I'm going on the Internet or I'm going online. No one use the phone or else I'm going to get disconnected. Right. So. So when you think about it like that, I think, you know, on chain definitely is very easy people to grok because it's related to online. And then also we have crypto as like the broader term as well that everyone already knows.
00:31:44.874 - 00:32:00.038, Speaker A: So I think, yeah, the web3 term, probably dead for the mainstream. Blockchain, definitely. I actually don't like the term blockchain. I think it's just not a great term. It's very technical and sounding to people. But on chain is the thing that I think we're gonna go with for. For the mainstream there.
00:32:00.038 - 00:32:16.654, Speaker A: And obviously, based on the research that Coinbase has done with real people, that seems to be something that sticks. But yeah, I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
