00:00:00.000 - 00:00:58.474, Speaker A: Um hi everyone. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. First headline Bitcoin mining council stirs debate the narrative surrounding bitcoin mining has been decidedly shaped by Tesla and its wild card CEO Elon Musk, who on May 12 announced that the electric vehicle company was suspending purchases using bitcoin due to the, quote, rapidly increasing use of fossil fuels being used for mining bitcoin. On Monday, Musk took to Twitter once again, this time with some good news for the bitcoin community. Tweeting, quote, spoke with North American Bitcoin miners. They committed to publish current and planned renewable usage and ask miners worldwide to do so, potentially promising. On Tuesday, MicroStrategy CEO Michael Saylor offered further context to Musk's tweet, saying that he, Sailor had in fact hosted the meeting between Musk and a few high profile North American miners.
00:00:58.474 - 00:02:13.046, Speaker A: In addition to Musk and Sailor, execs from eight different mining companies, including Riot, Galaxy Digital, Hut Eight and Marathon joined in on the conversation, forming what Sailor named the Bitcoin Mining Council. Sailor said the group was created with the goal, quote, to establish an organization to standardize energy reporting, pursue industry ESG goals, and educate and grow the marketplace within the bitcoin mining community. In a conversation at the consensus conference on Tuesday, Saylor also added that Musk's first order ask was to bring transparency to bitcoin mining energy usage. Not everyone took the announcement in stride, which is not surprising given the open source foundation of bitcoin and the closed door nature of the Bitcoin Mining Council's first meeting, Marty Bent, who writes a bitcoin themed newsletter, responded with distaste over bringing ESG to bitcoin, stating, quote the ESG movement doesn't care about the environment or humanity. It cares about control over capital allocation and how corporations act. He added Letting ESG dictate how bitcoin companies act will eventually lead to attempts to control how bitcoin acts. In related news, oneRiver filed for a carbon neutral bitcoin ETF with the SEC, which would buy and dispose of carbon credits to offset the emissions associated with the bitcoin in the fund.
00:02:13.046 - 00:03:22.970, Speaker A: Additionally, CoinShares made a strategic investment in Veridi funds, which Coinshare says will launch the first ESG crypto mining product in the US. Next Headline China cracks down on bitcoin mining Last Friday, a Chinese government website posted a statement summarizing a top level meeting of the Financial Stability and Development Committee of the State Council that read, quote we should crack down on bitcoin mining and trading activities and prevent individual risks from being passed to the whole society. The State Council is the country's central government body. According to the blog, this is the first time bitcoin mining was specifically mentioned as a high level signal by the State Council. Mustafa Yilham, VP of global business development at Bixon, tweeted that Chinese miners were accelerating their departure from China to other countries in response to the crackdown. As a result, Yilham believes that there will be large quantities of mining equipment for sale. While he called the situation a cris, he also speculates this could be a massive opportunity to redistribute the BTC mining network worldwide, rather than having it be focused in China.
00:03:22.970 - 00:04:24.290, Speaker A: Perhaps in response to the State Council's words on Tuesday, China's Inter Mongolia region put forward eight new measures to phase out crypto mining in the area. The proposals target crypto mining facilities, individuals providing energy without prior approval, as well as Internet cafes that are involved in crypto mining activities, amongst other things. Additionally, four days after the State Council's announcement, government officials in Sichuan sent a meeting summons to discuss how banning bitcoin mining might impact the hydroelectricity excess this year. The meeting is set to occur on June 2. This week also saw Huobi, the world's second largest crypto exchange by daily volume, suspend some of its services and products in certain countries, along with completely stopping its minor hosting services in China. The exchange justified its action in a statement saying, quote, Huobi always strives to abide by the evolving policies and regulations of each jurisdiction to adhere to risk and preserve the well being of our users and their assets. Next headline.
00:04:24.290 - 00:05:02.060, Speaker A: Ethereum layer two. Competition heats up on Tuesday. Shark Tank shark maverick owner and billionaire investor Mark Cuban confirmed his investment in polygon to CoinDesk. Polygon, formerly known as Matic, is a layer two protocol on Ethereum with the intention to bundle multiple scaling solutions into one full stack application. Polygon describes itself as, quote, Ethereum's Internet of blockchains. Another layer two solution also made headlines this week. Arbitrum, an optimistic rollup scaling solution, officially launches on Friday, offering higher throughput and gas fees that are 270 times less than that of the main net.
00:05:02.060 - 00:06:09.410, Speaker A: The layer two is already gaining traction as the block reports that Uniswap, the largest dex in crypto, is likely to launch on Arbitrum based on a recent snapshot vote. Next Headline GameStop is building an NFT team On Tuesday, GameStop made waves by announcing the Video Game Store is building an NFT team on a slick webpage. GameStop welcomes exceptional engineers of solidity react, Python designers, gamers, marketers and community leaders to join the team as proclaimed on a Pixelated gaming device on the webpage. The ethos of the project perfectly encapsures the promise of NFTs, saying, Power to the players, power to the creators, power to the collectors. Next Headline Five Quick Bits You Need to know Chain analysis reports that large bitcoin holders scooped up 77,000 bitcoin during last week's market correction. Similarly, the number of long term BTC holders hit a record high this week. Following in the footsteps of Wyoming, nebraska governor signed a bill allowing for state level crypto banks.
00:06:09.410 - 00:06:57.714, Speaker A: Goldman Sachs set Coinbase's price target at $306, while J. P. Morgan Chase eyes a target of $371.01. Confirmation a crypto VC firm raised $125,000,000 for its third fund. And stay tuned for a podcast on this next week Gitcoin, a platform where developers can get paid for working on open source projects, launched a token this week GTC, which is currently trading at roughly $6. Next Headline FTX Could Raise Up to $1 Billion Sources tell the blog that FTX, the crypto exchange headed by Sam Bankman Fried, is in the process of closing around at a valuation of $20 billion. For context, when Coinbase, a competing exchange, went public, its first day valuation was at $80 billion.
00:06:57.714 - 00:07:35.566, Speaker A: Although Coinbase has since dropped to a $50 billion market cap as of publishing, the details of the FTX raise remain unclear. The block does not know who is leading the run or the race's exact size, though the publication estimates it will be somewhere between $400 million and $1 billion. The raise may be announced as soon as next month. In addition to the FTX rumors, there were a few smaller profile raises that can be confirmed. Chia Network, a blockchain payments company, is eyeing an IPO. The company recently announced a $61 million series. D Talos, a crypto trading firm, raised $40 million led by PayPal and a 16 z.
00:07:35.566 - 00:08:25.600, Speaker A: Ledin, a crypto lender, raised $30 million in a Series a solidus Labs raised $20 million with plans to fight market manipulation and blockchain development platform Reached raised $12 million in seed funding. Next headline. Tazos stakers Sue IRS. In 2019, a Nashville couple, Joshua and Jessica Jarrett, engaged in staking, receiving 8876 new Tasos tokens in return for validating the network. However, during 2019, the couple did not sell or exchange any of their tokens. The Jarrett's initially reported the rewards as income in 2019, totaling $3,293. As the IRS had yet to issue specific guidance on how to report Staking income, they are now requesting a refund matching that $3,293.
00:08:25.600 - 00:09:12.240, Speaker A: The lawsuit is centered on the idea that newly created property is not considered income under US. Tax law until it is sold. Joshua says like any property, cryptocurrency tokens can be income when they're received as payment or compensation. But these newly created tokens are like crops harvested by a farmer, which are not taxed until they are sold. With ethereum planning to transition to proof of stake, this is definitely a lawsuit to keep an eye on. Six sound bites to end your week Richwater Associates founder Ray Dalio owns some bitcoin and would rather have bitcoin than a bond, he says. Carl Icon said he is considering a large investment in crypto of up to, quote, a billion dollars, billion and a half and that crypto assets are, quote, here to stay in one form or another.
00:09:12.240 - 00:10:12.238, Speaker A: SEC Commissioner Gary Gensler said DeFi platforms raise a number of challenges for investors, and the SEC staff is trying to protect them. BlackRock CEO Larry Fink said, quote, the firm has monitored the evolution of crypto assets. We are studying what it means, the infrastructure and the regulatory landscape. Shark Tank shark Kevin O'Leary believes turning bitcoin mining green could be the reason, quote, It goes to 100,000, 200,000 and finally issuance of a CBDC by the Federal Reserve would, quote, most likely require additional authority, according to vice Chairman for supervision Randall Quarrels on behalf of the Fed. Time for fun bits. What are the Wigglevoss twins like? Crypto's favorite kid reporter Lily had another heartwarming interview this week with Michael Del Castillo of Forbes. Michael recently wrote an article on the famous Winklevoss twins, which Lily, as a veteran reporter, obviously asked about before the interview got turned on his head by Michael asking Lily what she wants to be when she grows up.
00:10:12.238 - 00:10:44.678, Speaker A: If you need a smile to start your Friday, this is a must watch. Next headline Uni meets the WSJ uniswap made its Wall Street debut barely one month after this tweet by Matt Hogan in which he said, quote, the word uniswap has yet to appear in the Wall Street Journal, the Financial Times, Baronz or the Economist. Well, now it has. All right, well, thank you so much for tuning in. To learn more about Congressman Emmer and the crypto bills he's working on, be sure to check out the links in the show notes. Heads up, everyone. The Unchained.
00:10:44.678 - 00:11:08.570, Speaker A: Newsletter has switched from a weekly news recap to a daily blog in order to keep up with the crazy pace of crypto news. Each morning you'll get four to five quick headlines, a crypto meme or two, and a few recommended reads. Head to unchainedpodcast.com, and the sign up for the email newsletter is right on the homepage. You can also find the link in my Twitter bio. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch, and Daniel Ness. Thanks for listening.
