00:00:04.330 - 00:01:21.960, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. First headline BlackRock world's largest asset manager prepares to invest in bitcoin futures. If there was ever a sign that bitcoin is drawing the institutional crowd, it came Wednesday when news broke that BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager, which is nearly $8 trillion under management, had made two filings with the securities and exchange commission that two of its funds could invest in bitcoin futures. The filings for BlackRock Funds Five and BlackRock Global Allocation Fund mentioned illiquidity as a potential risk. Quote as bitcoin futures are not as heavily traded as other futures, given that the bitcoin futures market is relatively new, it also noted that the funds would only invest in, quote, cash settled bitcoin futures traded on commodity exchanges registered with the CFTC, which basically at this point in time means the CME. On a related note, Goldman Sachs is exploring digital asset custody, issuing a request for information to at least one crypto custody company at the end of 2020. Meanwhile, Onchain analyst Willy Wu is seeing more whales buying up the recent dip in the bitcoin price, with holders of 1000 BTC sharply increasing and coins moving off exchanges to wallets that accumulate but do not sell.
00:01:21.960 - 00:02:39.162, Speaker A: And finally, if you're wondering how well bitcoin businesses have been doing amidst this frenzy, look no further than Silvergate Bank, which saw nearly $3 billion in deposits in the fourth quarter of 2020, all from digital currency customers, including crypto exchanges like Coinbase Kraken, which disclosure is a previous sponsor of my shows, Bitstamp and others. Next Headline How a crypto friendly SEC head could affect the industry Several appointments by President Joe Biden have crypto people feeling positive about what the industry can expect from this administration. The new head of this SEC will be Gary Gensler, replacing the notoriously anti crypto Jay Clayton. Gensler, formerly the chairman of the Commodity Futures Exchange Commission, is familiar with blockchain technology, having taught about digital currencies at MIT's Sloan School of Management. In an opinion piece for CoinDesk, Jeff Bandman, a former CFTC official, said he expected Gensler would bring more clarity to market structure and infrastructure for crypto assets to, quote, promote adoption and investor confidence. He added, quote, I would be shocked if there are not things that make the industry howl. He also said he expected the SEC would finally approve a bitcoin ETF Banman.
00:02:39.162 - 00:03:40.382, Speaker A: Also raises an interesting question whether Gensler will seek a mandate from Congress for the SEC to regulate the spot market for crypto assets that are not securities, noting that the CFTC only has enforcement authority, which isn't the same as regulatory or supervisory authority. Next Headline more crypto Savvy picks likely to lead CFTC and OCC Georgetown Professor Chris Brummer is Biden's likely nominee for CFTC chair after the crypto friendly chair Heath Tarbert stepped down Thursday. Tarbert will remain a commissioner, however, Brummer has recently been researching cryptocurrencies and in recent years has testified about them as well. As Central Bank digital currencies to the CFTC, former Ripple board member Michael Barr will likely replace Brian Brooks as the controller of the currency. According to the Wall Street Journal, barr is a former Treasury Department official currently serving as dean of public policy at the University of Michigan. Next headline. Janet Yellen cites cryptocurrencies as a terrorist financing risk.
00:03:40.382 - 00:04:52.498, Speaker A: In her Senate confirmation hearing, Treasury Secretary nominee Janet Yellen called cryptocurrencies a particular concern when it comes to terrorist financing. Noting that the government should be sure its technology keeps up with that of the terrorists, she said, quote, I think many cryptocurrencies are used, at least in transaction sense, mainly for illicit financing. However, in written testimony, she acknowledged the benefits of cryptocurrencies, as well as, quote, the potential they have to improve the efficiency of the financial system. Meanwhile, the same Day Chain Analysis published the first portion of its 2021 Cryptocrime Report, which found, quote, Cryptocurrency related crime fell significantly in 2020 from 2.1% of all transaction volume in 2019, which added up to $21 billion worth up to zero point 34% in 2020, which is only $10 billion in transaction volume. Scams made up the majority of all cryptorelated crime, accounting for 54%. Meanwhile, ransomware although it only counted for 7% of all funds received by criminal actresses, tripled in the work from home world spurred on by the pandemic.
00:04:52.498 - 00:06:21.426, Speaker A: Next Headline Finston Remains a question mark for crypto under biden in a long analysis piece, Nicholas Day of CoinDesk went through how appointments at several agencies would affect crypto, noting that the controversial proposed Finsen rules that were being pushed by former Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin have now had their common periods extended. However, he noted one part of the rule only gets 15 more days, while another part about record keeping on counterparties will receive a 45 day extension because of its complexity. Next Headline ETH hits New Alltime High The price of ether hit a new alltime high earlier this week, surpassing $1,420, although by press time the price had fallen again toward one $100. Next Headline The Bitcoin Double Spend that wasn't Wednesday BitMEX Research tweeted that there was a small double spend of 0.6 bitcoin, which was about $21. However, as Hasu of Derabet explained in a blog post, Instead of this being the equivalent of someone bouncing a check in bitcoin, it was more that a transaction was invalidated. But based on the fact that almost an entire day passed between the initial transaction and the first transaction that attempted to replace it, it seems unlikely that this was someone trying to cheat a merchant who offers purchases with zero confirmations, which was one explanation.
00:06:21.426 - 00:07:31.510, Speaker A: Instead, what seems likely is that this spender, who Hasu calls Alice, actually made an additional transaction that assumed her previous transaction with a too low fee had already passed, and this time the fee she used was enough to pay for both transactions. So they both went through time for fun bits why 1 million people follow her price calls on TikTok. You've probably seen Marin Altman's TikTok videos in which she uses astrology to make crypto price predictions. She correctly called the January 11 drawdown on Bitcoin. And in this Reuters video, she explains that she's quote not an oracle, I'm just somebody who studies patterns. Altman, who dollar cost averages her crypto purchases, says, quote astrology can be thought of like a giant mirror or a symbolic language where certain signifiers of planetary alignments are archetypes and they represent themes in the world like growth or restriction or aggression or peace. So when she looks at how the movement of the planets aligns with Bitcoin for the next few months, she says february and early March are favorable, but then there will be a big price correction.
00:07:31.510 - 00:07:55.730, Speaker A: But then may will be bullish. All right, well, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Gregory and Deltec's relationship to Tether, be sure to check out the links in the show notes. Don't forget, we are now on YouTube. Subscribe to the Unchained podcast YouTube channel today. Unconfirmed is produced by Me Laura Shin with all from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness, Bossy Baker Shashank and the team at CLK transcription thanks for listening. Don't.
