00:00:00.560 - 00:01:05.034, Speaker A: Real pleasure to be here today, and thank you for that introduction. So I changed the title a little bit because of the group that I'm talking to and the content as well, to emphasize some of the computational issues that have arisen in the course of designing the US incentive auction. But before I get started, I really want to mention the team. I stand here and I get to proudly tell you about all kinds of things that I did because I was invited by the FCC to put together a team to work on this. And my team is an all star team. I have in alphabetical order here, Jonathan Levin from Stanford, who's a John Bates Clark medalist, one of the great economists of his generation, Kevin Leighton Brown, who's down here computer science at the University of British Columbia, who will be responsible for most of what I'm going to tell you about the computational innovations that we were engaged in. And Ilya Segal down here, another colleague of mind at Stanford, who most of the good economic ideas in this project came from Ilya.
00:01:05.034 - 00:01:59.386, Speaker A: So I get to stand up here in front of you and tell you about what the team produced that we put together. And it's just a great honor to be here. And I want to thank you guys for making this possible for me. Okay, so what is the incentive auction? So not all of you will know what it is. I want to keep this part brief, but it all began with the National Broadband plan in March 2010, when the Obama administration put together a plan that said Congress should consider expressly expanding the FCC's authority to enable it to conduct incentive auctions. To my knowledge, this is the first use of the term to conduct incentive auctions in which incumbent licensees may relinquish rights and spectrum assignments to other parties or to the FCC. We want to take some spectrum.
00:01:59.386 - 00:02:47.142, Speaker A: We want to reallocate spectrum. We want to take it out of its less valuable uses and begin to put it into more valuable uses as the demand, especially for wireless broadband, has grown. And then the Congress indeed enacted the spectrum act in 2012. I've more or less grayed that out. In February of 2012, in October of 2012, we, by the way, our team began work in 2011, before the Spectrum act, in September of 2011, or in October, I guess, of 2011. And by October of 2012, the FCC had adopted their framework. They gave a notice of proposed rulemaking, which was basically written by us that said, here's how we propose to deal with this problem.
00:02:47.142 - 00:03:41.692, Speaker A: And then there's an appendix to that which provides the details. That was literally written by us. And then in May 2014, the FCC completed the regulatory process, had a report in order, and August of this year, the commission adopted the procedures. Public notice establishing the bidding procedure for next year's incentive auction, scheduled to begin on March 29, 2016. Okay, so that's what the incentive auction is. It's an attempt to buy back, in this particular case, television broadcast licenses, television broadcast rights from TV broadcasters in order to reconfigure those rights and reallocate that spectrum and make it usable for mobile broadband for the things, you know, devices like your iPhone or Android and so on. Okay, so the economic problem is quite a complicated one.
00:03:41.692 - 00:04:39.739, Speaker A: There's about 2000 UHF television broadcasters in the United States, counting Canada, which is also going to turn out to be included in this, about 3000. There are currently we're using channels 13, I think. Is it 13? It's 13 to 51, isn't it missing? Channel 37, which is channel 37, is used for medical devices and terrestrial, or rather extraterrestrial search. It's radio telescopes, medical devices. So these are the channels that are currently used for television broadcast in the UHF band. As of 2012, 90% of the US tv viewers viewed their signals using cad, cable or satellite service. So what used to be very valuable spectrum for delivering television signals? Most people are not getting their television signals over the air anymore.
00:04:39.739 - 00:05:22.990, Speaker A: They're getting it through cable or satellite. It's sort of a waste to have all this large quantity of high value spectrum used for television broadcast. So the idea was, although there's still 10% that use it, and there's some political issues there, you know, spanish language television for people, low income households and such. So the issues aren't quite as straightforward as the 90 ten suggest. But the value of over the air broadcast has clearly declined relative to the, the demand for use in mobile broadband. Mobile broadband has been growing very rapidly. The useful spectrum that was available has mostly been allocated.
00:05:22.990 - 00:06:52.988, Speaker A: We need to reallocate spectrum in the useful bands, the lower frequency bands, to be able to achieve the continued growth that's anticipated for these services. The plan is again to create a transition from lower to higher value use, to provide a cash incentive for broadcasters to relinquish their spectrum, and to cover the costs involved by selling the new licenses that are created mostly to mobile broadband providers or to some new entrants to Google or whoever else might want to buy the spectrum for whatever reasons that they choose. Okay, now, the complexity of the problem, at least the way it's formulated today, at first pass, here's a tv station somewhere in the northeast, and each of these pink stations is a station that cannot be assigned to the same channel as this tv station without causing interference in their broadcasts. So one way to a first order approximation, to think about the broadcast problem, this is not precise, but it's sort of a first order approximation, is to think of it as being represented by a graphic in which each node is a tv station and each arc links two tv stations that can't be assigned to the same channel. There's some other constraints that are relevant as well. These constraints can depend on the channel. Sometimes there can be other reasons for constraints, treaty reasons for constraints.
00:06:52.988 - 00:07:21.698, Speaker A: Initially, we had certain stations we weren't allowed to use along the canadian border because of agreements with Canada and along the mexican border because of agreements with Mexico. So there was a number of other kinds of constraints. But this, to a first order, describes the problem. This is one of Kevin's graphs. I think this is a. I believe this is one of yours, right. This is a spring loaded representation of the constraint graph.
00:07:21.698 - 00:07:59.454, Speaker A: And as you can see, it's mostly a total mess. The spring loading is supposed to. Is supposed to identify features, and it does identify some. You see some things that are of some interest here, like you see clicks that are all hidden in here as well. Where in the Chicago area, any two stations in the Chicago area, they all have to have different channels. That creates clicks in the graph, creates some structure that can be taken advantage of. But particularly in the northeast and throughout much of the United States, we have quite a dense set of connections.
00:07:59.454 - 00:08:22.646, Speaker A: The graph is a mess. So I wrote here, more than 600,000 constraints. It turns out that when you take account of individual channels, it's two and a half million, I just learned. So there's 2.5 million constraints in this problem that have to be respected. Okay, this is. I can't believe I did.
00:08:22.646 - 00:09:09.204, Speaker A: In 2011, I signed a contract with the FCC to help them design the auction, and the contract specified these goals for the auction design. I still can't believe I signed this thing. But anyway, the goals for the auction design were efficiency, which meant roughly maximizing the value of the stations that are left on the air and maximizing the amount of value that's created in the transfer, acceptable revenues, whatever that means. Minimize gaming and strategic behavior. Avoid windfalls to bidders feasible to implement in an acceptable timeframe. Voluntaries, because nobody has to give up their spectrum. Something called a group payments constraint, which we wound up ignoring, so we won't talk much about that.
00:09:09.204 - 00:09:42.934, Speaker A: Transparent, which means roughly easy to audit and replicate the outcomes, and simple to understand and participate. Okay. So that was the objective for this auction design. Okay, challenges. Okay. So this is the first time I'm giving this particular version of this talk. You'll see, those of you who've seen this before will have seen a lot of the economic slides, but I wanted to emphasize for this group some of the computational challenges.
00:09:42.934 - 00:10:24.604, Speaker A: So I'm going to. Some things are in here that I've never talked about in a public lecture before. So the first one in particular, challenges in the product design. I'll tell you what that means in a little while. Challenges in computing the efficient allocation, challenges in computing bickering prices to induce, to create truthful incentives. Challenges in even evaluating the feasibility of a set of bids, whether given a set of bids. If we accept those bids, can we find channels, tv channels for the remaining stations whose bids we didn't take, that are jointly feasible, that don't create excessive interference? Then there were economic challenges in addition to these computational challenges.
00:10:24.604 - 00:11:02.020, Speaker A: Can we do all this and make it easy for bidders? This is really important. It turns out that anybody who knows anything real about auctions knows that the single most important thing in an auction is participation. If you don't get the bidders, you don't have an auction. You've got to get people in. And if we had something that was dauntingly hard for bidders to understand, it's a viable option for bidders to say, you know what? I'll transact maybe after the auction with somebody else who sold their state. It's a viable option not to participate. We've got to make bidding easy in order for bidders to participate.
00:11:02.020 - 00:11:49.994, Speaker A: And this is a really complicated optimization problem. So how are we going to do that? So that was a serious economic challenge, discouraging collusion, which is always a problem in auctions, deciding how many channels to clear. The FCC didn't tell us how many channels to clear. They said, we're trying to get some guys to sell, and we'd like some people to buy. How much spectrum should we clear? How do we decide that? Avoiding windfalls in particular, there's some small stations in New York that have, they're not very valuable. They cover a relatively small number of viewers, but they interfere with Manhattan just as much as a big station does. And some of the big stations are being offered $900 million to go off the air.
00:11:49.994 - 00:12:34.394, Speaker A: Do we also have to offer that amount to a little station to get the state? How do we avoid windfalls for bidders and keep the cost of the whole process reasonable? And then there are other kinds of challenges, diplomatic challenges. How do we coordinate with Canada and Mexico? Basically, the entire population of Canada lives within tv broadcast distance of the US border. Their stations all interfere with us stations, and some coordination is necessary. Mexican border. Well, Mexico City is further away, but there's still a lot of interference along the mexican border. And Mexico, it turns out, even has in its constitution a limitation. There have to be a certain number of television channels.
00:12:34.394 - 00:13:07.704, Speaker A: It turns out this was an anti Carlos slim thing. They were worried about the. Their politics, their communications being monopolized by the richest man in the world, or, I don't know if he's richest this year, but some years the richest man in the world. And so they actually have a constitutional restriction against cooperating on this. So we have diplomatic challenges, measurement challenges. How do we tell whether stations interfere? Political challenges, which we won't even go into today. There were a lot of different kinds of challenges.
00:13:07.704 - 00:14:02.644, Speaker A: I'm going to emphasize the computational and economic challenges today. Okay. The first challenge I want to talk about is product design, and what the FCC is actually going to do is it's going to buy the right to turn off broadcasters using UHF tv channels, or to get them to switch out of the UHF band into a VHF band or something, but basically to turn off stations that are in the UHF band. Broadcasters whose rights are not purchased are protected. No other tv station can interfere with very much of that station's covered population. So one of the things the FCC had to decide was what very much meant, and they decided it's a tradition in this industry that you round everything to whole percentages, and therefore, it's considered that if we interfere with less than 0.5% of a station's viewers, we're not interfering.
00:14:02.644 - 00:14:58.074, Speaker A: Well, you don't have to make new law. The law and regulations had said you're not interfering if you have. If in whole numbers of percents, you're not interfering. Everything was measured in whole numbers of percents. So that's the regulation. Now, it turns out that when we were designing this auction, and so this, again, is something I've never discussed in a public audience before, we were looking at alternatives, so we looked at an alternative that said, look, you could be a station, and we could move you to a new channel, and you could take a half percent interference from Kevin and a half percent interference from Ilya and half percent interference from Joe, and you add it all up, and maybe you're taking quite a bit of interference. Maybe we should try to express the interference in terms of the sum of all the interference you take.
00:14:58.074 - 00:15:40.490, Speaker A: I remember Ilya pointing out, most of the time, the interference came from the same direction. And if we drew a Venn diagram, we would discover that it was the same population that was being interfered with by different television stations. So we would need to take all that into account. Anyway, the measurement in computational complexity made us decide to not do this. That is to say, instead of measuring. So this was measurement and computational complexity affecting the products that are being bought and sold. In the auction, we had considered offsets to say, you know what? We're taking some stations off the air.
00:15:40.490 - 00:16:34.152, Speaker A: So maybe Kevin's station over here is taking some extra interference from Ilya, but it's no longer taking interference from Chris. You know, maybe we should get credit for that. That's not creating extra interference. So we talked about doing offsets. That all got thrown out the window. Again, measurement and computation was affecting the details of how this auction had to be designed. And we talked about trying so it could very well turn out that when we're all done, there are some places where there's a tv station that we would not have had to buy that station if we could have said, gee, would you accept 96% of your only 4% interference? And we'll pay you to accept a small reduction from 99%, which we're entitled to have anyway, down to 96%.
00:16:34.152 - 00:17:52.334, Speaker A: We might have been able to get away with paying a smaller sum of money to buy fractional amounts of interference, provided we could keep track of all that during the course of the auction. Again, it was computation that made that impossible. So, this auction design, the products that were offered, the fact that we're buying stations and taking them off the air, rather than buying fractions of the station, this is deeply affected by our understanding of what we could compute, what we could measure, and what we could compute. Okay, so, again, just in terms of challenges that come from computational complexity, challenges in computing optimal allocation. So, there were experiments, even before we were hired by an operations research team, that were using mixed integer program formulations. And they were trying. They spent a lot of time on the formulations, trying to make their formulations compact, and they ran them on CPLEX and on Garobi, and they ran them for weeks on whatever machines they were using, and they turned it off after about two weeks, when it appeared that in the second week, they weren't getting much further improvement in the computations, looked at what they had, and they were able to prove that they were getting 97% of the optimal value.
00:17:52.334 - 00:18:33.794, Speaker A: They thought that was pretty good. They could use that kind of computation. They thought to run an auction, and they wanted to run a vickry. So the initial proposal before we joined this project was to run a Vickrey auction, that is, to compute. I think you guys all know the Vickrey price formula. If s denotes a collection, I wonder how I got a third l in there of tv stations. And if s and f means that the collection is feasible, that there exists an acceptable channel assignment for stations s, then the victory price for a station that goes off the air is the difference between two maximum values.
00:18:33.794 - 00:19:25.008, Speaker A: Okay, it's. You solve two optimization problems, you take the difference. The problem with this is that with 2000 stations, a 1% error in, in one of these optimizations, if the other optimization were exact, would lead to a 2000% pricing error, on average, for the Vickrey auction. Remember, each station has a value that's about a 20th of a percent of the total value, and we're calculating as a difference of two total values. So if you're making a 1% computation error in one of those total values, that's a 2000% computation error for a victory price about. It's way too big. And in fact, one of the things Ilya noticed immediately when he was looking at the list of hickory prices that came out is that some of them were negative, that they were getting total nonsense, and it just isn't viable.
00:19:25.008 - 00:20:01.396, Speaker A: So we couldn't calculate bickery prices. So again, computational limits affecting the auction design. And then there was the question of what you say to the bidders. Suppose I could do this. Suppose we could get to the point where we got really high accuracy in the computation, and I go to Tim over there, and, well, Tim may be too sophisticated for this, but let's. Tim, Tim, Mister Bitter, I say to you, trust me, it's in your interest to tell me what your station is worth. I'm going to do this computation.
00:20:01.396 - 00:20:23.972, Speaker A: There's no prayer that you're going to understand what I'm doing or that you'll be able to replicate it. But at the end, I'm going to name a price, and you cannot do better than to report truthfully. And I'm the government, trust me. It just doesn't fly. We're not going to. Even if there are some people who do trust the government, certainly we can't get all. These are mostly small businessmen.
00:20:23.972 - 00:20:45.606, Speaker A: We're not going to get all these tv station owners to just trust us in a calculation. This is a really complicated calculation. So what are we going to do? We have a computation problem and we have to make it easy, easy for the bidders to participate. And we will, by the way, make it easy for the bidders to participate, as you'll see in a little while. Okay. Victory rules just aren't acceptable for this. Okay.
00:20:45.606 - 00:21:32.040, Speaker A: So then there was the question, the challenge of finding feasibility. So suppose we have just one set of bids and we want to know can we accept this set of bids? Is it possible to, given a set of bids, to take those stations off the air and to find channels for the other stations? Well, that's a graph coloring problem and I don't have to tell you guys, that's an np complete class of problems. When we ran the best current. We're going to try to run this probably we'll have about a minute per problem during the course of the auction. We don't know, we're stopped. Okay, let's say we have a minute per problem during the course of the auction. You know the median run times on all the solvers that were available on these problems.
00:21:32.040 - 00:22:09.372, Speaker A: We ran some simulations, generated the kinds of problems we thought might come up in the auction. We couldn't find any solver that had median run times of less than five minutes. And by the way, median, median means 50% of the problems are. I don't know. I can't tell whether I can accept those bids. And every time you can't tell whether you can accept a bid, that means this collection of bids, it means you can't accept this collection of bids because you need to be sure when you accept a collection of bids that it's actually feasible to assign tv channels to the remaining stations. So that would drastically increase the cost of running the auction every time out.
00:22:09.372 - 00:23:46.914, Speaker A: Every time we say we couldn't solve that problem, that's a big cost increase for us. Okay, so the goal was to get this down to something like 99% in a minute or less, and more or less that's been accomplished, something on that order. Ok, so what kinds of questions do I want to talk about that were posed for the consultants? What can the FCC do about the graph coloring challenge? And this number is only around 20,000. Now, I was estimating it was around 200,000 when I wrote this, but Kevin tells me it's only around 20,000 problems to solve during the auction. Only what will we do when a computation times out? What's going to happen in the auction? Can the FCC actually make it easy for broadcasters to bid effectively? Can we create a strategy proof auction that doesn't involve optimization? Is that even useful if the bidder neither understands the computation nor trusts us to do it correctly. How should the auction identify winners when optimization and even sometimes feasibility checking may fail? How many channels should we try to clear? How should the FCC try to accommodate broadcasters who might want to share a channel? So here's something that was a big problem for us in the last year. The technology is such that these 6 MHz channels, which are there for historic reasons because it used to be what you needed to carry a standard definition analog signal, they can carry sometimes two high definition signals, at least 1080 I signals.
00:23:46.914 - 00:24:36.244, Speaker A: They know they've successfully sustained in multiplexing. And that means we could have these two guys over here, they could decide they're going to sell one of their broadcast channels and share the other one and accept the $100 million or whatever we're offering for a channel and both stay on the air sharing a single channel. So we want to encourage people to do that. But as the bidders try to do that, they start talking to each other. Guess what? You can't make these agreements without talking to each other. And now we have a problem that some network, let's say ion network, some network that has stations in Los Angeles and Chicago and New York. He wants to talk to Fox in Los Angeles and he wants to talk to CB's in New York.
00:24:36.244 - 00:25:29.674, Speaker A: So you have some bidder that's talking to all the other bidders. The risks of collusion are enormous in this kind of setting. How do we let these guys talk to each other without colluding? What kind of rules can we make? So actually if this were to talk to economists, I'd spend more time on that. But for this group, that's going to get short shrift. And here's the kind of University of Chicago economics department question, why don't we just leave it to the market? That is, why don't we just say, you know, you guys, you own your spectrum, sell it to whoever you want. If I have some time, I will talk about that. But I think you guys probably don't need convincing that this is not something that a bunch of bilateral trades can work out without some kind of central organization to clear the spectrum.
00:25:29.674 - 00:26:19.818, Speaker A: Okay, so let's take these questions in some kind of order. What can we do about the graph coloring challenge? So this is largely the work that Kevin and his team did at the University of British Columbia. So I'm going to talk about four of the strategies that they adopted. One of them was machine learning to train a parameterized sat solver, or heuristic to run fast for a set of instances that were generated by simulations. And I remember we first became aware of how much you guys had to contribute when we saw the performance of the machine learning on clasp, which took its average runtime, its median runtime down from something over five minutes, down to a 7th of a second, as I recall, in fairly short order. And that was totally amazing. That wasn't all improvements to class.
00:26:19.818 - 00:27:16.714, Speaker A: I remember that was partly problem loading and a number of other things, but still, it was just amazing improvements. A second strategy, which I know Kevin is famous for, is creating portfolios of algorithms. The idea is that if you have two algorithms for these NP complete problems, if you can arrange that, let's say the runtimes were statistically independent, and one of them solved 80% of the problems in a minute, and the other one also solved 80% of the problems in a minute. If you take whichever one answers first, you have 96% of the problems. Only 4% are failing in a minute. If you could get statistically independent runtimes, well, what you really need is that the set of problems on which they fail within the available time are mostly disjoint. And the team is still working on ways to what families of algorithms have these properties so they can be used together to drastically reduce runtimes.
00:27:16.714 - 00:28:08.946, Speaker A: Third strategy was pre identifying unconstrained stations. So the idea is that even though this interference graph is very complex, maybe there's, you know, maybe Tulsa, Oklahoma. It's always possible to find a channel for a station in Tulsa, Oklahoma, no matter what you're doing everywhere else. And if you can identify cities like that, you can just remove them from the graph. And if you're lucky, you disconnect the graph into components and make the problems easier and make pieces of the problem reusable. And then the fourth strategy that I'll mention here was building a searchable cache of problem components and no solutions for them. These were, if you can generate problems that recur and that you can look up the solutions very fast, well, you can look up the solutions.
00:28:08.946 - 00:28:57.596, Speaker A: That's very fast. When you can do it. It turns out that there was some really clever work done here. It's not just problems that you've encountered before that are useful to put in your cache. It turns out that if you know that you can't pack stations a, b and c, let's say you can't find channels for all of stations a, B and C, and you've already got a solution that has a, B and D in it, and somebody asks, can you pack c as well? Well, that's a superset of ABC which you had before. And you know that if you can't pack a station, you can't pack any superset of that station. So when you search the database, if you can identify supersets, you can also eliminate those or say that those are infeasible.
00:28:57.596 - 00:29:31.504, Speaker A: And similarly, if you have a set of stations that you know you can pack, then you know you can pack any subsets as well. You can find channels for any subset, and that also speeds the calculation. You can search the database for supersets and subsets of those two kinds of problems. So these things together led to drastic improvements. The FCC is very, they're happier with it than we are. We keep trying to do better because we understand how much money is at stake in these, in these auctions. Each percent.
00:29:31.504 - 00:30:16.514, Speaker A: Well, we think there are still hundreds of millions of dollars at play and possibly even billions of dollars at play in the auction from just small improvements in feasibility checking. The FCC thinks we did great and we should stop bothering them with improvements. But anyway, this is what's going on. Ok, can we make it easy for broadcasters to bid effectively? So this is a really complex auction. What the chairman originally wanted to do when we went and says, okay, we don't need a Vickre auction, we're just going to have an auction. Everybody says a price and we somehow or another figure out what the cheapest way is to clear spectrum. We try to minimize as best we can, and then we pay the bidders their prices they named.
00:30:16.514 - 00:30:50.114, Speaker A: Can you imagine bidding in an auction like that? I mean, just think about how hard that is. You're in there and you don't know what everybody else is bidding and you have no idea if you're trying. I've advised bidders in a lot of auctions, and one of the things we do is mock auctions. We go through what would happen in various scenarios. Well, we can't even compute what's going to happen in scenarios here. This is really hard for bidders. I expect that had we done that and I convinced, I remember being there, convincing the chairman of the FCC that this was really a dumb idea, there would be a lot of broadcasters who would say, I don't know what to do.
00:30:50.114 - 00:31:39.848, Speaker A: No, I'm not going to bid in an auction like that. And if the stations are worth a lot, I'll transact after the auction. That'd be a disaster for us. We need it to be easy to bid in this auction, and that's a requirement. But is it even useful? Can we make this strategy proof so that it's very easy to bid? And is that even useful if the bidder doesn't understand the computations and doesn't trust the FCC to do them correctly? So this is the challenge about making it easy to bid and what we wanted at the time. When we set this up, we said for single minded bidders, for a bidder who either is either going to keep his station or sell it and isn't looking into any of these other options, it should be a dominant strategy to bid straightforwardly. But moreover, we said it should be easy.
00:31:39.848 - 00:32:20.844, Speaker A: The bidder should find that dominance to be clear, even if they don't understand how the problem prices are computed, and even if they're not so sure that the FCC understands either. That's the kind of constraint on mechanism design we were looking for. And the solution that we came up with is the descending clock auction format. And here's roughly how it works for you. So you are a bidder and you're participating in an auction and your station is worth $8 million to you, and the FCC invites you to an auction and it says the opening presentation price in the auction for your station is going to be $45 million. And you say, hmm, that sounds pretty interesting. My station's worth eight.
00:32:20.844 - 00:32:53.354, Speaker A: How does this auction work? And say, well, we're going to offer you $45 million and we're going to see how many offers we get. And if we have more offers than we need, then we're going to start reducing the prices. So instead of offering you $45 million the next round, we're going to offer you $42 million. And if when I offer you $45 million or at any point in the auction, and when I offer you $42 million, if. If you say no, then you're out, you keep your station and that's fine. And if you say yes, then you're in. You might get $42 million or I might reduce the price and give you another offer.
00:32:53.354 - 00:33:10.582, Speaker A: Now there you are and you're sitting there, Joe. You're sitting there and you've got this $8 million station. I've made this $42 million offer to you. You have no idea where I came up with $42 million. And you don't know. You think it's, I tell you the next number is going to be 39. You say, that's not fair.
00:33:10.582 - 00:33:48.612, Speaker A: It should be something else. You don't know what the next offer is going going to be, but you know damn well that you're going to say yes to $42 million because your station's only worth $8 million to you. You don't have to know how I calculated these prices. And you don't even have to believe that I understood how to calculate the prices. You know that the right answer to an offer of $42 million is yes. And that's as simple as it gets, right? So this is the idea. The bidder finds it optimal to bid truthfully regardless of how the prices are computed or how the FCC decides whether or not it wants to buy your station at those prices.
00:33:48.612 - 00:34:38.360, Speaker A: So I have a graduate student on the market this year, Sheng Wu Li, that has actually, this description has benefited a little bit from Sheng Wu's comments. He's defined this as a new formal concept, the concept of obviously strategy proof mechanism. And so this is a new concept in game theory. And his definition is that at any information set during the course of the game, the best payoff that you can get from any deviation is no better than the worst continuation payoff from playing truthfully to the end. And that's it. So this is to make it obvious at any, you know, so you're playing in this auction, and the, the best that can happen if you say no is you get zero, and the worst that can happen if you say yes is you get zero. It can't be.
00:34:38.360 - 00:35:28.478, Speaker A: It's just obvious that it's not in your interest to deviate. And Chengwu has done an analysis of these mechanisms. What you can implement some beautiful equivalences, which I won't have time to tell you about. But the thing you need to know is that Dickory auctions don't have this property. They're not obviously strategy proof. It's not the case that descending auctions to buy have this property, and that this property also implies something else that we cared about, namely that this mechanism is group strategy proof. And Vickrey auctions in general are not what it means to be group strategy proof is that there isn't any group of bidders that can make a joint deviation that strictly benefits all of them.
00:35:28.478 - 00:36:17.264, Speaker A: And why is that the case? Well, during the course of this auction, there's going to be some guy who's first to deviate. And when you deviate for the first time, since this is an obviously strategy proof mechanism, there's nothing that can happen that can make it in your interest to deviate. The best thing that can happen when you deviate is no better than the worst thing that happens when you don't deviate. So for the first guy, it can't be optimal to deviate. So there can't be any group of agents who can have a profitable, strictly profitable joint deviation and other things discouraging collusion. So I've already said a little bit of this. How am I doing on time here? The kinds of collusion, economists recognize different kinds of collusion.
00:36:17.264 - 00:37:00.664, Speaker A: One I've just talked about is joint deviations in, in the auction. Another, what people usually think about is deviations with side payments. That is, I make a deal with you, I make a deal with Ilya over there, and I say, Ilya, you bid in a certain way. I realize it's not in your interest, but I'll pay you something, I'll write you a check, and you can do something that's beneficial to me and it'll be worth your while to make this deviation. That's a deviation with side payments. Those are deterred mostly by antitrust and by the law, basically by criminal penalties. If you have a deviation with side payments, you try to write somebody a check, there's a paper trail, or you show up somewhere with a box full of cash.
00:37:00.664 - 00:37:47.532, Speaker A: That's a harder kind of, that's easier to detect and sort of harder to arrange than a joint deviation in which two CEO's whisper to one another. Why don't we both bid twice as much and see if we can get a higher price? And these joint deviations are deterred by the auction rules. And these kind of deviations, we can only hope will be deterred by criminal enforcement so that we can avoid those kinds of collusion. We also have problems with cross market collusion and market power issues. Some of the bidders are not individual station owners. They're networks that own stations in many cities. And here the economists will recognize that the key trick here is that stations in different cities are complements, not substitutes in this auction.
00:37:47.532 - 00:38:43.190, Speaker A: And therefore, what we worry about when we worry about collusion is that if you have a bunch of stations that are substitutes, that what some of the sellers will do is they'll withhold supply in order to drive up the price. When they're compliments, you don't have that trick available to you. So we're much less worried about collusion by or about joint strategies, about networks that own stations in many cities, because it's much harder to manipulate an auction when the things you're selling are compliments. Okay? And I've already described to you about the why descending clock auction is group strategy proof. So let me push on. How many channels should the FCC try to clear. Okay, so now here's something we don't know what the tv, which tv stations are willing to participate.
00:38:43.190 - 00:39:34.028, Speaker A: We don't know how much verizon and at and t and t mobile and whoever dish are willing to pay. How many channels should we clear? Okay, so that's an issue that the FCC had to work out. So what we suggested to them and what they will do, in fact, is that there's a point that they set, first of all, really high opening prices for the stations that say, here's where we're going to start the clock auction at some really high prices. And then we have them register. They register, and on March 29, they commit to, once they register, we check that they're eligible, which you go through all the lease legal steps. And on March 29, the registered stations say, okay, here's what we commit to at the opening price. We either commit or we don't commit to sell our station at the opening price.
00:39:34.028 - 00:40:17.184, Speaker A: And actually they have more options than that. But let's just keep things simple and say that we announce the final opening prices. They say yes or no on March 29. And then we do an optimization, and we take a couple of weeks and we say, well, given all these stations, if we could buy any of them that we want, what's the largest number of channels we could clear across the United States with very little interference. And so we do that, and we imagine that what's going on in the background, and this is a simplified example, as if spectrum were uniform, which it isn't. And I'll show you the real algorithm in a moment. But this is the way economists sort of like to think about it.
00:40:17.184 - 00:40:55.918, Speaker A: You have quantity along the horizontal axis and price on the vertical axis. And just imagine that these were homogeneous products for a moment, and I'll give you the real stuff afterwards. So we set some ambitious quantity that's based on the registration. These are people who've said they're willing to sell at the opening prices. This is how much we can sell. And then we run a reverse auction, and we let the price fall, and a forward auction, and we let the price and determine what we'll have to pay for spectrum to the sellers. And then we run a forward auction, ascending price, and see, this is what we're going to receive from the buyers.
00:40:55.918 - 00:41:20.576, Speaker A: And oops, that's not good. We're paying more than we're getting. We're suffering a loss. So this target isn't achievable. So what we're going to do is we're going to reduce the quantity target, and then we're going to let the price continue to fall in the reverse auction and continue to rise in the forward auction. But oops, that's still not good enough. So we're going to reduce the quantity target.
00:41:20.576 - 00:41:53.504, Speaker A: Again, remember, we don't get to see these supply and demand curves, but they go and oops. Oh, yeah. Okay. Now, the price that we're getting for spectrum in the forward auction is higher than the price that we're paying in the reverse auction. And the, so these auctions stop and then continue. And not only that, we've also raised enough money to meet our revenue targets, which the FCC sets. And I won't go into how the revenue target is set, and that's how we determine the quantity.
00:41:53.504 - 00:42:11.752, Speaker A: This is the algorithm, the actual algorithm. It's the same idea. We have prices with different prices for different stations. I'll be showing you that in a little while. But we have prices falling in the reverse auction. We set an initial clearing target. We have maximum opening bids and minimum opening bids.
00:42:11.752 - 00:42:37.564, Speaker A: Prices falling in the reverse auction, rising in the forward auction, checking the closing rule. If yes, we're done. If no, we reduce the clearing target and we iterate. And that's the, now, we're doing this without uniform prices, with different prices for each station. And I'll tell you a little bit more about the reverse auction prices in a moment. Okay. All right.
00:42:37.564 - 00:43:30.984, Speaker A: How should we identify winners when optimization and even some feasibility checking fail? Well, I've already suggested to you that the trick is going to be a clock auction, and I've shown you roughly how that works. So here is something that's a variation of this example is actually an older algorithm due to de Vries, Schemer and Vohra 2007. And this airline overbooking analogy is, thank you to Kevin for sharing these slides. This is Kevin's presentation of the algorithm, and it looks like this. So the idea here is, remember, we already have stations on the air. So it's like we already have passengers on an airplane, and we've decided to take some stations off the air to have fewer channels. That's like deciding to use a smaller airplane.
00:43:30.984 - 00:44:01.540, Speaker A: So we used a smaller airplane, and all of a sudden, all those seats that were down the middle, they disappeared. And these guys don't have seats anymore. And moreover, we don't have enough seats for everybody. So we start with an offer. The airline substitutes a smaller plane and opens the bidding with an offer of compensation of $1,000. And so we have a bunch of guys who are not on the. Who don't have seats anymore.
00:44:01.540 - 00:44:26.434, Speaker A: There's an offer of $1,000. At $1,000, by the way, some of these guys said, yeah, I'll take $1,000. I'll give up my seat for $1,000. These are a bunch of people in first class and business class, and coach, they say, yeah, for $1,000, I'd give up my seat. And we say, gee, we have more seats than we need. We're not going to offer $1,000. We're only going to offer $800.
00:44:26.434 - 00:44:51.516, Speaker A: And in this auction, and then some of these guys say, well, at $800, that's not enough. And now enough people have gone back to first class that it's full, but there's still space in business class and economy class. And we say, okay, well, we don't have any more space for you guys in first class. You've accepted dollar 800. You've got it. Dollar 800 for you. But we're going to continue to lower the price for business class.
00:44:51.516 - 00:45:15.680, Speaker A: Coach, at that lower price, some more people say, nope, that's not enough. We continue to lower the price. More people go back onto the plane. Business class is now full, so we need these two guys. There's no space for them anymore. So we buy them at $500 and then we continue to lower the price $400. Some of these guys go back $300.
00:45:15.680 - 00:45:50.860, Speaker A: We still have space on the in coach, $250. Oops, coach is full. We'll pay those guys $250. And there we have an auction that has determined prices for each individual class from one single descending clock price. And if these things were New York, L. A and the Midwest, then that could indicate how we determine prices for tv stations. Now, the New York, LA and the Midwest also doesn't really describe it.
00:45:50.860 - 00:46:31.454, Speaker A: We actually are going to be checking feasibility separately for every different station because they all have different interference constraints. And at every point during the course of this, we'll be checking. Let's go back here. Is there room for this guy? Is there some seat I could put him in? Is there some seat I could put in here? The feasibility checking is easy. You're entitled to a coach class seat. Do I have a seat in coach? In the actual auction, what we'll be doing is solving a graph coloring problem or a variation of a graph coloring problem and saying, is there a channel for you? And if there's not a channel for you, then I can't lower your price anymore. I have to leave you.
00:46:31.454 - 00:47:12.366, Speaker A: I have to buy your station and I'll pay you the current clock price. So that's the algorithm. Now, the first key difference, so this doesn't describe exactly what we're doing, there are several key differences. The first key difference is that the flyers, the passengers, if you will, which are the stations, they're actually considered one at a time during the course of the auction. Prices during the processing are decreased by small increments and a flyer is considered infeasible if it can't be shown to be feasible. So, you know, we won't always be able to solve these problems. It's an np complete class.
00:47:12.366 - 00:47:44.842, Speaker A: So once in a while we'll just get a timeout. And when we get a timeout, we're going to buy that station. This sequential processing avoids overshooting. It means that we never lower the price by too much, but it can also lead to unequal prices for passengers in the same cabin. You can imagine that I was lowering those prices for business class passengers one at a time until there were no seats left in business class. And then depending on whether you came early in the processing or later in the processing, you could have gotten a slightly different price. So that's the drawback.
00:47:44.842 - 00:48:17.260, Speaker A: I think it's not much of a drawback. So that's how we do that. Second, the order of stations matters. We're trying, these are hard problems and we're going to do a lot of parallel computations. Exactly how many remains to be seen. But the hardest part for the FCC is checking whether there's a seat available for each passenger. That is, is there any way to assign channels so that I can take Steve Tadellas over there and give him a channel and also give channels to everybody else who is on the air.
00:48:17.260 - 00:49:25.280, Speaker A: See, I made you look up from your pc there, Steve. So is there any way to do that? And so that's the hardest part. And what we're going to do is we're going to have parallel processors running. Ideally, we'll be checking in parallel. All of the passengers that don't have seats at any given moment, and as long as none of them, as long as all of them are willing to accept that price, all these calculations are relevant. But as soon as I find one for whom there's not room each time that some passenger rejects its offer, so that passenger now has to go on the plane, now I have to restart the calculations for all the other passengers because I have a new coloring problem now, including Steve on, now that I've added Vince to the plane, now checking whether there's a seat for Steve is a new problem than the one that I was solving before. So the order of processing is going to turn out to matter.
00:49:25.280 - 00:50:41.938, Speaker A: And with limited processing order, the computing power is used best if each passenger's bid gets processed when the availability of its seat becomes known. So the idea is, I'm running this feasibility check, and instead of using a fixed order of processing, if it turns out that I'm processing in the round, and I managed to solve Vince's problem first, and I say, yep, there's a seat for Vince, I can process Vince. Then I've had all of my processors are still occupied. And whether the answer to his question is yes or no, I either restart or I don't. But all of my processors continue to run. Whereas if I have a fixed order of processing, which is what the FCC has right now that we're trying to talk them out of, if you have a fixed order of processing, then what could happen is it might be that Vince is the next guy to be processed. And I finished checking Ilya and Kevin and everybody else, and I know what, and I have all these processors idle while I run into the one problem that takes me ten minutes to solve instead of two tenths of a second, and I end up wasting 90%, 95%, even larger percentages of my processing power with idle processors, because I'm processing, processing these stations in the wrong order.
00:50:41.938 - 00:51:29.766, Speaker A: So the auction design itself, these tiny changes in the order of processing and the auction design, have a huge consequence for how much processing time I can actually devote to each of these problems. And this can make hundreds of millions of dollars of difference in the performance of the auction. It's really. It's totally amazing that these computational issues are deeply involved in getting the auction design right. Okay, I'm pretty much almost out of time, so let me just quickly say a couple of other differences. As in the example, prices in the incentive auction do depend on one single clock that's going down. But unlike the example, I'm not going to be offering the same price to every station.
00:51:29.766 - 00:52:20.714, Speaker A: I'm trying to avoid paying windfalls in the the auction. And I have some small station in New York and some big station in New York, and I just don't have to offer the same amount of money to the small station as to big station in order to get it to stay in the air. I know that it's only serving a 10th as many it has only a 10th as many people in its service area, so why should I offer it the same price? So I don't so station's price depends on its service population. And also I want to have some sense of, if I buy that station, how much it contributes to making the graph coloring easier. So I'm also going to count the number of edges that come out of that station. That is the number of interference links. And I'm going to use those two things to determine the price that I offered.
00:52:20.714 - 00:52:52.344, Speaker A: Actually, the formula that's used that the FCC adopted is it multiplies the service population by the number of links and takes the square root of that product. And that's the index that it uses to adjust the comparative prices of different stations. Okay. And so I'll just say this. Deferred acceptance clock auctions, that's the mechanism we've been describing to you. They're obviously strategy proof, as formulated by Lee. They're group strategy proof.
00:52:52.344 - 00:53:21.080, Speaker A: They uniquely preserve winners privacy. So here's another, just for the sake of culture here. There was a famous auction in New Zealand some 20 years ago in which was a second price auction. The highest bid was $1 million. The second highest bid was $6. Those of you who know second price auctions, I didn't get any laughter from this room. That means somebody bid a million dollars and actually only had to pay $6.
00:53:21.080 - 00:53:55.814, Speaker A: This made headlines, as you might imagine. We decided we didn't want headlines like that in our auction. So we don't want anybody to know. They don't want us to know, and we don't want the public to know how low the bidders would have been willing to go. Nobody ever finds out that Ilya would have taken $5 for his stay, he was almost bankrupt, and that he walked away with 25 million. He doesn't want anybody to know that, and we don't want anybody to know that. And this auction does not reveal that information.
00:53:55.814 - 00:54:18.708, Speaker A: And it's the only auction, essentially the only auction that has that property. This auction requires only heuristics. It doesn't require exact optimization. It can accommodate all kinds of alternative goals and concerns, unlike the Vickrey auction. So, for example, we can have a budget constraint. We do have a budget constraint. There's a limit on how much we can pay the bidders in the reverse auction.
00:54:18.708 - 00:54:49.724, Speaker A: And if the auction is too expensive, we reduce the clearing target. We can adjust that. You cannot incorporate a budget constraint into a Vickrey auction. It doesn't work. So we have a strategy proof auction that works. Even with budget constraints, we can accommodate virtual cost objectives. For those of you who know what that means, we can use these scoring rules, these different prices, to adjust the prices that are offered to different stations in a way to make this an expected cost minimizing auction.
00:54:49.724 - 00:55:38.542, Speaker A: I don't have time to do the detail of that, but it's doable. And they also, and this is one of the first questions that the chairman asked me four years ago, or three years ago, I guess, that Ilya and I had proved back then. So, wait a minute. Okay, I love these properties of this auction, but isn't this going to be more expensive if you make it in people's interest to bid? Truthfully, doesn't that raise costs? And the truth is that we can't really answer that question because we don't know how people are going to bid in a sealed bid auction where they pay as bid. So we did the best we can. So we have sort of this thing that will make everybody shiver. But what we did was we calculated the undominated, full information Nash equilibrium of the corresponding pay to bid auction.
00:55:38.542 - 00:56:20.382, Speaker A: That's all we can do. And it turns out we get a revenue equivalence result, which is to say the cost is the same at this Nash equilibrium for the dominant strategy mechanism and for the pay to bid mechanism. In other words, there is no reason to think, based on equilibrium theory, we have no particular reason to think that this auction has a worse cost performance than the paid is bid auction, that providing this dominant strategy incentives, and even obviously dominant strategy incentives, has a net cost to the FCC of zero. Okay. And that's pretty much it. This is the FCC webpage for the incentive auctions, March 29. Keep your eyes peeled.
00:56:20.382 - 00:57:07.734, Speaker A: This is, this is a historic event, both for the telecommunications industry and for market design, and we're very, very excited about it. Thank you very much. Oh, yeah. So the. I mean, you know, Ilya's smiling here because the. I anticipated this and the reason we have such a simple formula. So we had all kinds of simulations that were run about what the effect of cost would be if we did it in various ways.
00:57:07.734 - 00:57:58.234, Speaker A: And I knew if you start putting in that, you're going to take the population and based on simulations, you're going to raise it to the power 0.63, and people are going to start arguing about that. So we put together this formula that we multiplied these two things together to the power one half, and we said, look, here's what you say. And this is what they do say. This is sensible. It actually works pretty well in the simulations, and it's sensible. We have stations that have said that it makes sense to them that they should be paid in part based on their population and having these two things multiplied together and with the power one half means if you have some station that causes twice as much interference and has twice the population, you offer it twice the price.
00:57:58.234 - 00:58:49.604, Speaker A: It has this common sense attributes. And so getting the, getting the formula right so that it was something that's common sense, that's based on. We also cite some literature which indicates that using square roots of the number of edges is helpful in other heuristics as being. So that's helpful. It has this fairness property that I've just described to you. And then we just tinker down and took criticism from people who thought, especially if you were a small station owner, you didn't like this at all. The small station owners made a political appeal where they wanted a lower exponent on population so that they got a larger fraction of what the big stations got.
00:58:49.604 - 00:59:35.264, Speaker A: And the FCC said no. Oh, you mean if the tv stations were. So Congress only authorizes the FCC to do this once. Okay, so that's in the current legislation. Of course, if it's successful, you know, but the other problem that the station owners have is that the legislation does not say that they actually own these rights. They're allowed to sell them in this auction, but the rights could expire. They could have lesser rights in a future auction.
00:59:35.264 - 01:00:05.434, Speaker A: But you're right that we always do the small world stuff when we do modeling. We say, here's the problem, here's your incentives in this context. If you set it in a larger context and give people more choices, it won't necessarily, in the larger context be obviously strategy proof. In fact, it won't be obviously strategy proof in the larger context. It's being marketed as a once in a lifetime opportunity. Absolutely. And people are treating it that way.
01:00:05.434 - 01:00:38.034, Speaker A: The prices that we quoted, if you've seen the prices out, I mean, anybody who follows this industry, it's headlines every day. Every day headlines, $900 million opening price, whatever the industry is all abuzz. The networks that the FCC thought would never participate in this auction because they're the most valuable. Fox, CB's, ABC, they're all saying, gee, we're going to offer stations in this auction. I mean, these prices have drawn everybody out of the woodwork. And we'll see. The auction will determine the final prices.
01:00:38.034 - 01:01:22.022, Speaker A: But the FCC has set high enough opening prices to really encourage participants participation politically. No. So Congress, so Congress said. So it's actually changed over time. The Congress said that the FCC's auctions had to cover the cost of relocating stations, which Congress set to be $1.75 billion plus the cost of the public safety communication system. But it turns out that the previous auction covered the cost of the public safety communication system.
01:01:22.022 - 01:01:46.138, Speaker A: So that piece is now zero. So the net revenue target is now pretty low. It's just 1.75 billion plus the cost of running the auction. 2 billion, 2 billion something this auction. The pundits have numbers in the range, depends who you talk to, but the numbers that you hear are numbers in the range of $40 to $80 billion. It's a big deal.
01:01:46.138 - 01:02:21.606, Speaker A: It's a huge auction. And $2 billion they think of as almost de minimis in that context. So there are political differences about that. The commissioners differ in how they, it's up to the commissioners. They're political appointees. They differ in the weight that they place on revenue and on clearing a lot of spectrum. I think the Obama administration is very committed to clearing.
01:02:21.606 - 01:03:13.530, Speaker A: They made a commitment to try to clear 500 spectrum, various bands to make it available for what they call this, the infrastructure of the 21st century, it says in one of the OMB reports. And they're very committed to clearing a lot of spectrum. I think the Republicans put a greater weight on, relative to the Democrats anyway, on deficit reduction and think that it's important to make a nice chunk of money off of this. The weight between those two things, that's above my pay grade. That's a political decision. So excellent question. And I think that's the auditability.
01:03:13.530 - 01:04:21.550, Speaker A: That's the hardest part to audit, and the FCC is worried about that now. But the hardest part to audit is replicating the feasibility checks. We do know that the stations that we find to be feasible are feasible because we do have independent checks to verify that the solutions that are delivered are actual solutions. But the timeout and the stations that are infeasible, presumably you can double check that timeouts, and that's hard to replicate. Well, we've gotten a lot of what we want or what we're struggling with right now is, is the efficient use of process. We think that it could be up to a factor of 100 in terms of the amount of processing time that could be wasted. And we think there could be a fair amount of money engaged in that.
01:04:21.550 - 01:04:58.654, Speaker A: We're involved in that. We're not really. We're running simulations now to try to get an estimate of how having effectively longer timeouts affects the net cost of the auction. We got most of what we thought was right in this design. Within the timeframe that we had. You saw that there were some compromises we made, some of the compromises we made. We would need years more to see whether we had any hope of doing things that we could do with months more are things like getting better use of the parallel processing, and we'll see how important that is as a result of simulations.
01:04:58.654 - 01:05:52.142, Speaker A: I'm a lawyer practicing before the commission, and in my experience, the interface between people and automated systems across the board are fairly primitive and out of date models are awesome. But are you highly confident that the whole thing will be implemented on March 29? The software that will be used for the auction itself is all new, and it's being really thoroughly subsequent to Obamacare. The government is. The amount of testing is mind boggling. It's ridiculous, actually. The interfaces are great for the auction itself. The hardest software problems associated with the auction are all the traditional systems that are involved.
01:05:52.142 - 01:06:48.072, Speaker A: Just doing the registrations. All the old stuff that should be straightforward. That's the stuff that we're more likely to choke on. The new software is the FCC has spent the money to do it well, and there are really excellent interfaces, and I'm expecting those to work beautifully. No. So the stations that are similarly situated will never differ by more than one inquiry. It could be that in the order of processing.
01:06:48.072 - 01:07:56.920, Speaker A: So during a round we're going to. There's human rounds, what we call human internally within the team, we refer to human rounds and machine rounds, and the human rounds are, you know, we say that your price in the next round may go down by 5%. If it does, are you still willing to accept that price? And then during the processing, we could have two similar stations, and it's possible that one of them has its price go down and the other one doesn't because of the order of process, because of the order within the machine round. But that's the largest difference that can emerge is whatever the increment is for the human round, that's the difference can never be any larger than that. If the stations are identically situated, if they're differently situated, there's some stations that we don't need to buy and other stations that we do need to buy. And of course, those will generate different prices. Start.
01:07:56.920 - 01:08:54.484, Speaker A: What did they come from? Yeah, so we wanted them to be high, and we took a look at. So, you know, this is partly finger in the wind stuff, but we took a look at. Based on what the prices were in the recent AWS three auction, we have our internal guesses as to how much these licenses might be worth. What's the most revenue that we could hope to generate from the forward auction. That's the most we'll ever be able to pay in the reverse auction. And so it's a calculation of that sort where we looked at what's the most we could ever possibly pay if we gave all of the revenues from the auction to the stations and then raised that a little bit because some of the prices are going to be bid down. And it was a process like that that led to these together with frankly investment bankers were involved and so on.
01:08:54.484 - 01:09:26.023, Speaker A: We took a look at transactions. What prices were people paying for television stations? We wanted these to look so really high and so there was a lot of consideration how much is the most we might actually be able to afford? How much does it take? Might it take to really turn heads and attract interest and then we're going to count on the auction to bring the prices down into a reasonable range, you know, where there's competition for stations. Okay.
