00:00:03.440 - 00:01:15.840, Speaker A: Hey, guys, I'm Marius. I'm one of the contributors at Hubble and Camino protocols. We've been building stuff in Solana for about two years. We've been through top of the bull market, bear market, and then questioning ourselves quite a bit through the ups and downs, and we reflected quite a bit on what does it really mean to build DeFi protocols? What's the point of DeFi protocols? Is that a bull market sentiment, or is it something that we actually, we will need for the future? And basically, the premise is, based on our analysis, we think that DeFi is going to grow quite a bit. I think it's going to go exponential for the reason that we have a blockchain that can actually scale, and because we have a blockchain that can scale, because you can have all kinds of assets that use Solana as a ledger, and because Solana doesn't price out actors from all over the world, then you'll be able to have a much bigger financial system. And what does Defi. What is the role of Defi in Solana? Yeah.
00:01:15.840 - 00:02:09.104, Speaker A: So to kind of answer this question, I'd like to just go a little bit back in time. Think about it from a first principles point of view. We've been through all of these memes and phases with Solana over the time, so we had to actually test our convictions and ask ourselves these questions. And this is basically how we think about it. So just going back quite a bit in time, the first examples of finance, what was the reason why people needed finance? When was when people finally started having assets? You know, you had, like, someone that had quite a bit of, like, gold coins, and because they were a great merchant or they were a good blacksmith, and they had to custody those coins. They had those coins, they didn't want to be robbed, so they gave it to someone else to custody in exchange for a fee. That was the first example of a financial service that someone provided.
00:02:09.104 - 00:02:52.424, Speaker A: After that, you know, the person that custodies the gold coins, know someone else that might need some gold coins to buy some machinery, to farm some land, to make some profits next year. And that's when the banker says, oh, look, I have some spare gold coin that my client doesn't really use right now. I can lend it to you if you pay it back, pay some interest rate, and then I will take a cut and I'll give it back to the lender. So these are the sort of financial activities that had to go around. People that had assets. As soon as you have assets and resources, when you have economic activity. That's when the financial layer comes and starts servicing and making this a bit more efficient.
00:02:52.424 - 00:03:38.676, Speaker A: Another famous example that gets thought out in business schools is how the first ever financial derivative came about. And it was with some farmer in ancient Greece which had crops and was afraid of the price of the crops, of the price of whatever crops yields they were getting next year. They were afraid of price fluctuation. He had fixed costs to pay people, but the revenue would be variable. So someone agreed to do a forward contract, what we call now, to fix the price, to know exactly at what price you will sell it in the future. And that basically gave him clarity. So basically, what I'm trying to say is that all of this, all of this financial activity is about assets.
00:03:38.676 - 00:04:29.718, Speaker A: It's about servicing people that have assets and that have needs with respect to those assets and resources. Finance in itself doesn't really do much. It's not like it doesn't create value out of thin air, but sometimes it does. But basically it really services people that have needs. Finance without assets, finance without economic activities, pretty useless. So having understood that, having these ground principles to think about, we can fast forward in the future and see what is the current state of our financial system. And for us to be able to actually scale up, to actually have trade across the globe and counterparties that don't really know each other so they can trade efficiently.
00:04:29.718 - 00:05:03.092, Speaker A: We had to centralize a lot. We had to abstract a lot our financial system. So you now have. You're in a state where you have basically government issued currency that is kind of accepted across the globe. They're fungible. You have banks that are highly centralized and highly regulated such that finance can actually work. And the byproduct of having so much centralization and so much abstraction is that you end up with side effects when one of the bank fails, like we've seen with, like, Silicon Valley bank.
00:05:03.092 - 00:05:59.782, Speaker A: Basically, we all pay the price of their bailout through inflation. There is fragmentation in the sense that I can't really deal, I can't really trade with someone else unless we use the same bank or we use a very predefined financial contract, although I would like to, for example. So this sort of centralization and fragmentation has its benefits and has its issues, and we had to centralize because there was no other way. But of course, now we have blockchains. And blockchains are the first ever example of a global network that looks like it's peer to peer. So I can actually, through the first implementation or deployment of bitcoin I could actually send money from my home to someone else without using an intermediary. The group of nodes that are synchronized with each other and they're all neutral and none of them has custody.
00:05:59.782 - 00:06:23.062, Speaker A: Allows me to send you some coins without anyone being able to censor it. Just through cryptography, I can just send. And everything is just peer to peer. It's like you meet someone at the corner of the street and you give him money, same way goes through, through the blockchain. And I think that's really powerful. And bitcoin was the first thing to do that with money. And then Ethereum added smart contracts.
00:06:23.062 - 00:06:47.354, Speaker A: So you can actually intermediate more than just payments. You can disintermediate things like escrow accounts. Let's say the simplest example of streaming payments or locked vested tokens. There's a lot of programmability you can add to the money. And now it's all on chain. It's all peer to peer. You can have immutable smart contract that just nobody can censor.
00:06:47.354 - 00:07:28.054, Speaker A: And you just have peer to peer financial contracts that are completely unified. There's no more fragmentation, and they're all in a unified platform. So I think blockchains are amazing because of that. I think a lot of assets should live on the chain. But looking at the current state of blockchains right now, we had these promises about blockchain is going to solve finance. They're going to do everything about removing the risks of centralization. Well, if we look where we are right now in kind of coming back from a really violent bear market, it doesn't look like it's that amazing.
00:07:28.054 - 00:08:38.218, Speaker A: And the theory goes, and actually, you can actually see that whenever you have a technological breakthrough, when there's something that completely changes the way you do something, it takes time for that to be integrated in the current infrastructure, like the current infrastructure of our financial system or our legal system doesn't yet fully understand, like a blockchain address, doesn't yet fully recognize your balance, or doesn't use the blockchain ledger as the true source of truth for your savings. It takes quite a bit of time for new technologies to permeate the, the current infrastructure of the world. So that's basically the phase where we are right now. I think now that we finally have a ledger that can scale and doesn't price people out, such as Solana, which is cheap, I think there's going to be more and more assets that will be ledgered on chain. And as we discussed just at the beginning, finance is all about servicing people with assets. And if you look at what are the kinds of assets that exist right now on chain, there's just quite. There's a few of them, but not that many.
00:08:38.218 - 00:08:59.724, Speaker A: You know, you have, like the crypto native assets, which are basically, you know, bitcoin. Sol ETH, you can argue that bitcoin is gold or digital gold, or it's attempting to be gold. So that has a function in itself. Sol ETH could be currencies or could be utility tokens. You have government tokens for different DeFi protocols. So they. These are assets that have inherent value in themselves.
00:08:59.724 - 00:09:38.734, Speaker A: They can also be traded, but they also have economic value in themselves. So Defi can be there to serve people that have those assets or needs with those assets. Let's say you want to borrow some sole because you want to do some governance proposal or things like this. The other type of assets you currently have on chain are assets that are on chain claims for off chain assets. So you can think of them as like real world assets tokenized on chain. So USDC is not real, like dollars on chain. There are actually claims to some dollars in some bank account somewhere that is hopefully regulated, and it matches one to one.
00:09:38.734 - 00:10:42.050, Speaker A: Tokenized treasury is the same. You have some SPV somewhere which has bought treasuries and it's tokenized and it streams the flows to the token. But that's basically what you have right now. And because that's the only thing you have, because you only have very native tokens that actually don't point to that much real world economic value, Defi can't do more than just serve these needs. And because they're inherently speculative and they don't really have a lot of real world integration, DeFi right now helps only can do things with these assets. So it can help you do borrowing, it can help you do lending, it can help you trade them, but not much more than that. And the thing that we've been struggling with was how much value can we add as a DeFi protocol to the Solana ecosystem? And the answer we came up with is that we're not really here to solve economic growth as a protocol.
00:10:42.050 - 00:11:30.464, Speaker A: We're here to serve people that build these useful assets. So, basically, zooming in on that DeFi at the moment can help you. If you have some asset that has some meaning, DeFi can basically help you build a liquidity pool or a decentralized exchange where you can trade them. If you want to have more of that, if you want to have more exposure, Defi can help you leverage it. If you are afraid of losing your coins because you don't want to hold the seed phrases, you can have a multisig and Defi can help you custodate. So as long as you have assets, Defi can serve you. The more assets, the more types of assets that are created and are ledgered on chain, the more kinds of defi activity you will have.
00:11:30.464 - 00:12:07.774, Speaker A: And just looking back at the past few years, when Defi first came about, we had these great promises about how it's going to be amazing and it's going to change the world. And looking at it as of today, I think we failed on that. Ethereum was the first one to actually start with Defi. And if we look at the state of Defi right now in Ethereum, I think it's pretty sad. I'm not pointing Ethereum, I think Solana is worse, but I think Ethereum was the first promise. And the reason is that it's basically, there were two issues. The first one is there's just not that many assets.
00:12:07.774 - 00:12:30.074, Speaker A: I think like the types of assets you can use, there's very few of them. We all know them. And not new kinds appear. You can have more of the same, but not new kinds appear. And the second reason is that you have, you're just pricing people out if you want to. For example, Defi is great. For someone that lives in a country which has hyperinflation and they want to hold dollars, I think that's awesome.
00:12:30.074 - 00:13:04.084, Speaker A: But if you want to buy dollars and hold them and trade with them and swap them to hold them as your sort of value, you'll pay a lot on fees. And for people that live in these countries with hyperinflation, that's just very exclusive. So you're priced out of the system. So I think that's why it failed. And basically this is a negative feedback loop. The fewer people, the more expensive it is, the fewer people participate in DeFi, the fewer use cases you have, and then the fewer things you can do. So you can't iterate.
00:13:04.084 - 00:13:39.516, Speaker A: You don't have new use cases that you can iterate on experiment, you don't have many more people. So I think a lot of it has to do with still being early, but a lot of it has to do with ethereum just not being able to scale. And I know it can scale with l two s, but I think that creates other layers of friction. So I don't think Defi in an expensive chain can grow. I just simply think people are going to be priced out. And that's why I think Solana has a shot of changing the game. We're here at Solana conference.
00:13:39.516 - 00:14:36.954, Speaker A: We love Solana for all kinds of reasons, but I think if there is going to be a unified ledger of the world where people are ok to ledger their assets, to hold custody there, it has to be a place where anyone can be a participant. It's not prohibitively expensive, and this creates the positive feedback loop. The more people come, the more things you can do, the more use cases can be created. So Solana in itself is not very special from a defi point of view. Solana actually can fulfill the promise of Defi, of ledgering and banking the entire world. That's kind of the way I think about it. Basically, you have assets, blockchains can finally do global peer to peer transactions and intermediation, and you have a ledger which is actually inclusive of everyone in the world.
00:14:36.954 - 00:15:09.874, Speaker A: That's kind of the gist of my talk. I'm going to end up with a short shill on Kamino. We're working on Kamino for about a year now, and we're trying to basically serve the Defi needs of people. People right now on chain have tokens they want to trade. We can help create pools and trading strategies or trading pairs. People have coins they want to lend out to earn some extra yield. We have created the lending market for that.
00:15:09.874 - 00:15:27.134, Speaker A: You may want to short something because you want to hedge it. So we want Camino to be a one stop shop for Defi. We think that unifying all of the Defi activities in one place will create synergies and will help the Defi ecosystem. Yeah, that's it. Thanks for listening.
