00:00:12.880 - 00:00:13.416, Speaker A: Cool.
00:00:13.502 - 00:01:06.494, Speaker B: Welcome to Unlayered. Today we're super excited to be joined by Josh Rosenthal and by introduction. Josh is a multi exited founder at AI as well as more of the web two side of tech, served on various committees in government, was the Ernst and young entrepreneur of the year, an occasional lecturer at esteemed universities like Harvard, Johns Hopkins, MIT. Josh is also an historian who holds a PhD in medieval and early modern european history, was a Fulbright scholar, now is a partner at Narwhal Ventures and the 6th event and most importantly, huge proponent of crypto and has been making waves in the ecosystem for a couple years now. Perhaps best known for his crypto renaissance theory, which we're going to get into all over throughout this episode. But Josh, thanks so much for joining us today and welcome to Unlayered.
00:01:06.874 - 00:01:20.974, Speaker A: No, thanks for having me. It's great to be here and I definitely appreciate what you guys are up to. For sure. Your tone and the nature of the conversation and exploring some of the alternatives and doing it in an intelligent way. It's really, it's a nice change of pace.
00:01:22.174 - 00:01:57.710, Speaker B: Yeah, we're going for that alternative vibe, for sure. For sure. I think there's too much maxism in a lot of these podcasts and I don't know if it's going to necessarily shake out that way. So we try to just keep an open mind here before we actually get into. Because I think the main focus of this episode is obviously going to be a lot of the analogies we're going to make with history and what's happening in tech. But I'm actually just curious for my own benefit here. I noticed some of your earlier companies that you exited were more in like, I guess, the biotech space.
00:01:57.710 - 00:02:08.914, Speaker B: I'm just curious to hear a bit more about your experience as an entrepreneur and how you actually got maybe orange pilled or crypto pilled for lack of a better term during your career.
00:02:10.134 - 00:03:05.602, Speaker A: Yeah, usually I focus on the history piece of it, but the entrepreneurship, basically, I came out of the PhD and did a Fulbright over at the Surmountance Institute grant study, which is like complex system stuff, and just couldn't really get a job or didn't want the jobs that were offered in academia. It seemed like it was going to be a zero sum game. This is like a long time ago, ancient history, but even then, the writing was on the wall. This might not be a future growth opportunity. And so back at the institute, it was working in history. So manuscripts, you're looking through different languages and these old archaic documents, and you're working with this very permissioned, privileged idea of gaining access to different archives, needing letters of introduction from heads of universities, in some cases heads of state. Just ridiculousness to get in the place to be able to look at this data, which is supposedly the people's data after it's been liberated, et cetera, et cetera.
00:03:05.602 - 00:03:44.996, Speaker A: And so I co founded with my wife and far better half and our third partner, and they're the brains. I'm very much the Muppet kind of character on the edges. And I had written a little bit of code, kind of looking at kind of social networks or, and trying to quantify economic networks over time and how they changed who the actors are and their interests, et cetera, et cetera. And the institute was a hoot. So it's like historians like me, I'm an American sitting there in like the middle of France, you know, lecturing them about their history, which you can imagine they. They loved that I was sort of a caricature. And then you have the CERN scientists sitting around and you're all sharing research in this institute, and so they're talking about string theory and what have you.
00:03:44.996 - 00:04:18.104, Speaker A: And so a lot of it was around complex systems and working in different, you know, using social sciences and hard sciences as well as computer science. So we founded a little company which was natural language processing based. It was like an early form of AI, kind of a subset of, you know, language models. You'd probably think of it as like dragon and nuance and that kind of thing. And this was just when some of the folks at Google were getting serious into healthcare. They're working on, like, transporting the XML standard into CCR. They were looking at, you know, different ways of computing, but the bottleneck was data.
00:04:18.104 - 00:04:59.116, Speaker A: The computing was taking off, but how would you get the data? And so we founded a company, and we're up in Portland, Maine, and back and forth between Paris and came out the middle of Louisville, Kentucky. Nowhere. This is before it was trendy to kind of get off the grid, double, triple mortgage the house, and kind of went all in, raised a little bit of angel money, never did any vc, and essentially built a program and then sold it to an MIT spin out and then helped take them to a majority stake exit from private equity, and then double dipped and went back and did it again. This time around public data. And so there's large amounts of government data, which is technically the people's data. We just don't know we have it. And there's a lot of, you know, regulation around it.
00:04:59.116 - 00:05:35.862, Speaker A: So that was a lot of the government work that I did on kind of congressionally mandated committees and kind of White House appointee type things to liberate that data. And a friend was named CTO of the Department of Health and Human Services, and then he became CTO of the entire country, I guess. And so we worked on kind of liberating a lot of that data, and then we commercialized it. And so that was interesting in terms of thinking about the value of data compared to processing and how it's a virtuous cycle. So we sold that to a public company in 17 and helped take them back private. And then that essentially vested us out in 17. And so we're here in Louisville, Kentucky.
00:05:35.862 - 00:06:14.252, Speaker A: We're founders first. And oftentimes, one of the reasons why we avoided venture was sometimes there's conflicting incentives between venture and founders. Even if you're running a small fund, like $100 million, you basically need a billion dollar exit once you work through dilution and all that sort of stuff. If you're a founder, you might not want a billion dollar exit. You might be happy with $100 million exit if you're like a super majority owner. The idea of how do you help people outside the power hubs, geographically, socioeconomically, and demographically? It became very important to us since we started looking at different funding models and ways that we could invest. And this was just when crypto was coming on the scene.
00:06:14.252 - 00:06:59.804, Speaker A: And when I saw it, it was interesting in terms of giving advantage to the little guy down the distribution curve, and giving asymmetric advantage to people outside powerhubs. But also the code itself, it looked very similar to a lot of the historical work which I had done. Basically, the ledger based accounting and the advent of communication, which some people say the printing press was like the Internet, we'll get into that. I don't necessarily buy that so much. I think it's more like crypto, with elements of AI and a little bit of Internet. And so down to the code itself, it looked very similar. And the last time we saw this kind of significant change was really in the transition between the late Middle ages and the Renaissance, or the rebirth of the world as we knew it.
00:06:59.804 - 00:07:38.464, Speaker A: And so he kind of said, if history repeats it all, this is an unprecedented opportunity to get involved. So we essentially went all in on crypto, de direct investing, run the stuff ourselves, validate, index, delegate, and then our LP's and a variety of funds across different ecosystems. Some of the ether based folks, like coinfund or standard, or parafy, multicoin, and those guys backing Solana from day one and a host of other things. And so we're in a little family office and a boutique venture and are just kind of responsible for ourselves. That gives us either. I always say it gives us the ability to do anything, but my wife would say it makes us 100% accountable. So we have.
00:07:39.804 - 00:08:12.134, Speaker B: Love that. Love that. That's super helpful. I always like to ask people about their backgrounds because I think that's where a lot of us can get unique insights into what might happen in the future. Pattern matching, everyone's background. It's just so different, especially yours as a historian and kind of working in early AI as a founder, then moving over to crypto later. And you brought up a few interesting points here where you're kind of noticing similarities between this historically, this transition from the Middle ages to the Renaissance.
00:08:12.134 - 00:08:38.114, Speaker B: Maybe double click on that as a starting point, insofar as what forces contributed to the Middle Ages even occurring in the first place. Like, why did we call them that? I think people call it the dark Ages, or at least I've heard that before in school. I understand at a high level it was like the fall of the western Roman Empire, like the fifth century. But can you maybe tee it up for us and help us understand, maybe aren't as well versed in history?
00:08:39.194 - 00:09:07.884, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. No, it's. Hopefully, if this thesis plays out, if this really is a new renaissance, and I realize it sounds like hyperbole, but I'll get into the details. Right now, we're early on in the economics, and we haven't really had the social scientists, the anthropologists, the psychologists, the historians come in and really plumb the depths of this. So, hopefully, if things develop, this will be unfolding in the future. And, yeah, to your point, we kind of did everything backwards. We got into AI early and then got into crypto, which either that means we know what we're doing or we don't other.
00:09:07.884 - 00:09:49.660, Speaker A: And so, yeah, the way to think about the transition between the late middle ages and the Renaissance was, if you're in the late middle Ages, there's one thing you can call it, like hegemony. There was one power. There was a cosmic, a divine material hierarchy. There's a pyramid, and you were at the bottom of it. There was a ruler that was instituted, divinely instituted, layers of bureaucracy and institution, and you at the bottom, statistically speaking, and that was the world you were born into. And your world was commissioned in every sense of the word. I usually pull in a couple different threads, like value and communication and identity.
00:09:49.660 - 00:10:06.552, Speaker A: And value. You couldn't own land. You couldn't really own coin or spend it as you wanted to. It wasn't really for you. You couldn't leave your land, you couldn't travel. And I realize some of the medieval historians will poke out exceptions. I'm just saying, statistically speaking, like 99% of the time, this is your world.
00:10:06.552 - 00:10:29.506, Speaker A: And the crazy part was, it never occurred to you that the world should be any different until you had an unlock. You didn't know that you were locked into a set rubric. And the same thing with communication. You couldn't share ideas at scale, partially because you couldn't transmit ideas outside of a manuscript. And those are super difficult to read, and they're very difficult. It's not just that they're in weird languages. There's a handwriting or a paleography to it.
00:10:29.506 - 00:10:58.366, Speaker A: You not only have to know French or Schweizer, Deutsch or Catalonian, but coding it in Latin, Siglia. So it's very, very esoteric. No one has access to these things. They're incredibly expensive. And so if you have an idea to change any of this, you can't take off velocity out of that. And it never would have occurred to you to have communicated anything outside the world into which you were born into. You're like an agricultural laborer, and your parents and their parents and their parents and their parents, their parents and their parents and their parents, and that's who you were.
00:10:58.366 - 00:11:32.494, Speaker A: Your name might have been farmer, it might have been Smith because of that. And so your identity was like essentially locked in. And so one of the things I look at is when change occurs, there's like different schools of history. Some people think that great men with great ideas drive history. Some people think it's conflict over a means of production. Other people look at geography or kind of demographic structures, and all that's true, but it tends to perform, like create a very structuralist set that says nothing can ever change. They're right for most of the time, like for centuries, nothing changes.
00:11:32.494 - 00:12:00.016, Speaker A: Nothing changes. Nothing changes. Then when something changes, it changes slowly, slowly, slowly, and then already fed a complete. It's already done, and you aren't even aware of it. And so I look at those changes. And so the change between the late middle ages, where everything was in a hierarchy, there's one set of institutions, economic, sociodemographic, even even philosophical, to this recreation of the world as they knew it came through, what drove it. It was really communities using decentralized technology.
00:12:00.016 - 00:12:18.014, Speaker A: There's an advent of technology. It often happens in waves. And the first was this ledger based accounting. This is part of the Renaissance. It was a return to classics, actually, back to ad fontes. This has been something in North Africa with Pliny and others. Instead of having a centralized accounting book, there was something called a ledger.
00:12:18.014 - 00:12:42.766, Speaker A: You may be familiar with it if you're into crypto. And so debit and credit. And the basic idea was it freed up capital. There wasn't enough coin to perform massive transactions as a story. The head of the holy roman emperor, Maximilian, he's getting married. So he goes into a german town and he's trying to buy a wedding suit, and the merchant won't give him credit. He's the head of the whole emperor and he won't give him credit.
00:12:42.766 - 00:13:11.510, Speaker A: He doesn't have coin on him to do it. Gridlock the financial system was the idea of having a ledger. Even if you couldn't read or write, you could kind of keep chicken scratches in this little thing that they called a wallet. You took it with you and it essentially unlocked and created financial products, new derivatives. There was a cambrian explosion of all sorts of craziness. It meant that economically, you had a new substrate which would allow you to get off the farm and go hang up your shingle. Maybe a farmer yourself as a new type of entrepreneur, or.
00:13:11.510 - 00:13:55.536, Speaker A: This is largely credited by historians as the advent of proto capitalism. Not just mercantilism, but running your own business. The question then is, how do you get the idea to do that? How do you get the idea that you could leave the farm? That the authority to which you are subjected from birth, and it's not just religion. Religion to them, was the fabric of reality you were born into. You look at the middle ages, and the pope has holy roman emperor kneeling in the snow and begging for forgiveness. The reason was the pope had excommunicated them, which sounds like religious, but what it meant was that every economic obligation and contract was instantly rendered like null and void, right? As well as all military obligations and fiduciary responsibility. And so it was inextricably woven up.
00:13:55.536 - 00:14:39.370, Speaker A: And what happened with a renaissance is it started to get peeled off. And folks like Luther formatively said, hey, Martin Luther, not Martin Luther, King James story. And so he said, hey, this divinely instituted hierarchy that you're at the bottom of, it's not legitimate, and it's not the only one. And, in fact, the meaning for you is not just often the monastery, it's actually working a job in this world and not just praying for your neighbor, but serving them with economic creation and generation, even using some of these newfangled financial tools. And so this was shared through the advent of the printing press, which is, like, a horrible idea. 5% of the population could read. Gutenberg might have got kicked out of every venture capitalist office.
00:14:39.370 - 00:14:57.290, Speaker A: You can't have a protocol where you have no market adoption. And what happened? And it's worth noting that the decentralized technology was generative. It created the market. It wasn't just better, faster, cheaper. That was the first unfold. It actually created something new and unexpected in the market. It's like Jurassic park, right? Life finds a way.
00:14:57.290 - 00:15:12.392, Speaker A: And so you're reading, not a book. You can't really read, but you can see these images, these flugschriften. They're like memes. And you say, hey, this authority is illegitimate. Maybe this other authority system, which is much more decentralized, is legitimate. It wasn't just that. It wasn't.
00:15:12.392 - 00:15:28.816, Speaker A: It wasn't necessarily what Luther did. It was the fact that he showed how to do something else other than the system you were born into. And I'll just pause because this sounds crazy. You're listening to this, and you're like, oh, man, those medieval guys, they were so silly. Not me. I'm so glad I'm modern. But if you pull on those same threads.
00:15:28.816 - 00:15:45.426, Speaker A: No, like, everyone was permissioned. They didn't know their permission until something else happened, and it was unlocked. And so I see very strong similarities into you today. Like, your finance. You think you own it and control it. You don't. You own medieval ious and contracts from fidelity or what have you.
00:15:45.426 - 00:16:05.920, Speaker A: You think you can pay money, like, no credit cards, you know, visa, Amex, like, didn't run a processing fee. They wouldn't let me attend. They wouldn't pay for bitcoin at the conference. They knew it wasn't fraudulent. They just didn't like the content that was being discussed there. And so you have all that sort of stuff going on, the same thing with communication. You think you can say anything you want to at scale.
00:16:05.920 - 00:16:40.214, Speaker A: Obviously, you can get deplatformed. But the much more subtle form of control is changing the window and shaping the contours, where you're not just shadow banned, the algorithms are working against you, not just because you're saying deviant things, but because they're maximizing economic impact for the people who are at the top of the pyramid. And the same thing with identity, so on and so forth. This unlock created the idea of the other. It created massive economic generation, and it actually fractured the Holy roman empire in a variety of ways. And it was chaotic and volatile and crazy at the time. But that's what happens when the world is being recreated.
00:16:40.214 - 00:17:12.030, Speaker A: It's dying and reconstruction, basically. So that's the crypto renaissance thesis in a nutshell, where you see ledger based accounting, very similar to ledger based accounting. And the Internet is a little bit different. There's aspects of the, you know, sorry, printing, there's aspects of the Internet where you're writing, there's aspects of crypto where you're owning the thing itself. And there's also aspects of both AI in the metaverse, where print was seen as like black magic. People who read at scale and looked at these images, it was synthetic. They thought it would take away the artist's jobs.
00:17:12.030 - 00:17:47.046, Speaker A: They left their location, they left their body, they read something, and they went somewhere else and they came back with other knowledge, basically, that they wouldn't have been able to get anywhere else. There's these bi directional portals where they were able to come back with knowledge and impact change their life in the real world. So it was completely crazy. So that's the overarching idea that we have these renaissances, not just fourth generational attorneys, but these great grand sweeps every few hundred years. And it tends to be driven by communities using decentralized technology to unwind institutional hegemony, particularly when the technology outpaces the institutions. So I'll just pause there. That's the thesis.
00:17:47.046 - 00:17:48.614, Speaker A: And how about that?
00:17:49.714 - 00:18:56.982, Speaker C: Yeah, it's incredible. And obviously there's huge, huge amount of stuff that we could go into there. But it seems strange, doesn't it, that obviously we started as like hunter gatherers tens of thousands of years ago, completely decentralized. And just naturally there's this human nature where we just inevitably, you have the powerful few, don't you, who can somehow claim the authority and push the majority of the population down to the bottom level, even though no one would have chosen that from that original sort of completely decentralized state. So there's just sort of this seemingly natural push towards becoming completely centralized. And then it feels like it was only through technology, really, that maybe the tools were suddenly there to allow people to break away from those chains. So do you feel that technology is the only way, really to break away from this? And why humans so attracted to centralized society and institutions?
00:18:57.158 - 00:19:28.678, Speaker A: Oh, man, now we're getting into it, the philosophy and historiography. So there's a couple different ways to look at this, right? If you look at the grand arc swinging back and forth through history, I definitely see it as this pendulum in a clock swinging back and forth between aggregation and decentralization. There's this natural, there's seas and control of power. And it's really important to understand in terms of stability of a civilization. Like the historiographers, they talk about it in stages. Basically, bureaucracy is a feature of the system. It's not a bug.
00:19:28.678 - 00:19:49.706, Speaker A: It creates stability, yes, it oppresses, yes, it resists change, it resists empowerment and sovereignty and all that sort of stuff, but it keeps the system stable by benefiting the few. That's the argument, basically, at least. And like, that's. It's. That's like, depending upon how you want to get into it, you're right. That's like the historical starting point. That's what tends to happen anytime you look at an unwinding.
00:19:49.706 - 00:21:04.288, Speaker A: It tends to be technologically driven and specifically technologically driven, not just with any technology, but usually with this decentralized technology, where there's. There's something in the code, not just it goes to a machine, but like, where it actually empowers distribution, distribution in not just a technical sense, but even in a value accrual sense, where it serves as a liberating economic substrate, and where it also allows communication without censorship. And so the ability to have decentralized exchange of value. So you can pursue activities which might be contrary to authoritarian regimes, as well as share ideas which likewise might be contrary to authority regimes. If you don't have those two abilities which are largely empowered by decentralized technology, it's really difficult to change that aggregation. And there's iterations of this, right? Like, I'm talking about the printing press, but you can go back to, like, late antiquity and turn look at the codex versus scroll technology, right? Or you can even go back into ancient Near east, which was one of my earlier fields of study, before classics, where you're not just looking at cuneiform or hieroglyphics, but you're looking at like a phoenician based Alphabet with, say, 26 characters. Now, you don't have to be a gilded priest, where very few people can memorize tens of thousands of symbols.
00:21:04.288 - 00:21:26.434, Speaker A: You just know 26 characters, and you can kind of get the gist of things. And so it's not just the printing press. Your point is well taken. There's always this idea of aggregation. The bitcoin guys are always talking about it in terms of store value and money, and that's true, but there's also a corresponding analog in terms of communication and ownership around that. And also your identity. All three of these things are like threads that are interwoven.
00:21:26.434 - 00:22:04.926, Speaker A: And anytime you break out of that hegemony, that system of control, in which if you do a really good job, you don't have to militarily oppress your people, you don't even have to threaten it. You can just kind of shape the contours of their thought, which gets into the whole philosophical other thread. We can go down. But the way you unwind that is by using these types of decentralized technology, which allow individuals, through social coordination, to share economics, which something you need to live, and also the ideas to pursue other things. And the nature of that is a fundamental fracturing. Basically, with the late Middle Ages, he moved from a one thing to an alternative. And then as soon as you have one alternative, you have dozens of alternatives.
00:22:04.926 - 00:22:25.898, Speaker A: And like chaos, that was the criticism. You move from a beautiful cathedral into a bazaar of, like, insanity. There's wars of religion and wars following up after that. And that's the gloss, the kind of way you teach undergraduates or you teach it at college. Now you go from this beautiful hierarchy into kind of chaos. When the Renaissance cracked open, that's actually just like bad pr. The wars of religion and other wars.
00:22:25.898 - 00:23:49.744, Speaker A: There were always wars, there were always conflicts. The difference post renaissance was now that things were in print, you could actually see, you had visibility into the conflict, which was always hidden in chat, which was much more opaque previously. And so history going back and forth between centralization and decentralization, usually technology and communities, the social matrix of the use of that technology is what I see driving it. And the question is, does it just swing back and forth neutrally, or does it ratchet up in one direction or another direction is a very interesting question. The decentralized technology in these iterations are much more substantive, but so too are the tools of control and surveillance and crafting your Overton window and shaping thoughts subtly through all sorts of facade, or call it a spectacle, different things that philosophers like to talk about. So I definitely see that as like a continuing iteration of history, from ancient nares through late antiquity, through the Middle Ages, through the Renaissance, with a reaggregation, post Renaissance, into the rise of the state. And then where we are today, which you can talk about a series of global revolutions as an extension of the Renaissance, and we can kind of get into that, not as american revolution, but global triangulation around that with Britain and France and then the United States, is very much this pursuit of, a pursuit of the idea of, you know, not just political purity but pragmatic.
00:23:49.744 - 00:24:27.820, Speaker A: Keep your hand out of my pocket. The ability to pursue your entrepreneurial dreams. Now that you're out of this shift, where in the Middle Ages the church was the majority landowner by the dissolution of the monasteries, by unlocking the monks and the nuns and saying, hey, get out of the cloister, go marry, create a family, work for your neighbor, undertake enterprise. That was the birth of proto capitalism, and it created wealth from people using these tools, where even if the regimes didn't like the idea of losing control, what they created was so valuable, it forced them into a finger trap in which they could ignore the technology. Like print. Try to say, don't use it, don't use it, don't use it. But as it gains grounds, they have to use it.
00:24:27.820 - 00:24:59.424, Speaker A: Same thing with the financial primitives and the communities that use that. You can either ignore them and marginalize them, which is always institutional's first instinct, to try to tamp it down. But then as that accrues value, which it inevitably does, because the community is using the technology is generative in nature, they become so valuable, you don't want to lose out. And there's a global triangulation game that goes. So that's the macro thesis in a nutshell. That's a good question. We could get into structuralism and geography and centralization and all that sort of stuff, but I think your finger's on the right pulse for sure.
00:25:00.284 - 00:25:00.932, Speaker B: Absolutely.
00:25:00.988 - 00:25:01.624, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:25:03.124 - 00:25:07.504, Speaker B: Just to kind of elaborate a bit on what we just talked about here.
00:25:07.884 - 00:25:16.232, Speaker A: I'm sorry, I'm throwing a lot of stuff at you quickly. I never know how high or how low to go or where to aim the arrow. We can go more detail or more summarized, whatever you like.
00:25:16.408 - 00:25:55.656, Speaker B: No, this is great. And to kind of keep going on that thread here, because I totally agree. I think it is a pendulum where we're swinging between centralizing forces and kind of decentralizing forces enabled by technology. Let's actually make some the analogies a bit more concrete here, where I think the point you're making is that the printing press not only allowed knowledge to disseminate, but allowed new knowledge to be created. It was a generative thing that enabled new forms of content to disperse throughout the society, which is super cool insight. I think it makes a ton of sense. I think the analog to that today is like language models, like chat chapt and things like that.
00:25:55.656 - 00:26:56.514, Speaker B: I think that certain just generally generative AI at Dolly and these types of image generation models, and now you're doing it for film and things like that. Music. Totally see that happening already. And then your point was on the financial side, ledgers and bookkeeping back at the end of the Middle Ages, which enabled the renaissance to happen. And I guess the point we're making here is that crypto is kind of that modern day equivalent. And so I guess the question I'm asking here is it seems like we're moving towards this to bring back the pendulum analogy, we're moving towards decentralization and even stepping outside of crypto, just what's happening politically in America and other countries, too, where things do feel like they're a bit more unstable and they are moving away from a trust in establishments and the bureaucracy that's been keeping things stable for the history of America so far. Tell us a bit more about your views on where we're at today.
00:26:57.174 - 00:27:29.332, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, no, sure. There's a lot to unpack in that. Yeah. So, absolutely. To make it concrete, crypto as the new ledger based accounting and a massive unlock creating generation a new type of business model. We called it entrepreneurship at scale, decentralizing, allowing people to make a living, pursuing different things outside the determined. So it wasn't just that you could do new things, it was also the idea of doing something new, which was craziness.
00:27:29.332 - 00:28:25.434, Speaker A: And the alternative, rather than being subject to an institution, just accepting that by default because you're born into it, the idea that you could actually choose which institution you wanted to have affiliations with, you could choose which community and which network of individuals, political, economic, militarily, philosophical, religious, theological. The idea of having choice was radical, and it was generative, not just because the technology was generative. It allowed people to pursue new ideas on the edges of the box of thought. That was the Overton window of a hegemonic construct. And so pursuing these weird, esoteric things, having the economic substrate to be able to pursue them, and the means of communicating the ideas that you could make a choice and you could pursue these details and then sharing that knowledge, that was fundamentally transformative. And what happened as a result of that, just to carry the story forward, was it's a fracturing. You had one thing, one series of institutions, one type of authority.
00:28:25.434 - 00:28:55.484, Speaker A: And when you say, that's illegitimate, and this is like luther showing like, authority figures getting pooped out of demons and the bowels of hell, I mean, it's like crazy stuff, right? Which is tantamount to us saying, like, money, printer, go burr, like, for sure. But when you say, like, the memes of not just that. Yeah, no, absolutely. When you say not just that, is illegitimate, there are other alternatives, and you as an individual can make a sovereign choice between these things and you're not going to be completely marginalized. You can actually, like, make a living doing that. And it might be advantageous for you in a generative sense. That's.
00:28:55.484 - 00:29:32.680, Speaker A: That was radical. And so there is a pluralistic explosion. Now, there wasn't just one thing, there was not just two things. There was the opening of a spectrum with design space all along the space between the poles that allowed people to pursue these different things. And so now we had one political regime, financial regime, control of language and communication, thought, ideology. You have multiple expressions of that and multiple communities forming, and yet there's a tension because they're forming within the institutional confines of a state, an early state, or of a financial institution. And you have these identities for them.
00:29:32.680 - 00:30:24.036, Speaker A: The idea of having one king, one faith, one society, one community, this unity was the thing that drove the medieval dream. And there's echoes of this as you go from late antiquity into the splitting with early Christianity and Constantine. The idea, if you're not all bound in a construct to the emperor, whether it's the. The emperor, emperor, the Holy Roman emperor, like you're essentially allowing sedition. And it wasn't crazy for them to think that was the case, because there's all this economic generation happening outside the space of institutional control, and it puts them in a very difficult situation. So you have a fracturing of pluralism, you have different people competing, saying, hey, we as minorities, whether it's religious, sociological, social, economic, do we have rights? What are the nature of those rights? How do we create political structures to represent those rights? This is a series of wars of religion. There are always wars.
00:30:24.036 - 00:31:21.680, Speaker A: Before, you just never had access to the site it eventually culminated with. And I'll play the story fast forward, but it's important just to get a sense of that, where we get to our history. That culminated with the edict of Nantes, which was not really well known, no one's into it, but it was the first federated expression with checks and balances, with religious socioeconomic liberty, for marginalized communities within a structure. And it was a beautiful blueprint which a lot of the american institute, which we drew upon significantly. And there's a diaspora of people pursuing, if you couldn't pursue, if you couldn't, if you couldn't, if you didn't, even within those rights, if you didn't feel as if all things are being equal and you wanted to strike out on your own, they went into different geographic locations, not just the american states and the colonies into South America. And there's all these forgotten histories that have, you know, people that didn't make it as a colony. And I forgot largely in the states, they did.
00:31:21.680 - 00:31:56.998, Speaker A: There's this Renaissance dream, like pursuing this protestant work ethic and the spirit of capitalism. These two things are highly intertwined. And I realize people criticize Max Weber and his critics have critics, and their critics have critics, but the idea of not being in a monastery, of it's just as holy to be out, like running a shop was radical for them when they did that. That created a massive economic generation. And states fought nation, states fought to control that. Eventually that edict was revoked. Everybody went all over the place, including to the american colony.
00:31:56.998 - 00:32:37.372, Speaker A: And essentially, we did this revolution thing partially as a result of that, this taxation without representation. But it was also this idea of the French would say it was just a civil war where the succeeding states won, as they opinion, because it wasn't a class inversion, it was actually a geographic expansion where the succession was won. That's how they viewed the american revolution. But the point of the story was they were pursuing economics unencumbered by the institution. Once again, they're using this new technology print, they're using ledger based accounting to be able to strike out following this new value creation. And they didn't feel they were getting a fair shake with institutions of the time. There's a series of global rebellions and revolutions all happening at the same time.
00:32:37.372 - 00:32:54.464, Speaker A: Time and international triangulation. And so the point of the story is, like, that's our history, that's our origin. And, like, we tend to teach this, where you have, you know, the Renaissance, and then you have american history, and then the american revolution is done, and then we go into something else. I don't know. And, like, that's the end of the story. But that's not the case. Like, the american revolution lasted.
00:32:54.464 - 00:33:13.360, Speaker A: It was a continuous affair. We rejected the first constitution. We said, we don't want a federal bank. We fought a lot. Like Jefferson, the Federalist went forth. It was craziness. And at the end of the day, we settled on this idea of checks and balances with safe spaces and safe harbors to pursue financial experimentation unencumbered.
00:33:13.360 - 00:33:38.480, Speaker A: All throughout that, there is a series of ongoing, don't call them american revolutions, but those people would have seen as a continuation of revolution. Shays rebellion, paying off revolutionary debt. Most importantly, whiskey rebellion is worth a quick note on these are people in Appalachia. So now you have read something that says you don't have to be a monk. You can go be an entrepreneur. You might be a smith, you might be a shopkeeper. But farmers were actually the most entrepreneurial of all entrepreneurs.
00:33:38.480 - 00:33:51.296, Speaker A: Sometimes things grow, sometimes they don't grow. It's craziness. If you plant too much, you drive the price down. If you plant too little, you have a famine. What do you do? You overprant. And then you arbitrage by distilling it into whiskey. It wasn't just a bunch of hillbillies getting drunk.
00:33:51.296 - 00:34:15.300, Speaker A: It was a sophisticated financial supply chain mechanism. And that actually became currency, because just like the middle ages, you had a shortage of currency, like, in that new nation. And so they used whiskey as currency. Unregulated KYC and, like. So what happened was, there's a crackdown on that. I said, you couldn't do that, use that as currency, and just general crackdown. And so it was unfair, it was uninformed, and people rebelled as a response to that.
00:34:15.300 - 00:34:54.303, Speaker A: They didn't just crush the rebellion, it went back and forth. And there was, like, the point was ongoing conflict of parties and the settlement. The way they frame this was thinking about it in terms of a great experiment. Rather than having things behind closed doors, we're going to air all our dirty laundry and fight it out in the open and experiment and fail in public, which is the American Renaissance or american revolution in a nutshell. What that means is institutions always have the advantage when you try something new. So if you resist, or if you try to do something new or innovative, particularly if you're creating value or communication or changing identity, you're always going to get beaten to a pulp early on. And the bet is that you're going to be able to figure it out over time, even though you're doing it in public.
00:34:54.303 - 00:35:14.863, Speaker A: And so that seems like ancient history, renaissance history, american history. But that's, like, who we are, even in our own lifetimes. If you think about, oh, the SEC is feisty, that's actually what you should expect at the Renaissance. At the revolution, money was worth something. It wasn't worth something. Authority was falling apart. The world as you know it is literally an Armageddon.
00:35:14.863 - 00:35:40.756, Speaker A: What are you going to do? That isn't the signal that a movement is going to die. Movements die with a fizzle and a whimper. That's a leading indicator that's substantively, historically transformative. And so the continuation of that, just like we're medieval farmers, we just aren't aware that this is like our world, because it's the air we breathe. We've been doing this for decades. Even in our own lifetimes. Like anytime there's something new and transformative, our immediate reaction is not only to regulate it, to ban it.
00:35:40.756 - 00:36:01.800, Speaker A: Obvious things like cars. We tried to ban cars and we said, okay, I guess we'll have seatbelts. But things like. Much more on point, like fractionalized equity, the company, a limited liability company. We fought that like mad. That was trashed in Twitter and Apple newsfeed of the day. And the newspapers, they said, if you have a limited liability company and fractionalized equity, it's going to be disaster.
00:36:01.800 - 00:36:21.078, Speaker A: That's why you have oil barons and railroad barons. You only work with family and people you can trust. Otherwise they can sue you. It's an indemnification function. And so by fractionalizing equity, all hell's going to break out, et cetera, et cetera. We tried to ban that until we didn't. That created what we know as the stock market or the Nasdaq, like, right? So we tried to ban the Dow.
00:36:21.078 - 00:36:44.932, Speaker A: Just think about that for a second. And then when that didn't work, we decided regulators weren't just going to make sure that it was a fair playing field, but we were going to choose what you could invest in. So classic examples like Massachusetts, like Banning saying you can't buy Apple stock at the IPO because it's too risky. If you were to put it one k in, it'd be worth 1.25 today. Right? Like, this is what we do. That's even in the eighties, that's how we go about it.
00:36:44.932 - 00:37:19.708, Speaker A: And if we're not doing that, as technology outpaces the institutions, we often try to use the shells or craft of the institutions to try to not just regulate the technology and tax it, but actually tax the control of the communication and form identity, which is much more subtle and philosophical. It's a form of hegemony. Great example is the United States post office. We've kind of forgotten about this. They tried to run email. We wanted to have ECOM services run by USP's, basically them running servers, giving every citizen. Once you kyc'd in an email, that was us.
00:37:19.708 - 00:37:41.372, Speaker A: And the executives, they have great quotes. They say, hey, we have a plan. Every American gets a free email for now with suffix us. It's a great opportunity for the postal service if we can control mailboxes and what's sent effectively. Certainly we control email addresses. When that didn't work, they tried to tax email. That's written off as like, silliness now, but multiple senators like we've done that significantly, not just tax, send you a bill for email.
00:37:41.372 - 00:38:11.196, Speaker A: We do it through ISP, like taxes and fees. Now more sophisticated. Same thing with global financial derivatives. We avoided gold and ETF's through the flight creation of the eurodollar flight into the UK and London. Basically was us responding to financial innovation in the traditional banking system, or even more closely to home. You can think about things like net neutrality or code as free speech. When we first started encryption, it was considered a munition, which gets you landed in prison.
00:38:11.196 - 00:38:41.104, Speaker A: That encryption is the basis for online credit card payment, e commerce, trillions of dollars. You wouldn't be able to everything that creates economic generation in technology, particularly if it's more distributed outside like an institution that's mismatched, we try to ban it. And so crypto, of course we're doing this. It's right on par. Part of this is an innovator's dilemma. Part of it's just positioning, because the bureaucrats, it's a safe bet for them to make, to fight something, particularly if they're going to be out in a couple of years. The lawsuits aren't going to be resolved.
00:38:41.104 - 00:39:03.218, Speaker A: You get all the benefits, none of the egg on your face. And so you should expect institutions to have first movers advantage. You should expect volatility. But what you're betting on is that by opening the kimono and exposing the underbelly, all this stuff happens in the traditional world, you're just not seeing. And so by exposing that, you're going to get punched very early on. And if you're an entrepreneur and have done a startup, you know what that's like. You're going to get punched.
00:39:03.218 - 00:39:34.494, Speaker A: Crypto is rendering everyone into an entrepreneur, so expect an uphill fight. Volatility, that's a good sign. And where we're at right now is there's a further acceleration between the delta for institutional technology, outpacing institutions. Part of that is with crypto is this new printing press, which is fundamentally different than what we've seen before. And working in conjunction with a series of other new technologies, AI as well. Not necessarily. There's a bit of a frenemies dynamic where technologies have different drivers.
00:39:34.494 - 00:39:59.448, Speaker A: Some are centralized with the locusts, some are decentralized, some have economic generation across the long tail. Some are like in a fang model, like a medieval lord. They're harvesting the fruits here, interaction. And so like, we're at this path to see how this shakes out. Back Dave Deere's point, like, does technology always like liberate not always. Like, the way to frame it up is if you have decentralization, it's because of technology. But technology doesn't necessarily decentralize.
00:39:59.448 - 00:40:07.104, Speaker A: And so that's the point we're at as things are accelerating, where we get into crypto and AI. How about that as a recap of the past few hundred years?
00:40:08.124 - 00:40:09.544, Speaker B: Not bad. Not bad.
00:40:10.324 - 00:40:30.544, Speaker A: I'm joking because historians hate it when you summarize things. So we're just moving along. Like, then there's a revolution and there's something else. But, like, that's a. The point I hope you take away from it is that we try to ban every good thing that generates, you know, benefit for citizens until other countries force our hand and eventually we figure it out and it's baked into the nature of our system.
00:40:31.124 - 00:40:33.024, Speaker B: Yeah, to your point leading indicator.
00:40:34.284 - 00:41:03.416, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. And the difference is, like, I mean, I literally mean that when I say crypto turns everyone into an entrepreneur. As an entrepreneur, if you've done this, you know what it's like, right? One day you're on top of the world, one day you're getting crushed. Somebody gives you an ice cream cone. Tyson punches you in the face, right? It's like, wait, what's going on? It's craziness. You typically haven't experienced that if you haven't been an entrepreneur because somebody is arbitraging this volatility on your behalf and at your expense. And so now you have visibility into this and you can choose to participate.
00:41:03.416 - 00:42:03.744, Speaker A: And not insignificantly, the communication models are all not just with a different technology, but a different business model that isn't aligned with creation and generation of not transformative knowledge, but with harvesting interaction, where you throw off data which is worth ungodly amounts of money. Data is the oil which is powered FAANG as a global state. For the past several decades, you give that away for free. You've been trained to give it away for a cheap subscription or a freemium crypto allows you not just to invest some money in a coin, but to monetize your own data, which is, depending upon who's math you believe, worth seven, eight figures over your lifetime. Not just to monetize your own data, but to use that for product development to generate alpha. There's various trading platforms coming online where instead of having a mosaic effect where you have things de identified, you can opt in and create that and get equity as a part of that. So even as AI is doing jobs for you, you might be getting generative value out of that, actually accelerating.
00:42:03.744 - 00:42:31.898, Speaker A: So there's ways. This can work out over time, but it makes you an entrepreneur. People aren't used to getting punched in the face. That was experienced during the Renaissance, that was experienced during global revolutions. And it's only this weird little period for 40 years post Bretton woods where everybody's kind of safe and hanging out is like institutions are aging and there's no volatility, so our default is like mismatched. We're in the historical exception. And that might have worked for boomers, but that's like, that is not going to work over time.
00:42:31.898 - 00:42:43.734, Speaker A: Just demographically. It's not even pejorative. It's like you're not going to benefit in the same way. So you either bet against the market or get in big on something early. So you now have an opportunity. You're now aware. So volatility is leading indicator.
00:42:45.574 - 00:43:28.740, Speaker C: It strikes me that back in the middle ages, in order to have this transformative change to society, you needed not just the idea, which could be propagated through the printing press, but you also needed the means, which came about from the double entry bookkeeping. And I think this conversation comes at a really interesting time in the market because obviously we're sort of in our second year of the bear market in crypto. A lot of people are saying, maybe it was a scam all along, maybe it is completely useless. But look at this nice shiny AI thing that's going on. That seems exciting. But it strikes me that there's a really good analog here, that the AI side of things, and probably Internet as well. Is that the idea mechanism, almost.
00:43:28.740 - 00:43:41.164, Speaker C: But you need the crypto element. If you want to opt out of nation states, if you want to opt out of the traditional banking system, you need the means in order to do that, not just the idea.
00:43:41.464 - 00:44:21.784, Speaker A: No, that's so well said. There's ways that this can be antagonistic. Obviously, if you're following a FAANG model where there's a couple companies controlling AI as a subscription service, and they're using data that they've already created, and you're in some sort of model where you're giving your data to them and the result of a society subscription, you're not going to participate in the generation in a meaningful or significant way. There are a variety of ways where this does work out as a virtuous cycle proof of humanity. You can think of this as not like universal basic income, but equity. Instead of you throwing your data away, you actually get ownership in the generation by contributing. We're trained to think of data as not valuable.
00:44:21.784 - 00:45:04.404, Speaker A: But like Google isn't a computing company, it's a data company. Amazon isn't a ship, you a little box company, it's a data company. This has driven the greatest accumulation of wealth and history by us contributing data. Now we have a mechanism for accrual on that. And so like proof of humanity, like data, but also the ability to like even kind of in the real world to turn your cost centers into revenue generation. And so like that, that's like a different idea that allows you to pursue these different, these different business models in a FAANG dominated world. And if AI is part of that Faang model, you have these moats, right? As an entrepreneur, the first question venture capitalist asked you, how are you going to break through the moat? Right? How are you going to break through the moat? And it's very difficult.
00:45:04.404 - 00:45:35.320, Speaker A: It's a legit question to ask. Cryptos power isn't just better, faster, cheaper, but it's solving the moat problem. It's solving the zero to one problem. That's why deepen in particular is super fascinating. What has the biggest moat? It might be healthcare, it might be biotech, it's probably telco, it's physical infrastructure, it's billions in opex a year. How can you create a network? Well, you can over incentivize early adopters until you have meaningful network effects. The ability to overcome moats and crack through economic institutions which are stagnant have horrible NP's scores.
00:45:35.320 - 00:46:16.352, Speaker A: That's stunning. That's the power of crypto is a business model which can overcome moats and also allow you to pursue esoteric interests which esoteric interests, things along the edges which are not economically viable for venture capital but are just as lifestyle. A lot of the most interesting things come out of that. Once you're a public company, you're rarely innovating your way into a next unfold. It's like Apple buys something, Google buys Android. And so the ability to go after these things instead of going through a VC's Rolodex is incredibly powerful. So how does AI and crypto play together? If you think of crypto as a biz model, which we're typically not talking about that we typically talk about crypto as finance.
00:46:16.352 - 00:46:58.442, Speaker A: I'm pushing the envelope by saying it's also communication. When I say communication, I don't just mean a new Twitter, I mean the broadcast layer which can get cut. So that's why deepen super important, the mobile piece of the stack. That's why things like Solana, SMS incredibly important. However you like controlling the stack like a to z is super important for that communication. But even if history rhymes, it tends to follow this path with these five buckets where you start out with finance and then you move into identity and value accrued. Then new types of work at companies, which we're getting into with crypto and AI, and we go through some more of the details and then into education, not just institutional certification, but perspicuity on chain.
00:46:58.442 - 00:47:46.124, Speaker A: Like your GitHub repository is proof of attendance, proof of experience, proof of expertise, which can be done through different models of governments, quadratically weighted or weighted by previous expertise. And so instead of having to use an institutional stamp or seal on a diploma as a proxy, you can work directly. And so if you have expertise that allows monetization, and so AI may end up being very similar to open source, it creates a tremendous amount of value, but the value accrues adjacent to it. How do you monetize that value? Dave, to your point, crypto is a monetization mechanism which can be structured in a way to give disproportionate upside to people as participants, is the only way I see preventing dystopia. Basically, if you're worried about AI dystopia, you better damn well be getting into crypto.
00:47:48.534 - 00:48:18.294, Speaker B: I want to. Maybe not necessarily the right phrase might not be play devil's advocate because I am bullish on this thesis, but kind of. Let's talk about this view a little bit more in some detail, where you have these two forces, the web, two way of doing things. To your point, your Facebooks and Googles of the world. The user is the product, their data is being harvested by the company, and they're making billions of dollars from you and from all the users. And what do you get? You get to use the product free. That's it.
00:48:18.294 - 00:48:47.574, Speaker B: And theoretically, crypto, yes. You know, if you make a decentralized version of that, maybe decentralized Airbnb, for instance, you can cut out these rent seekers that are sitting in the middle. User gets a cheaper rate, the person putting up their house gets to make more money. It's theoretically, I think it makes a ton of sense. And I think Peter Thiel famously said this in 2018. Maybe he's revised it, but he used to say, crypto is libertarian, AI is communist. And I think that analogy holds up in a lot of cases.
00:48:47.574 - 00:49:44.850, Speaker B: The reason why I bring this up kind of from the other view, is that we saw this cycle with daos specifically, like last year we saw in the ICO bubble, where everyone wants to decentralize everything, and none of these protocols ever really take off and we can speculate as to why. I think one of those reasons is that it turns out having a centralized planner for a new application or business, it's a very efficient way to get things done. And having a massive discord of thousands of people trying to coordinate on how to build a protocol, and nothing gets done. And you have voter apathy issues and all these other issues that pop up. Haven't really seen anyone successfully, like, disintermediate social media, for instance. I know there's protocols out there that are trying to do it, but the numbers aren't even that impressive. Even stepping outside of crypto, for instance, and just like the decentralized Twitter, I forget what it's called.
00:49:44.850 - 00:50:08.514, Speaker B: Macedon, I think. And even, like the truth social and what Trump put out, they struggle to get any adoption. I don't know, how do you react to sort of like, this idea that theoretically, what we're talking about makes so much sense, but yet we haven't seen a decentralized approach to doing this work out yet? Why is that?
00:50:09.054 - 00:50:36.442, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a super good question. There's a couple different ways to tackle that. So one way to think about it is just how early we are. You asked me about being a founder before. When you're a founder, what you do is you build some software where you're using something similar to what you guys were using, like tableau on a lamp stack that you go off in the corner. Your code's closed, you don't really have community interaction. You have some clients, you can kind of deal with them a little bit.
00:50:36.442 - 00:50:55.102, Speaker A: You don't have a stock price, you have valuation, people aren't. It's kind of black box. People really don't know about it. Like now all of a sudden, like with crypto. So that's like a different playbook from AI. A buy is you build the product, you do the regulatory work, you release the product into a warm field, and then it's already fed a company. And what are you going to do? Oh, ban it.
00:50:55.102 - 00:51:10.754, Speaker A: That's your playbook. Crypto is very different. Building in the open, you're sharing the size of startup. You have a stock price from day one. That's craziness. If we had a stock price, it'd be horrifying. You'd be up 1000% one day, down negative infinity the next day.
00:51:10.754 - 00:51:33.994, Speaker A: If a competitor could fork our code to force our product development, complete insanity. If the clients are talking to one another and saying, hey, this is, it's like you're doing something. You're now playing like 60 chess or whatever, right? So, like, part of it is like we're doing a type of entrepreneurship that is fundamentally new. It is like the renaissance. It's like we just, we haven't done this before. And so, like, that's part of it. And you have visibility into it and the institutions are stacked against that.
00:51:33.994 - 00:52:02.342, Speaker A: It's going to, like, you're going to lose the early rounds. It's just your, your team that's constructed to, like, lose early. It doesn't mean you're going to win, but if you win, it's not going to, it's going to be like a late stage comeback. Right? So that's like, that's part of it just to kind of set, like, what we're seeing. And so what I mean by that is our time. Our perception of time gets, gets fundamentally compressed in this, right? We say, why hasn't this happened yet? Oh, we have lens and farcaster and like D. So it's like, it's like a year old, two years old.
00:52:02.342 - 00:52:27.234, Speaker A: We haven't put it out. It's like, oh, by the way, we didn't even have like abstraction layers. We kind of had to hand do hooks or whatever. Right? Okay, that's difficult. And so, like, part of none of the talent, like, it's a bunch of like, tech guys basically writing it where it's like the tech led, like a startup instead of the web. Two folks like getting in and doing decent Ui and ux. And so like our time compression on that, like, usually it takes, you know, two years, three years, four years, five years.
00:52:27.234 - 00:52:52.252, Speaker A: Like the different, usually it would be black box. When you're aware of it, you'd say, oh, it only took a year or two. The difference is, like, now you're seeing it in the early stages. You have visibility into a startup as an investor, you see that and you see craziness, right? You see startups never gaining adoption, always about to fall apart, and then it clicks. Bam. And you said, oh, I knew it all along, right? You take credit for it as investors, you say, that's my idea. I knew they were going to do it or whatever, right? Like, you are not only an entrepreneur, you are an investor.
00:52:52.252 - 00:53:10.502, Speaker A: Like, that's what's also crazy about crypto, right? You don't have to have a Rolodex to be an LP and a VC. Like it's volatile enough. You can do a synthetic thing. Oh, you like the multicoin guys, but you're not in it as an LP. Just do Matthew balls like co op indexing and do the same thing right where the tokens are volatile enough. Do it yourself. So you now have like unprecedented opportunities.
00:53:10.502 - 00:53:41.490, Speaker A: Entrepreneur as an investor, but you haven't seen either of these things yet. So our sense of like time and expectations is, gets whacked. The other thing I'd say is like, and this is super important, like into a multi chain thesis too. The way like history works is you have one thing and it's centralized and then you introduce a decentralized thing and everybody says oh frick, that's I'm all in on the decentralized thing and only that decentralized thing. Maybe it's a sheer decentralization, like a Dao. Maybe it's my chain of choice and everything else is trash. Whatever it is.
00:53:41.490 - 00:54:08.240, Speaker A: Like the way technology is using or communities using technology works is it opens up a pole, it opens up a spectrum of design space. So the idea is that different. You know, you're going to slide the lever in different ways for different like design and use cases. Some Daos might work really well, totally decentralized, especially when we have infrastructure and tooling like weighted quadratic voting, blah blah blah blah blah blah. Like some might not work that way at all. And it might be better to have a curated experience. Some might be somewhere in between.
00:54:08.240 - 00:54:42.872, Speaker A: And so by opening up a pole on the spectrum, it allows cambrian exposure of design space. And so we're like little kids where you say slam decentralization is cool and it's good to be enthusiastic about it. We've been like chained in bounds just getting a breath of air. Of course you're going to say oh man, I want to breathe free. But being able to intelligently make choices on the design space, that's like you're seeing the failures of like these other things that would usually be black box and you usually wouldn't be privy to them or discussing them. What happens in the iteration is you start to get intelligent about where you set the slides on the design space for different use cases. And I think these things can coexist.
00:54:42.872 - 00:55:24.730, Speaker A: Pluralistic construct not only like within how much decentralization within a thing, they'll be totally decentralized things, very centralized things, different permutations of it on like whatever your consulting grid is. And the same thing with chains, like something as a pure value swap might work, something that's not even money, but it's just like essentially like a version of like a cell system running on a blockchain like, using turbine to get as fast as you possibly can might work better for other use cases. And so, like, that's a super good question. So, to summarize, you have visibility into what you haven't seen before. Time gets screwed up. You see all the warts, you don't see the success until that comes after. And, like, you go through these iterations of like, picking and figuring out how to do design space, you're just seeing the sausage being made right now.
00:55:24.730 - 00:55:49.146, Speaker A: So of course everybody's crazy and say, why not? Why hasn't this happened yet? Which is actually awesome. That's what you want people to say. And like, AI, just one last thing. Like, that's shiny. That's like, the theorists talk about it in terms of an object of sociality. It's like something from the Jetsons, right? It's like this iPhone, you're like, look, it's shiny, it's awesome. You share it around, people touch it and they go into it like crypto's like HTTP, right? It's like what? It's this protocol, like it's some weird code thing.
00:55:49.146 - 00:56:07.072, Speaker A: My email works. What happened? Like, I don't get it, basically. And what you do see through history is you see false forks all the time, and often those are the least successful and are walked back and you forget about them. People don't remember Betamax anymore. You only remember vhs, you don't remember Laserdisc. You might not remember the Internet. That can't persist.
00:56:07.072 - 00:56:39.814, Speaker A: Andreessen's original sent, we couldn't persist state, except for on very specific protocols. We farmed out state, which was data capture and value accrual two fang drove Nasdaq, and now we can persistate. So we're going to have to undo that, and that's going to take a little bit. And we should expect all hell to break out, not only from regulators, but from every entrenched business model. And these things will probably coexist. You'll probably have web, two versions of this stuff working, idea that you can have anything else, but for a brief change, that's an amazing opportunity. So it's good to be anxious.
00:56:39.814 - 00:56:49.284, Speaker A: But the thing to take away from this is crypto makes you an entrepreneur, and it makes you an investor, not just with your money, but with your time and attention. The incredible valuable data you throw off. How about that?
00:56:50.144 - 00:57:14.154, Speaker B: Love it, love it. I kind of said differently, is that crypto primitives and this notion of data being on chain subjects, users, investors, whatever you want to call them, to the chaos of the real world in a way that has been obfuscated by layers of middlemen, whether it's investors, lP's, so on and so forth. So I think that that's a. That makes a lot of sense. It's a good way to put it.
00:57:14.774 - 00:57:28.614, Speaker A: I love this conversation. You can summarize my inanity into something that, like, sounds good, basically. And Dave will just keep asking me about middle ages, which is like, current events coming. It's like current events for him coming from like a classics background. And like, hey, just two other slight twists on that, too, right?
00:57:28.654 - 00:57:28.966, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:57:29.030 - 00:57:53.006, Speaker A: Like, so that means the idea of investment changes like vc is historically super conservative, right? You put in your money, you wait till something happens. You don't need to know when to get out. Right? And so now you need to know when to exit. That's difficult. How do I go about doing that? That's a different type of skill. And it's not just Rolodex that's important. And so, not only contributing your time and attention, but you being able to opt in your data.
00:57:53.006 - 00:58:30.350, Speaker A: Like crypto, unlocks different ways. Typically when you're doing data and open data, we mentioned in my background before, you have to firewall this stuff. I can't tie my Internet data, to my shopping data, to my credit card data. That has to be like, I can buy roll ups from various vendors and so sources and Google can proxy it, but usually it's firewalled and de identified, unless I, as an individual, opt in. If I opt in, that's a qualitatively different type of pv out predictive, like power that is massive. And so you see online, you see, and that contributes to product development. So you getting a piece of ownership in that thing you contribute to might not just be music and it's cheap and you don't have to pay a subscription.
00:58:30.350 - 00:59:09.970, Speaker A: And maybe the coin goes up. It might be a qualitatively, it might generate alpha. There's things I'm not an investor in Delphia, but that's a model that's worth looking and how they do that. And that's a pretty good example. And even if you're not into the investing thing, what crypto does allow you to do is it allows you to pursue these esoteric interests that wouldn't otherwise be viable, right? Like if you were in Louisville, Kentucky, it's like blue collar, right? Like if you're opening up a coffee shop, like all your cost centers, you pay $10 for Apple Music or whatever. If you want to run music at a bar or at a coffee shop. It's ten k licensing fee to Sony, and they're calling up your employees all the time, yelling at them, right? And so you using something like audius? Like, no, seriously, like, using something like Audi's.
00:59:09.970 - 00:59:44.854, Speaker A: It's not $50 a month, it's ten k a year, right? And like, basically, if you want to do a business and you don't know how to code, like, the problem with Audius is a lot of its backend. It's used by games and movies. It's like not a good UI Ux experience. You could throw up a splash page, like, to give all the controls for different types of genre and curate the thing. You could do that as a 14 year old kid. And like, the way the incentive structure is like, works, the longer the play, the creation, you could actually generate these interesting lifestyle businesses that are particularly follow your interests. Edgar Allan Poe cafe may not be viable until you say, oh, I can offset my rent and my mortgage with Dpin.
00:59:44.854 - 01:00:13.546, Speaker A: I can stop paying 5% to Amex, but actually have auto staking on a perpetual swap and gain 5% that way. And now I have 10% not pay my ten k. You start stacking these things up. And where this also intersects with crypto or with AI is like, it's not just proof of humanity. Like, AI has no, no stopping point in terms of computational need. There has to be an economic, like, substrate to, like, do supply and demand balancing on AI. Like, AWS isn't going to do it.
01:00:13.546 - 01:00:42.434, Speaker A: And so, like, it's not just computing power, like render saying, oh, this will solve AI. If AI works, it's going to need a magnitude or larger computing power. It's also going to need an economic substrate to regulate that. Question is, who's going to do the value accrual on that regulation? Is it going to be FAANG OpenAI or is it going to be like you, through distributed computing? And if you did that, would that actually pay your mortgage and your employees? Like, pursuing something IRL, that's the opportunity. Does that make sense? Or is that too esoteric?
01:00:42.774 - 01:00:56.258, Speaker C: Well, I was enjoying that. Yeah, that last piece on AI. I was enjoying all of it. Yeah, that last piece. But I was just a bit confused what the difference is between something like render and then what you were just describing. Or is it the same thing in.
01:00:56.266 - 01:01:18.094, Speaker A: Terms of, no, it's the same thing. I think in a. I'm not saying this will work out this way, but if it is going to work, it's going to follow this path. That's like, in history, you always get dangerous. You have these playbooks and things tend to follow, like, paths, right? And, like, they're not deterministic or teleological. It doesn't mean if this happens, this will be the end result, but it means if you're going to get to the end result, it's going to follow a path at least of like this. So, yeah, it would be like render.
01:01:18.094 - 01:01:42.634, Speaker A: Like, you need computational power, magnitude order larger, so you're not doing that off Aws. And I can do it with render. Uh oh. I have like, a gaming rig here, right? Like, I put that on. Like, I'm doing that, like, literally at the bar here where we're using these gaming rigs, right? And so, like, I can not only pay for my game, but, like, I actually. If AI is going to get the computing power it needs, it's going to do something through that. The meta point I'm making is that, like, kind of bigger picture.
01:01:42.634 - 01:02:29.186, Speaker A: There is an insatiable demand for computing power, even with distributed computing through render and other things like it. How are you going to stop the demand? Well, there has to be an economic function to regulate that demand. That's where value will accrue. The question is, does it accrue through AWS, or does it accrue through render with you using it? By the way, I'm also using this as an illustration of my turning cost centers into revenue generation. Make a list of all the stuff you pay for and then say, hey, how do I actually, like, get paid for participating in that? If you have a rig down there you're using for a business, being able to do that, like, turn it on at night, like, that's a. You might end up making more from that than from your billable hours or in a design shop, which is like, crazy, but it allows you to pursue esoteric interests. And, like, that's where, like, the really interesting stuff comes from.
01:02:29.186 - 01:02:47.384, Speaker A: And, like, quite honestly, that's the stuff that, like, is meaningful in an AI or synthetic context. You want humans doing more of that, not less of that. So by AI working with crypto, that could be a virtuous cycle. I'm not saying it's going to be, but, like, if it is, it'll follow a pattern like that. Does that answer it or let me know if I'm getting too crazy?
01:02:48.524 - 01:03:37.590, Speaker C: No, no, but I really like the idea that. Yeah, that really what these technologies allow is optionality. You were talking about this sort of breaking away from hegemony. And obviously back in middle ages time, that was the ability to maybe enter the merchants class or to be able to get credit to maybe do up your house or something. And yeah, it's interesting what you're saying now that potentially there are ways that you can really finance your lifestyle and raise a family by turning your house almost into a revenue generating business, if you like, or when you're driving around turning that into revenue, revenue generating business again, through this deepen avenue optionality, like.
01:03:37.622 - 01:04:00.978, Speaker A: Back to the entrepreneurial thing. Like when we did our first company, we left kind of Portland, Maine, and Boston and Cambridge area, and you could stay there and raise a boatload of money, or you can go out into the sticks and do it on a shoestring. Neither. We have friends that take the Kendall square approach. Reason, but lose money, and that's fine, but you don't have to do that. It's similar to being able to lower your burn rate or subsidize it. It's very similar.
01:04:00.978 - 01:04:58.160, Speaker A: When we did our first startup, it was a mainframe, ungodly amount of money, and then we went to a lamp stack magnitude, ordered cheaper, and then we're using AWS, like a light switch. Now the next order is, what if it's not just a light switch? What if you can actually generate off the investment that you've already made pursuing your thing? It's like an economic engine or battery, not just powered on a web two startup, but powered on an IRL space as well. Whether it's a household and that particularly, that's like super beneficial, like, anywhere you're doing that, if you're doing that in Manhattan or what have you, it's also, like, really beneficial if you're off, like in the middle of nowhere, in the sticks. It's like, what's super transformative in terms of, like, the delta in that generation is much more significant for people along the long tail, the distribution curve. So if you're in Louisville, Kentucky, like, you being able to pay $5 for a cell phone plan instead of whatever you're paying Verizon is, like, stunning. It's like a massive public good, right? It's potentially more transformative. It's like underestimated from like, a public health perspective.
01:04:58.160 - 01:05:31.576, Speaker A: Like, that's craziness, right? That's not going to affect you so much if you're in Manhattan, but everywhere else. So, like, in terms of, like, distributing, like, economic value creation, it's proportionately more impactful for people, like, on the fringes and on the margins. And you can benefit wherever you are. It benefits those folks, like, significantly, and you can choose to structure your own path, like, in different ways. You have optionality. You don't have to do it, but, like, you have the option to be an entrepreneur and an investor in yourself with your time and attention. You've been conditioned like a medieval lord who said, you don't have any other options.
01:05:31.576 - 01:05:49.752, Speaker A: Give us all this. Harvest our fields and give us the gleanings, and, like, basically, don't worry about it. We'll pay for your housing, right. Give us all your data, and we'll give you a freemium subscription. Like, you're tricked. You don't know how much that stuff is worth and not just how much it's worth in the current system. What it can generate through, like, deduplicating of mosaic effect.
01:05:49.752 - 01:06:18.998, Speaker A: Do alpha generation through different things, like, its craziness. Right. You might be able to pursue non financially viable businesses. This building Im sitting behind was like its a one 50 year old bourbon bar, which was a grocery store named after this horse down the street from Churchill Downs. It was slated to be mini storage and a parking lot. We put a DPin note on it for $500 and an app and basically paid the mortgage and did a historical transformation. Yet we got lucky because of price action.
01:06:18.998 - 01:06:40.154, Speaker A: But, like, the point of the story is it's possible to do that sort of stuff now. And what does that have for a community effect? It turns. If I showed you pictures, it's like heroin fire after heroin fire down there, police all over the place. Disastrous for neighborhood property value. And now benefit, benefit, benefit IRL. It's craziness. There's a difference between a coffee shop staying open or going closed.
01:06:40.154 - 01:06:59.204, Speaker A: It's very significant in terms of that where AI removes drudgery, the ability to capture economic substrate from using this, like, where that value accrues. That's kind of my point on the open source is that accrue adjacently and if so, who owns that? Like, I'd want to be involved in that. That's at least optionality for you to pursue it.
01:07:01.024 - 01:08:08.236, Speaker B: So I want to actually now crank this a little bit even more, just make this even more of a ridiculous discussion. But one point we keep honing in on which I like I like this point a lot is this idea that people are living in kind of a state of drudgery. We brought it up with respect to the middle ages and now in modern times, where unknowingly we are kind of subject to all these centralizing forces that are permissioning us in terms of financial rails we can use and ownership over our data so one trend that is similar to all of what we're talking about is this idea that, like, sort of my bull case, why am a hyper mega bull for like, the metaverse, quote unquote, for AR and VR experiences, especially VR, but AR too. And now we saw with Apple's vision Pro announcement, more people are waking up to this. And one of my reasons, what I wrote about in a paper that I've talked about is that most people in America, they live in uninteresting towns where basically your Friday night's going out to Applebee's for trivia night or something. There's not a lot to do now. You don't even have malls anymore because they're all closing.
01:08:08.236 - 01:08:41.704, Speaker B: You kind of just work. You drive to someplace, maybe you work at a strip mall, you come home. There is a bit of a drudgery to that experience that I think is already being solved by apps like TikTok and these kind of infinite fee, sort of YouTube, TikTok, things like that, where you're on your phone a lot. But the metaverse allows people potentially to escape even more from that day to day experience. Like, what are your thoughts on the metaverse broadly? And I think there are a lot of analogs, how it connects to AI, but also crypto potentially too.
01:08:42.804 - 01:09:04.244, Speaker A: Yeah, no, that's like, that's like one. It's just like when we talk about the Renaissance, there are dozens of renaissance. Before the last one, there's been ongoing renaissance. It's just the last one succeeded so thoroughly, it eclipsed all the previous. When you talk about, like, the american revolution or global revolutions, it's like that was always ongoing. We just remember one in particular. And the same thing with, like, the metaverse.
01:09:04.244 - 01:09:27.926, Speaker A: Like, one way to think about it is synthetic versus real, right? Versus physical. And, like, that's like, the truth of it is, like, when print came out, they saw it as synthetic. They saw it as not real. They saw it as replacing writers, they saw it as replacing, like, manumission. They saw it as replacing scriptorian monks. They saw it as synthetic. They charged people with black magic.
01:09:27.926 - 01:09:48.430, Speaker A: You left your body, you lost track of time. You weren't aware. Where did you go that. Surely that's like spiritual, uncontrolled. You went into another world, a synthetic, an artificial world, the same thing with earlier incarnations. And then you came back, you went somewhere and you came back with knowledge and that affect this world. That sounds like magic to me.
01:09:48.430 - 01:10:09.154, Speaker A: Right? Like the synthetic unlock, basically. So we've been doing this, like, very consistently. We've been doing this through web two, to your point, with TikTok and other things. The difference is we haven't had, like, ownership in it. And so, like, yes, there will be technology where it becomes more and more real. We're on this trajectory, like, for sure. Like, the interesting part about this is, like, the ownership piece of it, which is, like, significant.
01:10:09.154 - 01:10:43.524, Speaker A: And, like, it also gets into, like, there's like a fracturing or a splitting or an abstraction or a bifurcation. Like, I think, like, this is how it tends to play out. Like, when you can go synthetic. Like, instead of having an amalgamated thing, I need to be in the place with the most stuff and the most experience because I want what I wanted. I want to be able to get it. I don't want to be a partner versus, like, a bifurcation or like an abstraction layer where I say, if I can have any experience anywhere, anytime, regardless of where I am, then that frees me up to go other places. I wouldn't otherwise be willing to go otherwise for fear of missing out.
01:10:43.524 - 01:11:10.616, Speaker A: And what might actually happen in the most virtuous cycle is where you have a renaissance of regionalism. Like Wendell Barry, local supply lines, culture, tradition, all this sort of stuff like that actually might be driven by the metaverse. Like, we always tend, like, in the moment, people always pit one thing against the other. Like, what tends to work out is they're both, like, spaces. They're both poles on design and, like, sliding that lever along. So, yeah, to your point, the metaverse might free. You want to have, like, crazy experience.
01:11:10.616 - 01:11:34.390, Speaker A: You have a synthetic one now. You're free to go anywhere. Oh, you can live and raise a family and do stuff over here, especially with your ownership. You don't have to go to a horrible day job. Oh, by the way, like, that actually makes me, like, have time to ponder what is unique and what is particular. Call it, like, boutique or curated or indigenous. Like, it actually might be like, this might tie together, like, very well in terms of, like, regional, irl indigenous.
01:11:34.390 - 01:11:59.244, Speaker A: With metaverse, they might not be, like, opposing forces. So, no, I think that's significant. Like, in the moment, we always choose, like, one thing and focus on one pole. It's going to be either or dichotomy. And, like, that's also the same thing on the chains too, right? Like, the, anytime you have adoption, you have, like, zealots and, like, zealots, maxis, whatever you want to call them. Like, it's a. They serve, like, a super important historical function because they're going up against institutional resistance that has, like, early mover advantage.
01:11:59.244 - 01:12:23.862, Speaker A: And so they're going to get squashed. They have to be kind of crazy. That is super function like the mark of whether a movement like succeeds is like how well you move, like, into multiplicity or pluralism. Like not calling it coexistence, but literally saying different things work in different ways for different use cases. And some people frame this, oh, in terms of chains, it'll be a duopoly. It'll be like OS or Mac or windows or iOS or Android. But that assumes that crypto is one thing.
01:12:23.862 - 01:13:07.624, Speaker A: If it's not one thing, if you say there's value storage, there's financial derivatives. If it's generative, unlocks perpetual swaps, if actually having telco and proof of history and time functions for different use cases, there might be multiple creation along those things. Hopefully you get the overall theme in terms of this pluralism. Not just one thing, but multiple things. Ar, VR, like regional IRL, crypto business models that allow you to have a family and pursue your particular interests that aren't financially viable in and of themselves, and even what particular tech stack or chain you use to do that. That's the historic model where if it works, that's how it tends to look. I realize I'm tying a bunch of threads together, but it's the same model.
01:13:08.524 - 01:14:07.858, Speaker C: It felt like during COVID that it was almost a peak behind the curtain, and it gave people a pause to do exactly what you're just saying, to really consider what's important in life and where they want to do. And just personally, as we discussed before we went on air, I was living in London a year ago and have since moved to the south of France. That was obviously aided, really, by these web two products, Zoom and whatnot. But it's all part of this movement. It feels like sovereign, individual. I don't know if you've read that, but that's all about moving away from having a specific network state and being controlled basically by the country that you're born into. Balaji talks about the network state, and it feels like there's just this move towards finding your group, finding your people, not being location hamstrung and being able to work anywhere, live anywhere, and.
01:14:07.858 - 01:14:09.614, Speaker C: Yeah, and find your clan.
01:14:10.274 - 01:14:39.898, Speaker A: Yeah. And it might even, like, if history rhymes, there's kind of a. It's not deterministic, but there's like a. There's like contours, right? It's not like teleological, but there's like, shapes and forms to it and like part of that is you start out with one, right? So, like, you know when. When you first had pluralism coming out of the renaissance and the technology opened up the idea of multiple things and choice and being able to pursue the different things, and the world crumbled and they recreated it. There's like this two by two grid. It created a z axis or a third option.
01:14:39.898 - 01:15:26.164, Speaker A: And so there's this two by two grid you can use in political theory, and it's like, hey, fiscal social conservative liberal, and you kind of like, say where I'm fiscally conservative and socially liberal, or I'm da da da da da da. That's like the matrix, right? And then when you introduce this new thing, all of a sudden it's a cube and it's a z axis. Like, hey, I'm like, not pro holy roman emperor, but I am like this and this, and the other guys are like this and this, but they are pro roman emperor. So am I closer to. So what has a greater value for me? Am I closer to people that have these shared values with the exception of this one thing, or is this one thing incredibly important to me? Right? And like, that's kind of the point we're at right now. Like, and that's. You see this in the discussions with the chains and like, maximalism and like, just full disclosure, we have, like, multiple chains, multiple chokens, like, play.
01:15:26.164 - 01:15:56.862, Speaker A: I think there's use cases for this stuff. So I'm like very Gen X, like, realistic in this stuff. But there's this mindset that it's like, chains have values encoded in them. The way to get rid of conflict and wars of religion and kind of toxic maximalism is just to have one chain. And if everybody has one chain, they'll have one values and they'll hold hand like they're in a coke commercial in the sixties or whatever, right? That isn't the way that history works. Like, you kind of find your tribe and you do your stuff and then over time it might not be one to one, it might be one to many. You might have one tribe for one.
01:15:56.862 - 01:16:30.024, Speaker A: I'm not saying. You're saying this, but this is like a straw man for like, what you typically hear out there. You might have one particular, like, identity and tribe for one particular context and use case, and you might project and retract that identity. Like, right now we're used to identity. You have it. You can kind of go a non maybe have like a duplicitous identity, but the idea of having, like, you as an individual with like, multiple identity and, like, control over that for different use case across different ecosystems and contacts with different tribes. That opens up worlds of better life and generation.
01:16:30.024 - 01:16:52.516, Speaker A: We're in the early stages now. Balaji network state, for sure. We're seeing this one thing. Go find your tribe, for sure. If we did that with web two, imagine with crypto, the ability to do that, to exercise multiple interactions along a spectrum of design space simultaneously, which is, like, very exciting, basically. So, yeah, I agree with that. And think, like, we're just kind of scratching the surface.
01:16:52.516 - 01:17:25.380, Speaker A: Honestly, that's a little bit esoteric, but I won't go too philosophical on you. Is that totally esoteric? No, no, no. Yeah. It's like, if you get into, like, a lot of this comes out, I mean, like, honestly, if, like, Marshall McLuhan's like, the web two darling, right? And what's his first book? Gutenberg Galaxy. Like, the creation of, like, mass media, right? He's saying, like, gutenberg and Luther, like, created mass media, and then, like, all hell breaks out, blah. You go into panopticon and spectacle and kayfabe and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And basically, McLuhan is just cribbing from Chardin.
01:17:25.380 - 01:18:03.740, Speaker A: Basically. It's all over his letters in the archives. And Chardin's like, hey, imagine if you had this interconnected consciousness through technical rails. You could actually control information and have a sort of synthetic reality, Ar or VR. What would that allow you to do as a world computer and shared experience? All the stuff you guys are getting into, there's historical continuity, and there's a whole philosophical conversation around this, but this is exactly what you would expect. And so when I say, I think it's just tip of the iceberg, there's historical and kind of philosophical reasons for that. You're essentially engaging in black magic.
01:18:03.740 - 01:18:12.514, Speaker A: You're just not getting charged with it today. That's a history joke that works in some audiences better than others, for sure.
01:18:14.534 - 01:19:29.826, Speaker B: This conversation or topic we just talked about with respect to identity, it just reminded me of something I thought about recently. Kind of like observing how, I guess, older generations, boomers, like my parents, use technology and how scary it is for the notion of, for instance, generative AI could do something such as, like, imitate my voice and call my mom and say some ridiculous thing and get her to do some ridiculous action, which is horrifying on multiple fronts. It's like robocalls on steroids. And so I almost view crypto and cryptography, which was funny. You brought up how it used to be considered a weapon in the nineties, and we had to kind of fight to have the right to use it. This idea of people signing transactions, this idea of proving you're human, whether it's directly through what worldcoin is doing or indirectly through economic value, I think that is going to be so absolutely crucial to almost combat this inevitable attack vector of AI and generative AI to manipulate people. And so, I don't know, I think it's super interesting to think about it from that perspective, how these two technologies can really complement each other and almost like they need to complement each other to be usable.
01:19:29.826 - 01:19:47.698, Speaker B: And I just thought it was interesting that you brought up this other point that we don't have to have this monogamous relationship with our identity because we already don't do that. Like, we all have different friend groups and even kids these days. They have two instagrams, they have their finsta, and they have the one that their parents can follow. It just feels like this convergence.
01:19:47.746 - 01:19:53.654, Speaker A: Wait, what? Wait, what? My kids do it. My kids doing what? Wait, slow down. No, sorry. Keep going.
01:19:55.774 - 01:20:05.174, Speaker B: Yeah, it's just like a convergence of all these primitives we have that. I think it just makes too much sense. And we're going to almost see an acceleration of what people are already doing in terms of identity.
01:20:05.214 - 01:20:27.200, Speaker A: No, it's like, this is, I mean, I hate to keep harping on historical analogy, but hopefully it provides some context. We should expect craziness, volatility. You're now an entrepreneur. You're now an investor. Everything that was black box you can see into now. But this is what happens every time you have decentralized communication generation. Like, when stuff was printed, I used to write a letter and sign it with my wax seal.
01:20:27.200 - 01:20:44.696, Speaker A: And I had my wax seal there. And I, like, you read hundreds of manuscripts, you know, a fake wax seal from a real wax seal. Right. You know, which describes writing what? Right. But it's like, now I print something and somebody signs my name. Like, the world of print was like mashup and mix up and, like pseudo pigrapha. Everybody was assigning stuff to everybody else.
01:20:44.696 - 01:20:59.574, Speaker A: When I read a book or attract or an image from you, I didn't know it was you. It said it was you, but I didn't know that. That's why they're always asking like, hey, did you write these things? Did you write. They're going back and forth. Like, it was the. It was abstracted information from creation. And the way that that was traced was through ownership.
01:20:59.574 - 01:21:18.966, Speaker A: You actually get paid for that. You have printer's contract on that. Let me see your ledger. Let me see the counter signature on the contract. Right? That's the way you solve that when things got real, like, whether it was, you know, spurious content or economics tied to it or whatever. And so, like, this is, like, what we do. This is, like, definitely, like, the way to preserve that is not just proof of humanity, but on chain transactions.
01:21:18.966 - 01:21:52.300, Speaker A: And, like, you know, whether it's, like. And being able to limit the idea of, like, spectrum with poles and moving a slider on what you need to know. I need to know something without everything. Oh, that's one way to think of, like, a zk, right? Like, oh, I know something without everything like that. It's, it's, it's. And your point on identity is, like, early out. Like, we're all kind of zealots by nature, because if we're in this, like, that's how we're wired or whatever, right? And so, like, yeah, but do I have to? It's not like, you know, the matrix where you're like, you know, so and so by day and, like, neo by night, and you have these two things.
01:21:52.300 - 01:22:25.668, Speaker A: They ever talk to each other, right? It's like, no, no. Like, if I have a bored ape, can I not have a cryptopunk? I can't, can I? Can I not? Oh, if we have stuff, if I happen to think, like, for whatever reason, like, uh, if I want to have, like, app based, like, blockchain for enterprise, and I want to deploy cosmos on something because I'm doing this specific use case, and, like, I, uh. And then I say, hey, I need to have, like, pen. And I think pension funds can do bitcoin. And I think, like, I want to do something that has, like, telco d pin with, like, massive throughput for. I can use Solana. Oh, I can't do all those things because I can't, like, really.
01:22:25.668 - 01:22:59.154, Speaker A: Like, that's, like, over time, we move from one to one to one to many. And that's, like, dave, to your point, on, like, location and Balaji stuff, and, like, with web 2.0, and then, Sal, to your point, that's, like, kind of how stuff will shake out. It will move into this pluralistic construct where we'll look back and we'll say, wait, is that real? Were those Huguenots and those Roman Catholics really killing each other over that stuff? That seems so crazy, right? That doesn't make sense. Where it will go back. Some historian will go back through the Twitter archives and say, wait, did so and so really say this about Solana? Like, what kind of jackass? It'll just seem like so weird to us, right?
01:23:00.494 - 01:23:01.874, Speaker B: Totally, totally.
01:23:04.494 - 01:23:40.282, Speaker A: I think like just the core thing to take away from this is like, you now have visibility into what's been hidden from you. So when you say, why isn't this working yet? Because you're seeing this, you don't get to buy anything until it's IPO. Or maybe you're an LP and a venture fund and they give you an opaque, like, partners letter. Maybe you do some crowdfunding thing and then they ghost you. You now have visibility to start up on day one. Like, what you're seeing in crypto, honestly, is super tame, it's super smooth. Like, if I showed you what went on in like web two investments or with their own startups, like, you'd go nuts like this.
01:23:40.282 - 01:24:05.094, Speaker A: It's crazy that it's working. That's the surprising thing about that. And you should expect crazy volatility because you're now seeing this. You should expect resistance from institutions and for them to win early on. And like, the way to think about, like the opportunity is to embrace this pluralism, technical identity, geographic, philosophical, like all those other things. Like, not to say you have to like believe everything at once and do everything all at once. Like, it gives you optionality to pursue these different things.
01:24:05.094 - 01:24:39.004, Speaker A: And like, by being an adherent of one thing in one context, doesn't preclude other things in other contexts is like history works out. Like the key thing is you actually can see the stuff in the open and you have optionality to not only shape your future, but the future. So like make the most of the opportunity if you're, you know, if you're, you don't have to be an entrepreneur investor, not just with your money, but with your time and attention, but you have the option to do that. And so like give it deep consideration because it might not just be benefiting you, but like your neighbor and the neighborhood and others around.
01:24:40.284 - 01:24:53.144, Speaker C: It strikes me that we're very fortunate really to be witnessing all this stuff happening, because if the last time it happened was 500 years ago, then yeah, I count myself very lucky to be witnessing it and being a part of it.
01:24:53.604 - 01:25:18.440, Speaker A: Oh, now that's so well said. It's like the grand historical irony is that most participants during the most substantive, transformative times are the least aware of it because it's such deep currents that you notice the ripples on the surface. You can't really feel the currents, like we're actually aware of it this time, which is insanity. And even the, even the smaller ripples and waves, like code is free speech. Oh, I don't really remember that. Those kind of black box. Oh, the creation of, like, fractionalized equity.
01:25:18.440 - 01:25:43.646, Speaker A: Don't really remember that. Was it euro dollar thing? I don't really know it. Like, we. Those, like, in some newspapers, did mass really bar the sale of Apple because they were deciding what was risky and what wasn't risky. Yeah, I guess that was in a newspaper one time. It's like, now we have visibility into all this. And, like, if you believe the bet that visibility and sunlight is the best way to create stuff versus black boxing stuff, doing a reveal and saying, here we go, that's the bet you're making.
01:25:43.646 - 01:25:52.754, Speaker A: And so I'd encourage you, all this volatility and craziness, it's a feature, it's not a bug. It doesn't mean it'll work, but if it does work, it's going to look an awful lot like this.
01:25:53.734 - 01:25:59.084, Speaker B: Right, right. I guess a closing question.
01:25:59.254 - 01:26:03.160, Speaker A: Um, because last questions are always the craziest.
01:26:03.312 - 01:26:32.436, Speaker B: Oh, yeah, yeah. Don't worry. We'll live up to that, hopefully. Um, okay, so I think it's clear that all three of us are pretty bullish on crypto, and it feels inevitable, um, to us, like, let's call them insiders, just people that are really close to what's happening here. But, uh, imagine a potential listener or a person that maybe is skeptical of crypto. Maybe they've just seen the bad headlines, or maybe they. This person thinks, oh, you know, the dollar's fine, everything's just going to keep going the way it's been going.
01:26:32.436 - 01:26:51.784, Speaker B: Like, what would you say to someone like that to perhaps open their mind? Like, would you point them to a specific period in history, like, we've been talking about the Renaissance? Or would you maybe point them to some trends that kind of paint this picture where crypto and AI and things like this have to replace what the status quo is? Like, how would you think about that?
01:26:52.324 - 01:27:39.132, Speaker A: Yeah, I think depending upon who you're talking to, if they're kind of story based or humanities based, I think it's. I think it's one big story with different chapters in it from middle ages into the Renaissance into formation of country and the great experience. The thing I'd say, I'd point him to that, and I'd also point him to, like, the weird thing is that most history, if it does its job, liberates us from our immediate context. Right. And sometimes when it's super volatile, it's helpful to know, like, there's been analogs previously, so don't get freaked out. But if it's been super stable, it's also helpful to know, like, this was atypical, right? This was like a weird thing that happened, the super stability, like basically where we had key demographics and coming out of world War two, we made a guns for better trade and said, everybody get on board. That formed our first world, you're with us.
01:27:39.132 - 01:28:07.314, Speaker A: Second world, you're against us. Third world, uninformed. Basically that sort of geopolitical deep water navigation, enforcing global fleet, that is a weird aberration where coming out of the seventies, the math stops working. It's not an accident. You go off the gold standard. Everybody that graduates college goes in partner track partners, stuff breaks down. You'd see that in trends for like institutional, like lack of faith and all this sort of stuff, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
01:28:07.314 - 01:28:29.342, Speaker A: So there's a bunch of stuff you can point to along those lines. Like, I'd probably point them to AI. If I'm bullish on crypto, counterintuitively I'd point them to AI. Like AI, if it works, it'll be the shiny thing like Rosie the robot in the Jetsons, and you'll say, rosie, do my math problem. Go do my work for me. If crypto works, like, you won't hear about it again. It'll just be the fabric of reality.
01:28:29.342 - 01:28:47.358, Speaker A: It'll be HTTP and links on the net. You won't even know. It'll be the stuff that guides it. It'll be the way in which, like, you get paid for participation. You won't think about it. You'll just think about it in terms of finance and communication and value and identity. And so, like, I might point them to AI and say, hey, if you don't want hyper concept, you know, things are changing.
01:28:47.358 - 01:28:59.054, Speaker A: This is the way it can actually work out for you and your benefit. And if it works, you'll forget about this. You won't even. You don't know what like HTTP is, do you? Now that's because it's working really well said.
01:28:59.174 - 01:29:09.514, Speaker B: It's almost like it's a prerequisite for AI systems to work, to have an Internet native primitive, like crypto to then call on and use to power those networks.
01:29:10.494 - 01:29:39.644, Speaker A: Yeah, no, for sure. It's like, I mean, one way to think, like a play on the teal quote is like, AI is coming for your job. Crypto's coming for your soul. It allows you to like pursue esoteric interests, like with an economic substrate where you can, like, sign off on other stuff and pursue what wouldn't otherwise be possible. And so. But they're different in terms of aggregation versus disaggregation, those ideas. It's like how the economic driver of that solving zero to one and solving moat and asymmetric advantage to people on the distribution curve versus web two model, it doesn't have to be that way.
01:29:39.644 - 01:30:05.180, Speaker A: So if it works in a virtuous cycle, everyone will know AI and that'll be cool and shiny, and crypto will be the dark horse that nobody talks about but powers everything. So it's qualitatively different in terms of its function that way. So I'm betting on if it works, it's how it works. And so I don't see another way for it to work. And that actually could work out pretty well. But definitely trying times, volatility, it's understandable. You get shaken.
01:30:05.180 - 01:30:15.664, Speaker A: You're now an entrepreneur and an investor in ways you haven't been before. So I'm not saying stay the course. I'm saying make an informed decision. If it works, this is how it should look, how it should feel.
01:30:17.504 - 01:30:30.324, Speaker B: Amazing. Well, Josh, this has been a super fun conversation, covered a lot of ground, and I think I'm going to have to go back in this episode and look into some of the things you brought up. But thank you so much for joining us.
01:30:30.744 - 01:30:38.964, Speaker A: Now, thanks so much for having me here and really appreciate what you guys are doing. Like this idea of showcasing other ecosystems and doing it in an intelligent manner. I definitely appreciate it.
01:30:39.824 - 01:30:41.424, Speaker C: Really appreciate it. Thanks, Josh.
