00:00:00.360 - 00:00:51.808, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gui refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesano, and today's the 19 August 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So, more drama in the Uni governance world. So Dune analytics has posted a PSA on Twitter just a few hours ago saying a Uniswap governance proposal that will let flipside crypto, which is a data analytics firm, manage up to $25 million in unitokens and use the yield generated to fund their own operations is about to pass in less than 24 hours with almost zero community attention. Now, you can see the proposal here before, I guess, like, I was looking at it before, and it was actually, there was only 10 million votes against and 41 million votes for, so it was obviously very heavily lopsided there. And then DC invests the kind of like, I guess, like a tip to vote over, because he voted no with the Uni tokens that he has delegated to himself.
00:00:51.808 - 00:01:08.172, Speaker A: But essentially, he puts it really well in his tweet thread here, where he's. Where he says the growing precedent of using the uni treasury for large cash grabs to support. Support pet causes, often benefiting narrow groups of actors, is bad. It's very bad. Not sure what we can do when some of the largest token holders support this. And, I mean, I've. I'm of the same opinion.
00:01:08.172 - 00:01:44.744, Speaker A: Right. Because uni governance right now seems very, very centralized, where there's only a handful of people in groups that kind of, like, have the majority of the voting power, and they seem to be voting for things that directly benefit themselves or benefit their friends or kind of like, anything like that. We saw these play out a few weeks ago with the. The legal fund that got, you know, $10 million of the uni tokens, dumped it on the market, and we're able to kind of, like, get $10 million in cash. And it kind of felt like they just looted the treasury with, like, little oversight here. And that's exactly what this feels like as well, to me. I mean, in general, it just feels like people are looking at Uniswap's treasury and they're like, okay, well, there's billions of dollars worth of unitokens in here.
00:01:44.744 - 00:02:21.040, Speaker A: Um, and, you know, how do we kind of, like, get the voting power to essentially help us loot the treasury at the end of the day? Now, I'm not going to attribute any ill will to flip side crypto here. Um, I'm friends with some of the people that kind of, like, work there and everything like that. But at the same time, this just seems ridiculous, right? Giving one kind of platform, I guess, like the ability to manage $25 million in unitokens in order to kind of, like, fund their operations or whatever. It just, you know, and with kind of like little oversight. I mean, they've got their little oversight committee here, but on their oversight committee, they have like the CEO or flip side. So it's just kind of, like, weird. It's like, that's a conflict of interest right there.
00:02:21.040 - 00:02:29.944, Speaker A: Like, and they have other people here. Nick Carter and Boris stanick. I think that's. That's Nick Carter, the. The bitcoin. I don't know who Boris is. Um.
00:02:29.944 - 00:02:54.616, Speaker A: Uh, I think he's part of uniswap. Um, but, you know, Nick Carter being on here, again, kind of weird, right? Like, he's. He's definitely not an ethereum or a uniswap. He's definitely like a hardcore bitcoiner. But I guess the most weird to me was, was Dave Bolter, the CEO of flip side, being on this oversight committee. And, yeah, it just seems like, uh, I guess, really weird to see this proposal, you know, kind of like passing without, like, much fanfare at all. I mean, I didn't.
00:02:54.616 - 00:03:17.360, Speaker A: Didn't even hear about this. So it really does seem like these proposals are put forward. They're voted on by a small group of people, and they hope that no one notices before it kind of, like, passes. And then they're able to just loot the treasury, which is. Which is really crappy. So, yeah, I mean, I'm in total agreeance with DC here that this is just really, really bad. And as he said, you know, they often, often these proposals are made by actors who will benefit from them directly and all that sort of stuff.
00:03:17.360 - 00:03:28.208, Speaker A: There. There are. There's a few comments in here as well, kind of like talking about different things. I'll let you read through the thread for yourselves. And there was someone actually sticking up for. For doing. For flip side crypto.
00:03:28.208 - 00:04:25.006, Speaker A: And I'll read out the comment here because this is like taking the other side of it where they said, is it better to raise capital from VC's the old way and charge for the premium version of the product? Uh, you have a con. Conflict of interest, you being doing analytics. Flip side is free and puts a lot of resources to these grants while empowering low income users with bounties. So essentially, what this account, when Moon is saying is basically that, you know, do analytics and flip side crypto are definitely kind of like competitors, right? They, they offer similar services and they're competing for, for customers and all that sort of stuff. So kind of like when Moon is saying you have a conflict of interest here, basically a pretty huge one, because of the fact that, you know, you've taken money from like VC's and you charge a premium version for your product, whereas flipsides trying to fund themselves through, I guess, this kind of like treasury, I guess, just getting money from the treasury and, you know, do. Analytics responded to that and said, dune is first and foremost free and focused on community users. There's a competitive market for service providers that prefer prove that they can get both funding tokens or VC and revenue.
00:04:25.006 - 00:04:49.814, Speaker A: There is no need for uni holders to massively subsidize specific service providers. And I mean, I do, I do agree with that. I kind of find it weird that you basically put in the costs of, you know, I guess like Philips Eye is basically putting the cost of running their operation onto uni token holders and uni governance participants or whatever. And that just seems really weird to me. It doesn't. The connection doesn't seem like it's there for me. Maybe I'm missing something, but yeah, just, just definitely very weird.
00:04:49.814 - 00:05:12.754, Speaker A: So this is, I mean, this is unfortunate. Vitalik had a really great blog post the other day about governance and how queen voting governance is like completely overrated and we should move towards something like quadratic voting and things like that. You can go read his blog posts. It's on his blog. If you just search Vitalik or just go to, I think Vitalik ca. His blog post is there, but essentially we need something better. This is not working.
00:05:12.754 - 00:05:41.182, Speaker A: You know, all the defi apps suffer from this sort of stuff like voter apathy, you know, I guess a small group of people holding the majority of the tokens or holding the majority of the voting power, just voting on what they think is best for themselves and kind of like enriching themselves. And that's obviously not what we want Defi to become. And at the end of the day, governance tokens hold a lot of power. There's a meme, oh, governance tokens aren't worth anything. Well, I mean, if you can use those governance tokens to loot a Treasury, they're worth a hell of a lot at the end of the day. Right. And, you know, you don't even have to hold them for the whole period.
00:05:41.182 - 00:06:16.834, Speaker A: You could just buy some, some tokens or even borrow them and then vote on something and then kind of like, you know, you know, take some money or make some money from the treasuries or whatever you're voting on and then kind of like sell off the tokens or whatever. So, yeah, definitely kind of like going to keep a tab, tabs on this. As I said, it only happened a few hours ago. I'm going to see how it plays out, but probably I'll cover it tomorrow and see what the end result was here. So metamask is now rolling out EIP 1559 support to all users. So if you haven't kind of, I guess, seen the update yet, you may have to force update on your metamask. Or maybe it just hasn't rolled out to you just yet.
00:06:16.834 - 00:06:51.950, Speaker A: But essentially, this is really great to see. I mean, I saw, I've been monitoring the chart of kind of like, 1559 style transactions on the network. I think it's at like 45% right now or around about that. Around about that. And it's going up really quickly. And especially as metamask rolls out more support here, it's going to continue to do that, and then once ledger rolls out support for it as well, it'll just get even more. I don't think we're going to get to, like, 100% of, of transactions on the network being 1559 style, because there's always going to be, like, those laggards, there's going to be wallets that don't support it, or there's going to be people using kind of, like, all manner of wallets that just take forever to support it, so.
00:06:51.950 - 00:07:45.238, Speaker A: Or kind of like, just do weird things. So, you know, I think we can get to 80, 90% in, in, in a relatively short period of time, which would be really awesome because that'll just help the network out. But generally, you know, I've been seeing people say, you know, did 1559 really help out the network and, and kind of like stabilized gas fees? And it has, like, all the data I've seen has showed that the network fees are actually, like, much more stable than they used to be, and the volatile periods end much quicker than they used to. If you will have noticed, during NFT drops, the volatile periods don't last very long at all. It's like inside of an hour, and then kind of like, the mempool gets cleared very quickly, and then we're back to, back to kind of like normal, I guess, like regular gray prices there. So, yeah, definitely force update metamask. If you haven't yet, you can do that by going to your extensions in Chrome or else and just clicking update now and it should update it for you, but it should have rolled out automatically anyway.
00:07:45.238 - 00:08:31.078, Speaker A: So yeah, just cool to see Vine 559 finally rolling out to all metamask users. But speaking of wallets, I put out a tweet today where I said the crypto wallet landscape is going to look completely different in six to twelve months time. And I really, really do believe this, and I wrote a bit more about this in the newsletter today, but essentially I followed up this tweet by saying there's more. The reason why I believe this is because there's more competition in the wallet space, because these days because people have realized that wallets can print revenue if designed properly, even without a token. So, for example, Metamask is making a killing just from their swap feature right now. So they have a swap feature in, built into metamask called a sorry, that acts as like a decentralized exchange aggregator that essentially looks for the best price, and then they tackle their own fee on top of that, which is actually quite hefty. It's like 0.8%,
00:08:31.078 - 00:09:06.002, Speaker A: but the convenience to users outweighs the fee, it seems. And they're making $10 million a month right now in revenue, and they were making nothing just a little while ago. So they've essentially managed to monetize their huge user base in such a brilliant way. And this is just one way they monetize. They also have the institutional arm right now, and the scoop from the block has a podcast talking to the people working on the Metamask institutional arm, if you want to go listen to that, which kind of explains in detail about what they're doing there. But essentially they're just making so much money now. And I think other wallets kind of like teams have seen this, especially on the, the browser extension side.
00:09:06.002 - 00:09:31.086, Speaker A: There's Phantom, which currently supports SolaNa but is going to be supporting Ethereum soon. There's another one that was announced by Matt Longo today, which I'll go through in a sec. And then, you know, the mobile wallet space is heating up, as I mentioned. I've mentioned Rainbow a fair few times on, on the refuel. There's, there's Argent Dharma. I mean, there's so many good, good kind of wallets out there. And I also think that wallets need to evolve because the modern Ethereum user has different requirements to an Ethereum user from like two to three years ago.
00:09:31.086 - 00:10:02.498, Speaker A: So even, even like one and a half years ago, 18 months ago, the requirements are vastly different. I want my wallet whether it be an extension wallet, a mobile wallet, whatever it is, I want my wallet to be able to show me my nfts, right? Like, sorry, the wallet software to show me my nfts in each of my Ethereum addresses. I want to be able to access defi natively from in here. Even if they tack on a fee, I think that that's fine. A lot of users are fine. I kind of like would be fine paying that fee. But essentially I want all those features, I want social recovery features, which is where smart contract wallets come into coming to play.
00:10:02.498 - 00:10:23.778, Speaker A: And, you know, I want kind of like wallets that I can use on my mobile that I can connect to desktop through wallet connect. I want it to be snappy and smooth. I don't want it to be clunky. I want it to, I want it to be secure as well. And I want it, you know, I want it to be ubiquitous everywhere. That's the modern Ethereum user these days, like, we do not just want to send normal transactions anymore. There's so many other things to do on Ethereum, so wallets now have to keep up.
00:10:23.778 - 00:11:04.826, Speaker A: And as I said, the competition is going to heat up really, really quickly now, and I expect the landscape to look completely different in six to twelve months time. I've already started using other wallets more often now than metamask, even if I'm at my pc, because I'm trying to wean myself off metamask. I appreciate all the work that the metamask team has done in the past. They've onboarded more users into Ethereum than any other wallet by far, but at the same time, they're falling behind now. They don't innovate very much on kind of like their wallet side of things. They're very slow to roll anything out. They definitely feel, I mean, it definitely feels like metamask hasn't changed in all the years that I've used it, right? Even though there's been like a couple of major upgrades, it still feels the same.
00:11:04.826 - 00:11:44.520, Speaker A: Like I can't do any of the stuff that I just mentioned, I mentioned to you. So the way I view metamask is just like this ultra reliable wallet that doesn't have many features, but I can rely on it for anything. It'll let me do, like, what I, you know, in terms of like, doing normal transactions, it'll let me do that. But at the same time, I'm starting to use mobile wallets more, trying to get used to that. I'm looking forward to testing out the other extension wallets, as I, as I spoke about like Phantom and this other one from Matt Longo here called tally. But yeah, essentially I just, I think it's going to look completely different in six to twelve months because new users are probably going to come in, they'll use metamask, but they're probably going to come in via mobile as well. So the mobile wallets are going to start dominating a lot more.
00:11:44.520 - 00:12:32.900, Speaker A: And I think smart contract wallets are really going to come into their own once we have L2s, because right now to set up a smart contract wallet on Ethereum, layer one costs a lot. It's like hundreds of dollars worth of fees. So on L2, that's going to obviously be orders of magnitude cheaper. So I expect to see more adoption happening there. So, yeah, and on the wallet note as well, Matt Longo from thesis here today put out a tweet thread where he even kind of like called out metamask and say that I guess on August 20 it will mark the one year anniversary of metamask stepping away from free and open source licensing because they went the institutional route. And since then, Metamask has launched their swap feature and, you know, in wallet trading service, where they've generated $10 million a month in just fees alone. And then he goes on to say that, that they've put together a team together, a small team, to ship a wallet that's built for a new open Internet.
00:12:32.900 - 00:13:04.936, Speaker A: That means a wallet ecosystem that is fairly launched, sustainably aligned with users wholly owned and governed by the community. And you can see here, the wallet is called tally, and you can see like teaser images. So tally, it's basically a dog kind of like for their branding here, dog icon. And then you can see on, on the right hand side, native defi integration, right where you can just deposit USDC or deposit ETH into kind of like Aave, for example, and you know, start generating rewards or yield. And then you can see they even support arbitrum as well. Like a L2 direct support within metamask. And it looks really, really cool, it looks beautiful.
00:13:04.936 - 00:13:39.804, Speaker A: It tells you the assets on arbitrum, it's much more, you know, it's, it's much easier. It gives you much more information about, I guess, what, what's happening. And you can see it on the bottom, there's different little tabs as well where obviously like just judging based on the, the tabs on the left side you have like what looks like an App Store, an app or a Dap explorer on the. Secondly, you have a wallet. Third looks like a swap feature, fourth earn being, you know, the Defi stuff. And then you have like the three hamburger menu kind of thing on the right, which is obviously the settings. So kind of like from, from that perspective, this already looks better than metamask, right? Like, so I'm really looking forward to this.
00:13:39.804 - 00:14:10.128, Speaker A: And as I said, there's also that phantom wallet, but that's not supporting ethereum just yet. And this tally wallet isn't out yet. But as I said, the next six to twelve months is going to be huge. It's going to change the wallet landscape completely and we're going to have more competition and more innovation there, which I'm really, really looking forward to. So I'm glad this is finally coming because as I said, as much as I love metamask and respect what they've done, they've been top dog for too long. And because of that, they haven't had the kind of motivation to innovate because they haven't felt like they were going to lose market share. But now they will.
00:14:10.128 - 00:14:39.598, Speaker A: If they stay the way they are, they are going to lose market share to these new entrants who are going to be adding all of these features that the modern Ethereum user is demanding. All right, so the pymont ETH two testnet has hard fork to Altair. Now I've been talking about Altair for a little while now. This is the first major ETH two, kind of like network upgrade here and you know, it, hard forked successfully. There was no issues. All the clients are talking to each other. There's actually five clients talking to each other as well because Chainsafe's loadstack client launched recently.
00:14:39.598 - 00:15:33.056, Speaker A: And the next kind of hard fork is Prater, which is, which is the test net. And I think after Praetor they will go to Mainnet with this. So maybe we see Mainnet in the next month or so, and then after that, as I've mentioned before, we have all of the ETH two and ETH one, kind of like developers and researchers, all steam full steam ahead towards the merge. So this is the last thing that they have to do before the merge happens. And that's, I mean, not to say the merge hasn't been being worked on while this has been happening, but, but at the same time, having like everyone aligned on this one goal being the merge means that we're gonna get it like much sooner than we can hope for. Because really, I mean, I've said Q 120 22 plenty of times, but at the end of the day, unfortunately, when it comes to core protocol work, whether it be at layer one or L2, giving dates is really, really hard or kind of sticking to dates is really hard because you're always running to unforeseen issues. Now, is that gonna happen with the merge? Of course it will.
00:15:33.056 - 00:16:07.408, Speaker A: There's gonna be plenty of stuff that they're gonna have to work through to make sure this goes right. And at the end of the day, the merge is the biggest upgrade in ethereum's history by far. Like 1559 doesn't hold a candle to how big the merge is in terms of complexity, in terms of kind of like the effort needed to get everyone on board to make sure it goes smoothly in terms of risk as well. It's all there. But I have full confidence in all of the people working on ETH one and ETH two that they're going to get it done. I mean, they've become really good at launching these things without like critical bugs or anything like that. I mean, we launched the beacon chain without any issues and it was running fine for, for a while.
00:16:07.408 - 00:16:35.324, Speaker A: And then, you know, there's been one major issue with the prism client that was like a total edge case. And because we're a multi client system, the beacon chain kept, kept going. I mean, it stopped finalizing, but it kept going and it was all well and good. Um, and by the time the merge comes around, well, I think the beacon chain will have been live for like 18 months. So, you know, it's really great that that's been battle tested. We have the first hard fork going live on it soon as well. And we also have, uh, you know, ETH one continuing to upgrade with obviously Berlin and then London.
00:16:35.324 - 00:16:55.108, Speaker A: And, you know, we might have another fork before, I think. Well, it's guaranteed we're going to have another fork before the merge unless the merge happens in December because we need to delay the difficulty bomb. But we don't know if there's going to be other eips in that, in that fork in December. So we'll have to wait and see. I don't expect the merge to be in December. That seems very close to me. I mean, we're almost in September right now.
00:16:55.108 - 00:17:17.584, Speaker A: Doesn't seem like that's going to happen. But Q one is, is my, like, is optimistic for sure. I mean, I don't think K one's optimistic. I think it's, I think it's realistic. But at the end of the day, you know, it could push into Q two. So I wouldn't be surprised about that, because as I said, the merge is complex, but still good to see the Altair fork on Paramount. The testnet go off successfully here.
00:17:17.584 - 00:17:58.516, Speaker A: So the SEc kind of like, I don't know what his title is right now. It kind of eludes me right here. But Gensler, which I think is his title as a secretary, he's basically been making noise about DeFi regulation lately and generally kind of like defined like airdrops and liquidity mining. And he said something today that I think Larry Cermak tweeted out, if I go to here, I can actually find it. Did I retweet it? No, I must have just replied to it. But essentially what Larry, Larry kind of tweeted out was that Gensler was saying that, where is it? Where is it? I actually need to get to it, because if I don't, I'm not gonna be able to. There we go.
00:17:58.516 - 00:18:26.284, Speaker A: There it is. Okay. So Secretary Gensler basically said that projects that reward participants with valuable digital tokens or similar incentives could cross the line into activity that should be regulated, no matter how decentralized they say they are. So essentially, he's taking aim at liquidity mining now, which I don't really get, like, unless these tokens are securities, then I don't really get what he's saying. That they should be regulated. Like, this just screams over regulation to me, as usual. Right, from, from the SEC, from, from the US government.
00:18:26.284 - 00:19:17.056, Speaker A: But essentially he also made comments saying that DeFi projects generally aren't immune to regulation. And I kind of push back on that. And I say if the projects are truly decentralized, then, yes, they are immune. That's the entire point of DeFi. If you are not, you know, if you can't resist regulation, if the, if any one government or nation state around the world can compel you to do something to change your, your app and you call yourself DeFi, well, you're not DeFi, right? You're, you literally still c five because you're not decentralized at all if that can happen. Um, and there aren't many truly decentralized projects on Ethereum today. If I had to pick up just off the top of my head, Uniswap obviously is the prime example here of something that's truly decentralized, where if the US government went to Hayden or the Uniswap team and said, hey, you need to change this in your contract, or you need to, you need to kind of like blacklist people or whatever, blacklist these tokens, they can't actually do that at the contract level.
00:19:17.056 - 00:19:58.102, Speaker A: They, as I've explained on the refill a few weeks back, they can do it at the front end level. That's, that's fine, because that's. And centralized, at least their front end is, but they can't do it on the smart contract level. So from that perspective, truly decentralized projects cannot be regulated by, by any regulator. Like, you would have to take over the entire ethereum network to actually change the code of these truly decentralized smart contracts. You know, now, in saying that, I think on the flip side, the, the gensler is not going to be saying, oh, we can't regulate Defi, right? Because he may know that they, they can't regulate some parts of Defi or most parts of it. And he's not just gonna come out and say that, but at the same time, he's signaling that he, you know, the CCC is looking at this.
00:19:58.102 - 00:20:40.054, Speaker A: They're looking at kind of like crypto more generally, and, and Defi, like, as a, as a prime target here, which I think, you know, we should be paying attention to, of course. But I also think that if they push too hard, people are gonna leave the US and go elsewhere. Like, that's just as simple as that. The genie is out of the bottle here. There's no way that they're gonna be able to kill Defi or kill any kind of, like, I guess, crypto stuff. Like, over the long term, it's just, it's not gonna happen. Some people draw parallels to the online poker industry in the US, where there was actually sweeping legislation, I think maybe the late two thousands, maybe early 2010s, where they put through this regulation that essentially killed the online poker industry in the US by making it, making it illegal, I think, or making the reporting requirements just too cumbersome.
00:20:40.054 - 00:21:15.450, Speaker A: And they did this on purpose. Now, with crypto and with DeFi, you can't do this because with the poker stuff, to actually participate in that, you would have to go through the fiat rails at the end of the day, where essentially, like, all the banks and everything are not going to support you. All the kind of like, financial institutions are going to block you from doing things. Whereas crypto can already be a circular economy. Yes, we need the fiat rails to obviously power it, but crypto and Defi in general, like, especially DeFi on Ethereum, we can use that in a totally circular way. Yes. It would be really bad if, you know, the bank started cutting off people from being able to withdraw.
00:21:15.450 - 00:21:47.260, Speaker A: Sorry. Put money into exchanges and exchanges, started cutting off people from being able to withdraw their assets to Ethereum and things like that. But at the same time, you know, I think that there are going to be various governments around the world that are going to be friendly to crypto, and they're going to take the opposite stance of the US. So I'm going to keep an eye on this regulation happening here. These comments are definitely coming at a time where I think, you know, I guess, like crypto regulation is heating up more generally, obviously, with the kind of like infrastructure bill and stuff like that. So it's definitely something to pay attention to. It's not something to be ignored, something to be taken seriously.
00:21:47.260 - 00:22:20.000, Speaker A: But at the same time, I think it's like a fool's errand if you're saying that you're going to try and regulate all of Defi. I think it's just like a signaling thing at this point in time. So diversify announced today that they've moved, moved over to stockx v three and now share proofs with so rare, which is another kind of app that's living on top of. Sorry. Living on top of Starkx, or using Starkware's technology to scale at L2. And then what does this mean? They've say, like a magic bag, zero knowledge proves to stay roughly the same size no matter how many transactions you put inside. So the number of transactions it goes up.
00:22:20.000 - 00:22:57.104, Speaker A: Sorry, sorry. The more transactions equals less average cost. As more apps builds with stockware, the cost reduces for everyone. So this is basically sharing the load of the cost of these kind of like, proofs to the Ethereum layer one, which is again, the magic of zero knowledge proofs, which fancy cryptography, I obviously don't understand, but it works, right? And it gets a lot of people excited. Literally every smart person that I've ever spoken to has said that zero knowledge, kind of like cryptography, is like, revolutionary. And it only it didn't have practical applications before, but now it does with crypto, which is just like super exciting. So great to see this from diversify here.
00:22:57.104 - 00:23:56.094, Speaker A: Speaking of L2, the graph has now integrated with optimism. So essentially the graph is like a middleware that sits between, I guess, like the. The kind of like full node and the app, like a DeFi app, and essentially serves data from the full nodes through like a graph system to the defi front ends or like things like Zappa and stuff like that. So, for example, when you go to Zappa, all of that data that gets put into Zappa comes from the graph that Zappa basically queries the graph for your address, obviously, and returns you all the balances and things like that. And if you go to any of your favorite defi apps, they're most likely using the graph to kind of like serve up that data for you and query that data for you. Whether that be the current yields on, on different kind of farms, whether that be your current balances in them, you know, gas fee estimation, all that, all those sorts of things can come from the graph. So yeah, it's great to see them supporting optimism and integrated with optimism, because they are a core piece of infrastructure that is needed to give users the layer one experience at L2.
00:23:56.094 - 00:24:31.474, Speaker A: So a proposal has been shared by Shard Labs here to bring matic liquid staking to polygon in collaboration with Polygon and Lido. So essentially this is implementing lido support on Polygon. So you'll be able to stake via Lido with your matic tokens. And you'd be able to kind of get like a derivative of that. And you'd be able to use your staked matic as kind of like collateral within defi. Just like you can use your steth, which is staked ETH from lido as collateral in Defi, or kind of like put it into a liquidity pool, do whatever you want to earn extra rewards there. So great to see kind of this being supported here.
00:24:31.474 - 00:25:05.288, Speaker A: Rainbow has released their first version of their Rainbow button, which is essentially a way to leverage the power of wallet Connect to seamlessly onboard new users to the web3 world. So as you can see in the video here, clicking on the rainbow kind of link, rainbow button here, they click through to it. You click connect to rainbow. It opens up a QR code. Using your camera, you can scan this QR code and essentially it opens up your rainbow wallet as you can see here. And then you can allow the, your rainbow wallet to connect to this app on desktop. And you can do all of your transactions via the mobile wallet.
00:25:05.288 - 00:25:46.468, Speaker A: Uh uh. And then it'll like you can. So you can send transactions from the desktop to your mobile wallet to sign and then you can kind of have that extra kind of like security there and also manage everything from, from your wallet app here while still getting a desktop experience, which again, as I said, this is part of the modern, uh, Ethereum user requirements. Like they require this kind of seamless onboarding through things like Wallet Connect, where they can have a hybrid approach of using their mobile phone as their main every kind of like day wallet and being able to sign from it. And basically still you have the desktop experience as well. So Zappa's wallet avatar customization is now live. You can change your avatar here to any NFT that you own, which is really, really cool.
00:25:46.468 - 00:26:27.614, Speaker A: The fun thing is, is that my current profile picture, the little penguin thing that you see here, is actually an NFT. So the artist sent me an nft of it. So my Zappa avatar is now my, my actual Twitter profile picture, which I thought was really cool. Um, so, yeah, and this can be changed to any NFT that you have. Obviously, not all of them make sense, but I think this is really cool because you can change it to your crypto punk, right? And you can have that there. You can show it off to people if you have a public address that you've. That you've changed it on, and you can essentially, uh, kind of like, customize your, your kind of experience here and show it off to other people, which I think is like one of the whole points of NFTs, right? Like, that's that kind of like a status symbol, you know, showing it off, showing people what you've got, essentially, which I think is really, really cool.
00:26:27.614 - 00:27:06.318, Speaker A: And speaking of crypto punks, lava Labs announced today that the crypto punks are now fully on chain. The images and attributes for all the crypto punks are now stored in this contract on Etherscan, as you can see here. I mean, the contracts here, I'm not going to go through it, obviously, but essentially, you scroll down and you're able to see, like, what's happening in the contract. And this means, I mean, they put out a blog post as well. But this means that even if the Livelabs website was to go offline or kind of like, disappear, you. You would still be able to recreate all the punk attributes by using this contract that lives on chain, which was a main concern. There was actually a blog post that was published quite a while ago going through these concerns.
00:27:06.318 - 00:27:37.808, Speaker A: I think this was in March of 2017. No, not of 2017, March 17. Maybe it wasn't a while ago then, but essentially it explained how a lot of, I guess, like, all the images and kind of like, things like that were hosted by lava labs. And if Lava labs was to go offline, then crypto punks would no longer work. Or essentially, I guess, like, the, the indexing would no longer work, so you wouldn't be able to actually get the image of it. So that's really, really cool. So essentially, I'm really glad to see this because this was definitely a main worry for a lot of people.
00:27:37.808 - 00:27:53.814, Speaker A: And I'm glad lava Labs has done this and you can verify yourself on chain and everything like that. But I think that is it for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the YouTube channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
