00:00:05.290 - 00:01:16.018, Speaker A: 22 and it's been 1 trillion volume traded on DEXes in two set 2021 web three evolves pretty similar to how Internet evolved and in the next several years we will see a whole set of new use cases and over a billion users in side the space. Right now there is 3.5 million wallets operating in DeFi and they using apps made by 300 and 550K developers. But every defy user has one question so how much my assets worth? And this is a question that kicked off there in current form. So we thought that there should be a tool where you can just paste your address and then you will be able to instantly get overview over what you have done on blockchain. Xerin consists of three key components. It is defy's decay for chain data, it's available on GitHub and it's open source.
00:01:16.018 - 00:01:58.818, Speaker A: It's a Zurian API which essentially is a caching layer for all data that we track and index across multiple blockchains. And it's like mobile and web applications that simplifies user interactions. So it's basically our user experience layer. So for today's workshop I want to show you how you can make two main features. Two the most favorite features of Xeron. First is that portfolio overview and the second one is history tab. We have a demo application so you will be able to download it and check it out.
00:01:58.818 - 00:03:23.338, Speaker A: But basically what demo app does it is shown all positions by any address, EVM compatible address and show history of transactions. It also includes swapping functionality so you can get quotes from most liquidity sources and dex aggregators. For the workshops we will use following tooling it will be react defy SDK that is available on NPM. Defy SDK demo as a GitHub repo prepared by our developers and transaction builder API that allows you to construct various transactions from swap to staking lending withdrawing assets from various DeFi protocols. You can access demo application by scanning QR code or going by this link so you can download it and later we will discuss what is there documentation for our API available on Docs Xern IO and for transaction builder at slash docs. What's next? Let's get to the terminology of this workshop. Here you can see two main functions is positions and history.
00:03:23.338 - 00:04:29.022, Speaker A: So here is like one position and transaction and it is key components of our API. We try to abstract away different blockchains and try to make it in a way so users don't need to understand what blockchains are interacting with inside the user interface. And on a API level it is also just a position on some blockchain and transaction from the blockchain. So let's get to the position. So position consists of asset that user owns, balance value available in multiple currencies and change in price and value of the asset. Here you can see the data structure for the position. It's available on multiple blockchains so you can see different implementations.
00:04:29.022 - 00:06:18.478, Speaker A: So if the assets available on one chain you will also see implementations on other chains as well you can see that is it verified? So is this asset in multiple token lists or not? You can see protocol that this asset belong to and you can see a lot of other data there coming to the swapping functionality. So swapping functionality is something unique in Zyrian so we try to aggregate as much liquidity sources and defy aggregators as we can. And in this demo you can see how you can fetch quotes from multiple providers within one query. Each quote consists of the exchange where it happens, network fee and receive data. You can also see guaranteed output amount distribution has user gave allowance previously for this assets to the token spender essentially the contract so you can build a nice UX around this data time to code and in the demo application you will see all basic components for described previously. All of them you can work get into your application so you go straight away with positions transactions. You can check votes, get history so it's all done in react and uses our device Dkjs library so you can see how easy it is to get all positions, all history and build nice UX around it.
00:06:18.478 - 00:06:54.100, Speaker A: Hopefully during the kickstart you will find good ways how you can improve user journey with such data and power. So if you have questions, I'm happy to answer them, if not, thank you for joining this workshop and join our mission. Follow us on Twitter, visit our website, download our app and we'll be happy to see you in our discord.
