00:00:02.080 - 00:00:03.902, Speaker A: Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, welcome to the.
00:00:03.918 - 00:00:08.754, Speaker B: Blockcrunch podcast, the go to podcast for investors and builders in crypto.
00:00:17.254 - 00:00:19.006, Speaker C: And before we get started, just a.
00:00:19.030 - 00:00:20.174, Speaker B: Reminder for you guys out there.
00:00:20.214 - 00:00:23.374, Speaker C: The Blockcrunch podcast is intended for informational purposes only.
00:00:23.494 - 00:00:25.454, Speaker B: Neither the host nor its guests or.
00:00:25.494 - 00:00:27.990, Speaker C: Licensed financial advisors, and nothing discussed should.
00:00:28.022 - 00:00:31.960, Speaker B: Be construed as financial advice. Views held by Blockcrunch's guests are their.
00:00:31.992 - 00:00:34.320, Speaker C: Own, and sponsorship messages do not constitute.
00:00:34.352 - 00:01:15.980, Speaker B: Financial advice or endorsement. With that out of the way, let's jump right in. Now, before we get started with today's episode, I've got some great news for you. Now, a lot of you have been asking for how I analyze projects that I bring on the show. That's why I decided to create Blockchain's vip to share with you all the heavy research that goes on behind the scenes. Now, every week or so, our team prepares an in depth research memo with things like sector analysis, technical concepts made simple, in depth competitor breakdown, and even interactive models so you can learn about the most important projects before they become important. And our team is putting in hours every week scouring discord, Twitter, forums and blogs to help you get an edge in crypto and understand the latest projects and themes at the deepest levels.
00:01:15.980 - 00:01:38.114, Speaker B: That goes way beyond just an interview. Now, in addition, we'll also host exclusive AMA's with myself to answer any of your questions. So all of these are only available to blockchain's vip subscribers. And the good news is that while our interviews will always be free, the vip tier costs less than one coffee a day. So head on over to theblockfrench.com VIP or click the link in the show notes below to sign up.
00:01:39.534 - 00:02:38.148, Speaker C: Alright, hey everybody, welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. Now the merge, which officially transitions ethereum from proof of work to proof of stake, is upon us and is slated to occur around September 15 to 16th. And this is probably the largest event to happen in crypto in a long time. And if you are a founder building on Ethereum or an investor in crypto, it's time to ask yourself if you have a strategy to prepare for it. And there has been a lot of discussion that there might or might not be a contentious fork, and to throw yet another wrench into what is already a massive technical challenge. The Office of Foreign Assets Control, which is OFAC, an enforcement agency in the US, recently came down pretty hard on crypto by banning the use of tornado cash, which is the privacy preserving tool on Ethereum. And this couldn't have come at a worse time because it has material implications on whether proof of stake validators will start censoring transactions, and also raises questions about how large staking providers like Lido and exchanges like Coinbase can and should respond.
00:02:38.148 - 00:03:06.024, Speaker C: So joining us today to decipher all of this and wade through all of that noise is an Ethereum community Og, the independent Ethereum educator, investor and advisor, and also co founder of ETH Hub, Anthony Cisano, who you know as Sasao Zero X on Twitter. So Anthony has a special gift for distilling and simplifying extremely in the weeds information at Ethereum to his massive audience of 200,000 on Twitter. So I'm incredibly excited to have Anthony on and to learn from him. So welcome to the show, man.
00:03:06.644 - 00:03:17.522, Speaker A: Hey, Jason, thanks for having me on. Super excited to talk about the merge and I guess like everything Ethereum, like you mentioned, the OFAC stuff, that's definitely something that I think people want to know more about. So I'm super excited to talk about it all.
00:03:17.708 - 00:03:26.314, Speaker C: Yeah, definitely. And it all kind of blends together with this kind of merge narrative. So before we even jump into it, what is the merge and why is it important for Ethereum?
00:03:27.094 - 00:03:51.374, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think you kind of gave the highest level right where you said it's basically the transition from proof of work to proof of stake. Now, this has been coming for quite a long time for Ethereum. Proof of stake has been spoken about since the day Vitalik published Ethereum white paper. It has always been on the roadmap. It's gone through many different iterations over the years. You know, people thought that it was coming as early as 2017, but that didn't pan out, unfortunately. Unfortunately, depending how you look at it.
00:03:51.374 - 00:04:35.427, Speaker A: I personally think that the kind of extra time that was taken to get proof of stake to where it is today was much more beneficial than trying to rush it in 2017, which probably would have ended in disaster, to be honest. So it has taken quite a while to get here. But the merge itself is basically that event that does this live hot swap of, of proof of work into proof of stake. Now, essentially what happens is that there is not a block number that this happens at. There is something called TTD, which is a number for the total, total terminal difficulty on the Ethereum network. And once that number is reached, basically the transition happens live. And it should, if successful, mean that users don't feel anything really at the end of the day, like their transactions will process as normal.
00:04:35.427 - 00:05:05.504, Speaker A: Because we're just hot swapping out that consensus mechanism there instead of doing anything that kind of interrupts user transactions or does anything like that. So it really is and really should be a very smooth process once the kind of merge transition happens and then Ethereum will know longer be a proof of work network at all. There'll be no more mining, no more proof of work, it will be a full proof of stake network, uh, for the forever basically. I mean I don't think we're ever going to go back to proof of work. So yeah, it'll, it'll finally be be done after many many years of research and development.
00:05:06.124 - 00:05:29.324, Speaker C: So it's really interesting you use this term hot swap, and I think for a lot of outsiders in from crypto, it might seem really strange that this transition is such a long drawn out process with like multiple testnets gourly and a few other steps after the merge. So I guess for the people who are not very familiar with how a consensus works, what are the key things that make this transition different from say just like a software patch in web two?
00:05:30.184 - 00:06:16.886, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think the key difference is just how much value is at stake and the fact that we want for a successful transition to happen, we want it to happen, as you said, like in a hot swap fashion, where there is no interruption to service for users. So that's what I guess the terminology that's used in the web two world is a service interruption or kind of like some downtime. We don't want that to happen at all because there are a lot of different consequences that play out. If the Ethereum chain was to go offline, for example, and we've seen some other chains go offline recently, and there are definitely implications there with regards to prices moving and the value on the network kind of moving around that. So we just want it to be a smoother transition as possible. Now, Ethereum has, is no stranger to this. Ethereum regularly does what's called a hard fork or a network upgrade, which is all done live, there is never any downtime.
00:06:16.886 - 00:06:55.570, Speaker A: It basically means that when a block number is hit, then the chain upgrades or hard forks to this new set of rules, which is usually upgrades to the network or features that are get added to the network. And as I said, the reason it's done in a live fashion is because these are financial networks. You know, theorem is a very large financial network and the consequences of it being, you know, having downtime, it just doesn't work. It is not something that is palatable for the ecosystem and pretty much like all the networks work like this or at least should work like this. All the crypto networks out there. But ethereum is one of the only high profile ones that does regular upgrades. Obviously, bitcoin does not do hard forks or any kind of like upgrades.
00:06:55.570 - 00:07:31.234, Speaker A: Any upgrades they do is through a soft fork, which is the same kind of like concept where there's no downtime. It's really just done in a, in a fashion where people can choose to upgrade their nodes and then it kind of like soft forks those rules into the, into the protocol. So that's why we want to do it in kind of like a live transition. But in terms of getting us to the stage where we can do that, yes, it has been a monumental task. It has been a very, very heavy lift. There has been a ton of different test nets, and not just, uh, and not all test nets are created equal either. There have been uh, short lived test nets transitioning from proof of work to proof of stake, which are basically just testnets that are spun up for the purpose of running through the merge transition.
00:07:31.234 - 00:08:05.010, Speaker A: Then there are the public ethereum testnets, as you mentioned, girly. There is to polya and Robston, which have gone through the transition. And these are things that essentially mirror the ethereum network, but a testnet, so there's no real value on there. It's just for developers to test all their applications and different things on there. But those things have been around for, for a longer period of time. They're not just spun up for the merge itself, they're there for developers to kind of take advantage of. Then there's been these other things called Shadow Forks, which is basically similar to a short lived testnet, where essentially we take the, I guess like all the states of Mainnet Ethereum.
00:08:05.010 - 00:08:43.194, Speaker A: So we take main net Ethereum as it is, we fork it. So you fork off into basically a new chain and then we run the merge transition on that. And the reason why you do that is so you can test the merge transition on a main net like implementation. Because obviously on the test nets it doesn't reflect main net at all. It's, it's basically its own separate network for all intents and purposes. But with a shadow fork, we actually do test it as well as we can using mainnet parameters. Now what these testnets don't do, and this is one thing that I think that you can't really test for, is that because they don't have the same infrastructure, the same user base, the same kind of like value on them, it's basically impossible to test for those sorts of things.
00:08:43.194 - 00:09:41.696, Speaker A: So for example, with the mainnet merge transition, we are relying on all the infrastructure providers to have upgraded their notes and to be ready for the merge. And there's been a very long process of getting those people ready. There's calls with core developers and researchers and community people that have happened for, I think a year now, something like that, where they could ask the researchers and developers and, and the relevant people, hey, how do I prepare for the merge? And there's been tons of documentation put out, all that sorts of stuff. Because for us to make it to that point where we can do the merge transition on main net and for everything to run, you know, as smooth as possible during the transition, it requires a lot of coordination and planning. So for those who haven't paid attention until maybe now, do know that this has not just kind of come out of nowhere. This has been planned for a very long time. And on top of all of that, the proof of stake network that is being merged with the Ethereum, the existing Ethereum network, has actually been live since December 1, 2020, as something called the beacon chain, which people may have heard of.
00:09:41.696 - 00:10:05.164, Speaker A: So it's not like we're just all of a sudden saying, hey, okay, you know, Ethereum is proof of stake. Now we're just going to launch this thing and we haven't tested it or anything like that. No, it's actually been tested in a live environment for a long time. People have been staking for a long time, and we're just basically swapping out that mining algorithm or the proof of work algorithm for proof of stake. And everything should act as normal. As I said before, the users shouldn't feel any difference. Really.
00:10:05.164 - 00:10:20.664, Speaker A: The only thing that would change for users is that block times go from around 13 seconds to 12 seconds, which is negligible. Users aren't really going to feel that, and their transactions should process exactly the same as they would on proof of work, and they won't even know if they're not paying attention to it.
00:10:21.044 - 00:11:13.224, Speaker C: This is actually a really great segue to my next question, because you mentioned that this whole thing, this whole merge has been in the works for many, many years, and people, miners especially, already know that this is going to happen now. But as with anything in Ethereum, there are things that could go wrong, especially with externalities. So today we'll hopefully go through most of them. And I'd love to start with this one, which is the most relevant, which is some people have suggested that post march there could be a minor revolt. And just to give some context here, Kevin from Galoi Capital, who is a fund that kind of correctly called out the collapse of Luna before and got a lot of attention for that, suggested recently that after the merge, there can actually be two ethereum chains, one supported by miners, which is continuing to be proof of work, the other by validators, and that Dapps exchanges and so on are going to be really torn as to what to do, and the community will be fractured. So I'm curious, you know, what do you think of this argument and where did this even come from?
00:11:14.004 - 00:11:56.650, Speaker A: Yeah, so this has actually been talked about for a long time now. I remember talking to some friends even in maybe even 2018 or 2020, 2019, about this possibility that because we're basically firing the miners from the network, right, we're cutting them off their revenue. Like, 100% of their revenue that they're getting from mining is going to zero post merge. Like, they will no longer make any money from mining the Ethereum network. So naturally, you would expect some kind of revolt or some kind of opportunism, opportunistic thing that they decide to do. So it's not anything new. And it, and this is the reason why, or at least one of the reasons why instead of using a block number to do the transition, we have done, we have used TTD, which is supposed to be resistant to anything that miners can do.
00:11:56.650 - 00:12:37.798, Speaker A: Now, miners can't really do much. You know, this is probably a much larger discussion around the game theory that miners have to adhere to or that they do naturally adhere to. But essentially, the worst thing that could happen, besides the proof of workforce, which I don't think are consequential for the Ethereum main chain, but I'll get to that in a sec. But the worst thing that could happen is that, like, a lot of miners just shut down their rigs, and it takes us longer to do the transition because as I mentioned before, it's based on the total terminal difficulty, which essentially means that we reach a certain number of a mining difficulty and then the transition happens. Well, if 50% of the network goes offline before that happens, then it will take us longer for that TTD to be reached. It could push into even October. Right.
00:12:37.798 - 00:13:20.160, Speaker A: But it doesn't mean the merge isn't going to happen. And technically it would eventually happen even if there was only one miner on the network. But I fully expect the miners that we currently have, most of them, not to drop off until the mergers happened because of the fact that is still extremely profitable to mine Ethereum and there is no other coin out there right now, chain out there that you can mine, that shares the same hashing algorithm as Ethereum for anywhere near the profitability. I think the next most profitable is Ethereum classic, and it's nowhere near as profitable as Ethereum for these miners. So they have really no incentive to, to swap over until obviously they have no choice, right, once the merge happens. As for the forks themselves, I've seen like two or three of these things. Uh, I think there's only one of them that really seems to have any sort of plan.
00:13:20.160 - 00:13:56.304, Speaker A: But essentially what they can do, they being the miners, is at the point of the transition from proof of work to proof of stake. The proof of work chain doesn't like go anywhere like the proof of work chain or the existing one. The one that we know today comes along with, with us as, as the Ethereum main net, just on proof of stake instead. But if you want to, at that exact point of the transition, you can actually fork off into a new chain, right, and continue that as proof of work. Now, I say new chain, but it's just the existing chain without proof of stake. So it's the same thing that we've all been using. But the problem is, is that that's not a theory, that's a copy of the Ethereum chain.
00:13:56.304 - 00:14:14.584, Speaker A: Yes, it has all the same state and all the same balances, and you've got all the same addresses and everything on there. But all the assets on there are not real ethereum assets. The ETH is not real ETH. It would be proof of work ethic, for example. It'd be a separate token on the exchanges. It would not be trading as ETH. Same for every single token.
00:14:14.584 - 00:14:41.108, Speaker A: And then when things get really interesting is things like stable coins. Circle. The issue of USDC is not going to honor the redemptions for two sets of the same stable coin because they don't have double the money just because the fork happened. They can only honor one. And they've already publicly committed to supporting the Ethereum proof of work proof of stake chain. But they wouldn't not do that anyway because the whole community wants these people of stake chain. The proof of work forks are really just opportunistic things.
00:14:41.108 - 00:15:04.128, Speaker A: So all that, all that, all that kind of stuff will be worthless, basically, or worth very, very little. Logically, USDC on the proof of work chain should be worth zero because you can't actually redeem it for USD from, from circle. They're not going to honor that redemption. Same with USDT, same with bust. Any centralized stable coin that has assets backing it up they're not going to be honored. Then something like die. Well, what's backing up Dai is ETH.
00:15:04.128 - 00:15:33.772, Speaker A: And if you have a fake ETH or a proof of work ETH, that is not really, there's not going to be worth the same as e is going to be worth much less. So die is naturally going to fall off peg. Then the entire defi ecosystem is going to blow up too, because all the values go out of whack. All the amms are going to go crazy trying to readjust for the new values. You're going to have mev everywhere like crazy because there's going to be smarter people than you taking advantage of the chaos. There's going to be no oracle support, so everyone's going to get liquidated like on these money markets, probably not even going to work. And on top of that, you actually need infrastructure to talk to.
00:15:33.772 - 00:16:07.628, Speaker A: So for those who don't know right now, when you use metamask, you're using what's called infuria in the background, which is a service where basically they relay your transactions. So there's probably not going to be anything for that. For these proof of work chain. You're going to have to run your own node in order to actually get transactions on that chain. So realistically, I foresee this proof of work chain basically having a few smart people on it, extracting as much value as they can. A lot of people just dumping everything they can for real ETH at the end of the day and it just fading into obscurity. I don't think this chain is going to have anything going for it.
00:16:07.628 - 00:16:47.792, Speaker A: There's developers aren't going to build on it. The miners are probably going to leave once the profitability goes down. They're going to probably stay for a little bit to see if they can, you know, get some profits from it. But eventually, because the token is not going to be worth very much, it's going to become very unprofitable to mine. I probably going to leave to go somewhere else. So I mean, the TLDR is that like this fork and any of the, of the proof of work forks that come, I expect them to exist for a little bit, but I don't expect them to be worth very much, nor do I expect them to have any consequence on the Ethereum main chain. Now where they could have a consequence is if they don't implement something called relay protection, which basically means that your transaction on the Ethereum proof of stake chain could get replayed on the Ethereum proof of work fork.
00:16:47.792 - 00:17:19.150, Speaker A: Or vice versa. So that same transaction can be done. So technically, uh, I mean, in the worst case scenario, if you were to sell your ETH on the proof of work chain, say you sell it on uniswap, then that transaction could technically be replayed on the proof of stake chain just by anyone to sell your real ETH. Now, that's not a concern for the major one that I've seen, the major fork, the one that everyone seems to be talking about, uh, they're going to implement replay protection. They're going to basically, and also have a different chain id, which means this can't happen. So that's not a concern. Uh, but that's really the only consequence that there possibly could be.
00:17:19.150 - 00:17:36.744, Speaker A: And you can avoid that by just not interacting with the proof of work, um, Ethereum fork. Right. And just don't touch it. Yeah, maybe you miss out on some money. I don't know, like, I have no idea if it's gonna be worth anything, but that is, you know, there's no risk there. So all in all, I don't believe this thing has any bearing or consequence on Ethereum. It is not an ideological driven fork like the bitcoin.
00:17:36.744 - 00:17:46.004, Speaker A: Bitcoin cash fork, like, it's all it is is opportunistic miners trying to inch out some money at the end of the day. And I don't expect it to have any bearing on the Ethereum proof of stake chain.
00:17:46.544 - 00:18:37.044, Speaker C: Yeah, so this is really interesting, because from what you're saying, it sounds like the best case scenario for the proof of work chain is going to be a bunch of a very small kind of minority trying to force this fork. But it's not even going to be as consequential as, like, bitcoin cash or BSV or Ethereum classic, because there's not even an ideology to really create a community around it. It's literally just going to be a few guys. So I do, when I first kind of saw the news, I kind of had the same reaction. I didn't think too much of it, but what I did think a lot of was what we're going to discuss next, which I think is the stuff that a lot of people are tuning in for, the implications of the OFAC sanctions on proof of stake, by extension, the merge, you know, and how things like flashbots fit in there, and we're going to touch on all of that. But, you know, before we dive into the weeds here, can you just help us understand, you know, what the hell happened with OFAC? Like, why is everybody suddenly you know, freaking out over OFAC.
00:18:37.864 - 00:19:11.198, Speaker A: Yeah. So I mean, you mentioned what OFAC was before. They're a very, I guess, powerful organization in the US because they have the power to sanction individuals and entities. But this is the first time they've sanctioned a set of smart contracts or a set of, I guess, like addresses on Ethereum. Now, the reason why I think people are so concerned about this is because of the fact that it may not be constitutional in the US, which is obviously a very big deal for people in the US. And also if you are caught or prosecuted breaking sanctions, you face up to 30 years in prison or massive fines. Right.
00:19:11.198 - 00:20:02.412, Speaker A: So you can imagine that as a us citizen, you definitely want to avoid getting, you know, caught up in any of this. You don't want to use tornado cash at all because if you do, you are breaking those sanctions technically and as a business or an application or DAP, whatever you want to call it, you don't want to be caught interacting with this at all. But where things get complicated is that technically you can interact with these contracts without you yourself engaging in that interaction. So for example, over the, I think it was shortly after the sanctions happened, someone sent 0.18 from the tornado cash addresses or from the tornado cash relay out to my public address, which is Cecil dot ETH. Now, technically, I mean, I'm not a us citizen, I'm an australian citizen, but technically I have now broken the sanctions, right, because I've interacted with tornado cash. And this is where things get muddy because the sanctions themselves do not fit how tornado cash works.
00:20:02.412 - 00:20:45.244, Speaker A: They're not workable. Like imagine you send that amount of east to every single Ethereum address out there. Does that mean everyone that uses Ethereum now is breaking these sanctions? Right. Or like they're not going to be able to interact with applications because they're going to end up on some blacklist, which I actually did when aave on their front end, they implemented, there's something called TRM labs which produces this software in order to blacklist certain accounts that have been sanctioned or whatever else. And I think the strictest policy they have blacklists, anyone that has touched these addresses, no matter in what way, and I think they even go further and it depends on the amount of hops away from it. So if you have interacted with an address that interacted with tornado cash, you could be blacklisted as well. So I was blacklisted from the Aave front end, which to be fair, is a centralized front end.
00:20:45.244 - 00:21:07.044, Speaker A: The smart contracts I could still interact with, but I was blacklisted and then I shouted this out on Twitter. I said, like, this is, this is ridiculous. Like, I didn't actually interact with it. Plus, I'm not even a us citizen, so technically I'm not breaking any sanctions here. Like, the australian government hasn't sanctioned the tornado cash addresses, so I'm actually not doing anything illegal. But I didn't even interact with tornado cash after the sanctions. It was someone else doing it.
00:21:07.044 - 00:21:46.954, Speaker A: I think as a form of protest. They didn't just do it to me, they did it to a bunch of public ethereum people with, with a public ens name, but I wasn't able to use it. And then it got backtracked. And I think that they removed that rv, removed that and even removed it for the addresses themselves that were, that were sanctioned because obviously there's no clear guidance here on what to do. Like do you block these addresses because they're one hop away from tornado cash or do you not block them? Do you only block the ones that have been sanctioned? So it opened up this whole can of worms and then it started this discussion around censorship because at the end of the day, it doesn't matter if it's proof of work or proof of stake or whatever else. These networks are only censorship resistant. They're not censorship proof.
00:21:46.954 - 00:22:19.896, Speaker A: You can never guarantee total inclusion of all transactions. And these networks actually give the inclusion, sorry, give the choice to miners and to block producers to include whatever transactions they want in a block they don't get. They don't have to include your transaction. The reason why they do is because you're paying a fee to be included. Right. And they obviously, this game theory behind it as well, that they want to include it because they don't want to, they don't want the network to be engaging in censorship because that's bearish for the price and everything like that. But Ethereum miners, Ethereum stakers, bitcoin miners, it's all the same thing.
00:22:19.896 - 00:22:52.052, Speaker A: I, as a, as a miner or as a staker can choose whether to include your transaction or not. That is a form of censorship, right? Like that is clear cut censorship there. But you could choose not to include it because people didn't pay you a high enough fee, for example, and you just say, well, I'm going to drop your transaction because you didn't pay me a high enough fee. So it doesn't have to be censorship. But the, I guess, like, the community views that as censorship. So if you're just censoring from that point of view, it's not as serious as the other point of view, which is basically. So I should explain how this works specifically in proof of stake Ethereum.
00:22:52.052 - 00:23:29.520, Speaker A: So improve of stake Ethereum, you have block proposers and then you have all the validators attesting to blocks. Now as a, as a validator, you might propose a block once a month, once every two months. It's very random and you don't know when you're going to propose a block and it's not going to happen very often, but you will eventually propose a block, whereas you will be attesting to basically everything constantly. You'll like you're attesting to blocks constantly. And what a testing does is basically, it's part of the consensus. So you basically come into consensus on these blocks with the rest of the network. So where it gets dangerous is that you're, you're fine to include whatever transactions you want in your block when you eventually do propose a block or not include whatever transactions you don't want to.
00:23:29.520 - 00:24:45.462, Speaker A: So say your validator has a rule that says, well, I don't want to include any transactions that hit these tornado cash addresses. Well, then you won't include that. Where it gets murky is when you start where your validator says, well, I'm not going to attest to any blocks that contain tornado cash transactions in them or that are building upon a chain that contains tornado cash transactions in them. And that why that gets murky is because not only are you participating in censorship, but you're also at the potent, like if enough people are doing this, it could actually lead to a fork in the chain. Because if half the chain, for example, is saying that, well, you know, this is not the correct chain because it doesn't, I'm not attesting to it because of the fact that this is contains censored transactions or contains sanctioned addresses. And the other half is you can lead to a fork in the chain. Then what happens is that the community has to come together and say, okay, what's the real chain now? Like, is this one the real chain because it's not containing any censored transactions or is this one? And that's why where all the discussion around social slashing has come from, it's like, okay, well, if these big staking providers such as Coinbase and Kraken and binance, if they all get together and say, we're not going to attest to these blocks, and then they go fork off onto their oFAC chain or whatever, are we going to slash them on the main chain? Are we going to basically kick them out of the network on the main chain.
00:24:45.462 - 00:25:23.228, Speaker A: And it gets very murky then, because then you have to introduce the social layer, which is something that you only want to use as like a nuclear option. Because if you slash coinbases validators, right, that's not theirs, that's their users. So you now have a lot of collateral damage coming from that, where the users are the ones who get hurt. Now, they should expect this in a roundabout way, because at the end of the day, staking is not meant to be risk free. If you're staking, you're taking on some level of risk, and you are at risk of getting slashed anyway. Not for censorship, but for other things. Maybe, for example, coinbase stuffs up and they double sign on the network, and that's a form of getting slashed, and the protocol will automatically slash you for that and kick you out.
00:25:23.228 - 00:26:07.050, Speaker A: So there is all these kind of like things that play here, but in terms of censorship and slashing for that, that cannot be done by the protocol itself. It has to be done by the social layer, because there's no way for the protocol to tell what, where, you know, where censorship is coming from, or if there's censorship occurring at all. Especially if it's like the block proposal is not including transactions. The protocol can't know that because the protocol doesn't see those transactions not being included. So at the end of the day, it relies on the social layer. And just finally, on the block proposal front, even if 90% of the network is censoring you, and what I mean by censoring you is that they're not including your transactions in a block, and 10% of the network still are including your transactions. You just have to wait an extra few minutes for your transaction to be included.
00:26:07.050 - 00:26:50.410, Speaker A: Like, yes, it's not going to be included as it normally would, which is in a twelve second block, if you've paid the right fee to be in that block, but you just have to wait until one of those 10% of stakers picks up your transactions and proposes a block. So I think the math is like, yeah, a few minutes, or something like that. So at the end of the day, you're still able to get your transaction in, even if 90% of the network is not including them. But as I said, it gets very messy, very murky, when a big part of the network stops attesting two blocks that contain those transactions, because they're basically saying, well, this isn't the real chain. This isn't the chain that I think is the canonical one as we talk about in crypto, and this is the canonical one. That's where you possibly get a fork of Ofac Ethereum and non ofac Ethereum. And then it gets murky.
00:26:50.410 - 00:26:51.814, Speaker A: Like what would people follow?
00:26:57.204 - 00:26:58.756, Speaker C: Hey guys, I'm really excited to tell.
00:26:58.780 - 00:27:32.930, Speaker B: You more about one of my favorite products in crypto right now, DyDX. This is a team I've known since 2018, and they've built one of the best exchange venues out there that also happens to be decentralized and mobile friendly. Now listen until the end, because there's an opportunity for savvy traders out there as well. And here are just a few reasons why I like DyDx over other exchanges. First, it's very liquid. It processes two to $3 billion every day in volume and hash 39 35 perpetual swaps as of this recording. Which means you can trade things like Ethereum, bitcoin, doge Solana, and most of the most popular assets with up to 20 x leverage in the venue today.
00:27:32.930 - 00:28:12.270, Speaker B: Second, it's also extremely cheap, and if you're down bad from the bear market, you don't have to worry about gas fees at all because there is no gas fee on starkware L2, where DYDX is built on. Now that brings me to my next point as well. It's incredibly fast. Unlike other L2 and high speed dexs, you don't actually have to wait to withdraw your assets anymore. And as an additional point, by using Starkware, DYDX also provides users with increased security and privacy. And my personal favorite feature is the cross margin feature, which means I can seed one account with USDC and trade across multiple markets from there without needing to start sub accounts because I really hate managing so many different subaccounts. And their iOS mobile app is also live right now.
00:28:12.270 - 00:28:48.244, Speaker B: And it's amazing because it's compatible with Metamask, Coinbase Wallet, Coin 98, Huawei Wallet, and a lot of the most popular mobile wallets out there. And it's available for people outside of the US or sanctioned countries today. And one last thing, one exciting opportunity is their competitions, the most recent tier in the $10,000 equity tier, have won over $95,000 in rewards, and you can get started with as low as $500 in equity to compete for prizes. So if you're already trading, might as well get paid to do it. So if any of that sounds interesting to you, I highly recommend that you head on over to DyDX exchange to learn more. And I thank them for sponsoring this episode.
00:28:50.784 - 00:29:10.054, Speaker C: I think there's a lot that we will unpack here. But even before that, I'm curious why people are raising these questions now. Is, are these kind of censorship fears mostly just, I guess, applicable to a proof of stake Ethereum, or if Ethereum had state proof of work with the risk for this kind of chain level censorship be lower?
00:29:10.914 - 00:29:54.434, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it's, it's a big discussion because this sort of stuff has been talked about in the Ethereum community for a very long time. It's just that it's obviously very topical now. Right. And I think there's an element of tribalism here as well, where there's been a certain group of people that have said that Ethereum proof of stake will never happen. And now that it's undeniable that it will happen, they kind of seem to have shifted their narratives a bit and basically have latched onto this and being like, well, Ethereum shifting to proof of stake is dangerous, right? It shouldn't happen because there's more risk of censorship. So I think there's an element of that. But that doesn't take away from the fact that some of these concerns are very real and obviously, like, they should be met with discussion around them and there should be a healthy debate hat now that I think a lot of people have talked about this already.
00:29:54.434 - 00:30:27.284, Speaker A: There's been plenty of talk about this on Twitter, in Jerry's podcasts. I've talked about it a lot on my videos. But it really boils down to the fact of the matter is that, like, do you believe that censorship is, or that the chain is more prone to censorship under proof of stake versus proof of work? And the reason around that is because with proof of stake, Ethereum right now, there are large stakers on the network. As I said, kraken, coinbase, Binance, Lido. But Lido is a bunch of independent stakers. Lido isn't just one monolithic entity. There is 29 independent validators within that, or validating services within that.
00:30:27.284 - 00:31:17.514, Speaker A: And people often will often say, well, if Coinbase is forced by the US government to essentially not to block everything from their validators, not even attest to blocks that contain these sanctioned addresses in them, will they follow that? Or will they maybe shut down their validators and just stop staking on Ethereum? Or will they risk getting slashed? So that's the kind of can of wormworms that gets open now, because we're not only dealing with Coinbase's choice of what they want to do, we're now dealing with them being forced to do something because at the end of the day, they are a US registered business. They traded on the New York Stock Exchange. They have to legally abide by these sanctions. They cannot interact with tornado cash. They can, you know, but that's, that's really where it stops right now. It's. There's no, there's no obligation for them to censor at the validator level right now that, as far as I know, OFAC hasn't said that.
00:31:17.514 - 00:31:33.156, Speaker A: There is no regulations that say that. But obviously they themselves, as, as a us company, are not allowed to interact with, with tornado cash. So what happens when the US government goes to Coinbase and Kraken, which are both us based exchanges? Obviously binance isn't, but commerce and Kraken have a large share of the validators.
00:31:33.220 - 00:31:33.580, Speaker B: Lido.
00:31:33.612 - 00:32:47.124, Speaker A: A lot of the providers in, in Lido are us based as well. What happens if the US government goes to all of them or just makes up a law or regulation that says, well, you are no longer allowed to include these transactions at the validator level and you're no longer allowed to attest to blocks that contain these transactions? Now obviously this is getting technical, but let's say they clue into that and they know what they're talking about and they do this. Well, there are only two choices that these exchanges and service providers have adhere to those of those regulations or shut down their staking services. Now the whole point of, I guess, like talking about the social slashing and talking about the fact that the Ethereum community is not going to stand for this and they're going to slash you because that form of censorship is considered an attack on the network is to make sure that these providers shut down their services rather than try to attack the network. If faced with that kind of, with that kind of, I guess, like that kind of regulations from that, from the US government or that kind of pressure, I should say, from the US government, will it play out like that? I mean, no one knows, right? Like, I mean, there has been some signals. I think Brian Armstrong from Coinbase basically came out and said they have to follow the law, but that doesn't mean they have to censor. They could just shut down their staking operation.
00:32:47.124 - 00:33:15.716, Speaker A: Right? So they have choices, but the choice, none of the choices are good. Like the staking operation for Coinbase is a cash cow. They take a 20, they take one of the highest fees, so they take a 25% cut of all staking rewards on Ethereum staking. And they have, they make, you know, hundreds of millions, I think, in rewards depending on the price of ETH, of course. So there's obviously a very big revenue driver for them. And that's just as it exists today. And as it keeps growing and growing, it obviously become a bigger revenue driver for them, especially if its price goes up.
00:33:15.716 - 00:33:49.830, Speaker A: So they. But at the same time, do they risk adhering to these regulations and then getting slashed? Right, like getting socially slashed and losing customer deposits, which could potentially lead to a crap ton of lawsuits and potentially like their business going under. I mean, this is how serious it is, right? Like if they have millions of customers potentially staking their ETH with them, then. And all those customers take a haircut, Coinbase would have to make up for that haircut out of their own pocket or face the lawsuits. At the end of the day, they're going to get sued by. By their users. And I think that that's like a bad outcome for everyone.
00:33:49.830 - 00:34:39.523, Speaker A: So in my mind, if they were forced to do these things, they would have to shut down their staking operation because of the fact is like the alternative is basically losing their customer deposits, which is, which is much worse, I think, then losing potential revenue from. From Ethereum staking. So that, that basically, I guess, like is a worst case scenario. And that's why a lot of people harp on about the fact that proof of stake is more centralized than proof of work. Post, you know, obviously after the merge, because you have these large staking providers in saying that you have large mining pools as well, right? Like, I know mining pools and staking providers, they're not one to one, because of the fact of the matter, is like, miners can easily change pools. It actually is like something that they can just point their minus to one pool and then change over to another pool if that pool is doing something that they don't agree with. But on both Ethereum and bitcoin, I think three mining pools control over 50% of the hash rate.
00:34:39.523 - 00:35:19.332, Speaker A: So that is obviously still quite centralized. And also with mining, it is very easily identifiable where miners are situated because they use so much power that you can easily identify them if you were a government or a nation state and go after them if you wanted to. Whereas the staking, it's a bit harder to, for home stakers, you can't really identify them. It's quite a bit harder. But that's I guess, like orthogonal to the decentralization discussion. I think that immediately post merge, I would agree that proof of stake is more centralizing than proof of work on Ethereum. And there's more censorship risks because actually for those who don't know, you can't actually unstake.
00:35:19.332 - 00:36:00.594, Speaker A: When you've post merge, there is a separate network upgrade or separate hard fork coming six to twelve months after the merge which will enable withdrawals from staking. So you can't actually exit staking, you can't withdraw your ETH and you can't choose a different staking provider after the merge. You have to wait for that upgrade to come in. And then once that happens, there's another catch where you can withdraw, but there's a queue to withdraw and there's kind of like a timing. So you can't just like instantly withdraw your ETH and shut down your validator and go validate with someone else. If the queue is empty, I still think it takes about 18 hours for you to be able to unstake. And then if the queue is full, it could potentially take months, depending how full the queue is, for you to be able to unstake.
00:36:00.594 - 00:36:41.818, Speaker A: And on top of that as well, you also, if you're staking with like a coinbase, you, you have to get the permission to unstake. They have to allow you to unstake because they're the ones running the validators. So if they say, well, no, we're not going to allow you to do this, and they lock your account, well then you can't do anything, right. Like you don't have control over that. There are other solutions coming for all of this. There, there are kind of like ways to stake with these providers while not giving them access to your funds or your keys. So they'll run the validator for you, you'll still keep custody of your funds and the keys to your funds, but you'll just kind of like as delegate the validated responsibilities to these services and they'll still take their fee and everything, but that way you can exit staking whenever you want and they can't prevent you from, from doing that.
00:36:41.818 - 00:37:38.704, Speaker A: So there are solutions, but I would say that I agree with the critics immediately post merge. But once those withdrawals are enabled, I've been talking about this a lot myself, but I expect it to be like this great reshuffling of ETH stake where people are aware of the risks and they'll go and stake with the minority providers, or they'll just do solo staking, or these solutions will come online which will allow them to do like hybrid, centralized staking where they can still control their custody of their funds. But delegate this, they're kind of validating responsibilities to one of these solutions. So it is very nuanced, as you can imagine, and you can go in any direction here with a lot of these things. And I will say one more thing, which is the consequences of attacks on both proof of work and proof of stake. As I mentioned before, you have this social slashing, which is like a surgical punishment for just the validators that are doing something wrong, that are only the validators that are attacking the network. Whereas in a proof of work scenario, if valid, if the miners were attacking the network or doing censorship, you can't actually surgically punish any one miner.
00:37:38.704 - 00:38:35.286, Speaker A: In order to punish these miners, you would have to change the hashing algorithm on the chain, which punishes all miners. And then basically what you do is you reset your chain security to zero, because now everyone's got to go out there and get new hardware to mine with this new hashing algorithm, or they have to mine on their cpu or GPU again, which obviously collapses the security of the chain. And you've now basically punished all these honest miners who have invested hundreds of millions of dollars, if not billions of dollars, into mining equipment that no longer works on the chain just to punish those attackers. And, look, if it's existential and if this happened on bitcoin, they, you know, they would have to do it, like, if it really is existential and their chain just keeps getting overridden by this, um, his attacker, they would have to do this. Whereas in proof of stake Ethereum, yes, there'd be a fallout of social slashing, but at least the honest actors don't get hurt by this. Only the dishonest actors do. That's where the major benefit comes from, and that's where I think a lot of people miss.
00:38:35.286 - 00:39:15.234, Speaker A: Is that like, yes, there are trade offs here, and yes, there may be some points of extra centralization, but in return, we get this very, very powerful tool of punishing the bad actors, instead of having to punish everyone just to punish a few, a few bad actors. The analogy I use is that, say there is a part of a city where you know that there's bad guys and you want to go, go arrest them. But on proof of work, your only tool is to level the whole city to find them. So you literally have to destroy the whole city just to find those, those kind of people to arrest them. Right? Whereas in proof of stake, you can go there surgically. You know, you can surround the building, arrest them in that building, and the rest of the city remains untouched. So that's the scenario that is at play.
00:39:15.234 - 00:39:53.644, Speaker A: So what would you prefer? Burning down the whole city to find just these kind of like people in one building or a few buildings, or surgically going after those people and keeping the rest of the city intact. So that's the kind of trade off that exists. And that's what I think a lot of people don't talk about when they talk about centralization risk. Is that, yes, maybe there is arguably a bit more centralization in proof of stake versus proof of work, but in return, we get this incredibly powerful tool to deal with anyone that attacks the network that we don't have under proof of work. So in a worst case scenario, I would argue that proof of stake is still better than proof of work from that perspective.
00:39:54.304 - 00:40:16.824, Speaker C: Thank you for that really comprehensive answer, and I just want to double click on that point. So when it comes to censorship for proof of work, ethereum versus proof of stake, why is it easier for OFAC to go after violators of the sanction in a proof of stake Ethereum, why isn't it just as easy for them to go after miners that maybe process blocks that included sanctioned transactions?
00:40:17.484 - 00:40:56.748, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's easier just because, for example, Coinbase has a large amount of validators and they're us based. So the US government could just go after Coinbase themselves and say, hey, you control these validators. You need to do this based on such and such rules. Whereas with proof of work, these miners, it just depends, like where they are. As I said before, it's very easy to determine where they are just based on power usage. I mean, the only things that use that much power are drug operations and mining. Right? Like, it's a lot of power that really, at the end of the day, okay, I should say, like, things that, that are not viewed as kind of like legitimate, depending on your view of things.
00:40:56.748 - 00:41:35.974, Speaker A: Right? So it's either a drug operation or it's a, it's a mining farm. Now that, that makes it very easy to, to spot the big mining farms in terms of spotting the people that are like home miners. There's not that many hobbyist miners anymore because it's just not profitable to be. But those are probably, you know, harder to spot, but probably not because you could just look at the energy usage as well. So it is relatively easy to spot large mining operations, but with proof of stake, I mean, it's, it could be arguably more easier because there's just one less step. You don't have to go to the energy company and request all this data and request, like, like all this information. You could just be like, well, I know that Coinbase has many validators because I can just see it on.
00:41:35.974 - 00:42:02.060, Speaker A: There's plenty of websites that show this. I'm just going to go tell Coinbase this or go tell Kraken this. I'm not trying to pick on Coinbase, but it's the obvious example that everyone's familiar with. But. And that's why it might be easier to kind of like, target these sorts of things. But I still think it proof of work, like, just because it's, I guess, more anonymous, where it doesn't exist in any one place. There's not kind of a KYC from these customers who are using the staking service or anything like that on a coinbase.
00:42:02.060 - 00:42:14.152, Speaker A: There are still ways to identify them through that energy use, which is. Is undeniable. I mean, you can't argue around that. Like, miners use lots of energy. I mean, bitcoin is. Will always champion that as well. They'll say, oh, well, miners using lots of energy, it's good.
00:42:14.152 - 00:42:45.076, Speaker A: It's good that they're using lots of energy because it turns it into bitcoin. And what gives bitcoin value, the flip side of that is that they're very, very easily identifiable. And we saw with China recently, they banned the miners, right? Like, and the miners had to move out of China and that was actually bullish for bitcoin because it distributed the hash rate out of a probably a more hostile environment. But at the end of the day, like, that doesn't mean that the US couldn't do the same thing. They could easily tell miners, well, we don't want you here, we know you're banned. And then they'd have to go find a new home and they wouldn't be able to hide. There's no way for them to hide.
00:42:45.076 - 00:43:19.600, Speaker A: Whereas, whereas we're staking, for example, if Coinbase gets this order, well, then their customers could take their ETH out of Coinbase and go stake with someone else. Maybe they stake with the validators that are overseas, maybe they not in the US, not overseas. I'm talking like an australian right now. Everywhere is overseas to me. But they could stake, you know, somewhere else or they could solo stake. And it's just much harder to track down solo stakers because the energy footprint is basically non existent. There's ways to kind of like hide your, your, you know, not expose your IP address and things like that as well when, when doing certain things.
00:43:19.600 - 00:44:16.444, Speaker A: So, yeah, it's kind of like, it's. It's hard to argue either one side because you can find faults in like, as I said, you can find the energy usage fault and proof of work, which is easily identifiable, or you can find the service provider fault with proof of stake which are easily identifiable. But I think I still go back to the fact that just because they're easy to identify doesn't mean that it's necessarily a bad thing. It's all about like what if, you know, there's an attack on the network, how do we punish the attackers? And that's what I always look at is like, what tools do we have to punish the attackers and how do we prevent them from attacking more than once? In proof of stake, we slash them, which basically means burning their eats, they kicking them out of the network and kicking them off the network and keeping the honest actors in there with proof of work. As I said, like you can only change their hashing algorithm, you can't actually do anything else. Like you can ask them to stop attacking the network, but I mean, it's not going to really work if they're attacking the network, they're not going to listen to you. So you really do have to change it and then you punish everyone.
00:44:16.444 - 00:44:53.264, Speaker A: So that's my general view on it. I don't think it really matters that much. And I, you know, it's funny, I wrote a piece about this in my newsletter a while ago. Now I think it's got to be, it's not two years, maybe it's 18 months or something. But I basically, the point of the piece was like, I learned to love centralized service provider staking because of the fact that we have these tools to punish them and only them if they do something wrong. Right? We don't have to punish everyone, whereas proof of work doesn't have those tools. So the centralized versus decentralized discussion is much more nuanced than just like where people are staking or where people are mining.
00:44:53.264 - 00:45:33.244, Speaker A: I think it's got to do with the punishment aspect of it as well, which is obviously something that doesn't get spoken about that much because we haven't had to enact it yet. There are people who get slashed on the Ethereum network for doing something like, as I said before, double signing. And there has been instances of that. That's an objective thing that the protocol can basically say, hey, you're not supposed to be doing that, whether it's an attack or not, which usually isn't. Usually it's someone that's running two validator instances at the same time, which means that they're double signing, which is not allowed by the protocol, they get punished for that. Um, whereas with proof of work, uh, if someone attacks the network like you, you'll know, but you won't be able to do anything to stop it. If someone has more than 50% of the hash power, there's no way for you to stop them except changing the hashing algorithm.
00:45:33.244 - 00:45:49.606, Speaker A: So that, and that hasn't happened yet for bitcoin and the 51% attacks that we have seen on, like, a theorem classic, I mean, no one cares about that, right? Like, no one. No one cares about that. The consequences there, and I think that's why people don't think about it, is because we haven't actually seen it play out on these major networks yet.
00:45:49.790 - 00:46:33.856, Speaker C: And I'd love to touch on social slashing as well. So, obviously, what you just described is slashing of validators who double sign is built into the protocol. Now, social slashing seems to be the solution proposed to counter potential censorship at this validator level and just to synthesize for listeners. Basically, if a validator is refusing to include transactions that are sanctioned, then, you know, us as a community, we can actually vote to slash that, slash that validator. And it seems like even Vitalik himself have voted in favor of something like this on an informal Twitter poll. But to me, it was quite troublesome because we're introducing this kind of new social layer on top. And, you know, once you introduce social, you introduce things like populism, you know, and it's not rules that are baked into the protocol, which I'm pretty scared about.
00:46:33.856 - 00:46:40.764, Speaker C: So I'm curious, what are your thoughts on social slashing? Like, is this something that we should rely on as a community? Are there kind of drawbacks to this?
00:46:41.824 - 00:47:06.990, Speaker A: So the term itself may be not the best term here, but in terms of, like, what it stands for. So the social layer is what holds up all of these networks. To give an example of something that tries to reject the social layer but it exists, is bitcoin. Right. They try to reject that by saying, you know, bitcoin runs autonomously based on code. There is no kind of, like, subjectivity to it. There is no social layer involved.
00:47:06.990 - 00:47:34.790, Speaker A: That's true for the normal case. Okay, what is the worst case scenario happens? What if there is a major bug on the bitcoin network that requires the social layer to step in, fix the bug, and then update their nodes in order to, to fix that bug, and it requires a hard fork, for example. Right, that would happen. There's no way in hell that the critical bug that exists in the bitcoin network would be allowed to continue existing. They would fix it. They would roll back the chain if they had to in order to fix this. And they would hard fork to do this right.
00:47:34.790 - 00:48:06.934, Speaker A: That's all social layer that doesn't happen on its own. The devs would have to fix the bug in the client and then the people that run nodes and the miners that, that mine the chain that would have to choose to mine the forked chain in order for that to be the canonical one. And they would all have to go along with this. So the social layer exists regardless of anything. It's always there because at the end of the day the humans are the ones mining, staking, running the nodes. It's not just like an AI doing all of this, it really is humans at the end of the day and it's all social consensus about what is the real change. There's a reason why people don't consider bitcoin cash.
00:48:06.934 - 00:48:39.838, Speaker A: The real bitcoin chain is because they came together as a community, as a social layer and said bitcoin is the real bitcoin. Bitcoin cash is bitcoin cash at the end of the day. So for people to say that the social layer is something that maybe, I don't know, muddies the waters a bit and makes things murky, I think is inaccurate because the social layer is always there. And it's actually the reason why. I mean, in the face of all these other layer ones that are available, I've remained bullish on ethereum. Like, yes, Ethereum doesn't have the best technology, doesn't it doesn't have the most scalability. Right now there are roadmap items for that.
00:48:39.838 - 00:49:11.586, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, Ethereum has. The social layer has an incredibly strong social layer. And the social layer isn't just to respond to attacks, it's also things like the, the class of developers that are building on the network, what they stand for if they actually believe in the mission and the values behind these chains. Right? Bitcoin has a strong social layer as well. Yes, they, I guess like have a toxic part of the community too, right? Which we all know about. But so does Ethereum, so does every chain really. But it's more about like the balance of, I guess like toxic people, you know, crappy people versus good people.
00:49:11.586 - 00:49:42.758, Speaker A: And at the end of the day, like Ethereum has the best social layer out of all the smart contract chains by, by a very long shot, I think, in, at least in my opinion. And it's also got one that has been around for a very long time, which counts for a lot as well. So the social layer exists like, I just wanted to have that as like a baseline here. In terms of something like social slashing. Well, that would be this. It's kind of like the same concept as a critical bug in bitcoin that has to be fixed by the social layer. We would consider an attack on the ethereum network or a censorship attack on the ethereum network to be a quote unquote critical bug, right.
00:49:42.758 - 00:50:19.384, Speaker A: Something that needs the social layer to step in in order to fix. Now, the reason why we can't do this in protocol, and we need the social layer is because the protocol itself, as I mentioned before, can't actually tell when censorship is occurring because it's a subjective thing. As I said, the protocol doesn't know if a transaction is being included in a block or not, that only knows about the transactions in the block. So if I'm not including a transaction in a block because of some sanctions, the protocol has no idea about that. The protocol doesn't know what a sanction is. There's no way for it to know what a sanction is without us, you know, feeding an oracle data into it. But then that becomes subjective again, like the oracle could be corrupted and manipulated.
00:50:19.384 - 00:50:43.968, Speaker A: So the protocol itself, what the protocol knows objectively is just the rules of the Ethereum network. That's all it knows. It doesn't know anything outside of that unless we feed it to it. Like for example, Oracle, the price of ETH is only known by the protocol. Sorry, it's not known by the protocol, but it's only known on chain because we feed it to it from an oracle, for example. So there are objective things that the protocol knows, and then there are subjective things. The objective is only the protocol rules.
00:50:43.968 - 00:51:14.068, Speaker A: Only the code of the ethereum network itself is what the protocol knows. Anything outside of that has to be fed in by something, whether it be a smart contract or the social layer or anything like that, has to be fed into it. And then even then, the protocol doesn't know it objectively. It's being told it by some other external factor, and it's, and that external factor has to abide by the rules of the protocol. And if it does, that's fine. But again, the protocol itself doesn't know that ETH is worth x amount of dollars. It only knows that one ETH is one ETH at the end of the day.
00:51:14.068 - 00:51:49.114, Speaker A: And the dollar price is read in by the oracle into a smart contract and put on chain. But then the protocol still only sees that as a transaction. It sees the, the, the bite code. At the end of the day, it doesn't see the, the dollar value. It doesn't see the subjectiveness behind it. So that's why censorship is very, very hard, if not impossible, to punish at the protocol layer, because it can't see that it is blind to it without our help. Now, there are ways to, I guess, like make it so that the protocol not, doesn't see it, but, but like, and doesn't punish actors for it, but it behaves in a certain predictable way.
00:51:49.114 - 00:52:44.180, Speaker A: As I mentioned before, if people aren't attesting to blocks because they don't want to attest to blocks that contain censored transactions, well, then the network itself will fork off into two separate networks because it basically says, well, you know, I have this half of the network on. I mean, this is kind of getting really complicated now. I'm trying to, trying to simplify it here, but basically the reason why it splits off is because then the network only sees what it, what it sees at the end of the day. Like, the network will only see who's attesting to one set of blocks and who's attesting to another set of blocks, and then that will lead to a fork in the road because there's no consensus, really, that that's where consensus comes from. There is no consensus in the network, but there's only consensus in, uh, you know, if, say, 50% is, is attesting to sanction blocks or sanctioned transactions, 50% isn't. Well, then those 50% are a consensus within themselves, but they're not a consensus with each other, so they fork off into their own chains. Uh, that's probably the simplest way I can, I can kind of explain it there.
00:52:44.180 - 00:53:07.664, Speaker A: So that's why we need the social layer to step in and say, hey, okay, well, you are not following the protocol. Protocol rules. But the protocol doesn't know that. But we know that. So we're going to socially slash you and kick you off the network because you have not followed the, I guess, like the social contract, the social layer. And if we could do that in protocol, we would. If we could do that without human intervention, we would.
00:53:07.664 - 00:53:39.446, Speaker A: But we can't, at least right now, do that. And I don't think we'll be able to ever. I think the best we can do is put, there's upgrades coming to the network in order to make it very, very hard to censor, but we can't ever, I believe in protocol, punish people for censorship, it's just not possible as far as my understanding goes. So that's why we need the social aid to step in. Now, as I said before, there are strong social layers and there are weak social layers. And I said that bitcoin and ethereum have strong social layers. A lot of the other chains out there have relatively weak ones.
00:53:39.446 - 00:54:20.452, Speaker A: So if we had a weak social layer in ethereum, well then what would happen is that, that we would never actually be able to come to consensus on who to punish you not to punish. It would be a, it would be very, very messy. It would fracture, and the ethereum kind of like whole ecosystem would fall apart, I believe. But because ethereum social layer is strong, because we have this existing contract that says we're not going to tolerate censorship on the network, we can potentially enact this social slashing, even though it's subjective, to punish these actors. In saying all of that, I still consider social slang to be the nuclear option. It is the option of last resort resort. It should not be used until every single other option to punish these actors or to make them abide by the protocol rules has been explored.
00:54:20.452 - 00:54:45.334, Speaker A: And even at that point, like it, the nuclear option has fallout, right? It has collateral damage. It's not like everyone honest is going to come out unscathed. Not at all. Like ETH Price could go down. If you're staking with, with a, with a centralized provider and you don't know anything about this, you could get punished because that centralized provider has acted in a way that goes against the network. And maybe you don't even, you don't agree with this, but you didn't know about it. So there's fallout here.
00:54:45.334 - 00:55:46.938, Speaker A: And, and I should also clarify that I personally only support social slashing for people or for validators that are not attesting to blocks. I don't actually support it for validators that are not including transactions in their blocks because I actually think that because the protocol gives these validators the ability to do that, they're playing by the rules technically, right? They're still playing by the, the protocol rules that were given to them of being able to include or not include whatever transaction they want. Whereas I mean, that get, that also gets murky. Like say 90% of the network is, is censoring certain transactions and say it's transactions that a lot of people interact with. You know, not all transactions are created equal. If 90% of the network is censoring one form of transaction that gets used once a month, then is anyone really going to care enough to punish these actors? Probably not, right? But let's say 90% of validators are censoring uniswap. Well, okay, then everyone's going to be like, well, you know, yes, okay, I can get my transaction in eventually.
00:55:46.938 - 00:56:22.894, Speaker A: But this has led to severe degradation of performance of the Ethereum chain. Because to do anything on Uniswap would require waiting a few minutes, which would just break everything. You can't wait a few minutes to do a transaction on uniswap. The MEV would be crazy. It would just break everything, right? So then the network would come together and punish those actors for that. So it gets very nuanced. But in terms of my own belief, I believe that instead of threatening validators with social slashing, if they don't include transactions, we should force them to include transactions through the protocol, or we should give them plausible deniability over what the transactions are.
00:56:22.894 - 00:57:18.014, Speaker A: So, for example, you can have privacy on the base layer, or you could have transactions that are shielded and that you only know that what the transaction is once it's been mind in or proposed in a block, not while it's in the the mempool, which is like the waiting area. So if you do that, then the validator can say, well, I don't know about what transactions I'm including until they're included. So they, anyone that tries to tell them, you can't include these transactions in your block. Well, you can tell them, well, I don't know. So how am I supposed to filter out these transactions if it's all hidden from me? And then obviously, if they go into the bit into the chain, and then you can see what those transactions are, then it becomes at the attester level, then you can basically say, well, you can't attest to these blocks because they've got those transactions in them. That's when I believe social slashing should, should come into play, because that is literally what's going to lead to a fork in the network, which is not going to be good for anyone. So we need to punish those actors, and we need to get them off the network so the network can actually continue as normal.
00:57:18.554 - 00:58:08.374, Speaker C: And I think, I think we agree on the fact that social slashing should be a nuclear option. And I think before I move on to the final part, I also want to kind of touch on this really important thing called flashbots. And without getting way too deep into weeds, basically, there is this, and feel free to correct me if I'm not explaining this as well as I can, but there's something called MeV Boost, which is this software package developed by the company flashbots, which allows validators to construct blocks in a certain way that, you know, results in them boosting the rewards by, I think, about 60%. So suffice to say, most of the validators will probably use this, but the thing to focus on is that flashbots recently has mentioned that they will be OFAC compliant. So in reality, does this mean every validator that's using flashbots will get social slash at some point?
00:58:09.154 - 00:58:40.986, Speaker A: Yeah. So you've explained that. Well, MevBoost is basically what's referred to as kind of like the sidecar piece of software that you can run alongside your validator in order to submit your transactions to what's called a relayer. So Flashbot is the company, Mev Boost is the software, and a relayer is a kind of like block builder, so to speak, that then these relays are usually mine. Well, these relayers are kind of like miners, and in the future, stakers to include your transactions in a block. This is done for mev purposes. And as you said, the rewards are boosted for doing this.
00:58:40.986 - 00:59:31.484, Speaker A: So I think over 90% of the Ethereum proof of work network is using this software right now. As you said, flashbots who develops MeV Boost basically said that their relay art is going to be OFAC compliant, which means they're going to be censoring any transactions that try to hit the tornado cache addresses. So if 90% of the validators post merge are using this relayer, using flashbots as relayer, that means that 90% of the network will be censoring those transactions right there. But in response to this, flashbots has open sourced mev boost. So now anyone can build a relayer. So there are already people to confirmed companies blocks route and. Oh, what's the other company? I can't remember the other company's name, but they've both said that they're going to be developing their own relayers, and one of them is going to include, I believe, a flag, or include an option that basically says you can sensor or not, it's up to you.
00:59:31.484 - 01:00:06.838, Speaker A: And the other one is not going to include that at all. The other one's not going to to censor it at all. So because it mev boost is now being open sourced, anyone can build their own, own relayer, and that means there's going to be probably more than three of them. It's, we're going to be a lot of these relayers, and you can choose which one you want to use. So that problem has mostly been alleviated, but it does bring into a view this kind of upgrade that we've been working on for a while in Ethereum called PBS, or proposer builder separation, along with CR list. So, basically, what. What PBS would do, it would allow the validator role to be split up into two different things.
01:00:06.838 - 01:00:40.632, Speaker A: You would have, like block builders, or block and validators. So, essentially, you would have a separate set of people building blocks. So, including the transactions in those blocks and sending those to, I guess, the network or to validators. And then the validators would be a separate set of people as well. So, technically, Coinbase, with using their validators, they don't have to build the blocks. They can just be proposing two blocks, whereas the block builders could be based somewhere else, and they don't have to be OFAC compliant, and then they could just send their blocks to these proposals to propose to the network. So that way, you get around to this kind of, like, censorship risk here.
01:00:40.632 - 01:01:12.942, Speaker A: That's coming relatively soon, I think. And then, as I mentioned, CR lists, which are censorship resistant lists, is another way to ensure that you can kind of get around this censorship as well. I won't go into the details of those. As I said, it's still, like, in research phase, and it's still kind of, like, being developed. So it's not 100% clear on how that will actually come to the network. But in terms of mev boosts, the fact that they open sourced the code means that these other relayers can be built, which means that you don't have to use the flashbots relay anymore. Well, I mean, I don't think these things alive yet.
01:01:12.942 - 01:01:41.036, Speaker A: The other relayers, I think they hopefully will be live in time for the merge. Um, but that alleviates that kind of issue there. But it's still an issue. I mean, honestly, I kind of, like. I'm very disappointed by this because of the fact that, as far as I know, OFAC hasn't actually said that you can't include transactions, tornado, cash, in your blocks as a block proposal or as a miner or as a relayer. As far from what my reading of the sanctions, it basically just means that no us entity can interact with the contracts themselves. Right.
01:01:41.036 - 01:02:08.100, Speaker A: It doesn't mean that you can't process the transactions as a validator or a block producer. Um, and I don't think that that has been, uh, I don't think even from a legal standpoint, that would. That will kind of, like, hold up, but because the punishments are potentially very severe. Right. 30 years in prison or up to 30 years in prison or massive fines. Their us based companies are being over compliant on purpose and I don't blame them for this. I mean, I would probably do the same thing if I'm being totally honest.
01:02:08.100 - 01:02:34.574, Speaker A: Like if I was risking going to prison for a long time, I would be over compliant as well. But from what my understanding of the sanctions themselves, they do not stipulate that block proposals, validators, miners have to do this, they don't have to censor, but I think they're just kind of like getting ahead of that because maybe that will come next. So that's why they open sourced it, so other people can build relayers and that you don't have, you don't have to use the OFAC compliant one, which is obviously better for the health of the network.
01:02:35.354 - 01:03:19.354, Speaker C: Yeah, actually, when I saw that flashpots open source their code, I thought we were so lucky to have these kind of altruists running flashbots. But the more I think it, the more I realized it's actually economically driven. Because if they don't do this, then it could be very detrimental to ethereum, which means they might not have a business. So at the end of the day, I think the incentives are kind of aligned and it kind of all worked out. But for the purposes of time, I think we've covered a lot of things that could go wrong with talk about contentious hard forks, which I think we both see as unlikely censorship at a chain level, which in the short term I think it's probably likely, and social slashing complications and all that. So let's flip the script a little bit to talk about the bull case. Like why can we be excited for Ethereum post merge?
01:03:20.134 - 01:03:46.530, Speaker A: Yeah, so I love to talk about this, obviously, and there are so many reasons to be bullish on Ethereum post merge. So, I mean, I'll start with the most obvious one. The switch from proof of work to proof of stake means that there's going to be a massive issuance reduction happening. So the amount of ETH issued yearly right now is over 4% under proof of work. Uh, and, and that's obviously quite high. Bitcoin is about half of that, I believe, right now. Um, and, uh, at about 2%.
01:03:46.530 - 01:04:17.538, Speaker A: But, uh, but yeah, it's quite, quite high, which means obviously there's more sell pressure from miners, uh, because they have to sell to cover costs. Like they have to sell a lot of it to cover their huge electricity costs and other, other maintenance costs. So there's going to be about an 80% to 85% I believe, issuance reduction coming instantly, uh, post merge. And also as I explained before, there's not going to be withdrawals for six to twelve months. So no rewards staking rewards can be withdrawn either. The only thing that can be accessed are fees. So as a validator you will earn fees that, and those fees aren't new issuance.
01:04:17.538 - 01:04:55.466, Speaker A: It's basically existing issuance being paid to you by people doing transactions on the network. So there will be a period of six to twelve months where zero new issuance will be hitting the market. Zero new ETH will be hitting the market. And obviously that could potentially be bullish for the price because there's no sell pressure, uh, coming from those entities that have traditionally sold a lot of new ETH and put downward pressure on the price. So that's the most obvious, uh, I guess like catalyst of why you should be excited as an ETH holder going into the merge. And this is why people say the merge isn't priced in. This is why people say uh, you know, post merge ETH is going to trade lighter than it does because it has that massive sell pressure, just evaporated overnight basically.
01:04:55.466 - 01:05:20.406, Speaker A: And we, we can, we know that objectively the miners have to sell. Like this isn't a guess or anything like that. This isn't an assumption. We know for a fact that miners are forced to sell lots of ETH to cover their, their costs. It's not a kind of like a low cost business, it's actually a high cost business. Whereas even when withdrawals are enabled for stakers, they don't have to sell very much of their ETH because they don't have huge electricity costs, they don't have huge hardware costs. They only really have.
01:05:20.406 - 01:05:43.828, Speaker A: I mean the only for selling for stakers is taxes. Like if, and that's only for a subset of stake. It's not for everyone. Obviously some of them exist in, in kind of like tax free places, but that's really the only for selling that you would need. I mean you could cover the electricity cost just from your normal job. Like, it's not, the electricity cost is extremely minimal. It's basically just keeping a pc on 24/7 which I think most people do if they have a pc anyway.
01:05:43.828 - 01:06:11.950, Speaker A: So really like it's kind of like negligible over the course of a year compared to the rewards that you get. So that's the most obvious one. Secondly, I think it's going to shift the narrative around Ethereum pretty dramatically because we're going from energy intensive proof of work to green proof of stake. Now, I say those terms not as a crypto person. I say them as a quote unquote normie or a non crypto person that we've seen it. Everyone hates proof of work because of the energy usage outside of crypto. That narrative is not going away.
01:06:11.950 - 01:06:27.854, Speaker A: Right or wrong. It doesn't matter. What matters is the narrative. The narrative against proof of work is really, really bad. It prevents companies from running to adopt the technology. It prevents companies from running to work with the technology because their user base yells at them about it basically, and says, you're killing the planet. And as I said, doesn't matter if it's right or wrong.
01:06:27.854 - 01:06:54.044, Speaker A: That is the narrative. Post merge, Ethereum no longer has to worry about that at all, right? Ethereum is now a green network under proof of stake. It is objectively green because it no longer uses mining. And we can explain that to people now, whether they understand that or not is another thing. But I think that companies will understand that and that's what matters because we want more adoption of the chain. Developers that are maybe very against proof of work will want to develop on ethereum now, right? Because it's proof of stake. So that's a huge kind of thing coming as well.
01:06:54.044 - 01:07:31.796, Speaker A: I believe that a lot of people are actually underestimating how powerful that is because I think a lot of people are blind to just how much the outside of crypto crowd hates mining. Like I think it's coming more into view because of nfts. Obviously, a lot of people outside of crypto don't like nfts, and a big reason they don't like them is because of that proof of work mining that's going on, that's using a lot of energy. Climate change is coming into focus more and more these days. It is definitely a huge issue for people. So in my mind, that is a huge catalyst for a theorem. The fact that we are able to put all that to bed and basically be a green network as viewed by the outside, outside of crypto kind of people there.
01:07:31.796 - 01:08:05.350, Speaker A: So I think those two would be the biggest things that, that I think are the other things that make me most bullish. The next two, I think they're, they're more kind of like, I guess, secondary effects, but probably make me just as bullish. So there is the, the staking rate, right. That kind of like real yield that you can get from staking ethnic, which will be, I think, post merge, including fear of a new. Even though fear of a news relatively low right now, it should be about five, 6%. And then including mev on top of that could be even higher. And that's an ETH denominated real yield.
01:08:05.350 - 01:08:26.204, Speaker A: Right? Like, the real yield is kind of like. So the inflation that's being paid out. Maybe I have to explain this for people. So the rewards of the validators are getting five to 6%, right. 4% of that, or around 4% of that, is pure block reward. So that is obviously new ETH being issued to the network. But that 4% doesn't mean that.
01:08:26.204 - 01:08:56.843, Speaker A: That ETH issuance is 4%. The ETH issuance is network wide, about 0.6%. So basically, the 4% being paid to stakers is not 4% inflation, it's 0.6% inflation. And then that's only being paid to a subset of ETH because only a subset of ETH is being staked. So you have, like, an actual real yield there, which I think is absolutely massive for institutions. That's going to be something that institutions look at and big players look at and be like, wow, I can get a real yield ETH denominated.
01:08:56.843 - 01:09:22.056, Speaker A: And it's. And it's variable based on the fee revenue. But just looking at the block rewards, which are also variable with how much ETH staked, but less volatile, of course they're going to, I think, pile in because of that. There's going to be a lot of traditional finance firms that wrap the. The staking product up into a nice little package and sell it to their customers. So they're going to take a cut and all that sort of stuff. So I think that is going to be a huge catalyst.
01:09:22.056 - 01:09:48.454, Speaker A: It's more of a secondary thing, but it's going to be a huge catalyst for more ETH demand and more lockup of ETH. The second thing is that the merge itself is a huge de risking event for Ethereum and for people buying ETH. There's a lot of people who probably don't want to buy ETH right now, because if something goes wrong with the merge, maybe the price falls, and maybe it kind of, like, leads to a lot of messiness, and it's. It's very. Maybe they consider the risk to be too high. Totally understand that. Totally get that.
01:09:48.454 - 01:10:16.560, Speaker A: If the merge goes well, which we expect it will, because the last testnets went. Went very well, there was no major issues or anything like that. If it goes well. Excuse me. Sorry. There will be a massive de risking event for Ethereum, and it will show the world that a theorem can execute on massive roadmap items because the merge itself is actually, for the foreseeable future, the biggest ethereum upgrade in its history. There is no other upgrade that is as big, as complex, as many moving parts as the merge.
01:10:16.560 - 01:11:00.302, Speaker A: Everything else that is coming sharding, vertical trees, statelessness, PBS that I spoke out before, that's all relatively much simpler than the merge. So if Ethereum can execute the merge, and it can do so successfully with no interruptions to the network, it will be a huge de risking event. And I think we're going to see a bunch of people buy ETH because of that, because the risk of the merge is now gone. It is running just fine, and that will lead to not only regular users but also more big money institutions to pile into ETH as well. So those are that, the two primary and two secondary. There are other reasons as well on top of that that I could go into, but maybe they're getting, like two into the weeds. But I think that those things alone make for a very, very bullish ETH case and a very bullish Ethereum case going forward.
01:11:00.302 - 01:11:31.526, Speaker A: And, you know, I think when you're looking at things being priced in or not, it's kind of like depending on your timeframe, like, obviously, if your timeframe is short to medium term, like, it's impossible to kind of, like, say how priced in something is. I mean, for example, people were saying, well, the mergers and priced in when ETH was like $3,000. Then ETH went to $800. And people say, well, the merger isn't priced in now. It's like, okay, well, there are a million different factors that determine the ETH price. The merge being priced and or not to me, is a long term thing. I've been writing about this issuance reduction that came with the merge since January 2019.
01:11:31.526 - 01:11:56.094, Speaker A: So for me, for someone like me, who has a decade long time horizon, the merge is not priced in. But if your time horizon is three to six months, well, I mean, you could argue that there is some pricing in going on right now because maybe it's a sell the news event, for example. Maybe that happens because it's run up so much, and then people are like, well, the merge happened. Let's sell the news. So it's kind of hard to know. And I don't really speculate on that. As I said, my time horizon is very, very long term.
01:11:56.094 - 01:12:23.276, Speaker A: Like, I haven't sold any of the ETH that I've, that I bought, and I don't plan to sell any of my 8th. I stake it all. But other people are playing this as a trade. And they're like, okay, well, yes, the merge is potentially bullish because of the narrative aspect of it. But once it happens, you know, I'm just going to sell my 8th because the narrative is of the merge is finished, that it's done. But then in my mind, it's kind of like, okay, well, you can have those sellers, but now you have no more selling from miners. You have the extremely positive narrative of ethereum moving from proof of work to proof of stake.
01:12:23.276 - 01:12:57.454, Speaker A: You have a de risking event, massive de risking event that has just happened, and you have a real yield in crypto. I think it's going to be the only real yield in crypto, at least one that's relatively high. That, to me, offsets all of that short, medium term noise. And that's why I'm so bullish on ETH and why people may see me on Twitter talking about it all the time and why I'm stacking ETH all the time is because when you take it in aggregate, there are so many reasons to be excited about not only the merge, but all the consequences of the merge after it and how it all leads to kind of like the second order effects and even the third order effects and the downstream effects there as well.
01:12:58.074 - 01:13:21.300, Speaker C: Yeah, definitely. And I definitely wanted to end our interview on that more positive note because I know we spent better half of an hour talking about everything that can go wrong. So let's get that out of the system in terms of the positivity side. And again, as a reminder to listeners, you know, we're not providing financial advice. You're really trying to show the two sides of the argument, right. Things that could go wrong in detail and also, you know, potentially some positive catalysts as well. And I'm really excited that you decided to come on the show.
01:13:21.300 - 01:13:28.804, Speaker C: So to wrap us up, for people who want to continue to follow your coverage of the merch and everything happening in crypto, what are the best channels for them to do this?
01:13:29.344 - 01:13:48.962, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, just Twitter is probably easiest because I have links to everything on there so they can go to sassle Zero x, which I'm sure you'll probably link to in the. In the show notes as well. Um, I not. I mean, I'm kind of active on Twitter. I have, like, my. My moments. Um, but I have a daily YouTube show that I run where I basically do a 30 minutes video on Ethereum every day.
01:13:48.962 - 01:13:59.150, Speaker A: I write a newsletter as well, and that's at the Daily Gwei. You mentioned ETH Hub, too, but yeah, the Daily Gwei is where I spend most of my time. But yeah, you can find links to all that on my Twitter. Awesome.
01:13:59.182 - 01:14:05.594, Speaker C: Well, thank you so much for coming on the show. This has been really fun and I'm sure people are going to have a lot of questions so expect to get a lot of messages.
01:14:06.174 - 01:14:38.656, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm always happy to answer questions. Maybe the best place to reach me is the daily Gwei discord channel, which they can find links to on the daily way. And then yeah, I'm happy to answer any questions people have, but this has been really awesome. Thanks for the great questions, Jason. It's actually interesting because I don't talk too much about the negative side of things very often and I think that it's good to talk about that because people obviously have questions. So I'm glad I got to spend most of most of the time talking about that and how I kind of like view it as well. As I said, there are negatives, but there's also kind of like a positive to the negative and there's ways to kind of work around that as well.
01:14:38.800 - 01:14:42.764, Speaker C: Definitely. And I think that's a great note to close this out on. So thanks for coming on again.
01:14:43.184 - 01:14:44.124, Speaker A: Thank you.
01:14:44.764 - 01:15:18.840, Speaker B: Alright, thats it for this week's episode of the Blockcrench podcast. So thank you so much for tuning in. If you enjoyed this episode, please make sure to subscribe on your favorite apps. And in case you didnt know, this interview is also available as a video on YouTube. And if you tag the blockcrench on Twitter this week and tell us what you liked about this episode, ill be sure to respond to you as well. Now if youd like to go even deeper, we have a vip tier where every week or so we write an in depth research brief or investment memo on a project and will have exclusive amas with myself where I answer all your questions as well. Now, we already have analysts from some of the top funds and companies in crypto as subscribers.
01:15:18.840 - 01:15:28.064, Speaker B: So if you're serious about getting an edge in crypto, head on over to theblockrunch.com vip to learn more. And once again, thanks for supporting the show and I'll see you next week.
