00:00:03.290 - 00:00:05.514, Speaker A: Hey everyone, you're watching Defi talks with Defi.
00:00:05.562 - 00:00:06.270, Speaker B: Dad.
00:00:23.970 - 00:01:24.706, Speaker A: Hey, thanks for joining in us. I've got a special interview here today with the one and only Stani Kulichov from Ave and Lens and lots of other projects that he lends a helping hand to. So we're going to talk all about really everything you need to know about the Aave ecosystem. So most of us know Ave, of course, for it being a lending and borrowing platform. It has been really, I think, a standout over the last few months as we've watched parts of centralized crypto crumble in the wake of a credit crisis while Defi has thrived. And I think that it couldn't be a more timely conversation just to talk about how Stannie and the team at Ave are building through this bear market and really thinking about the next wave of mainstream web3 users. However, we'll also get to talk a bit about lens protocol.
00:01:24.706 - 00:01:55.154, Speaker A: So we're actually live streaming this on Twitter, but after this I'll be posting it for the playback. I'll be posting it to lens tube. And so I think hopefully many of you will start to learn that what's being built with a decentralized social graph via lens protocol is just the foundation to us actually building the future of web3 media. So Stannie, on that note, welcome. Thanks for joining me. How are you doing?
00:01:55.352 - 00:02:02.718, Speaker B: Very good. Thanks for having me here. D five. Dad. It's been a while since I'm here, but always exciting.
00:02:02.894 - 00:02:42.590, Speaker A: Yeah, so much has changed. I want to say that I think we did an interview in late 2020 and that was like less than twelve months after you had launched the rebrand of what was originally ETH lend. So I'm always conscious of folks that are new to DeFi and new to aave to lens protocol. So do you want to briefly tell your origin story and I guess what led to Aave? And then we can talk a bit about go, which is a new decentralized stablecoin that's been proposed through Aave.
00:02:43.570 - 00:04:02.694, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. I mean, the Ave team is behind the Ave protocol, which is a DeFi protocol where you supply cryptographic assets and by supplying them, you're earning interest. And at the same time you can use those cryptographic assets as a collateral to borrow liquidity. In most cases, it's stable coins that you use to finance another goal, which can be an investment across DeFi or arbitrage opportunity, or might be even financing a real life goal like paying a tuition, mortgage or car purchase. So that's essentially what the AVI protocol is it's securing, depending on the valuations of the collateral, from five to 15 billion worth of value in the smart contracts. And it's deployed in multiple protocols and obviously started from the Ethereum main network. Now, the AvA team has been building smart contract based systems for the past few years, and our first kind of like iteration was named it land, which was kind of built before DeFi became a thing in an ecosystem.
00:04:02.694 - 00:05:35.894, Speaker B: And there was just a couple of interesting projects and decentralized exchanges out there. But since the team is kind of like a full web3 stack, we've been always curious to solve various aspects of this space that can be actually decentralized and owned by the community, and also looking for ways to empower users by using the blockchain itself. So one of the things we have been building for the past year or so has been the lens protocol. And lens protocol is a way of actually getting your ownership into your social media profile and owning those relationship that you have with other peers that you network ongoing basis. So essentially where DeFi solves the idea of bringing your accessibility to yield and financial protocols, and removing the kind of like a middlemen and banks out of the relationships and kind of like changing those dynamics, lens Protocol is essentially bringing you the ownership of your social presence and ensuring that whatever audience you create online, you have that ownership and the direct publication channel between you and your audience. And that's the kind of like value that we're creating with the lens protocol. And I will talk about that more.
00:05:35.894 - 00:05:44.780, Speaker B: But essentially what we been building is infrastructure for the web3 ecosystem that we know today.
00:05:45.390 - 00:06:29.180, Speaker A: Yeah, and by the way, we'll do some screen sharing here at the end, because I think lens will catch a lot of people by surprise. It looks and feels just like web two social media that we're all used to using, except really it just requires that you're brave enough to use a web3 wallet like metamask. So actually going back to Ave, then there's Ave V three that was more recently launched. I'm curious if there's any highlights you'd like to kind of share there, or reiterate what was the real focus around Ave V three before we talk a little bit more about go?
00:06:30.430 - 00:08:07.670, Speaker B: Yeah, there's kind of like always been a focus on what we have been building in various of the versions. The first version of Ave protocol, we wanted to essentially create a very robust protocol for supplying liquidity and drawing liquidity against your collaterals. And with the version two, our focus was more of like a cross chain iteration, so that we knew that there's going to be a future where l two s are coming. There's also Polygon, and there's more users coming to the space that we actually have block space on the Ethereum main net, which is a good thing and at the same time a scaling challenge for the whole community. But with the version three, our main ideas were around the risk mitigation and capital efficiency. In terms of the capital efficiency, we added a feature called portals, where certain type of bridges or entities can actually get whitelisted to mint and burn a tokens against a maximum cap set to entity based. And that way they can transact value between networks very, I would say kind of like very quickly and efficiently.
00:08:07.670 - 00:09:32.686, Speaker B: And of course, another important part was of the idea of capital efficiency, was this emode that we created. So we call it the efficiency mode, in a way where you're able to actually borrow against your collateral almost to the fullest extent, to 97, 98% of the loan to value ratio. So you could imagine you could supply something like 100 die and being able to borrow, let's say, 98 USDC. And the idea here is that once you introduce also stable coins into emode that are not USD dominated, but euros and other currencies, you actually create an interesting way of an interesting on chain FX market with very high capital efficiency. So that's the capital efficiency part. And another part, of course, was the idea of mitigating risk. So we added risk caps in terms of when you supply liquidity, the borrowing caps, but also we introduced a so called isolation mode, so new assets could be listed into the protocol, maybe slightly in a robust manner, but with a limited risk exposure.
00:09:32.686 - 00:10:22.530, Speaker B: So essentially, if you want to borrow against one particular asset, you can do it against other assets. And this is kind of like a siloing of the risk within the protocol itself. And the average V three has been quite significant improvement, and probably, I would say the best tech that we have ever created so far. It's live on the L two s. So arbitrum optimism, also on polygon and avalanche. And the idea is now that as the protocol has been more battle tested and it's getting matured, we can upgrade the Ethereum main market from version two to version three. And that's going to be a significant transaction, given the value that the V two market has at the moment.
00:10:22.530 - 00:10:39.980, Speaker B: So looking back for a few months now, the V three has been quite successful, and the community expectations definitely has been fulfilled. And it's nice to see that we're live with it and things are working well.
00:10:40.750 - 00:11:15.490, Speaker A: What about with Ethereum 2.0? Coming up, what's known as the merge? How do you think about that? As a founder of a major d five protocol, I guess will ave play any sort of special role, do you think, in that transition, for example, Steph is supported as collateral. So I know I've personally collateralized positions of my own in ave using Stef, but yeah. How do you think about E 2.0 as a DFI founder?
00:11:16.570 - 00:12:31.520, Speaker B: I mean, it's significant change to the underlying network and it's definitely something that we have to always be mindful and do sufficient amount of testing itself. So the Abba team has been participating in testing the merge on testnets, and that's what's been going quite well. And I think it's something that's definitely going to be a significant change into the underlying network that affects the whole kind of like a space and everything that is deployed on Ethereum. But so far it's been quite good and I think essentially we have to kind of monitor how things will go with the merge, but with all the testing we have done, it seems to go quite well. So personally, I'm very excited about the progress itself with the merge because I've been waiting personally for this moment for quite long and for the whole ethereum ecosystem. So we're moving to a phase where it's actually like we're halfway there where Ethereum should be. So it's going to be like a very big moment for every one of us.
00:12:32.450 - 00:13:19.210, Speaker A: Yeah. And in case any of us as users are worried about how that would impact you as a user of any defi protocol on Ethereum, the short answer is it won't. If you went to bed and you woke up and the merge had actually taken place, you shouldn't have to do anything. You don't need to migrate tokens or start using necessarily like a different network or use different settings in metamask. So yeah, we're all really excited for that. It's a milestone that I think we all knew was coming, but it actually feels now like it's come sooner than I expected, despite all the years here that we've been waiting. Let's talk about go.
00:13:19.210 - 00:13:27.760, Speaker A: So what is go? In case anyone's new to that? And then I guess, why is the ave community creating go?
00:13:28.690 - 00:14:20.846, Speaker B: Yeah, it's very interesting thing. So go is a over collateralized asset. So it's essentially backed by the ave markets that we have and the collaterals there. So typically when you look into the average markets. How it works is that you as a user, you come with your different assets, and you're supplying into the protocol, and you're borrowing various assets, mainly stablecoins that say Dai, USDC and whatnot. So it's a marketplace between the supply and demand, and the interest rates are fluctuating between the utilization of various those assets. The idea with the go is to diversify the market itself.
00:14:20.846 - 00:15:49.766, Speaker B: So bringing a stablecoin into the AVA ecosystem that is governed by the AvA community. So what happens is that the AvA community mints go into certain maximum capitalization, and then various facilitators can actually utilize go. So the first facilitator, and all these facilitators are approved and decided by the Abe governance, which is the Abe community. And the first facilitator is the main Ethereum market. So the users that are supplying, let's say, ethereum and various other assets into the ave markets, they're able to use their borrowing power to borrow the go as an asset and effectively mint it for their own usage. And the differences between the other markets in Ave is that the go interest rate is static in the sense that it doesn't fluctuate the same way as the interest rates of the other markets that we have in the Ave protocol. And this is quite interesting because it gives the ave community a bit more saying on how also kind of like the liquidity is formed in the Ave protocol.
00:15:49.766 - 00:17:24.550, Speaker B: So for example, if there is a very high demand for stable coins, and we see liquidity crunch, what the other community can do, they can actually increase the debt cap and mint more of go, and equally reduce it when there's less demand. So it brings a bit more power to the community over the markets, but also diversifies for the users what they can actually borrow, and hopefully reduces those capital crunches that we see from time to time. So that's how the technical aspect of go works. But what we are trying to vision with go beyond is that we love to see go, kind of like becoming, I would say, in some ways money that we are using to solve different kinds of payment challenges that we have today. So essentially thinking like how we could use go beyond the defi ecosystem. So decentralized finance is an amazing ecosystem where we have all these opportunities, we are able to, let's say, mint go in one place and supply it into another protocol or a pool, and basically capture that yield arbitrage opportunity. But our team is thinking even further how we could actually use go, build future payment applications that could be deployed on the L2, and actually solve realigned payment issues on the Internet and also offline.
00:17:24.550 - 00:17:28.460, Speaker B: So that is kind of like where our vision stands with go.
00:17:30.610 - 00:18:13.660, Speaker A: Another aspect of go that had me excited is so as a user, there's a chance that I might enjoy like a discounted interest rate the way that it's proposed right now, given none of this is live, will you see then I guess different rates based on the type of collateral you put up. And then potentially, I guess different discounts depending on whether you hold staked Ave or maybe whether you hold the balancer LP for AAVE. And, and we don't have to go into too much of this, but just what's the TLDR on some of those benefits?
00:18:15.070 - 00:19:40.834, Speaker B: I mean, the way we usually design contracts is in a way where we try to be very agnostic, what could be added later and start very simple. So for example, the kind of like a Genesis discount strategy will be essentially using the staked Ave as kind of a way to reduce your interest rate. So if you are backstopping the protocol by supplying Ave into the safety module, you're able to actually mint go at a discounted rate. This is kind of fascinating because the backstoppers of the protocol become at the same time distributors of Go, so they can mint go at a lower cost and distribute that across B five space, and also into the other networks, for example, into the l two markets where other markets where go could be listed as an asset as well. So that's the kind of idea. But down the line, eventually more different discount strategies could be applied. And just to emphasize also this discount strategy, the Genesis parameters that are set, those are the things that the AB governance needs to decide upon after obviously careful review and modeling what could be those parameters.
00:19:40.834 - 00:20:00.490, Speaker B: And that's the process at the moment. So recently, the go proposal was green lighted by the ave community with a snapshot quote. So the next step is actually having those discussions. What could be those different parameters that could make go launch successful?
00:20:01.730 - 00:20:38.860, Speaker A: And then I guess, lastly, why now? We've been through a fairly tumultuous last six months, especially with the collapse of the whole terra ecosystem. This is not an algorithmic stablecoin for me. It's a very familiar set up, an over collateralized stablecoin on a decentralized platform using decentralized collateral to back it. But yeah, I guess why now? I imagine it had to have been somewhat of a difficult decision whether or not to pursue this.
00:20:39.870 - 00:22:34.206, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, there's been always some sort of innovation related to stablecoins in Defi over the past years, some of the stablecoin projects has been more smaller. There might be something that's already existed and ported into another network, but also we've seen that when we started to actually build and design go, which was during end of last year, we've been actually thinking like what could be an innovation that we can bring into this space. And obviously we as a team, we want to innovate, to inspire other developers and builders to build some interesting use cases on the infrastructure that we are building. And we definitely saw kind of like a bigger gap in terms of payment. So we see various stablecoins, or stablecoin attempts in decentralized finance, and they're always focusing on the whole space, like how you can actually generate the liquidity, establish the yields, and it's basically capital that is moving from one place in decentralized finance to another. What's missing now is going kind of like a few steps forward and trying to bring those stablecoins that are proven to be successful in their models. And Avis stablecoin Go is actually based on that model of, for example, what Dai is today, with some improvements that we have in terms of how it's minted and the capital efficiency side.
00:22:34.206 - 00:23:27.774, Speaker B: So what we want to actually do is we want to see more innovation on the payment side. And now it's possible because of the L2s going back, let's say twelve months before. I cannot expect necessarily that you could actually use something like l two as a way of settling payment and going into just some concrete examples. Today, most of the transaction like stablecoin popularity is growing, for example, in Argentina. And most of the crypto transactions in Argentina is settled between peers actually sharing their QR codes and binance addresses. So it happens in database layer, and we could actually get rid of that and move that activity into L2s and inherit the security out of ethereum. So there is definitely like a path towards that.
00:23:27.774 - 00:24:02.630, Speaker B: And what is missing also is building those application, and that's what we are planning with go. And obviously on the smart contract infrastructure side, there's improvements in terms of when you supply your assets into the Ave protocol, you're earning on your collaterals while you're minting go as well, which provides some new improvements. What we've seen today, and of course, more diversity into the ave market. So the other stable coins aren't disappearing, of course, and that's very crucial, that the whole space is diversely risk managed.
00:24:03.050 - 00:25:07.280, Speaker A: Yeah, Aave has been very aggressive in terms of how you've deployed to other EVM compatible chains. And now true ethereum l two s. It feels like Go was clearly designed from the ground up with this sort of new multichain world, a world where l two s are going to flourish. I think that next bull run, probably we see more l two s launching. I'm sure some of them will have, they'll concede on security and maybe decentralization the way we saw with EVM compatible L1s. But that's one of the things here that I'm most excited for about go is it feels like a stable coin that is again meant to be more friendly to distribution amongst those who are borrowers on any one of the ave supported l two s or L1s.
00:25:08.610 - 00:26:10.830, Speaker B: Yeah. And I think this whole l two thing, I think as an idea, it's amazing in terms of if you use it, depending of course, in the use case, one thing is clear, that there's more users coming into the web3 space, and there isn't enough block space at the moment. So l two s definitely help on this aspect, and even the idea of subnets that avalanche has and something similar, that polygon as well. So there's definitely now ideas around how we scaling and organize that block space. And I definitely think that l two s are a way of actually creating a lot of space for transactioning, but still having those good security measures inherited from the layer one. So I'm super excited about that. And maybe even in some cases, some application specific L2s could be very foreign experimentations.
00:26:10.830 - 00:26:32.780, Speaker B: And I think what I think kind of like what Vitalik also was pointing towards, like the layer one is where the security is lying, and then the experimentations happen on the L2. So you have security on layer one and party on the L2. And I think that's kind of like an optimal way of thinking of how we innovate in the future.
00:26:33.550 - 00:27:03.506, Speaker A: Yeah. And it means just more excitement for the end user. I think that we're all excited to see more and more of these consumer friendly applications come to life on L2 s. And actually that kind of leads then into lens protocol. So in case anyone is new to lens. What is it? It's a project that I've viewed it as Ave has incubated this. Right.
00:27:03.506 - 00:27:14.840, Speaker A: This is like within the ave ecosystem. But there's a pretty huge bet that you all made here in terms of building this. So what is it? And I guess, why is it important?
00:27:15.850 - 00:28:22.078, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, it's a way of actually owning your social presence. That's the way I want to describe it, because today we're using social media applications on a daily basis and we're creating our presence, we're making connections. So for example, you have a follower base in Twitter and also subscriber base in. And the challenge here is that there isn't actual portability between these platforms, but also you can't actually do a digital exit. So for example, if you don't like the way of YouTube managing their policy or the way they update their application, which is good example with the Instagram case recently where they changed their feed into resembling and mimicking something like TikTok at the moment. And this is direction where many of these applications are. Social media applications in web two are going towards.
00:28:22.078 - 00:29:04.294, Speaker B: So they kind of like want to apply the now trending and winning model. But that's not the way that everyone actually thinks about social and the way interacting with content. So you can't do that digital exit because you lose your follower base. And if you go to a new application, you need to regrow it. But with lens protocol, you actually want to create your social media profile once, which is actually tokenized as an NFT so you can send it to your cold storage. I get different functions to your day to day wallet. And when you make those follower relationships, they're also tokenized as nfts.
00:29:04.294 - 00:30:05.818, Speaker B: So essentially it's an on chain social graph where any developer can build the next generation social media application. So for example, when you uploaded a video to Lenstube, it's using the same protocol. Or you post in Lenster or Tea party or Iris or any of these favorite other new applications on the protocol, you have the portability, so you can actually port your followers across the social graph. And I think maybe one important thing I want to mention is that there's a bit of built in monetization as well. So if you mirror content, you're actually, and someone collects that content, so all the content are collectibles as NFDs. So we kind of want to expand the idea of content being an asset class the same way as you collect art, NFTs or something else. So you as a creator, you can set collect fees.
00:30:05.818 - 00:30:36.840, Speaker B: If someone likes your video and wants to endorse it, they can collect that piece of copy for them as immutable NFTs. And if I mirrored that content to someone else and someone collects that, I get also mirroring fees. So it's kind of like monetizing the Twitter's retweet button. Those are just the example build and monetizations. But because it's a protocol, any developer can build even more functionality and monetization into it.
00:30:37.630 - 00:32:14.242, Speaker A: Yeah. All of these new applications that have been built with lens, they look and feel just like the user experience that we've enjoyed in Web two, except for the fact that this is being built on infrastructure that is adhering to the principles of a decentralized, more user owner based sort of like network. So, for example, recently posting on my Lentube channel, and it feels just like if I was posting on something like YouTube, except we're what we're making use of live peer and airweave in terms of the storage. That's what's facilitating that. And then I've got my followers, if we go back here, just a sec, if we go back to the channel, this 939 subscribers that actually ports over to Lenster, which I'll stop sharing here and show a different screen if I hop over to Leinster. Here we go on Leinster, I've got 939 followers, so I don't have to re jump start a following on these different platforms. They're basically all different tools.
00:32:14.242 - 00:32:49.838, Speaker A: But there's a layer there that is the decentralized social graph, which I'll say, honestly, as much as you'd think I would have followed all of that as an idea, as a concept, I really didn't fully get it until I started using lens in the last few months and hopping between the platforms and realizing, oh yeah, that's right, I already have followers that are across Lenster or lens tube or any other applications that get built with lens protocol.
00:32:50.014 - 00:33:48.390, Speaker B: Yeah. And cool thing about it is that if you actually want to, if you build an application, you can actually even curate. So you can show that I will only show those followers that are actually following through this particular application. So you have that curation available so you can still create different audiences from the same profile itself. And we made it very flexible. I think when you brought in that it's also, lens tube is built with the help of live peer and RV is a good example, like the compatibility of on chain ecosystem, because lens protocol is very flexible on where do you resolve the data? Do you want to resolve it to the on chain IPFS RV s three, like a cloud or completely self host between your friends and not to broadcast anything anywhere. So that just brings the flexibility for creators what you can actually achieve.
00:33:49.210 - 00:34:24.820, Speaker A: Yeah. And I would just encourage anyone get started by going to lens XYZ, because it's really cool to see that as long as you're willing to. What I just did there what you can't see in the background is I just signed a transaction, so I'm not paying any gas on this either. As long as you're brave enough and adept enough to use a web3 wallet like metamask, as long as you can follow the simple instructions of switching over to the polygon matic network, it's really easy to use.
00:34:25.910 - 00:35:48.474, Speaker B: Something we're making kind of like a more simple is that now when you're posting, you might sign a transaction over Metamask, but we have so called dispatcher running at the moment that is running also a gasless relayer, so we can pay the fees of the users so they don't need to pay the Polygon fees as well. But in the future, you can also delegate some of the features to the dispatcher where you don't actually need to sign transactions on Metamask. And actually, it feels like as if you're not interacting with the blockchain. And that's going to be a big game changer, because you actually only need matic or other assets when you want to collect content. And that's also another exciting moment that we have had in villains protocol is that creators are able to set fees, collect fees within the protocol. So if you create videos or post content, you can set even small fees, like one to Matic, and see how the community actually comes and collects those. We even had a couple of bigger collects and then totally, we have raised over $200,000 worth of value to the creators directly, which is absolutely amazing.
00:35:48.474 - 00:36:00.560, Speaker B: And that's the beauty. When everything you express becomes creator content and collectibles, that's a way to actually monetize, and that's something we're very proud of.
00:36:01.170 - 00:36:41.950, Speaker A: Yeah, if anyone wants to track some of the numbers Donnie mentioned, you can go to stats lens XYZ and you can see here's what he's referring to in terms of the over $200,000 earned in terms of revenue. And so that averages out to $4.32 per profile. Stannie, is there any tool yet for us as users to look and see what we've earned? Or I guess, how would you actually track or start to take notice of any sort of revenue you generate as a user?
00:36:42.690 - 00:37:50.210, Speaker B: That's something that should be built definitely within the ecosystem, so I definitely can raise more awareness for that. But I think the earnings is something that is just starting to pile up at the moment. So I would imagine that some of these front ends, they start to reflect more how people are earning, but the data is there. So you can already generate a dune dashboard on the revenue and fees, but it's going to be exciting to see actually how the mirror fees plays out, because essentially when you amplify content to your audience and someone collects from your audience, you're getting mirror fees from splitting with the creator, with the creator fees. So I'm super excited about the fact that there's one way of actually creating monetization for curators, because in the history, like for curators, there isn't much of monetization in many of these web two social media applications. And now there is like a direct monetization tool, which is quite incredible.
00:37:50.630 - 00:38:22.400, Speaker A: Yeah. So to summarize on that, let me just make sure I put up a banner here to remind folks where they can try this. So I'll show lens XYZ. That to me is kind of a home base for seeing all the different applications being built. But one of my favorite lens powered protocols is lenster because it looks and feels a lot like Twitter. And so let me hop over. So if I'm in this, and actually, let's go back to the home.
00:38:22.400 - 00:38:42.338, Speaker A: If I was admiring Mark's post here, the few ways that Mark might earn revenue is if I were to mirror that, right? That's collecting or mirroring. Can you just remind us once more, what's the difference between those?
00:38:42.504 - 00:39:21.134, Speaker B: So collecting is when you actually like this particular content. So you like the image and the post itself. So you have this collect button, so you can actually go and collect. And basically here you are allowing a collect module after you do. Actually, it's kind of like a security measure, but after that you can collect Mark's post for, I think he said for one or two matic. So it's just an example. Like it might be like low value content now, but once the ecosystem gets used to collections, it might increase over time.
00:39:21.134 - 00:40:23.102, Speaker B: And then when you collect it, what happens is that all the posts are now dynamic NFTs and the follow NFT. So when you have Mark's follow NFT, it reflects the latest content and the latest post. But when you collect it, an immutable copy is minted to you, depending on what are those parameters that Mark have said. So for example, he might set that maybe only ten collects are possible, maybe 100, or maybe it's an open edition, and within 24 hours, depending how many are collecting, it can be also an auction as well. There is one community member that is doing an auction module, and the whole protocol is modularized. So we see a lot of modules being created that are supporting for example, you can follow someone if you have 75 WB tokens in a crypto covenant, and then you can follow, and if you follow dFi that, then you can follow me. All this interesting, smart contract based logic.
00:40:23.102 - 00:40:49.530, Speaker B: So when you collect, you have the immutable copy and you can transfer it, you can sell it later. Mirrors is essentially that you like the content, but you want to share with your audience, that you want to share with the people that are in your social network and your social graph. Now, if someone from your network collects that piece of content, you're getting part of the collect fees that the creator is setting.
00:40:53.090 - 00:40:58.314, Speaker A: Very cool. Would I be right to say, is mirroring kind of like retweeting?
00:40:58.442 - 00:41:45.040, Speaker B: Yeah, but essentially you get the value. So in web two social, quite often with the users, we're kind of like giving all the data and we're consuming the platforms and we're making them better and training the algorithms, but we are the product because we're essentially paying for whatever we're buying and whatever is advertised to us. And our goal is to basically bring monetization to the users so they can actually benefit from having their own social graph. So if you have a big audience and you find something fascinating for your audience, and you can mirror it and you can earn from it, it's basically monetizing the greetweet or share button.
00:41:46.370 - 00:42:02.420, Speaker A: One final question on lens. If we covered collecting, and I noticed when I was going to collect Mark's post, I think it was like a price of one matic, is that set by him? How again does that get set?
00:42:02.790 - 00:42:55.620, Speaker B: So basically the creators can decide pretty much on all of the parameters that they want to set. You can set it to quite typical is free content. Most of the content in the platform is free collectible. So if I post something today, most likely will be free content and anyone can come and mint it. Maybe limited amount of copies or maybe limited amount of time, but you can also set a fee. So for example, Mark sets small one to matic fees and that way generates also creator fees for himself, which is quite amazing because this means that creators can actually get value out of what they are posting directly to their fans as well.
00:42:56.150 - 00:43:28.240, Speaker A: Very cool. Yeah, these are parts of the settings I definitely hadn't explored, but I'll leave this for a future interview and session. So, Stani, we probably should wrap up here. Anything else in terms of a call to action for those that are interested in lens? I guess any recommended next steps we covered? They should check out lens XYZ. It's a great place to learn about the lens protocol and some of the applications. But yeah. Anything else you'd recommend to get started?
00:43:29.090 - 00:44:01.978, Speaker B: Yeah, I would recommend to look into the various applications being built on top of the lens protocol. There's also interesting curation applications. Teaparty life is one example where you can use soulbound tokens to amplify your content and get rewarded for interacting with lens content. But I recommend to read everything that we're doing and following us as well on Lenster and watch this video afterwards on lens tube and hopefully collect it as well.
00:44:02.144 - 00:44:51.814, Speaker A: Yeah, that's right. Yeah, I'll be posting this right after this on lens tube and I'll say I'm personally kind of like living through that transition right now of I want to totally migrate over to lens tube and I'm hoping others like maybe the defiant and bankless and so on will as well. So Stanley, thanks so much for your time. So great to catch up and talk about all things know. Again, reminder to those, if you're interested to learn more about go, just go to the governance forum or module on Ave and you can learn more there obviously ave itself. If you're totally new to lending and borrowing in DFI, this is a great place to get started and learn more. And then for those that are newer to web3 media, this is like the secret of secrets right now.
00:44:51.814 - 00:45:12.926, Speaker A: I think this is like DFI in 2019. So if you really want to get some edge, go to lens XYZ and you can start to learn about that. And if you enjoyed the interview, subscribe@defydad.com but more importantly, look me up on defydad lens on lens tube. Stanley, anything else before we go?
00:45:13.108 - 00:45:22.766, Speaker B: No, and thanks for having me here and super excited to share all the progress and hopefully everyone enjoys what we have built.
00:45:22.948 - 00:45:45.142, Speaker A: Dude, absolutely. I don't of how you work on all that. You do so really admire all that you guys are building. And this is the mindset that will get us through whatever bear market we're living through. This is where real fundamental advancements are made. Anyways, everyone have a great day. Thanks for tuning in and we'll see you next time.
00:45:45.276 - 00:45:46.770, Speaker B: Thank you so much. Bye.
