00:00:00.240 - 00:00:16.414, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is San Antonio. It's the 1 April 2024. Everyone, let's get into it. So before we get into it, just one, I guess, housekeeping item that I wanted to talk about. So you guys know that ETH Global is coming up in Sydney.
00:00:16.414 - 00:00:38.750, Speaker A: That's happening in early May. I just put in my application over the weekend, got accepted to be a judge at the ETH global hackathon there. So I'm very much looking forward to that. Obviously, it being in Sydney is like the first ETH conference in Sydney since I think Edcon in 2019. So I'm super excited. You know, it's been like five years since then. So I'm super excited for another 8th conference, conference to be happening in Australia here.
00:00:38.750 - 00:01:19.174, Speaker A: But I did want to mention that I'm planning, or at least trying to plan to have a daily dinner before the event. So if you are going to be in Sydney or are going to the event or kind of interested in this dinner, I'm thinking of doing it on the 30 April or the 1 May, I think one of those two dates there. And it'll basically be a dinner of about probably 20 people from the daily gwei community and around it. So if you are interested in going to be in Sydney at that date, please dm me and I'll put you on the list. There is still space on the list, but it is really going to be like a first come, first serve basis. And also, you know, please don't say yes unless you're like 100% going to come because people are going to miss out. Obviously, if you, you know, say yes and you're on the list and then you don't come, and then other people could have come.
00:01:19.174 - 00:01:53.810, Speaker A: So yeah, just definitely reach out if you are 100% going to be in Sydney on the 30 April, the 1 May, and then I'll get numbers and then I'll be able to kind of book a dinner. I'd really love to meet up with a lot of fellow deadly gwei kind of community members there. But anyway, on that note, going to jump into the news now because I did an episode on Saturday and because it's obviously the Easter long weekend, there hasn't been that much news over the weekend. So not too much to cover, but the stuff that I want to cover is going to take a little bit to cover. So there's still going to be a full episode today so very much going to get into that in a sec. Last thing is that I'm going to be on the bankless weekly roll up this week with David. Very much looking forward to that.
00:01:53.810 - 00:02:43.578, Speaker A: So yeah, look out for me. They're going to discuss all the news of the week like I usually do on the refuel, but with David, you know, David's a good sparring partner, so to speak, when we kind of discuss these things that's happening in Ethereum there. All right, so as you're all probably aware by now, there has been a lot of discussion about the ETH issuance curve over the last few days and particularly over the last kind of couple of weeks. But over the last few days, it has gotten quite heated. You've seen people talk about this on crypto, Twitter, on Firecaster, basically discussing, you know, should or shouldn't we alter the ETH issuance curve on a number of different verticals here for a number of different reasons here. Now, I do want to say that you should definitely go read Mike Noota's post here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below because it basically summarizes the discussion around issuance and around why the researchers believe that we should be lowering issuance, or at least kind of, I guess, capping issuance here.
00:02:43.578 - 00:03:09.914, Speaker A: But there are related stuff to, there is related stuff to read as well, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. I mean, it's linked in Mike's post. Yes, you should definitely go check that out. But I'm not necessarily going to be talking too much about the proposal and more so about its kind of monetary policy generally and why it is really hard to change it. So I want to start off by giving a bit of history on Ethereum's monetary policy. So from basically day one, Ethereum didn't really have like a strong monetary policy. It was put out there.
00:03:09.914 - 00:03:32.922, Speaker A: You know, there was five ETH per block to reward miners. And it was basically an afterthought, really, from day one. And day one being obviously Genesis, you know, mid 2015 here. And even before that, when it was being designed, you know, we didn't want too much issuance, we didn't want too little, and we want, obviously wanted to pay miners. And obviously, at the time, the price of ETH was very different to what it is today. The ethereum ecosystem was tiny compared to what it is today. So it was a different world altogether.
00:03:32.922 - 00:04:01.722, Speaker A: So reflecting on that and reflecting on over the years of what the Ethereum monetary policy became, I think by 2017, 2018, it really became this notion of minimum viable issuance. Now, this term is subjective on purpose. Like, it is not an objective thing. Like, within bitcoin, they have an objective thing where they're like, okay, there's only ever going to be 21 million bitcoin. We're going to have it every four years, and we're not going to touch it at all. Like, that's their monetary policy. Right? And there are trade offs there where the long term sustainability of that monetary policy is definitely in question.
00:04:01.722 - 00:04:37.866, Speaker A: It has been for quite a while. Basically, you know, will the block rewards be enough to pay miners for pay for security when the block reward gets too small? And will the fee revenue make up for the dwindling block reward? And that historically has not been the case at all. There's been some spikes here and there. But if you look at the long term sustainability of it, it looks like that bitcoin will not be long term sustainable with its current monetary policy. But I'm not here to kind of talk about bitcoin's monetary policy. It was just giving a bit of history there as it relates to Ethereum's. So Ethereum went the other kind of side of things and went the other way and basically said, okay, well, we know we can't guarantee that fee revenue is going to make up for for the block reward going down over time.
00:04:37.866 - 00:05:13.844, Speaker A: So what can we do? Well, we can add a perpetual issuance to Ethereum, right, where basically we have issuance forever, essentially at a predetermined rate called the issuance curve, especially post merge. It's based on an issuance curve based on how much ETH is staked. And then we also have a fee burn in place where essentially, okay, there's a lot of fee revenue, but let's burn most of it so that we can potentially have a deflationary ETH. Now, deflationary ETH is not guaranteed. It is a byproduct of the fact that we have a lot of demand for ETH, l one. And then that demand gets translated into, you know, a fee burn where most of the fees are burned, and then we can become net deflationary. But as I said, net deflationary is not guaranteed.
00:05:13.844 - 00:05:41.444, Speaker A: And right now, you know, at 19 Gwei, we're not deflationary. We're issuing a bit more than we're burning. You know, it's not that much more. But, yeah, we're issuing a bit more than we're burning. And you can check out all of these metrics on ultrasound money. But the reason why we, we kind of did. This is because it fits into the minimum viable issuance kind of paradigm where essentially we know that we've got the issuance curve at the point where it, it has enough issuance in order to secure the network, in order to attract stakers to the network, and then we offset that with, with a fee burn.
00:05:41.444 - 00:06:27.908, Speaker A: So that is basically what the monetary policy is as it stands today. Now, the proposals that have been put forward by, I guess like originally Caspar and Ansgar from the Ethereum foundation, they're the researchers leading this, but also from a bunch of other people talking about this, particularly Mike has covered this is basically that in this paradigm where we have liquid staking tokens or liquid restaking tokens. And the thing is we don't have a cap on how much ETH can be issued stake. It's, it's become a concern that maybe we're going to get to too much ETH being staked. And essentially that means that we're basically overpaying for security, essentially because there is diminishing returns to how much ETH is getting staked. We run the risk of an LST or an LRT displacing ETH as money, and we also run the risk of, of centralization from, from that angle there. So that's, there's a lot of different angles to this.
00:06:27.908 - 00:07:17.486, Speaker A: But as I said, I didn't want to dive too deep into the proposals themselves because the debate around that is wide and the, it's based on assumptions which I will get into towards the end. But what I really wanted to discuss is why it's so hard to change the Ethereum monetary policy. So the reason why it's so hard to change it is because of the fact that changing it isn't just directly related to how much stake is or how much miners get paid. Changing it is directly related to how ETH is viewed as a money and a store of value. If you change the monetary policy too often, then people don't have confidence in the monetary policy. They basically say, okay, well, it's being changed too often. You know, why are we changing it so often? You know, can it change again next year or can it change again next month? You know, who's responsible for putting forward proposals to change it? You know, who's responsible for talking about this and discussing this so on and so forth? Right? So it basically erodes at the credible neutrality of Ethereum's monetary policy if you change it too often.
00:07:17.486 - 00:08:11.568, Speaker A: Now, as I said, ethereum's monetary policy is minimum viable issuance and up until this point, we have stuck by that. We have basically only reduced issuance to the minimal amount that was viable to keep the network secure. Now the proposal that's been put forward here is actually in line with that because it proposes capping the amount of stake on the network and also lowering issuance to reflect that in order to lower the yield overall. So it does actually fit in with that paradigm of minimum viable issuance here. But the issue that people have with this proposal and with any proposal to change the monetary policy is that they think that the damage that it does to Ethereum's credible neutrality as, as a network and its monetary policy, you know, as a credibly neutral thing, vastly outweighs the benefits that we could see here, because you have to think about where ETH is as an asset today, where the ethereum ecosystem is as a ecosystem today. So there are two main factors here. If you were to change the monetary policy today, or two, two social contracts that you kind of break here, I guess.
00:08:11.568 - 00:08:49.680, Speaker A: So you don't break the minimum viable issuance social contract with the proposal as it stands today, at least in my view, but you break the social contract around staking. So right now, people assume that they're going to be able to stake with no cap. And that's not just people, it's also the staking pools out there, right? They assume that they're going to keep being able to bring in more stake, keep growing themselves. And there is a baked in assumption there's that they're able to do this as part of the free market economy. There's not going to be any kind of, I guess, like invisible hand or very visible hand in this, in this sense that comes in and alters this social contract. So that's the first thing that you would potentially break by putting in a change like this. And the second thing that you would break is maybe some of the institutional adoption that we've been seeing.
00:08:49.680 - 00:09:21.200, Speaker A: Because the institutions looking at ETH right now as an asset is basically twofold. They look at it as an investible store of value and a money to get exposure to the Ethereum ecosystem. And then they look at it as a way to essentially offer a yield right via stake. Now, as I've said before, even if the ETF's get approved on May 23, I don't think they're going to get approved with staking. But staking will eventually come in a form of an ETF. And then these institutions are going to want to stake this ETH in order to get a yield, right. And the yield that they're going to get is going to be highly dependent on if this proposal goes through or not.
00:09:21.200 - 00:10:17.820, Speaker A: And also at the same time, if there is a cap on the amount of state ETH that can be staked, well then essentially, like it becomes a bit distorted here where essentially anyone new that wants to stake can essentially, I guess, like buy existing stake off of the net, off of the network in the form of an LST or an LRT or essentially they have to basically wait until someone leaves and then they can enter sort of thing, at least based on the, on the current proposals here. And I may be getting some stuff wrong here. That's why I suggest you go read them for yourselves. But that's the kind of, I guess, like TLDR here on why people have issues with it and why, I guess, people believe that it shouldn't happen, that the issuance curve should be just the way it is today. And it doesn't really require any tweaking, doesn't really require any changing. And by changing it, we essentially have a lot of negative externalities that I just described that shouldn't be, I guess, realized at this point in time, because we've fought so hard to get ETH to this point to be viewed as a money and a store of value. And by compromising on that, we basically erode a lot of what we fought for over the past.
00:10:17.820 - 00:10:47.208, Speaker A: Now, I don't want to give my kind of permission, my position on this, because like I don't want to muddy the water seal with what I think about this. And I don't think my opinion is really relevant here. I'm glad to see discussions happening, but I think that people really need to understand where each party is coming from in this sense. And that was the point of me just discussing all of that. You know, you have one side of things where people are like, we don't want to change the monetary policy at all because of the fact that it erodes Ethereum's credible neutrality. It erodes its, I guess, status as a money and a story of value. And it's just not something that people believe is critical.
00:10:47.208 - 00:11:24.566, Speaker A: Then you have the other side of things where the researchers are basically saying, well, we believe it's critical based on a couple of assumptions that they've made. Now I'll dive into what the actual proposals are. So the actual proposal itself, to me, studying it, learning about it, talking to the researchers who have proposed this, is basically that based on the assumptions that they've made, that a lot of ETH is going to be staked, and a lot of is going to be staked with lsts. Their proposal would basically just bring forward a reality that will eventually happen anyway. And what I mean by this is that, let's say, like, 80% of ETH is staked, right. We can be fairly confident that almost all of that is going to be staked with LST, LST or LRT protocols. It is not going to be solid stake.
00:11:24.566 - 00:12:04.876, Speaker A: Solo staking is always going to be a minority here, and I've discussed this before, various reasons as to why is. So I'm not going to rehash that now. But that's the assumptions that they're making. At least the two major assumptions, is that most of the ETH is going to be staked eventually, you know, maybe in the next couple of years or something, and then most of it is going to go to LSTs and LRT's. I think that the assumption that 80%, 90%, or even 100% of ETH is going to be staked is a stronger, sorry, a weaker assumption than the assumption that most of it is going to be staked at LSTs and LRT's. I think that we can all agree that, you know, going forward, most stake is going to go into the existing liquid staking, liquid restaking protocols. But I think there is a lot of disagreement around how much stake is actually going to go in.
00:12:04.876 - 00:12:45.180, Speaker A: Is it going to be, you know, 50%? Is it going to be 80%? Is it going to be only 40%? Like, there's a lot of disagreements there, but those are the two assumptions that we're working off of here. Now, let's assume that the reality comes to pass that 80% of ETH is staked. Well, at that point, or 70, 80%, whatever number it is at that point, we've basically, I guess, like, gotten to the same reality or the same, I guess, position that we would have gotten into if this proposal went forward. Because essentially, at 70 or 80% ETH stake, the yield would be very, very low for everyone. Because the yield, I mean, the overall ETH issuance goes up as more ETH is staked. But because there's more ETH staked, you have to pay out more stakers, you have to pay out more ETH in the yield. So the overall yield for everyone goes down.
00:12:45.180 - 00:13:31.824, Speaker A: And I'm just talking about the consensus layer rewards here. I'm not talking about the execution layer rewards, because the consensus layer rewards is the ETH issuance is the new ETH issuance execution layer, rewards is fees and mev. Right. So it's basically the tip version of the fees and the MEV revenue here. But, yeah, as I was saying, if we get to like 70 or 80% ETH staked, essentially we just basically get to the same future that we would have gotten to if we had this proposal in place anyway, where there's low yield being, I guess, given to all stakers, and also LST and LRT protocols would remain dominant. So the way I view this proposal is that the researchers are trying to find a way to essentially bring this inevitable future forward, but do it in a way that is less bad than it would be if we didn't put this proposal in. Because not putting this proposal in is a decision.
00:13:31.824 - 00:14:04.114, Speaker A: Keeping the status quo is a decision. You know, you can't just say that indecision isn't decision. It is like not making. Not putting this proposal in is a decision, and it has consequences based on, you know, both reality and assumptions of what reality will look like into the future. So that's how I'm viewing this whole thing, is that after speaking to people, I think that they don't actually believe that this is a good proposal, so to speak. They believe that it is a less bad, I guess, like less bad reality than we would be in if we weren't to put this proposal in. And I don't know what my stance is on that just yet.
00:14:04.114 - 00:14:30.074, Speaker A: I don't know if I agree or disagree with that yet. But I think that the main issue and why this discussion has become so heated is because of the fact that people don't understand what the actual proposal is. All they've seen is the researcher saying, oh, we need to alter or we need to tamper with. We need to change the ETH issuance curve in order to satisfy some things based on assumptions. And everyone's losing their heads over it. They're like, no, we can't change the ETH monetary policy because of such, such reason. And they're coming at it from an emotional standpoint rather than an objective standpoint.
00:14:30.074 - 00:15:09.552, Speaker A: And I understand why. Because if you feel like your ETH investment is being, I guess, threatened by the fact that you feel like a proposal to change the issuance would hurt Ethereum's or ETH, I guess, stance as money and as a store of value, then of course you're going to be emotional bad. And I totally understand that. But what I do ask of people, I guess, like, if you're part of this discussion, if you're trying to be part of this discussion is try to remain objective here, actually read what the proposals are and actually understand that at the heart of it, the proposals really are just bringing forward a future that is probably going to happen anyway. I'm not going to say it's 100% going to happen because we don't know what the terminal ETH stake rate is going to be. Right. But I think that the assumptions being made are not too wild.
00:15:09.552 - 00:16:42.306, Speaker A: The assumption that more and more people are going to stake over time and more and more people are going to stake with LSTs and LRT's are not wild assumptions in my eyes. Maybe it's wild in the timeline here because you can debate the timeline like, does this happen within the next two years or does this happen in the next five years or ten years? Like, and by this I mean, do we get to 70 or 80% each staked on that timeline? That's, I think the main point of debate is that I think we all can agree that more and more ETH is going to be staked over time. But the two disagreements is, are we going to get to like 80% if staked and what's the timeline to get there? I think those, that's, that's the, really the heart of it from what I've read from people, because there's a lot of heated discussions happening on this, both on Twitter and private circles that I'm in, and there's a lot of good points being brought up on both sides. But I think people are talking past each other where essentially that you have the, the no camp talking from the perspective of we shouldn't change its monetary policy at all because of such and such reasons and the ones I just outlined for you guys, and then you have the other side where they're like, okay, well, if we make these relatively safe and not wild assumptions that this is going to be the reality in the end anyway, why not deal with it now, then wait for this reality to eventually kind of come to pass, and then it's much harder to deal with at that point. Because, for example, if you want to cap the percentage of ETH staked at 40% and we do that today, right, then we're basically acting on the assumption that more and more it's going to be staked, but we're going to be able to cap it at 40% and then that's it basically, right, because today it's less than 40% and then we'll be able to cap it there. So there is a defined path there, but if we get to the point where 80% of ethy staked, and then we're like, oh shit, we need to cap it now. You know, let's put the cap in, let's change issuance curve now.
00:16:42.306 - 00:17:27.466, Speaker A: Well, if you cap it at 40%, then that basically means that you need to bleed out 40% of the eat stakes because it's already at 80%. Right. So that's what I think the researchers are kind of worried about, is that we have to make assumptions here. But if their assumptions are right, that we get to 80% of each stake within the next kind of two to three years, you know, by that point, it's just way too late to implement a change like this. So that's why they wanted to get the change into electra. That's why they've been pushing to get this change in as soon as possible, is because there is, in their eyes, an existential, maybe not existential, but like a critical risk here to the network in terms of, you know, how you view it from a security perspective, but also how you view ETH as an asset, in terms of ETH use as a story of value, as a money, and not being supplanted by an LST or an LRT. So there is a lot of different things happening here, guys.
00:17:27.466 - 00:18:00.074, Speaker A: There's a lot of different discussions happening here, and I think people are talking past each other because they're arguing from different points. And I will say that my stance in particular is that, I mean, not with regards to this proposal itself, but my stance in particular is that, yes, there should be an extremely high barrier to change its monetary policy. Extremely. It is the one thing I believe on the network that should be the hardest to change out of everything else. I'm in that camp firmly, and I think the researchers are also in that camp, mind you, like, I don't think, I don't want to speak for them, but I don't think that. I think it should be easy to change the monetary policy. They understand all the arguments that people are bringing up.
00:18:00.074 - 00:18:57.930, Speaker A: So yes, it should be an extremely high barrier to entry here. But on the second part, if there is a well reasoned risk to the security of the network, to the functioning of the network, to the, I guess, value of ETH as a story of value as a money, which I actually think that these researchers have well reasoned about it, then we should pay serious attention to that, and we should actually, you know, maybe forego the, the notion that it should be, you know, really, really hard, and it should be an existential risk to the network to change the monetary policy and understand that if we wait for an existential risk to actually eventuate, then it's probably too late at that point in terms of viewing it from this lens, in terms of viewing it from the lens of what these researchers are viewing it from. So hopefully that summarizes all of that for you. I know I went on for a while about that, but it is obviously a big issue within the ethereum ecosystem right now. It is something that's being debated. But I don't, as I said, I don't know where I stand right now on this. I'm trying to, I guess, ingest or digest all of the arguments being made on every side.
00:18:57.930 - 00:19:28.266, Speaker A: But as I said, the one thing that I'm very hard stanced on is that it should very, very hard to change. The Ethereum monetary policy should not be easy to do that. And I don't think you'll find anyone that actually disagrees with that notion. I think that you'll find that there are people who come at it from a different angle, the research angle, the community member angle, the ether's a story value money angle. But then you have the kind of, I guess, like shelling point that yes, it should be very, very hard to change the monetary policy. So hopefully that gives you guys a summary on all of those discussions happening there. But as I said, I highly implore you to go and read the blog posts.
00:19:28.266 - 00:20:01.904, Speaker A: They're all available in Mike's post, and there's a lot of content here. There isn't just blog post, there's also the podcast that and Scar and Casper did with Hazu. And I think once you digest all of that information, you'll get a much better understanding of what's actually being proposed here and why the researchers feel that it is an urgent thing that they feel should be in the electra hard fork, or should be in the Petra hard fork, or potentially the one that comes after it. But yeah, anyway, I'm going to end my kind of rant on that there. You can go read these for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so moving on to some L2 discussions.
00:20:01.904 - 00:20:40.034, Speaker A: So base over, I guess, like the weekend had an absolutely monster trading day on its, on its L2 here. And you can see uniswap tweeted out that there was $1 billion of volume done, trading volume done on uniswap alone on base yesterday. I believe this was the, this was May 31 here. That's crazy, guys. And you can see how crazy the growth is. It's really all happened in March. Like, it really is base slash l two season right now, where people have finally realized that, hey, okay, well, L2s are cheap now, so let's go and use them because you can actually see it pretty much happened as soon as Denkun went live, like Dengue went live on March 13.
00:20:40.034 - 00:21:17.046, Speaker A: And you can see immediately after March 13, it has been up only in terms of, like, trading volumes and activity on the, on base and on, I guess, like l two s in general. And I remember I tweeted about this by saying that I believe that 4844 came at the perfect time and acted as a nice stimulus package for Ethereum, where he basically reduced the fees massively. You know, fees went down from a dollar or more for a swap down to sub cent for a swap. And they're still pretty cheap right now, but they are creeping up. I mean, if you look at base on gas fees, IO, I'll just bring this up for you guys. You can see that to do a swap right now is approaching ten cents. And this was expected, obviously, because data costs are still low with blobs.
00:21:17.046 - 00:21:52.498, Speaker A: But the execution costs have gotten higher, and base is actually going to be increasing their gas limit again this week by another 50%. So that should bring fees down again. But it's all this concept of induced demand, where essentially you increase capacity, you bring more demand in, because there was demand that already existed, it just was latent demand. And now that's filling up the kind of block space again. So it really is, as I mentioned plenty of times, a cat and mouse game here of just chasing this on the execution side. And then eventually we're going to get to the part where data costs start going up again, because blobs will be in demand again. People will be outbidding each other for blobs, not people, but like the L2s, the roll ups will be outbidding each other for blobs.
00:21:52.498 - 00:22:21.524, Speaker A: And then the data costs go up as well as execution costs. And eventually we get back to where we started. And that's a good thing. That means that we've basically grown the pie and now we're at the scaling limits again. Okay, so how do we rectify that? Well, we increase the size of blobs, we increase the count of blobs, and we increase the execution side as well in terms of the scaling the execution side in terms of base, increasing its gas limit and doing other things. And then we can. And then these robots can also do better things like more compression on the, on the data side of things to minimize their blob footprint.
00:22:21.524 - 00:22:58.862, Speaker A: So there's lots of different things that can be done here. But I said this, like, way before 48 44 went live where I said that, yes, it's going to be an initial kind of collapse in trading costs or a collapse in fees, but then that's going to slowly creep up over time, given that the fact that we've just opened the. The l two s up to a huge amount of demand and there was going to be an l two season. I mean, I put out this tweet in June of 2023 where I said that there was going to be an l two season within the next six to twelve months, due primarily to 48 44, but also due to base, because base is that shelling point for people where they're like, oh, my God, you know, Coinbase is. Is building base and Coinbase is going to bring everyone on chain. So let's get on base and let's trade the coins on there. And there's a lot of meme coin trading going on.
00:22:58.862 - 00:23:27.004, Speaker A: Of course, you know, Degen has gone nuts. I'm going to talk about Degen in a sec because I know it's a bit of. A. Bit of a controversial thing here, but, yeah, I mean, in terms of, like, costs, they're going to keep going up slowly over time because the demand is going to keep coming in. But as I said, that's a good thing. That means that the Ethereum scaling roadmap, the roll up centric roadmap, is playing out as expected. And we can keep tweaking these things in terms of, you know, adding further scalability by increasing the size and count of blobs, as well as scaling on the execution side of things there.
00:23:27.004 - 00:24:01.574, Speaker A: All right, speaking of Degen. So this is being controversial because Degen is a meme coin, I guess, but I think that it's more than a meme coin, and I'll explain why. And I do want to disclose here that I had an initial airdrop that I got from Degen from being tipped Djen on far Caster. Originally, it was worth, like, I guess, $3,000 or something, and I ended up holding it and it ended up being worth a lot more, I think, before I sold. So I sold half of it over the weekend, but before I sold it, the total was about $110,000. And it's on Cecil ETH, you can check this for yourself. I'm not just doxxing myself here.
00:24:01.574 - 00:24:30.470, Speaker A: And I ended up selling half of it, which was because I was like, you know, this is kind of crazy. I want to sell half of it because I had a target of, if I get to 100k worth of Djen, I'm going to sell it. I only sold half because I want to keep half because if you hold DJ and it gives you a tipping allowance each day, and I enjoy tipping people on, on forecast, so not just the community that I like being a part of. So I've kept half of it for now. When I sell that, I'll tell. I'll say it in the deli grade discord channel there. But I just wanted to disclose that because maybe that, you know, is, is impacting my view on Djen here.
00:24:30.470 - 00:24:53.086, Speaker A: It was impacting my view on. On what Degen is. But I also will disclose that I was offered the, I guess, like, angel investment round that Djen did, and I rejected it. I mean, I got on a call with the founder, great guy, love what he's building and everything, but I said, no, I can't invest in meme coins. You know, I had the airdrop at the time. I was like, you know, whatever this, this is, this would be my exposure to Degen, but I can't, you know, invest in meme coins. It's not part of my thing there.
00:24:53.086 - 00:25:27.826, Speaker A: So I did pass on that, and I believe that that investment went up like 50 x if you were part of that round. So again, like, there is a, I guess, a potential conflict here because I still own some Degen tokens, but I did pass on the round there because of the fact that doesn't fit in with my philosophy of what I invest in. And they've ever invested directly in meme coins, so. Yeah, but anyway, with that out of the way, I do want to discuss Djen generally. So those of you who don't know Degen started off as basically a tipping currency on Farcaster. It was something created by a game, a guy named Jessic, I think that's how you pronounce his name. And it was basically just this fun thing for people to play around with.
00:25:27.826 - 00:25:51.834, Speaker A: On farcast. It was very small at the time. It wasn't launched as kind of something that was supposed to be like a proper meme coin or a proper thing that people pumped and dumped or whatever, like a lot of these meme coins are today. And it wasn't really promoted heavily or anything like that. Some fun thing to do. Now, of course, over time, it started growing, and then the founder was like, okay, well, you know, I want to take this thing further. Like on the call with him, this guy was like, I was just doing this thing for fun, basically.
00:25:51.834 - 00:26:12.442, Speaker A: And I just wanted to create something fun on firecast. But now it's growing and now people are interested in investing in it. So, hey, you know, I'm going to take some investment in and basically build this thing out. And that's exactly what he's done. So Degen actually isn't just a tipping currency on forecaster anymore. They're a whole ecosystem. So they launched their own l three, called Degen chain as an arbitrum orbit chain on top of base.
00:26:12.442 - 00:26:44.160, Speaker A: And this is pretty cool because this is the like modular roadmap playing out. So essentially what Degen chain is, is that it's a layer three that sits on top of the base l two, and it uses any trust for data availability. So it uses off chain da. And by and because it's doing that, it means that the fees are incredibly cheap on, on this l three. And the, the block times are very, very quick as well. So the transactions are very, very fast. And really it's just an application specific chain for Dgen where essentially what's been funny is that people have bridged their Degen tokens there and Degen is the native gas token of this l three.
00:26:44.160 - 00:27:30.798, Speaker A: And then they're also buying other meme coins that have been made on Degen chain. So we've basically made like an application specific chain for meme coins. Now, I guess the other side of this is that people are debating, you know, why do you need an l three for this? Why couldn't this just be an l two and, you know, it being an l three and using off chain da, it's just like completely centralized. So why do we even need this thing to begin with and so on and so forth. To those arguments, I basically say, well, as an l two, it wouldn't be as cheap as an l three because you would be paying the direct data costs. You wouldn't unless you're using, I guess, like an off chain da here. It would potentially be, I guess, like slower and it would be something that essentially is more than you need for what Degen chain is trying to be because DGN chain is trying to be a very application specific thing, whereas l two s can be a lot broader than that.
00:27:30.798 - 00:28:14.198, Speaker A: And I think I've said this before where I get the point that people say, okay, well, you can do an application specific chain as an l two, but an l two is more involved than an l three here. And also when it comes to very specific use cases like Degen chain for example, I feel like that being centralized, or I guess like mostly centralized is not really a big deal. And I say this because I think when people are buying meme coins, or I guess like gambling on meme coins, you know, there's been this discussion for a long time that people are like, oh, well, you know, people don't care about decentralization for meme coins. They just want to have like cheap fees and fast transactions. And I'm like, okay, well that makes sense. Like, I don't think anyone gambling on these meme coins are like, I wish my meme coin was more decentralized. I don't think people really think like that.
00:28:14.198 - 00:28:54.200, Speaker A: So in that world where that's the reality, why wouldn't something that's like very centralized win, right? Why wouldn't, because if you're very centralized, you can do the cheapest fees and the fastest transactions, so why wouldn't that win? And we've seen that play out. Like Degen chain has a lot of really great activity or great metrics, I should say, right now, and a lot of activity happening on it. As you can see from this tweet in front of me, there's been over 2 million transactions, millions of dollars bridged, you know, 24,000 active addresses. I think it's even more than this now because this is starts from March 30, so two days ago now. So when you kind of take that and you see that playing out, well, that's the reality. Like, not everyone's going to care about decentralization, especially when it comes to meme coins. And I totally get that.
00:28:54.200 - 00:29:33.678, Speaker A: And I totally understand that even as a decentralization, Max, you myself, I totally understand. From like this perspective, it doesn't really make sense for a meme coin to be decentralized, right? For or for a, for djing chain to be necessarily decentralized here. And maybe people will attack me and say, oh, well, that's going against you saying you're a decentralization, Maxi. It's like, yeah, okay, I get that, but at the same time, I try to live in reality. I don't want to live in like Lala Dreamland. As you know, people think that all the people just live in La la Dreamland. I mean, for anyone who's been listening to the refuel for, for years now, you know that I always try to stick with the reality and the facts here, even though my ideals fall more into maybe the I wish everything was decentralized land, I totally understand why there is a trade off here on things, right.
00:29:33.678 - 00:30:01.772, Speaker A: Decentralization is costly. Decentralization does not come cheap. And when you're talking about things like a tipping meme coin on Farcaster, I don't necessarily believe that it has to be, like, hyper decentralized. Right. And it goes back to my analogy where essentially ethereum l one is like the, you know, like a, like a nation state army. And when you go onto L2, you have that nation state army protecting you. If it is a more involved l two, but also it's probably less decentralized and less secure than ethereum l one.
00:30:01.772 - 00:30:32.184, Speaker A: And then you go up, even in higher layer, to l three, well, then you're getting into a territory where, okay, well, the nation state army is no longer directly protecting you. Right. But hey, maybe your local police department is directly protecting you, or maybe you've got, like, some home security that's directly protecting you. So it's kind of those loose analogies around how much security you need. And I think that the, that l three s makes sense for those sorts of things. But there is a large debate around do we even need l three s or not? And I think that it's kind of funny to see, like, the Polygon guys saying, you know, we don't need l three s. We don't think this is actually beneficial.
00:30:32.184 - 00:30:55.838, Speaker A: And then you have the arbitram guys being like, well, no, we think l three s are beneficial for such and such reasons. And it's a really good debate that I see happening right now. But, yeah, those are my general views on, on kind of djen there and the djen l three and everything that's happening there. Whether this is sustainable or not, is another thing entirely. I'm not saying that you guys should go and buy Djen or get, you know, or should go and do anything speculative with it. That's up to you if you want to do that. But I disclosed my potential conflicts here.
00:30:55.838 - 00:31:15.262, Speaker A: I disclosed that. I think it's a really cool thing because I've had fun with it. You know, I'm having fun with it on, on far crystal. And I also think that this, you know, Degen chain is the first l three. This actually has a lot of activity on it, and I think that's showing us that people, you know, are happy to use this stuff. People want to use this stuff. People don't really care about decentralization when it comes to meme coins.
00:31:15.262 - 00:32:17.976, Speaker A: Right. And I think that when you think about it like that, you start to open up a wider design space here and much more experimentation. And on that note, actually, the other thing that I want to talk about was, was Damo here, which is a payments protocol essentially, or trying to basically do really cheap and fast payments, or in the ethereum ecosystem here and trying to do them cross chain as well. You can see here that with this, with this, with relay protocol here within your demo wallet or within the demo ecosystem, essentially what you can do is you can do payments between like other optimism and base optimism and arbitrary cross chain payments here. But also the reason why I want to talk about payments in particular was that I think payments are a pretty good use case for l three s as well, or for an l two, that's really, really cheap, but maybe more centralized because most payments, or the vast majority of payments are going to be micro payments or small payments. Like for example, if you're purchasing a coffee, you don't need to do that on ethereum l one, like your coffee purchase does not need to be secured by the equivalent of a nation state army. And you definitely aren't going to be doing coffee purchases on l one because l one is super expensive.
00:32:17.976 - 00:32:45.942, Speaker A: But then on l two it gets a lot cheaper. So maybe it makes sense to do them there. But then on a potentially an l three, it gets even cheaper here. And yes, maybe it's centralized, but that's fine for payments. Like, I actually don't think payments need to be, you know, fully decentralized. I think as long as payments are like non custodial, as long as payments are running on a, you know, a layer that you can verify that you can kind of, I guess, verify that he's acting not maliciously and he's acting within a trust minimized way. I don't think it's a concern if the data is off chain.
00:32:45.942 - 00:33:22.714, Speaker A: Right? I don't think it's a concern if there are some centralized controls in place, like a multisig, for example, from the company operating it at that point there. So that's how I generally view these things. But you can go check out demo for yourself. It's a really cool payments payments ecosystem. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But yeah, last thing I wanted to talk about here, because I know I've gone over time, is a tweet that I put out just before where I said, and this is regarding the markets, I said, I've been in crypto for quite a while, from 2013 to 2017 on and off, and then from 2017 to today, being completely obsessed with Ethereum. I can say with full confidence that this is by far the weirdest bull market that has ever.
00:33:22.714 - 00:34:02.594, Speaker A: That crypto has ever had. Not only does it seem like the four year cycle is dead, but anyone trying to do fundamentals based investing is having a real bad time. For the most part, market is still Max PvP with the majority of players being crypto natives, which would explain all of the above. And then throw in the ETF, which explains why BTC has been so strong. I won't really believe that retail is here in any meaningful way until we see the entire market going up together, not these isolated sector specific pumps that are very obviously pushed by crypto natives and just involve a hot ball of money rotating around. So, you guys know, this has been my general thesis around this bull market for a while now, where people are saying, oh, you know, there's so much retail in, in right now. It's so frothy, so on and so forth.
00:34:02.594 - 00:34:37.998, Speaker A: And I challenge that completely. I very much don't think that there's many retail in right now. There is maybe like 10%, maybe 15% of retail investors that came back. But I think a lot of these investors are ones that already know crypto natives. They may be a friend of a crypto native. I really don't think we're seeing the same inflow that we saw in like the first half of 2021 where essentially have like a mass, I guess, inflow of these investors that only come in when it's a crypto bull market. And I've talked about this hot ball of money before a lot, where essentially these meme coins that are pumping guys like these are meme coins that are getting shilled on crypto Twitter.
00:34:37.998 - 00:35:26.072, Speaker A: They're not meme coins that have started on like, TikTok or YouTube. When you start seeing meme coins that no one on crypto Twitter is talking about going absolutely nuts, that's when you can kind of get an inkling that, okay, well, the normie retail is back because those meme coins will have started on TikTok, where crypto Twitter is, you know, isn't part of. And some of these include things like Safemoon. Last cycle where I remember this thing, Safemoon, it pumped ridiculously, and by the time crypto Twitter had heard about it, it was already in the billions of market cap. And where do you think Safemoon started? It started on TikTok. So until that happens, until the, you know, the non crypto native, things start going up in value until we start seeing the whole market going up together rather than these very obviously shield kind of meme coins on crypto Twitter that are pumping, then I don't believe that the vast majority of retail here. I do believe that it's just a hot ball of money rotating around.
00:35:26.072 - 00:35:54.786, Speaker A: And the exception, obviously, is BTC. But we have a very obvious example as to why BTC or very obvious explanation as to why BTC has been pumping, and it's the ETF. Like, no one can deny that the ETF is directly tied to BTC going up in value. And it would also explain a lot about why ETH has lagged the market generally, because they don't want to be in the safest assets, right. They want to take risk. They want to go down the risk curve. And ETH, I think, by far, is, besides BTC is one of the safest assets in crypto.
00:35:54.786 - 00:36:13.882, Speaker A: So the reason why ETH has been lagging is because everyone thinks, oh, well, you know, I've got time to buy ETH. It's a safe asset. You know, I'll just go speculate on these meme coins and then I'll sell it back to ETH before ETH pumps sort of thing. And that's why ETH moves so violently. I mean, ETH moved from 2000 to 4000 very violently. Right. And now we're kind of consolidating in the 3500 range here.
00:36:13.882 - 00:36:34.918, Speaker A: But I do think that the next move on ETH is going to be just as violent. It's going to go to all time highs and beyond there. And that's because people Fomo in, they're not exposed to ETH anymore. And they're like, okay, well, you know, I'm done down the risk curve now. I want to take profits back to ETH. I think that's going to play out over time. But, yeah, that's why ETH moves slowly and then violently, because ETH is considered a really safe asset.
00:36:34.918 - 00:37:16.036, Speaker A: And when you don't have new money coming in and you don't in a big way and you have this hot ball of money coming in, just hop all of money rotating around, they're not necessarily having fomo to rotate into ETH. They're having FoMo to rotate into all these meme coins, obviously, because they've been going, you know, they've been pumping for so long, they don't want to miss out and they want to use those to stack more ETH. And, and as I said, to explain, the BTC strength is the ETF, and that is new money coming in. The ETF has brought new money in, but that money is not the regular money that we're used to. That goes into, you know, Coinbase, for example, and buys coins on there and then bridges out from Coinbase and then buys coins on chain or whatever. That money is a lot of money that is in people's retirements accounts. That is a different pool of money.
00:37:16.036 - 00:37:35.084, Speaker A: So you now have two distinct pools, pools of money. You have the ETF money and you have the normie money. And I guess, like the third maybe. Maybe there's three, actually. And then you have, like, the crypto native Djen money. So right now, we really only have that hot ball of crypto native DJ money in, you know, on chain doing things like rotating between meme coins. And we also have the.
00:37:35.084 - 00:38:05.900, Speaker A: The BTC ETF, a pool of money that is only going into BTC via the ETF's. So ETH is kind of stuck in the middle right now where crypto natives want it, but they don't want it now. It's not like a FOMo to get into it right now. And also, ETH doesn't have an ETF yet. So ETH doesn't have the ETF money coming in. But that's going to change at some point where essentially ETH will have the ETF money coming in and ETH will also have the money from crypto natives because of the fact that they're like, okay, I'm done with these djen stuff. I want to go buy ETH because I need to stack more ETH because it's a safe asset to keep assets in, so on and so forth.
00:38:05.900 - 00:38:43.964, Speaker A: So that's how I explain the current kind of market dynamic here. And that's why the bull market has been so weird, because we have a distortion of the ETF money going into BTC only, and then there being a wealth effect for crypto native BTC holders to rotate out of BTC into more details and stuff. And they kind of skip over ETH because they consider it to be too safe. But ETH is not going to, I guess, like, suffer from that over the long term. It's actually really good for ETH over the long term, but over the short to maybe medium term, it can be frustrating because you're like, why isn't ETH moving? And I think that I just explained why it isn't moving like other things are. But, you know, I'm still hopeful that ETH is going to get an ETF by May 23 here. But even if it doesn't, you know, I don't think that's necessarily bearish for ETH.
00:38:43.964 - 00:39:00.776, Speaker A: I think that everyone knows that ETH is getting an ETF eventually anyway. It's just like a timing thing here. But the ETF stuff, obviously, I've talked about the death here, so I'm not going to rehash that now. But that's my general view on what's going on with the market here. So on that note, I'm going to end it there for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:39:00.776 - 00:39:05.664, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
