00:00:00.760 - 00:00:23.410, Speaker A: Hey, everyone, my name is Amira, and for those of you who haven't met yet, I'm the head of policy at the Solana foundation. We're coming in today with the second of a two episode series where we talk to sitting members of Congress about their views on cbdcs. So if you missed yesterday's episode with Congressman Tom Emmer, highly recommend going back to check it out either before or after you listen to today's show.
00:00:24.190 - 00:00:30.860, Speaker B: Yeah, today we're bringing you kind of a part two of that conversation with Representative Bill Foster. So let's dive in.
00:00:35.360 - 00:00:37.424, Speaker A: Congressman, thanks. Thanks for joining us.
00:00:37.512 - 00:00:38.792, Speaker C: Well, thank you.
00:00:38.976 - 00:01:02.706, Speaker A: So we're, we're going to get into talking about crypto and cbdcs in a second, but I wanted to just focus at a high level. You know, you, you have a background that's a little unusual for Congress. And, um, you know, you were previously a physicist at Fermalab, and you've said that you're the only member of Congress who's actually coded a simple blockchain client. So I'm curious, what got you interested in blockchain in the first place?
00:01:02.778 - 00:02:16.840, Speaker C: Well, yeah, I spent a lot of my career in science doing computer code generally. And so, actually, I think I'm the only member of Congress who's actually designed integrated circuits. I'm very proud that I'm ten for ten and having all of my IC designs work the first time, which is non trivial, actually. During back in the nineties, I first programmed neural networks, which are now obviously heavily used for artificial intelligence. Ive been interested in technology, and since ive been on financial services, the technological change thats about to or has been washing over financial services the whole 15 years since I first started being on the financial services committee has been an important part. Its had its positive moments and its negative moments, like structured financial products and so on, were not just a lot of which were generated by physicists or retired physicists. And so it's important to understand the technological underpinnings of the technologies that we grow dependent on.
00:02:17.220 - 00:02:37.074, Speaker A: I want to dig into the CBDC Anti Surveillance act, which passed the House only a couple of weeks ago, and you were voting against this bill alongside of 191 members of Congress, mostly Democrats. I'm curious, at a high level, can you tell us what drove your vote to vote against this bill?
00:02:37.242 - 00:03:52.942, Speaker C: Well, there are a bunch of things. For example, I think there are very few privacy and surveillance objections to a wholesale CDBC. And so the idea that you're going to ban, for example, wholesale CDBC, which is basically a potentially more efficient way of just clearing money transfers between banks and other large financial players, probably a permissioned blockchain and any realistic implementation of it. But the idea that we'd be banning those when they might be a more efficient way for banks to do business between themselves is one example. I think the big problem there is that Congress has not yet come to grips with the big issue of privacy that is important when you're talking about self hosted wallets. And there's sort of the question I had when we had Mark Zuckerberg in front of our committee with his Libra project, we had Zuckerberg and I think a representative of the Libra association, and I asked him what I think the fundamental question is, is your product going to be supported on anonymous self hosted wallets? And Zuckerberg said, of course, no, we'll be regulated. And then the Libra association guy said, of course, yes.
00:03:52.942 - 00:05:11.796, Speaker C: And so this is something ive just encountered continuously, is different industry players talking out of both sides of their mouth on this, that either blockchain is traceable or its not that sort of thing. Thats the core question that was not answered really in any of the legislation. Are we going to want to live in a world where large financial transactions can take place through anonymously hosted wallets? You can answer that yes or no. But if your answer is yes, you cannot stop ransomware, you cannot stop all many abusive uses of crypto. That's, I think, the big question we have there, and I think that a lot of the regulators that have looked at this around the world say what we need in the end is not absolute privacy, but some controlled, limited privacy. And so that's everyone from the bank of international Settlements to O'Nelly Lang or many other senior Americans have thought about this, that we have to have some way, when a crime has been committed, to go and figure out who it is who actually participated in the transactions. That's different than surveillance.
00:05:11.796 - 00:06:23.260, Speaker C: And we have to, I think it's important to distinguish between ongoing, continuous surveillance, where you're, where the government is listening and analyzing things as they are happening, with no suspicion of a crime, and the ability and controlled anonymity, which means when you get a validated investigation, when you get a court warrant, you can then de anonymize the transactions and figure out what happened, for example, when FDX blew up. I would be perfectly okay if some court had said, okay, something bad here has happened. I want to know all the true identities of everyone that put money or crypto in or out. Of FTX in the last few months of its existence. And because it's clear some criminal activities happened there, and that you could then trace some of the things that at least for a while, seem to have disappeared there. And so that's very different than surveillance. And I think there's an important decision also distinction to be made between whether you're talking about crypto assets that are pegged, for example, pegged to the dollar stablecoins, for which you don't have to worry about market manipulation.
00:06:23.260 - 00:07:14.750, Speaker C: A stable coin, as long as it's appropriately backed by actual assets, is always going to be worth a dollar, for example, then the amount of surveillance that you need is very different for those. The only thing you're worried about with fixed value crypto assets are the ability for potentially, for government to track all individual private payments on things. And so we have to have very strong guardrails against doing that until you can prove that a crime has been committed. And that's the threshold you have to make. And you have to, you have to put in the technical hooks into the design of your system to allow that to happen.
00:07:15.450 - 00:07:52.240, Speaker A: So I think we have a ton of service area to talk about this. And I really want to push on what you said around the nature of how we think about privacy in the space. But before we get off cbdcs too much, just because I want to make sure that listeners best understand your position with respect to cbdcs in particular, I want to understand, are you more pro CBDC? Are you more anti banning a CBDC just to understand sort of your position on this act in particular and what was really driving you vote there?
00:07:52.860 - 00:08:56.556, Speaker C: Well, I am in favor of cdbcs that provide the right kind of controlled anonymity. And them, I am not in favor of cdbcs that simply become a graceful on ramp and off ramp to anonymous self hosted assets that can be traded on the dark web or whatever. And so this is, I think, the real split, ideological split that's happening here. That they're members of the Republican Party that believe that things like automobile driver's licenses or automobiles license plates are unwarranted intrusion on privacy. Okay? And it's a point of view, but it's not one that's, I think, shared by the american public. And so that's a, so I think we have to, yeah, we have to understand the risks and the benefits of different kinds of controlled privacy here. And that was the, one of the, it was the failure to have any adult discussion of the controlled privacy thing.
00:08:56.556 - 00:09:02.412, Speaker C: That was one of the biggest problems with, you know, the things that Republicans were producing for floor votes in the.
00:09:02.436 - 00:09:26.678, Speaker A: Last few weeks, it sounds like what I'm hearing is that you're not particularly passionate about a CBDC one way or another, but you think that we can have a CBDC if and only if there's controlled privacy on the CBDC. And what the anti surveillance, the CBDC Anti Surveillance act did was not provide a route for any kind of controlled privacy on a CBDC. Is that a fair interpretation of your stance?
00:09:26.814 - 00:09:31.060, Speaker C: I think that's pretty fair, more efficiently presented than I did.
00:09:31.840 - 00:10:51.190, Speaker B: Yeah, I would say theres no industry consensus on if a CBDC would be good or bad. One of the positives of it is the unramping right now is still a t plus one to t plus five day experience, and theres no real reason it has to be that slow. We have the technology now to enable something much closer to real time payments on the other side. I think to use license plate analogy you were using before, I think the idea of a license plate in a world where we don't have automatic cameras on the back of police cars, scanning every license plate as the police car drives down, we don't have cameras everywhere, is a very different proposition than one where we have a active surveillance process going on, where me, as someone who's done nothing wrong, when I drive, my license plates being scanned by automatic license plate readers, and my movements are being tracked. And while that is technically constitutional, it is not necessarily the privacy agreement that we signed when we signed up for license plates. I'm wondering how you would think about the appropriate level of privacy control when we're talking about these sorts of systems.
00:10:51.900 - 00:11:59.774, Speaker C: Well, the model that I like is the James Bond's license plates that rotate, the ones that flip through those are certainly analogous to algorithmic wallets, if you know what I'm talking about. There you can make things where you can examine the blockchain and see that, okay, this was definitely a transaction between two licensed wallets and cryptographically verify they're valid wallets, but still have no idea who's behind them, however. And then they can be changing, like James Bond's thing. So it's difficult to track them through a whole chain of interactions. It's sort of the thing you were worried about. And yet, for each one of those plates, if you can prove a crime has been committed, that a trusted court system can de anonymize those, and so that you have to, this requires a certain amount of trust in government that may or may not be present. But, you know, in scandinavian countries, every time any federal bureaucrat accesses any data they have on you, you are entitled to notification of that access, which I think is a very good principle to have.
00:11:59.774 - 00:12:31.672, Speaker C: And it works very well because people trust the government. And so that's one of the big. A lot of money has been spent trying to vilify the government by organizations that think that wealthy people shouldn't be taxed. And part of that is to vilify everything the government does. And so this is. This is, I think, the part of the core ideological split that you're seeing on this is whether you can ever imagine a world where the government could be trusted with things like privacy. The reality is we already trust the government with a tremendous amount of private information.
00:12:31.672 - 00:13:12.360, Speaker C: The IR's is example number one of that. It's, in fact, true that every one of us already has an account with the federal government. You argue about account based CDbcs, but when you say, I'm going to apply this year's IR's refund to next year's tax payment, guess what? You have an account with the federal government. And the only difference is that I can't give you $10 of the balance by getting on my cell phone, authenticating, and transferring it to you. But we have all the problems with identity fraud and everything else in the interactions with the IR's, which gets me to another big issue that we have to get to, which is secure digital identity for any of this to make sense.
00:13:13.900 - 00:13:56.688, Speaker A: Yeah, I want to push on this a little more, because I think the counterargument that you would get from, I'm guessing, Congressman Emmer and probably a lot of our colleagues in industry is we've given government a lot of data, and we haven't actually seen a commitment to responsibility with that data. Right. So one is just, we just have a really sweeping, or I think, like, collection of data is pretty sweeping. So I think last year, two years ago, 2.5 million suspicious activity reports were filed, just like any. Any transaction that's over $10,000 is logged and filed with treasury. And I think a lot of people would say, like, why is treasury collecting 2.5
00:13:56.688 - 00:14:04.672, Speaker A: million suspicious activity reports? That is clearly way too much. And so we've given government too much license to collect data at this point.
00:14:04.816 - 00:14:38.522, Speaker C: And so what is your estimate for the number of financial crimes? I mean, a significant fraction of the ongoing investigations have been triggered by SARS reports. I mean, my predecessor in Congress, Dennis Hastert, the former republican speaker, served jail time because of a SARS, he was paying off a victim of his child molestation from his previous coup using payments that were structured in a way that triggered SARSD. And so that's not just.
00:14:38.546 - 00:15:20.458, Speaker A: To be clear, I don't think people are saying, don't collect suspicious activities reports, although some people might be. I think people might be saying there's probably some kind of throttling that happens between like in the scale of millions versus what you really need to really understand the nature of illicit crime. And we should be in maybe in addition to looking for opportunities to KYC every walleth chances to really push treasury to focus in on where they actually need to be collecting data, as opposed to every single transaction that's over $10,000 to meet certain qualifications. I think the criticism is that it's a pretty sweeping regime right now. That's what a lot of my colleagues would say.
00:15:20.514 - 00:16:20.626, Speaker C: Well, it's a question of whether you trust government when they access different kinds of data. I think from a technical point of view, 10 million is not going to be a big number. From the point of view of AI. AI will easily be able to swallow a lot more than that. And I'm sure in countries like China, that they have relatively straightforward AI's that determine all kinds of patterns of payments already, because India as well, they've set up a system where you have almost complete surveillance. And that is not something that I, or I think really any american advocates for the question at hand, and I think the one we really should come to terms with, when you have convinced a trusted court system that a crime has been committed, can you then go back and figure out who the principals were involved on that? And that's something that's technically feasible by things like digitally registering wallets. And from a technical point of view, it's a very straightforward thing.
00:16:20.626 - 00:17:19.088, Speaker C: Fincen, for example, the financial crimes network, can simply say, if you want to light up a wallet, go get it registered and get a certificate from FinCen that say, yeah, we understand that's associated with a legally traceable person, but have a secure, you know, have a belief and a law that says you cannot just willy nilly go accessing that information, that there has to be very controlled circumstances like a corp warrant that, you know, that allows you to actually go and figure out who's behind that wallet. Now, there's a different. I think it's important also to distinguish between two different kinds of crypto transactions. There are ones, for example, with stablecoins, where you're not worried about market manipulation. The only real worries are that it's being used for some criminal purpose. Okay. Under those circumstances, I think it's reasonable to just wait until you prove a crime has been committed and then be able to figure out who did it.
00:17:19.088 - 00:18:44.068, Speaker C: The situation is different for crypto assets with a market valued with a market determined value, because under those circumstances, you have to worry about things like wash trading front, running your customers, the whole litany of frauds against the market that have been going on for hundreds of years. And so in this circumstance, as we learned the hard way with derivatives regulations back at Dodd Frank times 15 years ago, there really isn't an alternative. If you're going to detect wash trades, you have to have some regulator somewhere that sees the true identity between people on both sides of a trade. Otherwise, you simply have no idea whether it's Melania Trump issuing an NFT and then buying it back and forth through anonymous wallets and then finding some sucker to go buy it, which is rumored to have happened. I'm not expressing an opinion on whether it actually happened or not, but there are estimates. The very large fraction of NFT trading are wash trades of some kind. The only way to clean up markets like that, which is very much what was happening in, for example, the commodities and derivatives industry, was sort of a mess before we adopted a trader id, which is, if youre going to play in the derivatives markets, you have to have a trader id, which is biometrically deduped.
00:18:44.068 - 00:19:00.070, Speaker C: So you only get to operate one trader id, and then you have a market where you can know that you're actually looking at fair market prices and not prices for assets that are being bid up by wash trades or depressed by wash trades.
00:19:00.730 - 00:19:52.322, Speaker A: Yeah, well, let's dive in. So I think we're getting sort of clear in the crux of the pros and cons of how we think about this kind of system with kycing non custodial wallets. And so I want to address one in particular that I think draws a lot of people in crypto, which is this idea of financial inclusion. And so a lot of folks will point to the fact that the traditional banking system shuts out a lot of people. The KYC process right now leaves a lot of folks just out of the banking system are unable to get KYC'd. And so they would argue that we need a broader net, a way to be able to give more people more accessibility to the same kinds of tools that a lot of other folks have. And I'm curious how you respond to that idea that we have a banking system that is traditionally shut a lot of people out and does a lot of de risking, oftentimes unnecessarily, and that we have an opportunity through crypto to help change that.
00:19:52.322 - 00:19:53.026, Speaker A: Curious.
00:19:53.098 - 00:21:03.380, Speaker C: I mean, by far the most successful solution to that has taken place in India, where, because they've established a nationwide secure digital id, where everyone has a biometrically secured digital id that they can assert on their cell phone. If there's a pauper that you want to give a couple of ruby used to or beggar in the street, you can both get out your cell phone, do your biometric login, use that to authenticate ownership of a bank account, and you can transfer a tiny amount of money for zero fee from any account to any other account securely because of the choices they've made setting that up, the government can see every transaction, which is a choice they have made, but not necessary. One on that. That is, in terms of inclusion to the financial system that is by far the most widely adopted, has nothing to do with crypto, except, of course, all the cell phone transactions are two way encrypted and so on. And so you have to separate that. The key to unlocking that is a secure digital identity. There's no problem just having counts in banks versus having crypto assets.
00:21:03.380 - 00:21:19.940, Speaker C: Thats not whats important. The key to unlocking that is having a secure digital identity so that you know that you can allow transactions of any value to happen without worrying about the criminal abuse of that. And the reason.
00:21:21.240 - 00:21:25.640, Speaker A: Can I just clarify something, Congressman? Are you arguing in favor of a similar.
00:21:25.720 - 00:22:08.270, Speaker C: No, im saying that crypto is not necessary to, for financial inclusion. All right. That's what I'm saying. That we have an existence, proof on earth today of a system which has by far the most successful financial inclusion, where you can have zero cost payments between any two citizens of India, which is pretty impressive. And there is no more efficient scheme than that. There's not in India to support this system. We don't have gigantic mining operations, crypto mining operations, burning electricity and tapping into a big fraction of the high end chip output of TSMC, which is to first order a waste of resources, that they have a much more efficient system.
00:22:08.270 - 00:22:26.756, Speaker C: And the downside of that is that because of the way theyve structured it, they have a lot of government surveillance, and you can implement systems like that with less government surveillance or with more controlled government surveillance. And that's the, that's the corner I think we should be operating in.
00:22:26.828 - 00:23:03.470, Speaker B: Do you want to talk on that? That government surveillance component because I am someone who grew up with default trust of the government. I think in. In large part, there's large swaths of the government, I still default trust. The security state is not necessarily one of those, though. And, you know, I'm 33. So, like 911, the Patriot act, warrantless wiretapping of the NSA, that was a lot of my formative years in political identity. And it seems that when push comes to shove, we are not particularly good at securing information and not breaking the rules that we've set up.
00:23:03.470 - 00:23:32.820, Speaker B: How would you sort of propose systems that actually maintain those securities where if we do switch over to something like a CBDC, which requires registration? I think a lot of people could very easily see a world where when there is the ability to access something or an ability to modify a system and not tell the american public, that's what's happening. You could see a very large financial surveillance state like you see in India and China occur pretty quickly.
00:23:33.360 - 00:24:47.448, Speaker C: That's our job in Congress, is to make sure that the checks and balances are in place, to make sure that doesn't happen. I mean, right now, your credit card company, do you use credit cards, either of you? Your credit card company can get a national security letter that says, we won't tell you why you can't tell your customer, but we want to see every transaction that you've made that is something that is withstood constitutional muster, but it's on the basis of an official, documented action of a. Of a trusted court system. And so the challenge there is to make a trusted court system, one that when you look under the hood and see the decisions it's making, is one that ordinary citizens of the United States would agree are reasonable decisions about when the government should or should not see your financial details. And that's a, you know, it's not an easy discussion. It's going to have to be handled very carefully. It is really downstream of settling the foundational issue of whether we have a secure digital identity for Americans or whether we will let unlimited, anonymous actions take place in all venues.
00:24:47.624 - 00:24:54.260, Speaker B: I guess maybe a different way to ask this is, do you think encryption is a right in the United States?
00:24:55.440 - 00:26:29.466, Speaker C: Encryption of stolen nuclear secrets? No. If you're using a buy and sell, it depends on. There are some purposes for which the government has an overarch. If you are extreme design of how to make custom viruses that will trigger new pandemics, there are activities that are so intrinsically dangerous that the government, I believe, has a right to really extreme, you know, extreme access to your data if we're going to provide things like the banking system, we have the right to ask people that tap into the benefits of those to pay, to respect the, to respect the rules that keep civilization working. For example, if someone says I'm just going to go ahead and trade bitcoin on the dark web and you can't stop me, thats correct. But if you say, I also want to be able to bring an anonymously traded crypto assets back into the lit banking system, where I take advantage of all the benefits that civilization gives the banking system, then that civilization has the right to ask you as a condition of bringing anonymously traded crypto assets back in to say no, that actually you have to have control on that anonymity. So what I'm saying, what I'm saying is that the gate.
00:26:29.498 - 00:26:30.010, Speaker A: Oh go ahead.
00:26:30.090 - 00:26:57.130, Speaker C: The gate for cryptographically obscuring something can be maintained when the government provides utilities like the regulated banking system that only exists because we have a functional society, that we have a right to write that if you're going to use our banking system, you have to make sure that the banking system is not being used as an on ramp for profits you've gained from selling bioweapons.
00:26:58.990 - 00:27:27.430, Speaker B: That is large part how it does work today, in that if you are a us citizen or if you are using really any exchange in the world, they do require you to pass an extensive KYC before they will allow you to deposit a crypto asset into an exchange and withdraw that to a fiat currency or move it to a bank account. Do you see the system today as insufficient? And if so, what would you like to see in place?
00:27:27.850 - 00:27:57.920, Speaker C: So the. Well first its insufficient. If you just look at the fact that half of the north korean nuclear program is funded with crypto, okay, that's a pretty big problem. They have very high performance intercontinental ballistic missiles. Thank you. Crypto, that is an existential threat to the us fentanyl traffickers. If you want to buy fentanyl precursor chemicals, you just give your crypto to the chinese factories and that's how the payments transacted.
00:27:57.920 - 00:29:04.206, Speaker C: So that's an example of the sort of things that we have to work harder to prevent. Okay, now the sort of system, the control privacy that most regulators when they look at this we have to get to is it's actually very analogous to the automobile license plates when automobiles were invented. Then at first said, oh great, anyone will be able to drive one anywhere. And they said, wait, there are problems with this. And if you think for a moment how unacceptable it would be to have unlicensed cars with unlicensed drivers, driving through your neighborhood, driving across your borders, you'd see that it was really crucial, a crucial element in the healthy development of the automobile industry to have license plates to make these acceptable products for general use in the public, and so that the same thing really applies to crypto. It's a fantastic product, but only if you have some sort of controlled privacy on it, so that if you're just driving down the road, the person next to you, you have no idea who they really are. Okay.
00:29:04.206 - 00:29:46.880, Speaker C: But you know that if they drive you off the road, you can jot down their license plate, go to a trusted court system, prove a crime has been committed, and then that court will de anonymize the license plate and let you extradite the person and drag them into court. And with that kind of guarantee, it will make crypto a much better product. And so all you have to do, it's only people that either, a, think the, the government is essentially untrustworthy, or, b, intend to cheat or buy or steal and get away with it. Those are the only two corners for an objection to that sort of thing. And the vast majority of the american public doesn't live in that corner.
00:29:49.140 - 00:30:43.510, Speaker A: I'll object a bit to that reduction of people who value self custody, but I'll offer a couple of counterpoints, or just clarification. I think we talk about North Korea. Let me preface this by saying, I'm a former national security professional. I care really deeply about this country's national security, and probably find myself on the other side of a lot of debates with my colleagues for that reason, because I see how serious these threats are, and I have sort of lived through them during my time in government. But when you look at a lot of the national security threats that are coming through to crypto, what we see is not a failure of the self custodial system. What we see is a failure of our ability as a us government to be able to track down on and off ramps and effectively police them. Because entities like North Korea are not off ramping using Coinbase, they're off ramping using russian on and off ramps.
00:30:43.510 - 00:30:58.606, Speaker A: And so the issue there is not a failure of the russian surveillance system, which is really robust. The issue is that we, as the United States, don't have the ability to go sort of track down what's happening or subpoena an entity like Bizlotto, which we sanction later than that.
00:30:58.798 - 00:32:13.332, Speaker C: Yeah, but, for example, those like Nellie Lang and others that have advocated for legally traceable wallets that you simply got to put a license plate on your wallet. What that does is it allows you to make a clean, technologically straightforward distinction between clean money and dirty money. So if someone offers to pay you with some crypto, you have your software look on the blockchain at the chain of custody of that crypto, and if it is exclusively taken place through licensed wallets, then you know it's clean money. But if you see that it has disappeared through unknown, anonymous trading on, you know, on self hosted wallets or wherever, then at that point, at that point you say, im sorry, thats dirty money. I can never legally bring that into the lit financial system. And you, I think, made a clean, technologically straightforward separation between the area where theres a controlled anonymity and the wild west. The key thing there is just to have Fincen or someone set up an API that allows people to register wallets and attach them to a secure, legally traceable identity.
00:32:13.332 - 00:32:56.660, Speaker C: And I think that will be if you talk to financial or crypto startups, it is. Kycing is one of the highest, the biggest costs of entry they have, and one of the hardest things for them to do. Well, if all you had to do is say, okay, just tell your customers when they come in with a wallet, go hit the FinceN API and attach a license plate to it, and you finished your KYC obligations. It would make life much, much easier for your crypto startups, or your financial startups for that matter. And so that's a crucial thing. And that's why I say it has to be downstream of getting a secure digital identity as something that citizens who want can have. Many countries have that.
00:32:56.660 - 00:33:22.410, Speaker C: In fact, the EU, within a couple of years now, is going to have every citizen of the EU who wants one will be able to have such a secure digital identity that allows them to prove they are who they say they are online as a legally traceable person. And then you can decide how to use that. One way might be to use it to register a wallet that will then be trusted in the sense of not containing dirty money.
00:33:23.430 - 00:33:35.248, Speaker B: So you talked a moment ago about the idea that funds that are not fully traceable through verified wallets might be considered dirty. Would you apply the same structure to cash today?
00:33:35.424 - 00:34:23.047, Speaker C: The difference between cash and crypto is the speed of escape from the scene of the crime. Okay, this is why we have different rules for different levels of flighty assets. You never see ransomware saying, please deposit $10,000 in unmarked $20 bills in a trash can in Central park. They don't do that. They do it. They ask for payment in crypto because of the speed of escape from the scene of the crime. There's also a big issue about finality and transactions, and that's something that I think is another very important issue for central bank digital currencies, for many commercial transactions, for consumer transactions, you actually don't want finality.
00:34:23.047 - 00:35:23.490, Speaker C: All right? If someone puts a gun to your head, drags you into an alley, says, get out your phone, transfer all of your crypto to me, and, oh, let's say while we're at it, why don't you transfer the ownership of your house to me? All right? And you want to be able to go back to a trusted court system, give them proof that a crime has been committed, and have them reverse that transaction. All right? You want that guarantee for many particularly high valued financial transactions. And so the idea that immediate finality is an unalloyed good is actually not one that's held by consumers. They want to be able to say, hey, someone's using my credit card in Mexico. Stop. And I want my money back. That's actually an important part of the consumer facing issues with central bank digital currencies or really any crypto that's being used for payments.
00:35:23.490 - 00:36:00.902, Speaker C: Another reason why controlled privacy. If someone puts a gun to your head and steals your crypto, then if you can go to a court system and say, I want to know the owner of that wallet that I was forced to transfer it in, then you can actually start to enforce that guarantee of providing some recourse if a fraudulent or mistaken transaction or coerced transaction has taken place. And so you have to have sort of an adult idea, adult attitude toward finality of transactions that is not always present in the crypto purists.
00:36:01.046 - 00:36:38.248, Speaker B: I think one of the places my mind goes with this is the model can work well for the United States. It might even work well for some parts of the Eudez. But us dollars permeate the global economic system. They're traded in Nigeria, they're traded in China. They're the system that is really the underpinning of currency nowadays. And so this is the idea of the US as the global reserve currency. And so as we start to add more restrictions to this, there are many countries where you cannot get a KYC provider to validate that someone is actually who they say they are there.
00:36:38.248 - 00:37:08.990, Speaker B: This is part of why getting a visa as an indian citizen still continues to be very challenging, is that the US does not have a high trust in the indian record keeping system. So if we sort of extend this model to say that money that moves internationally always needs to have full identities attached to it, do you see that as something that could hurt us dollar dominance on the global scale? Because many of those transactions today, like wire transfers, do not have a pre clearance of KYC attached to them.
00:37:10.410 - 00:38:35.610, Speaker C: There are a bunch of issues that you just touch on here. The dominance of the dollar for denominating the value of assets, I think has to do with the strength of our economy, the strength of our rule of law. And that you sort of know that, that when you put your money into an investment in America or the dollar denominated assets, that you have fair confidence that things aren't going to go completely nuts from a legal point of view, and that is absent in other countries. And that's why at times of financial stress, money tends to flee to the United States. Probably our first responsibility on the financial services committee is to make sure that we continue to uphold the rule of law and make America continue to be a safe place to invest your money. That is the strength of the dollar. Whether people offer additional products that they claim they are willing to exchange for real dollars is a separate issue from the fact that the US has got a pretty good commitment that we're not just going to print a bunch of money to get rid of our debt, for example, that when we decide to get rid of our debt, we will do so by taxing wealthy people who have more than enough money to get rid of our debt, rather than just printing a bunch of money and driving inflation.
00:38:35.610 - 00:39:39.128, Speaker C: And so I think that's the reason for the strength of the dollar as a way of denominating international exchange. And so that's, so I think you have to separate that from the utility of the dollar itself. Theres no question youve talked about other countries that dont have KYC providers because its sort of the wild west for identity fraud. I think it was a couple of podcasts back that you had, I spent a little while listening to one of the discussions where you talked about your foundation having a huge problem with fake identities, with identity fraud. Okay. And that is a reflection of the fact that we do not have a secure, biometrically verified root of authentic identity in this country and the free world. I think that the way to solve that is what they've done throughout the EU.
00:39:39.128 - 00:40:01.798, Speaker C: They're in the process of making every citizen of the Eudez have, if they wish, the ability to prove they are who they say they are online. And then you can use it or not. Okay. So that if someone sends me an email, you know, I don't know if. How much do you even look at your spam filter contents anymore? You know, I. Maybe I'm a high value target.
00:40:01.814 - 00:40:02.414, Speaker B: I actually do.
00:40:02.462 - 00:41:11.320, Speaker C: You actually do? Yeah. Well, I'm a high value target, and so the number of really competent phishing attempts that I see in my spam is pretty impressive. You get all these AI's that are busy impersonating all my family members and everything else. At least the filter that I use is pretty good at classifying them as spam. But ultimately, what's going to happen on that is that if someone sends me an electronic communication and they are unwilling to attach a digital signature from a legally traceable person, they can send me that message, but I will assume that they are AI robot generated trash and put it in my spam filter that we're going to have to. For identity generally in this country, we're going to have to start with the root of authentication as a way of proving you are a legally traceable person and then attach whatever degree of anonymity you want on top of that for the transaction at hand. And so that is, I think, and crypto is one reflection of the wider problem of having a secure, trusted digital identity.
00:41:11.320 - 00:41:41.286, Speaker C: And when we talk about operating across national boundaries, that requires a tremendous level of trust. You're seeing, for example, if you talk about witness protection programs, okay, you're going to be in a situation where you're going to get a phone call from the French and say, you know, you got an american citizen on vacation. As far as we can tell, there's identity theft going on there. It's not really. And you're going to go, shh. That is a retired russian spy. Okay? And so there's going to have to be.
00:41:41.286 - 00:42:06.146, Speaker C: And so, you know, basically, witness protection programs or retirement programs for spies are basically government sponsored identity fraud. All right? Synthetic identity fraud. And we have to leave that hook in existence. Government will need to operate that hooked, and that demands a very high level of trust between the governments, which will have interoperable identity systems.
00:42:06.298 - 00:43:17.380, Speaker A: All right, I want to make sure to address something here, which is that any system where you have people that they have to opt in for some kind of identity, let's call it digital identity, it's going to necessarily leave people out. I think there's some stat that I read recently was something like 50% of Americans have never called an Uber, which is shocking to me as someone who calls Ubers all the time. But the fact is, our digital worlds are still not encompassing of the entire citizenry, let alone countries that are, as you said, very left behind because they're the wild, wild west. And where I think access to the dollar is probably most needed because people are victims of rampant inflationary economies. And so how do you think about the pros and cons of a more inclusive system where you're going to have more people fall through the cracks versus something where you require digital identity that might instill a lot of safety and security, but where you're going to leave a lot of people out just by nature of the system, because we just don't have everyone having, we can't give everyone digital ids unless you're instituting a system like India's, which is very comprehensive but also surveillance driven.
00:43:17.500 - 00:44:32.464, Speaker C: Well, I think part of the thing that made that difficult in the recent past is the fact that poor people didn't have cell phones. And interestingly, because of the bills we passed recently in the last session of Congress, at least if Congress re ups the funding, which is currently on the verge of running out, if you're a person without any means, you have the, the right to low end cell phone contract. And it is usually the contract rather than the device that's the barrier. When you go to food pantries in my district, they often have a big stack of donated cell phones where people wanted to upgrade their cell phone and say, oh, I'll give it to the food pantry and to ease my guilt instead of just throwing it in the trash. Obviously, if you go into a location with wireless, you, have the ability to use that digital identity so that the threshold for that is very low. In our country, I think well over 90% of Americans, I think it's over 95% have access to a cell phone, either themselves or in their family. And so that barrier has largely been crossed.
00:44:32.464 - 00:45:29.758, Speaker C: Those that don't are people that choose not to operate a cell phone or are mentally not capable of doing it. Its essentially a universal thing. And the amount of money that youd have to provide to make it truly universal. So I think its not the poverty, at least in the United States, that prevents it. And even in places like India, where you can buy incredibly cheap cell phones, the huge majority of the population has, has access to that. The economic benefits of having a digital identity are large, just in terms of being able to claim government benefits, because if you're poor enough that you can't afford a cell phone, you're eligible for all manner of government assistance. And the problem is that it's a real burden to go and prove that you qualify for every version of rental assistance or this or that.
00:45:29.758 - 00:46:22.270, Speaker C: If you would simply be able to get out your phone, do your biometric log into your phone, prove you are who you say you are to the government, you could instantly then qualify for many of the assistance programs without having to worry about this narrative that all government payments are fraud ridden. In fact, thats one of the big advantages in India of the system theyve set up, where they have been able to really reduce the amount of fraud payments in their government assistance programs because they have a secure digital identity. And obviously, if you're asking the government to give you money for special circumstances, you shouldn't expect any expectation of privacy on that. It would be nice if the government didn't tell all your friends that you were doing this, but you shouldn't expect that the government won't keep a record of who's claiming benefits.
00:46:23.090 - 00:47:06.002, Speaker A: Congressman, thank you so much for joining us. I have one last question and then we'll wrap up. And it takes us back to our conversation about trust in government. And I'll say you're talking probably to an audience in an industry that has what I would call maybe lower than average trust in government. And so I wanted to give you the chance just to make your pitch. When you're talking about something like universal KYC for self custody wallets, how would you convince our audience that they should give government a chance to see something like this, like similar legislation or regulatory barriers pass that allow for that type of tracking?
00:47:06.106 - 00:48:39.170, Speaker C: I think the first thing to do is to make it possible for the government to attach a KYC to a wallet and not necessarily even make it mandatory. Simply saying that FincEN will provide a mechanism where you go hit their API and you can attach a certification to your wallet that this person is legally traceable. He's anonymous, but legally traceable. If you can take it to a court system and then let the market decide. If you want to buy an NFT from someone where you can see it's been traded anonymously with unknown amounts of, of fraudulent wash trades or similar having gone on, you can buy that NFT. Or if you prefer to buy an NFT where all the transactions since the time it was originated took place between legally traceable wallets, then you have a much higher level of certainty that youre not going to be subject to the fraudulent trading and youre going to have more confidence and beverage more willing to buy into that sort of asset structure. My suggestion is for people in the crypto industry to roll around that possible future and think about the fraction of the use cases of crypto that could be beneficially affected by having the ability to have wallets that are knowable with the right legal proceedings under a trusted court system among the free democracies of the world.
00:48:39.750 - 00:48:42.534, Speaker A: Congressman Bill Foster, thank you for joining us on validating.
00:48:42.582 - 00:48:42.830, Speaker C: Thank you.
