00:00:00.160 - 00:00:37.272, Speaker A: Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of the Delaware refuel where recap the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Dan, the new designer. And today, 20 April 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So starting today's episode off with some very positive news. So Alexei Pertsev, the arrested tornado cash developer that I have spoken about a bunch of times on the refuel, has or will be released from holding and will be free to wait, wait, his trial at home from the 26 April. So he has been unfortunately in, detained or in jail for quite a while now, actually since I believe September was his arrest.
00:00:37.272 - 00:01:15.312, Speaker A: August or September, I think was, was his arrest. And he had been detained since then. And then charges were brought against him. But now he can await his trial at home with electronic monitoring. Well, starting on, on the 26 April here and Eleanor Blank here, who first reported this news, said the most important thing is that he can walk around and work on his defense, something that was virtually impossible while detained. So this will probably give him better odds at or better, I guess, like a better defense, right. And probably a better outcome for when he is eventually sentenced, if he is found guilty or maybe he's found innocent, right? We don't know.
00:01:15.312 - 00:01:31.306, Speaker A: Obviously it's going to trial here. I don't know when the trial date is. I don't know if a trial date has been set. But that's the latest on Alexei Pertsev. Yeah. And if you want to follow along with his trial, I think you can follow this free Alexei Pertzev account here, which I'm going to do right now. I hadn't done that yet.
00:01:31.306 - 00:02:28.072, Speaker A: And I think that they report on all things got to do with him. And I think it's actually a quite a interesting case, not just from the perspective of like for me wanting to see Alexei freed, but I think it's interesting from like what kind of precedent it can set. Like if this case, if Alexa is found guilty, like what's he found guilty of? Is he found guilty of writing a code write, you know, contributing to a tornado cash, providing code for people, sorry, for writing a product, people to use to protect their privacy? Or is he found guilty of other things such as the money laundering charges against him and stuff like that? So it's going to be a very interesting, I guess, next. Sorry, very interesting trial when it does go to trial, and I will be keeping tabs on it. But that's the latest on him as of today. All right, moving on to some other Ethereum core updates. So Lucas here from the Nethermind team has shared an image of Nethermind memory reduction that's coming, or has come from, I think, in.
00:02:28.072 - 00:02:56.644, Speaker A: Oh, no, no. They're testing it right now for the next release, which is released 1.18. And you can see it's a huge memory reduction, actually, it's going down from around, just eyeing it here, maybe twelve gig all the way down to what, three or four? Yeah, four. 4gb of memory here. So that is a pretty big reduction. Right? That's a third of what it's using right now. And I've been covering nethermind for quite a while on the refuel, basically going through about how Nethermind has improved substantially as an ethereum client and that has.
00:02:56.644 - 00:03:45.008, Speaker A: Or as an execution layer client, and that has reflected in the adoption of nethermind. It is the second most adopted execution layer client now, about 20% market share, which is very awesome to see. And it is eaten into gets market share, which obviously we wanted to see go down for client diversity reasons, for network security reasons. So I think that with this memory reduction, more and more people are going to be running. Never mind. Because at the end of the day, if you're trying to run your validators on, or if you're trying to kind of like stake with either it be rocket pool or with the smart note stack, or solo stake on a lower power device that may only have 16 gig RAm, that probably wouldn't be enough for, you know, nethermind and a CL client and a bunch of validators, you'd be pushing the limits there. So this is obviously, you know, huge improvements on, on that.
00:03:45.008 - 00:04:22.408, Speaker A: And it will open. It will, it will kind of cause more people to switch over to Nethermind from other clients, I believe. Or just run Nethermind instead of other clients, because it is a much lighter client to run. So just great to see that there. Just wanted to highlight that. Next up, we had an update here from Carl Beak, who is one of the KZG ceremony coordinators. I did speak the other day about how they were opening up the contributions again and doing it in a novel way where essentially people with account that had 128 transaction nonces, sorry, 128 nonce transactions on their address or more would be eligible, and then that would be lowered over time.
00:04:22.408 - 00:04:52.096, Speaker A: And you can see here in this chart what the lobby size looks like over time for the KZG ceremony. It looks a lot smoother, right? Like looks. Looks a lot more flat and it is reducing over time and the queues aren't as long from what I've seen, I think people are still having trouble getting their, their commitments included. It's not a perfect system, of course, but it is a much better system than was in place before. So keep trying. If you are trying to get your commitments into the KZG ceremony and someone in the Discord channel. Actually, I should, I should get this link handy.
00:04:52.096 - 00:05:41.400, Speaker A: So I remember. So I'm gonna quickly grab this link, but someone linked the GitHub repository for the KZG ceremony clients, which I'm getting up here for you now that you can go check out. I'll link this in the YouTube description below, but this basically allows you to run the client locally instead of having to use the website. So and then this will improve your chances of getting yourself included as well. So for those of you who want to do that or interested in doing that, I'll link the GitHub repository in the YouTube description below and you can check that out for yourself. All right, so a quick little thread here from the bankless account where they tweeted out saying coming soon for ethereum, here are the next big three big things I on the Ethereum roadmap from here on out. Now of course, I talk about these things a lot on the refill already, but it's just a good refresher, refresher of the big things coming for Ethereum this year and next year.
00:05:41.400 - 00:06:27.728, Speaker A: So obviously we have AIP 4844 or proto Dank sharding, which we are hoping arrives later in the year. We have our distributed validator technology or DVT or squad staking something that I've been talking about a lot recently. So that shouldn't be, you know, that shouldn't come as a surprise to you that it is one of the next major upgrades for Ethereum as an ecosystem. Obviously it's not something that is going to be deployed to the Ethereum core protocol itself. It is something that sits on top and o network and ssv network and a few others out there are building these, these products here. And as I mentioned, I believe yesterday or the day before, I am currently running an DVT validator with a bunch of other people using herbal networks technology on Mainnet. Now this isn't open to everyone yet, this is a closed alpha that they're running on Mainnet right now.
00:06:27.728 - 00:06:55.954, Speaker A: But, but as bankless says here, they obel at least expects mainnet deployment before 2024, so sometime this year. Next up is proposer builder separation or PBS, which is something that I've been talking about a lot on the refuel bank list is here, probably 2025 and beyond for deployment. This is a core protocol change. Look, I don't know when it's going to go in. It could happen before 2025. You know, it could happen after 2025. Could happen in 2025, right? It's too early to tell.
00:06:55.954 - 00:07:57.574, Speaker A: I think there is a lot of ongoing research into the best way to do PBS on Ethereum. A lot of this research is being influenced by the mev boost ecosystem generally, because at the end of the day, when you really break it down, PBS is just taking the existing mev boost infrastructure, or essentially taking the activities that the existing mev boost infrastructure performs and enshrining it in the core protocol itself so that it becomes part of the core protocol. And it's not this sidecar software that gets added on. But as I said, there's a lot of research and development happening there, a lot of considerations of different trade offs and the best way to do it because of that. So expect that, you know, I don't think I probably, I wouldn't want money on next year for PBS, but, but probably 2025, right? I think that could be a, could be a good target there, but we'll have to, we'll have to see. And then bankless links, you know, for more on all the big upcoming upgrades, you can tap into. Bankless is a latest newsletter here, which is cut, which is titled where does Ethereum go next? So just a great little thread here highlighting where a theorem goes next.
00:07:57.574 - 00:08:17.926, Speaker A: And a great little image here as well. Like, I love this. It kind of reminds me of one piece where I don't know if anyone familiar with the one piece world. It's kind of like a straight line, maybe, maybe turned over here with the boat surrounding it. But now it's cool. It's in the, it's in the logo, the shape of an east logo, of course. But yeah, anyway, you can go check out the thread in the newsletter for yourself.
00:08:17.926 - 00:09:00.492, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so I put this tweet out today highlighting something that I thought was really interesting. And I got a bunch of interesting replies in in response here. So I tweeted out a screenshot of cryptofees dot in Fo, and I said arbitrum one and ethereum L2 network just did more daily fee revenue than bitcoin. Not to mention that Ethereum itself did more than 28 times the fair revenue of bitcoin in the same time period. Now, there's a few things I think I need to kind of clarify here, what this website shows, crypto fees. Dot in FO is the cumulative fees of everything that they track.
00:09:00.492 - 00:09:19.470, Speaker A: Now, they track more than just blockchains. They track more than just L2 networks. They track applications as well. As you can see here, Uniswap, GMX, Synthetix and sushi swap are all applications. They are not networks. Whereas Ethereum, arbitrage, one BNB smart chain, bitcoin and optimism, in my screenshot are networks. So they sell different products.
00:09:19.470 - 00:09:36.218, Speaker A: The networks, they sell block space, right? Whereas these apps, they're. The uniswap sells liquidity. Sushi swap sells liquidity. GMX sells liquidity for pert products. You know, they sell different products here. So it's not, it doesn't make any sense to compare those. And I actually should have hidden those from my screenshot.
00:09:36.218 - 00:10:07.578, Speaker A: That's the first point of clarification on there, along with, you know, this being cumulative fees are paid on the network each day with a seven day average as well. It is not individual fees. Right. It is not like, because people are paying really high individual fees. For example, you could have $10 million of daily fear revenue on a network, and each transaction could have cost $0.01. It just means you had a lot of transactions that added up to that $10 million. Now, obviously for ethereum, layer one, transaction costs, you know, are quite high pretty much all the time.
00:10:07.578 - 00:10:22.188, Speaker A: Now we're back at 50 quay, as like, as, like the norm. So that's why it is so high. But people are still paying them. Right? Right. Like, and this goes back to a lot of the things I've said about fees a lot. For a long time on the refuel, people are still paying them. The demand is there.
00:10:22.188 - 00:10:50.692, Speaker A: It doesn't matter what they're paying them for. They're willing to pay it. And most of that gets burned, which I'm actually going to talk about in a sec as well. Same is true for any of the other things that sell block space, such as L2s, like arbitram one, and such as bitcoin. Right. But a big thing here that I think a lot of people miss. And the reason why I compare this stuff to bitcoin is because bitcoin, for its long term security budget, relies on its fear revenue because the bitcoin supply trends to zero over time.
00:10:50.692 - 00:11:20.076, Speaker A: Right. Well, sorry, the bitcoin new supply is capped so that harvenings eventually will mean that the block reward trends to basically zero. Now people say, oh, we don't have to worry about that because that's not happening for like 100 years. It's like. Well, no, it, the thing is, is that each halvening that happens and each time it happens, and the fear of renew doesn't actually replace the reduction in block reward. It means bitcoin security goes down and it goes down. It doesn't go down by 50%.
00:11:20.076 - 00:11:51.320, Speaker A: Right. That's not really how it works, but it does go down. And there was an interesting little table that I saw today that I linked in the, in the daily way Discord channel, which I'm going to bring up as well. I should have brought it up before, but I want to show you guys this table of what this looks like in practice for, for bitcoin. You can see here that each time the hYa, there is an average market cap here there is an annual security spread spend and the percent of market cap that the annual security spend is. And you can see here it's been going down over time as a percentage of market cap. And each halvening, it goes down a lot.
00:11:51.320 - 00:12:36.614, Speaker A: So two to three halvenings from now, bitcoin, if its fair venue, doesn't get much better than what it is today and much better than what it has historically been, bitcoin security is going to be severely, sorry, bitcoin as a network is going to be, its security budget is going to be severely impacted by that. And it's going, and this overall security is going to be severely diminished to the point where it might even be more profitable to attack the bitcoin network than it would be to mine it, just depending on a few various factors there. And this is not something new. This is something that's been talked about for a long time. I've spoken about it for a long time as well. But that's the reason why I do the bitcoin comparison here. And what's even funnier about this is that Ethereum as a network does not rely on fear revenue for its security budget.
00:12:36.614 - 00:13:05.554, Speaker A: What it relies on is its perpetual issuances. So stakers are paid regardless of fair revenue. They're paid via consensus layer rewards. And that's perpetual. There's no cap on, on the, the ETH supply, but the, the beautiful thing is that the ETH supply since the merge has, has been reducing, and I'm going to talk about this more in a seC, but it has been reducing. So we basically, we basically have got a cap supply. The Ethereum supply on a net basis has, has peaked, at least so far.
00:13:05.554 - 00:13:32.278, Speaker A: Obviously, if network demand goes down a lot, then we could go back, you know, we could issue enough ETH to offset that. But as it stands right now, since, as it stands since the merge, we supply peaked, I believe in October. So about a month after the merge, and then we've been down only in supply since then. So it's not a short term thing. This has been a few months now. And as I said, ethereum does not rely on fair revenue for its security budget. It still pays out the perpetual issuance.
00:13:32.278 - 00:14:24.290, Speaker A: It's just that we offset that issuance with the fear revenue, which is the proper way to do it because we burn most of the, most of that fee revenue. And then on top of that, the fact that a L2 network, just one L2 network is doing more fear revenue than bitcoin should really speak to. The fact that whether it be Ethereum layer one or L2 networks, they have so much, way, way more demand than bitcoin layer one does. So anyone who says, oh, you know, Bitcoin's layer one demand is going to go up over time, fear and is going to go up over time, that's, that's not what, what's going to happen at all. Bitcoin as a network can really only do one thing that people are interested in, and that's sending bitcoin across the network or sending BTC across the network. I know that, you know, with the, with the advent of taproot, there is these kind of like ordinals and things like that, but they're very limited and they're an inferior product to NFTs on Ethereum in my view. And I don't believe that they're going to have lasting demand.
00:14:24.290 - 00:14:59.240, Speaker A: And if you look at the statistics around and the metrics around it, it doesn't seem to have lasting demand at all. And maybe, maybe other things can be built on with taproot, but still it's going to be very limited compared to something like Ethereum. So that's why I compare this stuff to bitcoin here. And then of course I got all the normal snarky replies about Ethereum fees being high, blah, blah, blah, whatever, right at the end of the day, ethereum layer one fees are never going to be cheap enough for everyday users. That's not what is being designed here. The L2s and then the layer threes built on top of those L2s are going to be the user facing layers. And that's how Ethereum is scaling.
00:14:59.240 - 00:15:49.746, Speaker A: And obviously the L2s have an incredible amount of demand because you can see that not only did arbitrum one do $700,000 of fear revenue over the last day. Optimism did $350,000 of fear revenue over the last day as well. And then the other L2 networks are obviously going to catch up over time as they become more successful as well. So the demand for Ethereum block space, whether it be on layer one or L2, is insane, right? It's insane. And it's just crazy how it all plays off of each other as well, because the more activity on L2s, the more activity on layer one, because the L2s pay layer one for to settle their call data on and the future their blobs on, and sort of the transaction proofs. Users will bridge, you know, from it, from layer one to L2, back and forth and stuff like that. So it all influences each other, and it's all running as kind of like a well oiled machine here.
00:15:49.746 - 00:16:16.834, Speaker A: So that's why I put that out there. But just a great achievement of, for the arbitram one network here, and kudos to them on that. Now, I've spoken a lot about the burn just then and about fear revenue. Well, as of today, since the merge, the ETH supply has reduced by 100,000 ETH. This is crazy, guys. Like, I think I need to underscore just how crazy this is. As I said back in October, I think the exact date is October 13, is when the eat supply.
00:16:16.834 - 00:16:43.644, Speaker A: Supply basically was capped. So essentially we, I think it was back then on the ultrasound money website. But. But essentially what happened was that the, the supply reached its maximum amount, or it's like its top amount, I should say. And then it's been down only kind of since then because of the burn. And now since the merge, it's down 100,000 ETH, basically. So we are, we essentially put a cap on Ethereum without putting a cap on Ethereum.
00:16:43.644 - 00:17:37.959, Speaker A: Now, of course, it is a soft cap because we could issue more ETH to offset this burn and then come back into positive territory instead of, you know, inflationary territory instead of deflationary territory. But the thing is, is that it's really hard to out print the burn, right? So, because, for example, to out print the burn, you would have to not only print, you know, not only printing, I mean. So, okay, let me put it this way, too. The, the printing of new ETH, right. The creation of new ETH is, is kind of, it's not static, it's variable depending on the amount of ETH that's staked, but it doesn't vary that much, whereas gas fees can vary quite wildly, they can go from ten way right, a few weeks ago to 50, 60 way consistently now. And that's a huge variation there. But the new ETH being issued does not vary that much because the, the, the amount of ETH being staked with amount of validators online does not vary that much.
00:17:37.959 - 00:18:18.344, Speaker A: You know, and especially post withdrawals, we've seen, it's been a week, you know, a week since withdrawals have been live. We've seen that really, the only people that are withdrawing are the ones that have been forced to. And we really, and we've kind of seen that staking is going to be an up only endeavor as well. Now, what I, what I want to kind of underscore here is that the ultrasound barrier, I believe, is at like 17 Gwe or something like that. So the thing is, is that we can be at net zero kind of issuance each day as long as the gas prices are above 17 gwei. Now, anything above that puts us in deflationary territory now, in order to issue another hunt. So 100,000 ETH.
00:18:18.344 - 00:19:12.776, Speaker A: So to net issue 100,000 ETH, it would take probably months at this point. It would take gas fees being lower than the ultrasound barrier to do that. And then when you do the math on that, even if it's only low, if it's only lower, by like one way, it would take a long time to out print the burn because we're always burning ETH. It doesn't even matter if way is one, as long as there's some amount of fear of when you're happening on the ethereum network, we are always burning ETH, and the ethereum network shows no signs of slowing down in terms of the fear of a new that it generates. So when looking at it like that, there's no reason to believe in the foreseeable future that we're actually going to go back into inflationary territory. It's, you know, it might be dangerous to say this, but I think it's a pretty educated, educated guess or educated assumption here that the eat supply is actually peaked and we're actually going to be down only from here on out because it is still a bear market. Right.
00:19:12.776 - 00:20:11.780, Speaker A: And the amount of demand that we're seeing is crazy. And as I said, even if we're only just above the ultrasound barrier at 17 GwEi or whatever it is right now, we are still offsetting the issuance, and it wouldn't actually change this. Let's just say for argument's sake that we negative 100,000 ETH, right now, and let's just say we go to the exact ultrasound barrier and let's say it's 17 gwei. Just, just for argument's sake, and we stay there for like a month, the net supply change would still be 100,000 ETH because we haven't out printed anything, right? Because we're at 17 GwEi, we're basically at net zero issuance being added. So the supply chain would just be at 100,000 ETH. Now, obviously it doesn't work like that, but just to give you context around how this stuff works, now, of course you guys can do the math yourselves if you want and work out all this stuff. I've actually said to the ultrasound money guys, the people who run the ultrasound money website, that I think they should have a calculator on their website to show how long it will take to actually out print the burn.
00:20:11.780 - 00:21:00.412, Speaker A: And you could adjust a few parameters on there, but all in all, it's stupidly bullish, guys. Like this is just so bullish. It just shows that the Ethereum, I guess, like monetary engine or the Ethereum economic engine at the core protocol is working as designed, and it is working so beautifully and it is working beyond my expectations. To be honest, I did not expect to be back at 50 plus way consistently in a bear market. But hey, we are because there's just so much demand to use Ethereum block space. And what's hilarious is that even though there are all these other alt l one networks out there that are cheaper, obviously, because they're more centralized, but you know, they're cheaper to use and you know, the fees are actually probably like a cent or less or something like that. People still use a theorem, they still use the l two s because that is where the activity is.
00:21:00.412 - 00:21:23.124, Speaker A: That is where the ecosystem is, that is where everything is happening. That is where everyone wants to be. There's what people are, what people are used to. That's what's probably the easiest to use in a lot of cases as well. So that is even more bullish because it shows that really all the demand is in the ethereum ecosystem, and that's going to continue playing out over time as well. So, yeah, just, just wanted to highlight that. A little bit of a bullish rant there for you.
00:21:23.124 - 00:22:24.610, Speaker A: Anyway, moving on. So another really bullish thing that happened, actually, was that a 16 Z introduced something called Maggie, which is a brand new op stack roll up client written in rust. So basically the op stack now has client diversity. So there is going to be the client that has been built by the optimism team and now the client that has been, that has been built by the a 16 Z engineering team and they've been working on this to help improve the client diversity and resiliency of the entire op stack ecosystem. Now the awesome thing about this is that this new client doesn't just apply to the optimism network, but because it's built as a roll up client for the op stack, it applies to any projects that are using the op stack. So for example, base, if they build their own client using, you know, their own, their own client for their own, their own base roll up, right, they can immediately plug in Maggie and use that as well. So the fact that it's built on the ip stack is really, really awesome for all of, all the other roll ups that are going to be building on there, because they get client diversity out of the box.
00:22:24.610 - 00:22:49.458, Speaker A: Now, course this is all available on GitHub here, all the code and everything for you to take a look at. Not sure what the license is right now. It's AGPL V three, so I don't think that's a fully open source license just yet. But it's still early days for this. But yeah, that's all available on GitHub. There's also a blog post about this as well as a tweet thread here that I'll link in the YouTube description below. But I think this is absolutely awesome.
00:22:49.458 - 00:23:19.530, Speaker A: I really love client diversity generally. Obviously at Ethereum layer one, it's incredibly important, but the fact that it's already coming to these L2s is really great for the ecosystem. It adds resiliency and add security. It adds decentralization as well. Because a 16 Z crypto, even though they're heavily invested in optimism, they'll, I believe they're one of the first investors in optimism. They have a pretty big bag there. I don't think that really matters that much because it's still decentralizing out the development here.
00:23:19.530 - 00:23:57.734, Speaker A: Because a 16 Z crypto does not own the optimism, the op labs team, right, and vice versa. They are independent kind of companies. They're independent entities building out these things. So we now have two clients for the op stack, which is awesome to see. I think we're going to have two clients for arbitrum, the arbitram stack as well, because there is the one that was built by the off chain labs team. And you remember that off chain labs, they acquired Prism or pry labs, I should say, which are the builders of the prism ethereum consensus consensus layer client. So I would assume they're going to be building a client for the arbitrary ecosystem as well.
00:23:57.734 - 00:24:33.982, Speaker A: So we're going to have client diversity across all the most successful l two s, I believe, and it's just great to see that it's already coming to the table. I mean, I didn't expect something like this till maybe next year, but the fact that we're getting this in 2023 is very positive. But you can learn all about Maggie. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Brantley has announced something, or at least kind of put a tweet out about something called the ethereum follow protocol. And he's put a thesis here saying ethereum needs a native protocol for following other ethereum accounts. This is a high level proposal meant for soliciting feedback and sentiment.
00:24:33.982 - 00:24:53.172, Speaker A: So this is a pretty long tweet. It's not. It's not your normal tweet. It could always be a blog post, right? But I thought this was just a really cool idea that I think is worth paying attention to. You can see what this looks like, you know, the Ethereum follow protocol, follow me following unfollow. It's basically a proposal inspect for what this might look like. So just wanted to highlight this, share it with you guys.
00:24:53.172 - 00:25:19.154, Speaker A: You can go check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. But great to see more of these kind of, I guess, non financial, non speculative things being proposed and being talked about. Because at the end of the day, there's a lot of stuff that we can build with crypto that's not necessarily speculative or financial. And we have more and more tools coming online to build them with. So, yeah, just something interesting for you guys to check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:25:19.154 - 00:25:49.546, Speaker A: All right. Off chain Labs has a new blog post out, breaking down validator performance tracking on the arbitrum one network. So Potez here breaks down the components of a validated reward and provides guidance on diagnosing and resolving issues that can cause stakers to miss out. Now, I don't know if this is valid. Sorry, I'm not sure if this is validators for the arbitrary one network or for the, the Ethereum network. I think it's for the Ethereum layer one network, not for the arbitrary one network. Excuse me, there.
00:25:49.546 - 00:26:11.856, Speaker A: Yeah, I could see it here. I hadn't read the blog post yet. I just saw the tweet and I thought it was, thought it was interesting. So you can see here the, the breakdown of the performances has been posted on the off chain labs medium page here. And Potaz, I believe is it works on the the prism clients. So yeah, that's why it was posted here on the off chain Labs blog thing. But it is quite a long read.
00:26:11.856 - 00:26:46.824, Speaker A: It can get quite technical. I think it's 22 minutes read medium says here. But it's a great little process to see what the validator performance looks like across clients and on the Ethereum beacon chain. So definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so walkie from Gitcoin, well, not technically from Gitcoin anymore, but he definitely was the one of the original founders of Gitcoin has shared an impact report that Gitcoin put out. So he says here, six years after its founding and two years after the launch of the Dow git coins, top line impact is 3.8
00:26:46.824 - 00:27:05.294, Speaker A: million donations worth $50 million. And then he tweets out a summary of the overall impact report here. You guys know I love Gitcoin. I participated in pretty much every Gitcoin grants round. I believe I've been promoting them for quite a while. I've been a beneficiary of it. Um, but Gitcoin goes, you know, way beyond grants.
00:27:05.294 - 00:27:36.654, Speaker A: They're all about public goods funding. They're all about refi or regenerative finance. They're all about turning degens into regens. Right, degenerates into regenerates. And walkie's been at the forefront of that for as long as I can remember. Now working at supermodular, which is, I believe investing in teams and projects, building around this idea of a regenerative finance or um, or regens and refine, things like that. But yeah, you can go check out a walkie's thread here because it highlights the, I guess most important aspects of the report.
00:27:36.654 - 00:28:09.692, Speaker A: And the full report is available at impact Dot Gitcoin Dot Co. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. All right, so Lucas from Maple Finance has put out a tweet saying the Maple finance Treasuries pool is now live. Super exciting day for us here. Big hat tip to the team for getting this shipped. So you can see here in this tweet, the cash management pool, as they're calling it, has been specifically designed as an on chain cash management solution. The pool meets the liquidity, risk and accounting requirements of non us dows, offshore companies and web3 treasury.
00:28:09.692 - 00:28:41.834, Speaker A: So basically a management for all things. All things, sorry, basically a tool for all things cash management here. There's a thread on how this works and all the features that they've got here. Features such as simple and fast access for non us accredited investors and entities. The pool will pass the one month Treasury US treasury bill rates, less fees to lenders, interest accrues immediately and next day withdrawals are facilitated. Ability to monitor and measure performance. Twenty four seven and all the other good stuff that we're used to within defi and the on chain finance ecosystem.
00:28:41.834 - 00:29:23.716, Speaker A: So I'll link this maple finance tweet in the YouTube description below for you to check out and to read all about this new product that just went, or just was introduced, I should say. All right, last up is a bit more drama from the SEC here. So, first off, Coinbase actually announced that they have gotten a Bermuda license and plan to launch an offshore exchange, an offshore derivatives exchange in the coming weeks. Now, I quote, tweeted this and said, Congrats, Gensler. You pushed Coinbase offshore and that's exactly what's happened here. I bet that Coinbase would have loved to launch this exchange in the US and be, you know, as compliant as they have to be. Service US customers, be protected by the US regulatory apparatus.
00:29:23.716 - 00:29:59.496, Speaker A: But unfortunately, that doesn't really exist for crypto, the US regulatory apparatus, the US regulatory environment is incredibly hostile towards crypto, as we all know. So Coinbase has basically said, well, we're not going to stick around and let our offshore competitors eat our lunch. We're just going to move offshore as well and take our business with them. This is an incredible loss for the US, all thanks to regulators like Gary Gensler, who just do not want to provide any clarity in crypto. It's thanks to the politicians that support Gary Gensler and his ilk. It's, it's, it's just really, really terrible to see this. It's, it's really disappointing to see this.
00:29:59.496 - 00:30:49.146, Speaker A: But it's also good from a decentralization perspective because it means crypto is actually being forced to decentralize away from the US. So that's, that's a, that's the only kind of silver lining I can see here, really. But obviously, on the other side of things, it's really bad for the US because they're losing out on a lot of economic activity and a lot of future economic activity. It's crappy for the US based projects have to jump through all these hoops to do stuff offshore. It's really shitty for the US based startups because they may be wondering to themselves, well, you know what? I'm not going to build my crypto project while being based in the US, or I'm not going to register in the US, I'm going to go offshore somewhere else where it's much friendlier and do it there. So the great crypto, you know, I guess like mind share bleed from the US is happening and at a really, really fast pace. I don't see anything to be positive about on the regulatory front in the US.
00:30:49.146 - 00:31:48.510, Speaker A: I don't really see any guidance coming unless the Gary Gensler is removed and replaced with someone that's a lot more progressive on the Sec side of things and is a lot more friendly to crypto. And as I said yesterday, I don't expect that to happen anytime soon. And if it does happen, it'll probably have to wait until the election next year and it relies on the Republicans winning because they would obviously immediately remove Gensler and replace him with someone that they want there. But I mean, that's still 18 months away if it even happens, right? So in the meantime, the US is going to keep bleeding crypto talent to other entities, and all these other entities are embracing them. I mean, even Hong Kong in China is being more progressive on crypto than the US is, which is just insane when you think about it, right? It just boggles my mind that the US wants to drag their feet on this and wants to be left in the dust on this next generation of the Internet, next generation of finance. But I guess their loss, the rest of the world's gain. But on that note, I'm going to end it there for today.
00:31:48.510 - 00:31:56.654, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join this channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
