00:00:01.280 - 00:00:45.625, Speaker A: Yeah. Good afternoon everyone. So I am Samadri and I'm the, as Julia rightly said, I'm the program postdoctoral doctoral fellow at Fields for the Thematic Program on Mathematical Oncology under the supervision of Professor Shivlokanathan. But today I will be talking about a project which I did in my PhD back home at the Indian Institute of Science with Professor Mohit Kumar Jolly. And the experimental validation of the work was done at Duke University in the lab of Professor Jason Sommerelli. Yeah. So this would touch upon some of the hallmarks that Professor Thomas talked us in the first day itself, such as phenotypic heterogeneity.
00:00:45.625 - 00:01:24.435, Speaker A: I would also talk about metastasis, immun, drug resistance and also immunization. And I'll try to connect various hallmarks together to provide some sort of mechanistic understanding. A disclaimer. Sorry, before that. So my ex supervisor would often, often say that identity crisis has this identity. So in the past few days when I introduce myself and tell my background, I'm sort of stepping on the identity crisis platform where I don't belong exactly in one category, but I have experience in several bins. Yeah.
00:01:24.435 - 00:02:49.545, Speaker A: Cutaneous malignant melanoma that arises from fully differentiated pigment producing melanocytes is a deadly and highly aggressive form of skin cancer, quite infamous for its high metastatic potential melanoma samples. They show intra and intertumoral heterogeneity, which means they comprise of diverse phenotypic subpopulations differing in their functional profiles and molecular attributes. So they have differing proliferation rates, differing metastatic potential, different immune susceptibility, and all of these have their underlying genomic and non genomic basis. But for the, for the purpose of this study, we have specifically focused on the non genetic phenotypic aspect of melanoma heterogeneity that arises as a result of one phenotype transitioning into the other, in this case proliferative to invasive transition. So melanoma samples, they can reversibly switch from a proliferative cell type to an invasive cell type aiding in drug tolerance immunization in patients with progressive disease. However, recent character of melanoma cell lines and tumor samples at both single and bulk resolution showed us that, you know, the phenotypic heterogeneity in melanoma, it extends beyond just proliferative or just invasive and cells can dynamically acquire a spectrum of phenotypes along the proliferative invasive axis. Say we have, till now, we have four subtypes that are determined.
00:02:49.545 - 00:03:39.417, Speaker A: There's one paper which talks about Another, but not nothing much substantial after that paper. So I'll just focus on this fourth subtypes, melanocytic and intermediate, the proliferative category in neural crest and undifferentiated, which are broadly invasive. So the first problem statement from this was how do the synotypically plastic states arise in melanoma? Now to answer this, we took a bottom up approach where we modeled the gene regulatory network that comprises of transcription factors that are commonly implicated in this proliferative to invasive transition. And then we incorporated the literature derived regulatory links among them. For examp, MITF inhibits z1. So all the hammerheads are basically repression and all the arrows are activation. Sorry.
00:03:39.417 - 00:04:23.925, Speaker A: Yeah. So now to understand how this gene regulatory network behaves, how do genes interact and influence each other, which genes will be co expressed together, which will not, we used a simulation framework which is called a RCP as Harvey likes to call it, which is random circuit perturbation. It was developed in Herbert Levin's lab at Northeastern University. So what RECIP does is basically takes the topology of the gene regulatory network. What I mean by topology is the number of genes and the regulatory links among them. And then it models it as a set of chemical rate based nonlinear odes which have a production. Let's suppose A inhibits B, B inhibits A, which is a typical toggle switch.
00:04:23.925 - 00:05:06.619, Speaker A: So it is basically modeled as a production term. The inhibitions are modeled by Hill function. And then you have the degradation term and you write such equations for the ent, our gene regulatory network. You solve them and then you end up with steady state expression patterns. So once you open the ensemble of steady state expression patterns, it is basically a possible phenotypic space, all the phenotypes that can be enabled by this gene regulatory network. Now I can represent all of my study states, or as I like to call it, each row can be construed as a virtual cell. So in a heat map you can see that some of the genes are expressed together, some are not.
00:05:06.619 - 00:05:51.899, Speaker A: Like if you do a hierarchical clustering on the heat map you can see that MITF and SOX10 are CO expressed together and SOX9, June and ZEB1 are CO expressed together. So each row is basically one steady state expression pattern. So you have different initial conditions, different parameter regimes, and these are like all 10,000 solutions and sorry, solutions of what? So each solution is basically the level of each transcription factors. So here you can see that. Sorry. If you concentrate on the first row, the MIT expression is high, the soxton expression is high, but the other Three are low expressions. So.
00:05:51.899 - 00:06:02.365, Speaker A: Sorry for the question. Yes, we can actually ask questions. Yes, sure. Well, you have a five dimensional system. Yes. It cannot have 10,000 steady states. So you.
00:06:02.365 - 00:06:44.055, Speaker A: So you initialize in different. You will have initial conditions like you start with a particular level of each gene and then you look at. And then you have those hill coefficients and you know, fail change. You have different parameter regimes that you sample from and then you end up in. So qualitatively we can see there are four states. For example, in this set of solutions, you see that MITF and soxten are always high, whereas the other three are low. For example, this sort of solutions or ensemble of solutions, you see that MIT and soxten are low.
00:06:44.055 - 00:07:33.023, Speaker A: However, the other three are high. In order to better classify these solutions, as I would like to call it, virtual cells into phenotypes, I devise two scores which are basically proliferative score, which is the renormalized steady state expression of these two transcription factors or proliferative master regulators, and invasive score, which is basically the summation of xenormalized steady state expression of the other three genes. When you project all of your virtual cells in this proliferative invasive plane and you can see that sort of call it before number negative 16, for example. Sorry, I want to understand the units. So units are. Because it has been renormalized. So minus six means it's very low on the invasive score.
00:07:33.023 - 00:08:02.315, Speaker A: So if you have like a cell here it is, it's a. No, no phenotype, it's low proliferative, it's low invasive. So basically if you look at cluster cells here, they are high, they have high proliferative score, but they have low invasive score. So it is scale. Yeah, the, the scales like all the, the expressions we have taken and then you have just normalized it. So normalize renormalization across all the cells. What does that mean? Sorry.
00:08:02.315 - 00:08:37.721, Speaker A: So, so you take the concentrate, like whatever concentration of genes you get at the end, like the steady state solutions, you just normalize the expression across the. So you have 10,000 cells. You just look at all the 10,000 cell expression and you just standardize it. Or not. Sorry, follow up on that. So from understanding, if you are 0, 0, you're basically average, like sort of, you know, both invasive and both proliferative. So you would get essentially your intermediate phenotypes there.
00:08:37.721 - 00:09:12.245, Speaker A: So your request. And intermediate. So these are your intermediate phenotypes. Yeah. So right now at this point from our gene regulatory network, we are sort of able to reduce the four phenotypes but does it actually correspond to what we see in data? So every time we model something, we validate with data for that. We do transcriptomics analysis at both single and bulk resolution. So this is basically melanoma cell lines which have been derived from patient melanoma patient cell cultures.
00:09:12.245 - 00:09:30.933, Speaker A: And if you look at, in all of these cel. If you, if you look at the gene expression. So these are like real cells. This is computation. These are virtual sets. But right now I'm talking about real sets. So if you, if you look at the gene expression of all of these five transcription factors, you see that there's bimodality.
00:09:30.933 - 00:10:12.379, Speaker A: So you can basically binarize their expression as one or zero because you see this, if you just plot their expression, you see bimodality. So what I did was I binarized each of these expression of genes in the cell lines. If you look at the red cell line in the cell line, you would find that MITF levels were higher, SOX10 level was higher and the other three gene level was lower. That is what we see in our simulation. Also, it's a classical proliferative phenotype. However, if you look at the MM099 cell line, this has the. You.
00:10:12.379 - 00:10:56.191, Speaker A: You would find that the proliferative master regulators are low and the invasive master regulators are high. So these are, this is classically invasive phenotype which you also see in the model. So there's this antagonism between the proliferative and invasive axis which we were able to see in our model and were able to validate in single cell resolution as well. I can talk more about it, but because I have to cover a lot of things, maybe I'll just skip to the next part. Yeah. So even before going to single cell resolution, we look at bulk data. So CCLE is basically all the cancer cell line and TCGA is basically all patient tumors.
00:10:56.191 - 00:12:01.667, Speaker A: And you would still see that even if you define the proliferative score with just two genes or invasive score with just taking three genes into consideration, you can see that there is this good antagonism that you see. But we are not the first groups who are to, you know, define these phenotypes. Along that there are two seminar papers which is by VAR and Hoik and they. The way you define phenotypes in bioinformatics is you look at the differential expression of genes and then you define a gene signature and then you look at the scoring of that gene signature. So initially and HOY both have defined their gene signatures which are like 600 plus genes. So if these genes are sort of upregulated or you would say you get a higher scoring, then that is like if the proliferative signature is higher, you would anticipate that, okay, that's a proliferative phenotype. But if you actually want to test in lab, then no lab will allow you to test 600 genes.
00:12:01.667 - 00:13:07.275, Speaker A: So what is really nice about this exploration is if you, if you correlate our proliferative score, which is just two genes, with the proliferative score which has like 600 plus genes, you actually get a good correlation. And that is both in cell line as well as tumor samples. So the five genes that we have a very minimal gene regulatory network that was sufficient to capture the major patterns of proliferative invasive nature that you see in melanoma samples at cell line and patient tumor levels. So now that we were roughly able to model the different phenotypes, we wanted to understand what happens if you put up this gen gene regulatory network. The way it is done in clinics is, you know, they can down regulate some gene, they can put a SHR and sirna and they can, you know, inhibit that gene or they can upregulate and overexpress certain gene. So we try to do that in simulations. The way we do that is we basically change the fold, change in the regulatory hills regulatory term.
00:13:07.275 - 00:13:58.155, Speaker A: So in the first case what we did is we downed down express soxton and we then compared it with your, with our wild type network. So the moment you down express oxen, you are seeing that the proliferative population decreases, the invasive population increases, the neural crest decrease, intermediate population, they increase. And do we actually see that in data? So we also analyzed a transcriptomics profile where they have done Sox 10 down regulation and we see that the similar trends are being shown. Next we did is we overexpressed Sox 9 and we saw a reversal. Sorry, we saw a reversal where you see invasive population going up. And we also see that in data. Now we wanted to see whether transition is happening or not.
00:13:58.155 - 00:14:44.773, Speaker A: For that we need to study a time course data for which we studied in this case where they have knocked down SOX and they have collected data at 24 hours interval. So you have a control data. So the wild type cells which did not have SOX and knockdown, they are much more proliferative to begin with. As you take the reading after Sox 10 knockdown, they are progressively transitioning to a transcriptional state that is more invasive. That basically shows that the switching can also happen. Now that we have looked into One of the hallmarks, which is phenotypic heterogeneity. We thought of connecting phenotypic heterogeneity with the immune suppressive capabilities because that's also one of the hall marks.
00:14:44.773 - 00:15:48.445, Speaker A: And we're trying to understand that. So all of these phenotypes have been known in literature to have different levels of immune suppressive capabilities. And we wanted a mechanistic or mechanistic understanding for it, for which we looked at PDL1, because PDL1, a program that they ligand1, is basically an immunosuppressor protein which is present on the surface of your cancer cells. Now, PD1 is another receptor, which is a receptor protein which is present on the surface of T cells. The moment PD L1 increase interacts with PD1, it leads to T cell exhaustion. So you have all these immunotherapies, such as Anti PD L1 or Anti PD1 which goes and binds to one of the receptors, so that the interaction between PD L1 and PD1 is sort of stopped. So for that, we integrated PD L1 and interferon gamma into our, into our gene regulatory network, because we know that interferon gamma sort of, you know, trans regulate transcriptionally activates PDL1 and VICE Vers.
00:15:48.445 - 00:16:22.157, Speaker A: And then we again simulated this gene regulatory network using the previous framework. And what we were able to see is in the proliferative phenotype, PDL1 levels are lower. However, in the neural crest and invasive phenotype, the PDL1 levels were higher than the proliferator. It was sort of mid to high range of PDL1. And that is something we also see in beta. So we see that as the, as the cells become more invasive, their PDL1 levels sort of increase. And there's also variability in that.
00:16:22.157 - 00:17:10.705, Speaker A: So more invasive, sort of more PDL1. Next we wanted to see if our model could capture the positive association between interferon gamma and PDL1. And we see that in basically the neural crest and undifferentiated or invasive cells, you have higher levels of interferon gamma. So more invasive, more PDL1 as well as more interferon gamma, more PDL1. Now we have two. Now we wanted to segregate these two axis and we sort of devised two situations, one where you have a low interferon gamma regime and one where you have a high interferon gamma regime. Now, in the low interferon gamma regime, we look at cases.
00:17:10.705 - 00:18:02.937, Speaker A: I still have time, right? Like five minutes. Okay. In the low interferon gamma regime, you look at the PDL1 levels in. In all of four phenotypes you see that in your proliferative and intermediate PDL1 level is lower, but in your neural crest and invasive, your PDL1 is like mid to high. But the moment you switch on to a high interferon damage, even your basal PDL1 level increases, even in proliferative and intermediate, but the increase being higher in more invasive sort of phenotypes. So you have two axis, one is your interferon gamma axis and more one more one is your phenotypic heterogeneity axis which basically controls PDL1. And we found that there's a combinatorial sort of control where if you look at this is basically patient data and if you look at the blue cluster which is.
00:18:02.937 - 00:19:12.795, Speaker A: I'm sorry, I'm rushing but I can always, you know, catch up after this. If you want to understand more. If you look at the blue cluster which is hi high phenotype, it is more invasive and it has high interferon gamma that basically has the highest level of PDL1. And if you look at the pink cluster, which is a mono cluster which has which is more proliferative and has less interferon gamma, that has the lowest amount of PDL1. That is what we derived from model and then we were able to experimentally validate it with the help of Jason, where we treated it, where we treated each of the cells with TGF beta and tnf alpha to induce this phenotypic transition and interferon gamma as an independent modul of PDL1. And you see, wherever there is this combinatorial treatment of TGF beta tnf alpha, which pushes the cells to a more invasive phenotype and interferon gamma, the PDL1 levels basically upshoots up and you we can see a synergistic control. Maybe I will skip this part of cell resistance because I don't have time, but happy to chat about it.
