00:00:03.280 - 00:00:57.825, Speaker A: Good morning, everyone. Thank you for being here. I'm Iman Motamedy, head of the Solana Incubator within Solana Labs. You might be asking yourself, what is the Solana Incubator? What does it mean to grow your company alongside Solana Labs? For those of you who are familiar, you might already know this. Solana Labs built a lot of the core products and protocols of the Solana blockchain years ago, including the original Validator client. But as the ecosystem has grown, we asked ourselves, how do we really scale the knowledge, the resources we've built up, across all these amazing developers in the ecosystem? And one of the answers to that question was the Solana Incubator program. Basically taking this expertise, taking the talent, taking the wisdom we've gained from fighting a lot of these battles and applying them to an extremely small number of teams, four to six teams each cohort, to try to help them build the next jupyter on the network and become the future of Web3 on Solana.
00:00:57.825 - 00:01:26.001, Speaker A: Speaking of blue chip companies, you guys might be familiar with Sanctum. They were one of the successes of our first cohort. This is them presenting to a group in New York City. And we're excited to announce applications are now open for our second cohort, which will take place from January to April of next year in New York. So in terms of this program in person is at the core of everything we do. And some of the highlights from Cohort 1, you'll see the impact in person here. So you might be familiar with some of these names.
00:01:26.001 - 00:02:18.395, Speaker A: Sanctum, I mentioned Chaga, Espresso, Cash, Memeroyale. And a big part of what we saw in the program, the first cohort, was the impact of actually being right next to building alongside of some of the best founders in the ecosystem, learning from them, growing from them. In the same way we have the founders of some of the most accomplished companies in the ecosystem in the office as well. So the founders of Drift, Tiplink, dialect, and it means so much when you can just go up to them, tap them on the shoulder, ask them a question or discuss a potential collaboration, and then on top of that, bringing in some of the best minds into the office as well. So folks from a 16Z paradigm variant, et cetera, bringing them in for office hours to get to collaborate with you one on one and build out the future of your company. But at its core, the most important thing in this program is the tailored support from Solana Lab. So wanted to walk through that a little bit more.
00:02:18.395 - 00:03:06.399, Speaker A: This is one to one Support around whatever the needs are that your company is facing. So one is hands on development. We keep the cohort really small for this reason, so that if you're struggling with the Web3 integration, we can actually jump in and help you. Or if you're building a user experience flow, our designers can jump into your figma and leave some feedback on the fundraising side, getting you access to the capital you need, whether that's through support from Solana Ventures, Solana foundation grants program, other VCs in the ecosystem, or a market maker. If that's the liquidity you require, strategic collaboration. So whether it's someone inside the solana ecosystem, a Web2 partner, a potential enterprise customer, we're there to kind of open the doors for you to build the relationships that will be helpful to succeed. And then most important to me is this aligning product market fit.
00:03:06.399 - 00:03:59.327, Speaker A: So often in web3 we have our builder hat on, but we kind of forget about the distribution hat how do we actually get users for our product? And so working with all of you to identify the target customer who has the pressing need for the product you're building and how do we actually iterate the product to meet that need so we can get you the traction and eventually find that product market fit. On top of all of that though, we have the traditional YC elements as well. I think we had something like 70 different meetings and events with each specific company last cohort. So business reviews, speaker series, office hours and workshops, mentorship, cohort huddles and obviously socials with the cohort as well. And then this is the ad hoc point I mentioned. So the way this typically works is on a Monday maybe we sit down and you guys tell me, hey, we're working through go to market strategy this week. We'll sit down, we'll meet on that, we'll get you in front of the head of marketing as well so you can get their feedback.
00:03:59.327 - 00:04:47.615, Speaker A: Maybe on Tuesday we're leaving comments on the strategy and by Wednesday actually meeting to figure out how can we execute and implement that strategy. Just some photos from Cohort 1. So we have Dan Albert there presenting the cohort. John Wong, Nigel Eckle is The founder of FanDuel, speaking to the cohort at one of our dinners. And in terms of team and profile, we try to be pretty profile agnostic, meaning if you're already building on Solana, if you're a Web3 team on a different chain looking to come over on Solana, and If you're a Web2 team looking to incorporate Web3 for the first time we're here to support you. Importantly though also traction wise we're really agnostic as well. Meaning in Cohort 1 we had teams that were pre product, pre launch but also teams that had been operating for a number of years and we can help accelerate them to that next level.
00:04:47.615 - 00:05:22.155, Speaker A: And so this doesn't just have to be for new teams and in fact some of the teams that have been established have gotten some traction are the ones who saw the most benefit from the program. Our application deadline is October 4th, so I would encourage you to apply if this could be beneficial. I'm on Twitter monmotamdy, so if you have any questions feel free to reach out to me there. And then this QR code leads to our website solanaincubator.com so once again really appreciate you all taking the time and if this could be beneficial, if we could help Excel your company, then we're really looking forward to working with you to build the future of Web3 on Solana. Thank you very much.
