00:00:00.410 - 00:00:26.802, Speaker A: Hello. Well, hello, everyone. I hope you all are traders. Okay, better. Okay. So I really hope that all of you are traders, because my presentation isn't like a lot like fun, like shapeshift. But I will try to tell everyone on how the options and derivative space work in crypto.
00:00:26.802 - 00:00:48.762, Speaker A: Defi particularly, we see that Defi probably would take over the CFI markets. So that's what I'm here to talk about. Great. Okay, so this works. I work at Ledger prime. We're a quantitative hedge fund. We're owned by FTX us.
00:00:48.762 - 00:01:20.770, Speaker A: So FTX owns us and FTX derivatives. I also teach at NYU Tandon. I teach blockchain and DLT. Prior to joining Ledger Prime, I was at Republic, where I started Republic crypto. I'm a angel investor in over 30 projects at this point. But I've been in Ethereum since very early on. I was a very early employee at consensus, where I took singular DTV, which is now known as Breaker, through its iCo.
00:01:20.770 - 00:02:13.590, Speaker A: So I have seen the growth of Ethereum, like Vitalik and the team in front of my eyes, and I'm like, I couldn't be more proud of that, like how far this community has come. So, yes, like I said, we're a multistrat hedge fund deploying a quantitative and systematic investment approach. We currently have about 180,000,000 under management and have worked and invested in over 30 D five projects. The exact number is 55, but then 30 is the number where we're market making. We are providing liquidity. We've set up amm pools. We are the largest liquidity provider in several CFI options platforms like derabit bit, FTX derivatives, sister company paradigm, and CME.
00:02:13.590 - 00:03:27.582, Speaker A: But since 2020, since the rise of DFI, we've also made very active users and investors in projects like friction katana ribbon finance open. They were just here as well. Dopex and Stakedao. Now we provide consistent and predictable market liquidity, ensuring high liquid and market depth and transparent price discovery, which allows investor and participants to trade more efficiently. Most of our investors are institutional. That's why most of the capital that we've actually raised is in past year or so. And not a single day goes by where the institutional investor doesn't have questions on DFI, like why that particular market moves faster than CFI, given that in 2021, we kind of saw CFI grew by 6% six times in twelve months, while DFI was able to achieve the same relative growth in just six months.
00:03:27.582 - 00:04:24.246, Speaker A: Right? Like, if you'll compare Dy DX volumes to bit.com or CME, you would see that there's not a lot of stark difference there anymore. Derivative and obviously FTX US derivatives were the fastest growing platforms, both of which were leading markets for. But in 2022 we have started seeing, and then obviously they're given the other ecosystem growth. We see DFI options taking on larger volumes than DeFi. Obviously that includes volumes from Solana, Avalanche, Dot. But ETH still dominates the market platforms on Ethereum and then ETH and BTC options because they traded on CME, which you find a lot of institutional involvement.
00:04:24.246 - 00:05:27.430, Speaker A: On. One thing we've started seeing in 2022, which we've been thoroughly excited about, and half of our team is here for that, we've started seeing more structured products and exotic option trades in the OTC market, which have been in traditional finance for like years. And in 2022, I think for past three to four months or so, we've started seeing more of such products in DeFi. So that's also kind of a sign that the market has grown, it's matured. Or the traders or the founders that are active in the DeFi space have a better understanding of on how even traditional markets work. This is the current state of CFI option markets. Obviously the volumes have grown over the years, but this doesn't include the OTC or non BTC ETH markets.
00:05:27.430 - 00:06:11.762, Speaker A: We have to be very much aware of that. A lot of the options trading aside from ETH or BTC does happen in telegram chats, where it's actually very true. FTX is going to launch Solana options. There's still no market for avalanche options. Part of the reason is obviously volumes. And part of the reason is that how many traders are sophisticated enough to trade these markets? So that's the issue that you currently see with CFI. The growth attributed to influx is obviously sophisticated funds like on the CME level.
00:06:11.762 - 00:06:43.760, Speaker A: You see if in news or whatnot, you read Goldman Sachs entering crypto. It's not that they're entering crypto, like just to say hi and hello. They're probably just trading BTC or ETH on the CME level. And that's it. That's the only thing they would want to touch because it's fully collateralized. So that's where the institutional level involvement is in CFI. But obviously it hasn't grown like the defi market has.
00:06:43.760 - 00:07:51.070, Speaker A: We've been following the traditional markets as blueprint for our growth. We know very much right now that crypto is here to stay and its own asset class and another asset class is at scale, option trades 30 x at the size of spot markets. And we think crypto will be no different, right? Like the charts here present the speed of growth of derivatives for other asset classes, as well as size of derivative markets relative to spot. This is how currently the CFI option market structure look like. It's almost a replica of any CME order book that you'll see, or any traditional platform you'll see. There's a lot of order of magnitude more complex than spot, especially for market makers, because we have to consistently maintain two way of liquidity for all option contracts. When liquidity is dispersed.
00:07:51.070 - 00:08:52.120, Speaker A: It's also very computational intensive, given automated models. And we have to calculate prices for each option on a higher frequency basis and update risk and inventory parameter. Like I said, this is a snapshot out of paradigm where we're active traders on. But in good news, DeFi changes it, right? It has introduced the newer versions of AMM pools and whatnot. So the TvL currently right now is 1 billion, which was at the end of 2021. This does not include on how much capital came in in past two, three months or so. Obviously, a vast majority is attributed to on chain structured products.
00:08:52.120 - 00:10:12.270, Speaker A: DeFi projects realize that most users prefer simple automated strategies, because the investors are still retail at the end of the day. So the simplified a process is of using a yield strategy on like, let's say a ribbon or whatnot. The higher the TVL probably could be. One thing we've started seeing an exponential growth is on option walls, because they have the potential to provide a more sustainable return. Several wall strategies have a lower correlation with general crypto markets, and therefore provide users with a diversified source of return. Walls exist across all chains, but the promise that's coming out of walls right now, which we've seen out of these defi structured products, is obviously defi yields, right? We see that it's traditionally generated via lending and trading fees. We're providing liquidity first on the pool level, by offering such products that generate yields via traditional market strategies like cash carry and options writing.
00:10:12.270 - 00:11:05.710, Speaker A: Then retail investors could be anyone in this room. They deposit capital into this defi walls. Then these projects turn the capital locked into sell options to counterparties again, to like us in auction markets, to get the best price. The premium from this is then passed on to depositors, generally across all structured platforms that we've seen. It's just the AMM model, right? It's not as much of an order book because it is extremely computational heavy and hard to maintain. So again, that's the on chain mechanism that's been extremely promising. On the DeFi side, obviously there are hurdles.
00:11:05.710 - 00:12:12.280, Speaker A: We see a lot possible option contract makes it very computational expensive to build liquid market on chain expensive. From gas cost perspective, sometimes it's extremely hard to trade on a certain network. Ethereum has its gas issues, Solana has its TPS issues. So we still haven't found a very much level ground for that. Obviously, on chain portfolio margining and liquidation system is needed very much before DeFi could completely take over the CFI options. We need a lot many more strategies on chain strategies like Delta one, which in the form of spot perps in future. We have seen the projects that have launched perps first and then options later have been doing significantly well in the market.
00:12:12.280 - 00:13:14.080, Speaker A: And then obviously right, like impermanent loss has been a huge concern for anyone and everyone that's been trading. So the other thing is like portfolio margining, cross margin and liquidation engine enabling partial collateralization. Obviously this enables greater capital efficiency, ability to delta hedge. I think the market has gone a lot better in this, like Delta hedging, because there's many more players like us now than compared to early 2021. Like I mentioned, efficient protocols layer two. We're counting big time on Ethereum's layer two arbitram polygon. Whenever we've been trading on these, it's a lot more efficient, given in little time that they're built.
00:13:14.080 - 00:15:08.500, Speaker A: If AMm model, then the ability to deal with impermanent loss via thera decay as well as capital efficiency, that's the struggle with Amm modeling at this point. And then obviously right as the community grows, we need more and more derivative traders and market makers so we could enable accurate pricing and deep, consistent liquidity. These are some of our portfolio projects and some of our supported projects. When we're saying that we're supporting a project or we're working with a project, what we're doing is so all the things that I've described in my earlier slides, we're investors in them, but then we're also creating their Amm pools so the retail investors can trade on it. And then we're creating markets enough by providing different trading strategies on the other back end that generates yield ribbon finance, which is like Ethereum darling, open staked out. We were very much early on investors, contributors, stakers, and we've helped them grow their TVL, their trading strategies over the years. And we see, even though a lot of it has been on Ethereum, given that, how much liquidity is on Ethereum, we see projects literally replicating the same models on other chains, but then add the TPS issue, add the volumes issue.
00:15:08.500 - 00:16:12.150, Speaker A: So that's why we think that Ethereum currently even leads the entire DeFi movement, because we've seen on the volume side two of our projects open. The team was just here, everyone has an idea. So they're the largest DFI options protocol at this point. And what their v two version has done is partial collateralization of options, enabling a more capital efficient environment for option sellers, which is extremely important for market makers. So in traditional CFI markets, right, you have to lock up either full collateral or certain amount of collateral in order to trade. Most of the DeFi platforms do the same exact thing, but open is one of the first that have started to do partial. That kind of helps the traders not to lock up that capital into marking these positions.
00:16:12.150 - 00:18:15.118, Speaker A: So we're kind of like very bullish on openv two at this point. Obviously, their robust liquidation engine designed enabler, user and market makers to provide increased liquidity. Opens back end is used on a lot of other Ethereum's projects as well. Given on how liquid it has become over the years, then obviously ribbon finance, we were one of the initial and largest liquidity provider for their structured products. And what ribbon basically does is it generates yields for their structured product like vault via on chain options contracts like using open protocol, which I just mentioned that some projects use in wrapped ETH or BTC, and then ribbon's initial contract design. The fact that market makers are initially buying and not selling options, and thus capital efficiency for market makers less of a concern, as well as a concentration of strike liquidity makes it easy for shops like us to consistently provide liquidity in the size aiken to c five markets that eyes on delegates, which means professional market makers that can provide more capital within their ecosystem to help price and stabilize their options. One thing you'll know is that even though it's an Amm pool, most of the pricing is very much similar to CFI like especially in Dopex's case, you'll see extreme similar pricing on paradigm or in Dopex like on certain given days, like random days.
00:18:15.118 - 00:18:50.580, Speaker A: These guys are planning on launching on optimism made net, I think to minimize fees and transaction time and then obviously rebates for option writers are in case of loss through their tokens. This kind of ensures that superior returns in comparison to naked options. So there's like the safety net for any one of us that's looking to grow. Liquidity is provided there, and I think that's all I have to talk about options, so I'll open it up for questions.
