00:00:00.160 - 00:00:24.702, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Data Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony so Sino. And as the 5 January 2023. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So a bit of movement here on the Celsius bankruptcy today. So Kadhim here, a reporter at the Financial Times put out a tweet saying significant moment in the Celsius bankruptcy, as Judge Martin Glenn rules that $4.2 billion of crypto deposited by customers to earn interest belong.
00:00:24.702 - 00:00:58.150, Speaker A: Interest belongs to the estate, not the users. And this was not a surprising ruling. But it does reiterate the fact that these bankruptcies, bankruptcy processes, not fun at all for anyone. They are going to take a long time, as I've said before, but they also result in rulings like this where essentially, you really don't know what money you're going to get back. So because, from my understanding, because the assets belong to the estate, so to the Celsius. To Celsius, then it's up to Celsius. Once they obviously are able to account for all the assets that they have to distribute that to users.
00:00:58.150 - 00:01:40.338, Speaker A: But in Celsius terms of use, that every user agreed to, all of the assets that were deposited into earn accounts, the assets became Celsius's property, which is insane, but that's how it worked. And if, obviously, a lot of people don't read the terms of service, in terms of use of things that they sign up to, I'm definitely guilty of that. But I think you probably should when putting your money into things. And this is why, I mean, this is just one reason why I've said countless times and why it's such a big mantra in crypto. Not your keys, not your coins. Yes, I understand people want to use these services to custody their assets. And I understand that even hardware wallets are still too complicated for the average kind of investor to use to custody their crypto assets.
00:01:40.338 - 00:02:09.890, Speaker A: But the problem is, is that these centralized exchanges and centralized crypto services, they may look like a bank, they may be regulated like a bank, but they're not a bank. Right. And banks, I mean, aren't innocent either. There's a lot of stuff that banks do that obviously they've been caught for in the past. It obviously hasn't been great. There's been a lot of instances of bank runs in the past, but they're not banks. They're like, as I said, they're regulated like banks, but they're so far removed from that.
00:02:09.890 - 00:03:18.244, Speaker A: And the thing is, is that the reason why so many people use banks in the real world, I mean, even today, where there's not really any reason to keep money on there. Sorry, really, anyone who gets paid in cash or anything like that, most of the transactions are digital. The reason why we have banks is because they give us access to that digital economy, right? Except with crypto, we have a parallel financial system, a parallel digital economy where you don't have to at all give your assets over to these centralized entities, right? Even if they're offering some sort of yield, especially if they're offering some sort of outsized yield, because as we know, if you don't know where the yield is coming from, you are the yield. And look, I take issue with that saying sometimes because it's not always true, like strictly true, but it is for a lot of these centralized services where essentially they'll offer you a yield on your assets, but that's only because they take them and give them to someone else, lend them out to someone else. And usually that party is not, is not probably regulated by the, the same people that or the same entities that the centralized service or centralized exchange is regulated by. They can turn out to be complete frauds. Like 3 hours capital, for example, you know, the alleged fraud there.
00:03:18.244 - 00:04:09.720, Speaker A: And then everything just goes to shit, basically, once the, I guess like the bull market starts, because this stuff can be hidden in bull markets, as we've seen. But once the tide goes out, as the saying goes, we see who's swimming naked. So just reiterating the point here, that there is no reason unless you are like so technically incompetent, that you can't actually custody your own assets. There's no reason to put large amounts of assets on these centralized exchanges and services unless you are using them for something like trading. And the thing is, is that even then, I think that the vast majority of people aren't doing this and aren't trading the size that's required to leave these assets here. Now, in saying that, like, when you custody your assets, you also have to be careful about which DeFi protocols you interact with, with which smart contracts you interact with on chain. Because if you are, say, putting assets into Uniswap, for example, well, Uniswap is fully decentralized.
00:04:09.720 - 00:05:12.776, Speaker A: There's no admin key, there's no multi sig, there's no governance that could take your assets away from you. And really the only thing that could happen to your assets is a bug or a hack of the unit of smart contract, which is obviously a low chance, but other Defi protocols don't have that. And even these L2s, as I've said before, the L2s today, they still have admin keys, they still have upgradeable contracts and multi sigs and all that stuff there. And even the bridges that you use, a lot of them still have that. So if you want to be and follow the mantra of not your keys, not your coins, you really just want to either keep your coins in cold storage or if you've got ETH, you want to stake it. Because you can stake using self custody, obviously, as a solo staker and even spinning up a mini pool, you retain full custody of your assets and no one can take them from you unless they get the seed phrase, of course, which is, I guess, like the usual way these things go. But yeah, I just thought it was worth reiterating here that you don't ever want to be on the other end of this process, where you essentially have to wait in limbo for your coins or for any of your assets to get given back to you.
00:05:12.776 - 00:05:47.968, Speaker A: And you have no idea when that's going to happen. You have no idea what assets you're going to receive, whether it's going to be dollars, whether it's going to be the assets that you, that you deposited there, whether it's going to be 100% or 50% or 10%, you just don't know. And it's that excruciating wait time that a lot of people that, that would get a lot of people quite, quite upset and it would make you feel pretty shitty about yourself. Right. And the perfect example of this is Mt. Gox, which is going into its 9th year of bankruptcy process. And even then, I pretty sure a lot of people are taking a massive haircut on the BTC they had in the Mt.
00:05:47.968 - 00:06:03.806, Speaker A: Gox exchange once the. Once the blow up happened. Because of those of you who don't know the history, they. A lot of their BTC was. Was traded away or was siphoned away, and then it was traded away. There's a lot that went on there, but essentially, yeah, just not your case, not your coins. Go buy a ledger.
00:06:03.806 - 00:06:50.534, Speaker A: Go buy a lattice one. Go buy a hardware wallet that's from a kind of like a trustworthy company of which I only really recommend ledger and lattice ones because I've really only used those, you know, over the years, there has been others that I've tried, but generally, like, I've only personally used those two brands, so I can only recommend those two brands. But there are other ones out there that aren't bad, but definitely look into reviews of them before you purchase them. But generally it's much better to do that than it is to either. I mean, even keeping your assets on a hot wallet like metamask is pretty bad. And obviously keeping them on centralized exchanges or services as custody is not the recommended play here. But in saying that if you don't feel comfortable enough to custody your own assets, it's fine to leave them on these platforms, but just understand the risks.
00:06:50.534 - 00:07:17.926, Speaker A: And in that case, you're better off just leaving it on a much more legit platform that's based somewhere like the US. So for example, Coinbase, then leaving them on some offshore exchange or some offshore centralized service that may or may not be legit. Right? But yeah, anyway, I'm gonna leave that one at that for today. Moving on to a tweet thread that I did. Now, I don't do many tweet threads these days. I find them kind of exhausting to do, especially because I talk a lot about just things on the refuel. Anyway.
00:07:17.926 - 00:08:10.748, Speaker A: But I did this tweet thread because there is this common kind of sentiment that I see on crypto Twitter a lot. And this comes from Snapcrackle ETH, where he put out a tweet where he said there is currently more than 15.7 million each staked. This accounts for around 13% of the total ETH supply. This is well below the average stake rate for PoS networks, which is 61%. Now, the reason why I think this rhetoric goes around a lot is because people like to position it as like a bullish case for ethereum, and that in the future there's going to be, I don't know, 50 60% of ETH staked, and that much ETH locked up is going to be better for the ETH prize, blah, blah. Right? Whereas they fail to mention, pretty much every time I've seen this kind of rhetoric talked about, they fail to mention that Ethereum proof of stake is very, very different to pretty much all other flavors of proof of stake out there, right? And as I said in my tweet, none of the other proof of stake networks work like Ethereum.
00:08:10.748 - 00:08:53.366, Speaker A: Almost all of them are some flavor of dpos, which is delegated proof of stake, which has soft delegation rather than hard delegation like Ethereum. And I expanded on this in the second tweet where I said, when you delegate your tokens in a, in a deposit network, a new validator is not spun up. You are just adding stake to an existing valid, that validator that may or may not have a cap. This is why you typically see dpos networks with a very small active validator set. So what I mean by this is that with a network like Cardano, for example, I'm just using this as an obvious example here. It is a DPOS network. There are validators that basically say, hey, you can delegate your stake to me, to my validator, and it adds more stake to me, and then you can earn this percentage of reward and all's well and good.
00:08:53.366 - 00:09:38.974, Speaker A: But every time someone does that up to a cap, there are no new validators spun up, right? It's the same validator instance being run by that person or by that entity. There's just stake being added to it. And in my opinion, it doesn't really do anything for security of the chain, doesn't really do anything for the asset. If it did, some of these networks that have like 70, 80 90% of their, of their coins locked in staking would be worth a lot more than they are. But they're not. And I ended the tweet thread by saying that in terms of dollar, in dollar terms, Ethereum crushes every other network because 20 billion ETH is currently at stake, which is greater than the entire market cap of every single proof of stake. Alt L1, the entire market, not the staked market cap.
00:09:38.974 - 00:10:10.886, Speaker A: The entire market cap by more than double for the majority of the networks. For almost all of them, I think so. And then I continued on about this delegation thing where I say, you know, in Ethereum you can delegate your stake to an entity like Coinbase, for example. So Coinbase will let you stake with as little as, I think, 0.01 ETH or something like that. But for that ETH to actually be quote unquote at stake, it needs to be tied to a validator, which requires a minimum of 32 ETH to activate. So what Coinbase does is that they activate that validator on your behalf, but that is still being activated.
00:10:10.886 - 00:11:06.554, Speaker A: There is still a validator being added here. This isn't the case for dpos networks. As I explained in saying this, it's still debatable how much actual security each validator instance adds to the Ethereum network, considering you can run many validators off of one full node. So, for example, there are currently almost half a million validators, but only 8200 fully synced Ethereum nodes. So obviously there are many validators running off many of these fully synced ethereum nodes, because it doesn't really make much sense to run one fully synced ethereum node per validator that just, it wouldn't scale very well. You will be buying so much hardware to, to allow that to happen, because a full ethereum, fully synced Ethereum node is, it can be up to terabytes, right? Depending on what client you're using, depending on if you've refreshed your database. I mean, there's a few technical things in there, but essentially, if you had to do that for every validator you had, that quickly doesn't become very scalable, especially for these large entities.
00:11:06.554 - 00:11:47.194, Speaker A: So, for example, if Coinbase had to do this, they have 10% of all stake. They would have to have lots and lots of hardware to back this up. It wouldn't make any sense, right? So, and obviously we could debate, we could debate the merits of Ethereum, proof of stake and dpos and whatever other flavor you want to, but it was out of the scope of this thread here. So I just really wanted to make that clear for people. Now, one thing that I also didn't touch on in this tweet thread, which is critically important as well, is that ETH is not just a staking token, right? It's not just some kind of asset that has been created in a proof of stake context for the sake of staking it. And that's a big reason why a lot of ETH isn't staked. And as I said in a tweet here, ETH is more than just a dumb staking token.
00:11:47.194 - 00:12:40.654, Speaker A: It's a store of value, a money, a collateral in Defi, a fee token that actually gets used and millions of dollars worth burnt every day and more. And then Paul and I replied here with a list of things, reiterating my points, but also adding some of their own and then saying a 61% staking rate just implies the asset isn't very useful. And this is a critically important point. It implies that because basically the only thing you can do with that asset, or the only thing people want to do with that asset, is to stake it. And the reason you stake it a lot of the time is so you don't get diluted, because a lot of these dpos networks have very high, high kind of like dilution rates on them. So you stake so you don't get diluted there. So in turn, we have both evidence that a more staked token doesn't, doesn't equate to a more valuable token, right? And we also have evidence that the reason why a lot of the, a lot of ETH isn't staked is because it's being used in other contexts.
00:12:40.654 - 00:13:31.922, Speaker A: Now, LSD's can change this, obviously, if lsds keep getting adoption, which we think they will, people would rather use an LSD as a collateral in Defi, for example, rather than vanilla ETH, or they would rather use that as. As a form of money rather than ETH, or a store of value rather than ETH. But people have their own reasons for doing things. But this isn't to say that the ETH stake is going to sit at what it is now, almost 16 million ETH staked. It can grow quite, quite, quite a lot from here. And someone, I think Davey in the Discord channel brought up a good point as well, is that we have these restaking with, with projects like Eigen layer as well coming online that will add more demand to ETH staking. But that still doesn't take away from the point that ETH as an asset is much more than a staking asset, which can't really be said for any of the other proof of stake networks, whether they're dpos or lpos, which is liquid proof of stake, which is just a form of dpos and whatever other flavor you want to talk about.
00:13:31.922 - 00:14:02.634, Speaker A: That can't be designed from a technical perspective. That has to be basically willed into existence by the community, by the network, and it has to be tied to a useful network. I just thought this was a something very important to point out to people. And also, when you really compare the market caps between networks, it doesn't matter. Like, ETH is way more valuable than the closest Alta one. Look, people will point to BSc as the. The next most valuable Alta one, and then point to BNB as the token associated with that.
00:14:02.634 - 00:14:31.454, Speaker A: But I don't think that's the right thing here. I think BNB as a token accrues most of its value from binance, not from BSC. So if we look at BNB's market cap, right, it is fully diluted, $50 billion. Ethereum's is $150 billion. So even still, even if you count BNB as the BSC asset, so to speak, which it is, I mean, it is the, I guess, like money of BSC, but in my opinion, most of its value is not derived from that. It's derived from the exchange. Even still, it's worth much less than ETH as an asset.
00:14:31.454 - 00:15:04.824, Speaker A: And then you go down the list, and the next one to pop up is Cardano, which has a. I'm just looking at the list here has a $12 billion fully diluted value. So it's like 15 times or a bit less than 15 times away from being as valuable as eat still. So. And a lot more eight a staked than eat staked. So if you look at that, if you look at the hard facts, it doesn't make much sense to say that there's going to be a lot more eat stakes because of, because of the fact that the other networks have more staked. And it also doesn't really add, you know, more value if there's more ETH staked.
00:15:04.824 - 00:15:33.878, Speaker A: I think that up to a certain point it does. And then it maybe just has diminishing returns, as we've seen from other networks already. And I really do think that the majority, as I've said before, the majority or the primary driver of value for ETH is its use as a store of value and money. And you can look at bitcoin as the perfect example of this. Bitcoin is still worth more than double ETH, right? Even though in my opinion, like, ETH should be worth more than bitcoin. And bitcoin only has one use case, it doesn't have proof of stake, right? Doesn't have a fee burn. It's still worth a lot.
00:15:33.878 - 00:16:09.620, Speaker A: Why? Because people view it as a store of value. They view it as a money. It has money ness to it, it has Lindy, it has a network effect, right? Whereas if you don't optimize for that, if your network is not optimized for that, the asset is going to reflect that in its value. And there can't actually be that many stores of value and things with a monetary premium in crypto, I believe, really, there can only be two or three there. It really doesn't seem to be a third one yet. Maybe USD stable coins can be counted as that, but if you're talking just native crypto assets, it really is just BTC and ETH today. And I think that maintaining that monetary premium, maintaining that store of value status over time is even harder.
00:16:09.620 - 00:16:40.032, Speaker A: And long periods of time, like decades, worth is even harder. Bitcoin is the longest running one so far, ETH the second. There has been no contender for third. Yet, excluding USD stable coins, which, as I said, they're not crypto native, so it doesn't really make much sense to include them. But yeah, anyway, I'm going to leave that one at that because I have come, I've gone over time a little bit on how long I wanted to talk about that one, but you can go check out my thread for yourself if you want to and check out some of the replies. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so l two beat has a new feature out today called Milestones.
00:16:40.032 - 00:17:17.748, Speaker A: So basically you can now see on the TVL chart of each L2, or each l two project the different milestones that is associated with them. So if we click on arbitram one, for example, we can look at the TVL chart here and see the different milestones. So milestone one was obviously mainnet going live in August of 2021 for everyone. And then you can see their growth catapulted from there, obviously. And then you can see here Odyssey started. So that was that initiative they had, and they stopped only a week later because of the fact that arbitrary nitro wasn't out yet and they were getting too much activity. And then you can see here that nitro upgrade came at the end of August.
00:17:17.748 - 00:17:48.458, Speaker A: And unfortunately Odyssey hasn't been restarted just yet. But their growth, or I guess like imagine in TVL, not in activity, is quite steady now. You can change to the activity kind of view here, and the milestones actually are there as well. Activity is actually a better view than TVL, I believe, because, as you can see, like, TVL has remained rather stagnant because TVL is obviously tied to token prices, which obviously went down last year. Right. But you can see in the, in the activity thing, it's just been trending up. The activity, um, metric has just been trending up over time.
00:17:48.458 - 00:18:24.372, Speaker A: But yeah, I really like these, uh, this milestone, uh, kind of indicator here. I think it's really great. I think it really does differentiate the projects from themselves as well and shows that, uh, these milestones actually do add to growth and actually do resulting growth for these networks. Uh, so kudos to l two beat for releasing this feature today. Uh, you can go check it out for yourself at l two beat.com. All right, speaking of l two s, Terence from, uh, the arbitrum, uh, I guess like prior labs team here has a thread about arbitram's research on l two batch posting optimizations by Akaki here and Ed Felton. Hopefully.
00:18:24.372 - 00:18:36.812, Speaker A: I said your name right there, Akaki. I don't know if I did. I'm really bad with pronunciation, so apologies. But you can go check out this thread for yourself. It will be linked in the YouTube description below. But I thought it was a pretty interesting read. It's not just a thread, it's also a research paper here.
00:18:36.812 - 00:19:25.458, Speaker A: I didn't read the paper, I just read the thread, which is very, very short. But I thought it was quite interesting because optimizing batches in order to lower fees for L2s is obviously going to be very important, even with 48, 44, because the more you can optimize the batch, the lower and lower and lower you can get the overall fees for that batch and the lower the fees are for the end users. So you want to keep optimizing even. And this is what I've been talking about before, about how layer one is going to be upgraded and optimized to help these L2s out. But L2s themselves have plenty of things they can do to opt to lower the fees, improve the experience for users and make the network more, make network healthier overall. And one of these big things are these optimizations, especially for things like batches. So yeah, as I said, you can go read the research paper for yourself or this little thread from Terence.
00:19:25.458 - 00:20:04.836, Speaker A: It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, so Tyco has announced their ambassador program today, so you can play a part in scaling Ethereum and bringing ZKE EVM to the world. They are looking for developer focused advocates and educators, but also have room for a wider range of skills. You can read the short article and apply in this application form, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do. So. Now, I said the other day that I think that the highest leverage thing you can do in crypto right now, if you're not working in crypto, is join a L2 team or do something with a L2 team. This right here is a perfect example of something you can do even if you're non technical, because as they said, they are looking for educators.
00:20:04.836 - 00:20:49.114, Speaker A: If you are more technical, you can be a developer focused advocate, but they are looking for educators and also have room for a wider range of skills. And maybe you're a marketer, maybe you like doing business development, maybe you like doing community management. Well, you can apply using the form which is linked in the blog post to do any of that. And I mean, I think it's worth reiterating again, this, I believe, is the highest leverage stuff you can be doing. Layer twos are going to be where the majority of the growth in this ecosystem going forward happens, I believe. I think they're going to take the place of a lot of the Alt L1 s that we saw go kind of crazy in 2021 because they're going to be able to handle that demand. And if you are looking for a good start in crypto, looking for something interesting to work on, these are the projects that you should be working on, in my opinion.
00:20:49.114 - 00:21:31.794, Speaker A: Now, obviously, don't just take my opinion for it, talk to other people about it, see what they say. But definitely I think that it's the highest leverage thing you can do. All right, so I think this is the last thing on L2. David Schwartz from the Polygon Hermes team put out a tweet thread today saying the Polygon ZKVM testnet was designed from the engine, the engine being the ZK prover. They created the public ZKVM testnet back in October once they had a complete auditable ZK proofs with EVM equivalents. After 50,000 proofs, the team now knows how they can scale Ethereum, working to speed it up. And you can check out this thread for a bit of a more of an explanation of that, but just more continued improvements on the Polygon ZK a EVM frontier.
00:21:31.794 - 00:22:22.074, Speaker A: Still extremely early days, still expecting many, many, many more improvements to come to both Polygon ZkVM and the wider ZKVM space in general. But man, the amount of work happening right now is crazy. And the amount of, I guess progress being made is even crazier because as I've said before, people didn't think this was going to be a reality until like 2025 2026 sort of thing. And we have public test nets in 2022 2023 and we're probably going to have a lot of these EK vms on main nets by the end of 2023 with real usable applications with real users on there, which is going to be amazing, I think. So go check out this thread from David Schwartz. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, Hill Dobby posted one of his great Dune analytics dashboards today where he says you can easily make out this past year's most notable crypto events by looking at Ethereum gas usage.
00:22:22.074 - 00:23:12.778, Speaker A: And he picks out three events in particular, one being the biggest spike in Ethereum gas price in GUI was the other side mint. This was that metaverse project as part of the bored Ape yacht club ecosystem. We all know about that. That was by far the biggest, I guess like day for Ethereum in terms of gas fees on the network. Then you can see the Luna DPEG, another spike there, and then you can see the FTX bank run spike as well. I think the first two obviously are much more pronounced, but still, I've talked about how the Ethereum gas usage on chain, especially sustained high usage during a sustained low usage period, is a very, is a very good way of kind of, I guess, like highlighting events happening within crypto, whether they be NFT mints, whether they be price crashes. Obviously, when the price is crashing down, all the amms go crazy, all the Defi platforms go crazy, people get liquidated.
00:23:12.778 - 00:23:38.644, Speaker A: MEV goes crazy, of course. So that all contributes to gas prices going up. And that's exactly what we see here with the Luna DPEG. Even though it had nothing to do with the Ethereum network or ETH as the asset, there was still that contagion. So what ended up happening was that people were blowing up on Terra and Luna. There was fear everywhere. The ETH price was falling, which, as I said, makes amms go crazy, makes me v go crazy, makes all the Defi platforms go crazy with liquidations.
00:23:38.644 - 00:24:06.608, Speaker A: And then you also had a lot of the gas spiking because of the ste unwind during that period, too, from TRS capital, which obviously put down a lot of downward pressure on ETH. You remember there was like ten or eleven weeks of just straight red candles on the ether weekly charts. Um, and, you know, that was the same or a similar thing with the FTX bank run, where a lot of fear, a lot of uncertainty. ETH dumping, BTC dumping, the whole bloody ecosystem dumping. And then we see that happening there. Now, the reverse is true as well. When things can get crazy.
00:24:06.608 - 00:25:04.648, Speaker A: That's, I guess, why we saw Ethereum gas from basically the second half of 2020, during all of 2021, just being really, really high, because there was so much money coming into the ecosystem, there was so much activity happening. Um, but yeah, you tend to not see too many spikes during that, because the, the level is, is generally higher. But during low kind of gas usage periods, like 2022, the spikes are a lot more obvious and they're a lot more obviously tied to specific events, which you can see in this dashboard here. But anyway, you can go check out this dashboard for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, the privacy and scaling explorations team at the Ethereum foundation has put out a blog post about something called Unirep Protocol, which is short for universal reputation and adds reputation to anonymity, allowing people to provide relational context without revealing specifics of their history. In plain english terms, it Unirap is a universal reputation system powered by ZK proofs.
00:25:04.648 - 00:26:02.878, Speaker A: It's built on the base, so it is a base layout for building interoperable reputation systems. Now, I've talked about this a lot on the refill before, about how ZK proofs can actually help us build a decentralized private identity system for every single user that has a public private key pair, aka an ethereum wallet. Now the reason why this is incredibly powerful is because it means that we can do KYC without doing KYc. And what do I mean by this? It basically means you don't have to give any of your information over to any service at all. All you have to give them is a ZK proof proving that you are who you say you are, using either an on chain reputation or an off chain one. So for example, a government can issue you a, you can get, sorry, you can Kyc, or with the government say, I don't know, let's use a passport as an example here. Say the government or a nation state issues you a passport and that is your identity, right? That is your form of identity that you can use to KYC with a centralized exchange, for example.
00:26:02.878 - 00:26:53.156, Speaker A: So in this instance, or, sorry, using ZK proofs, you would not have to show your passport to the centralized exchange. You don't have to take pictures of it, you wouldn't have to take a selfie with it, you wouldn't have to do any of that. All you would have to do is basically use the ZK proof that the nation state issued you to prove that you are who you say you are because you tied your Ethereum address to your passport, right? And that. And they issue it as a proof. NFT, say they issue an NFT that is your passport, like a ZK badge, like what cismo does. And then you can prove that you are who you say you are on chain to this, I guess like centralized exchange or service or anyone that requires KYc. How cool is that? How amazing is that? When you really think about that and think about how powerful it is and how scalable it can be for everyone in the world, and now everyone can own their data by doing this and they can do it in a very low tech way.
00:26:53.156 - 00:27:19.940, Speaker A: It doesn't have to be high tech. People already do this with a lot of the products that Apple uses, right? Where they allow people to authenticate themselves using, I guess, Face ID. That's what I was going for there. Then authenticate themselves using Face ID. It's a similar context where you essentially have one third party. In this case it was Apple. In other cases, the nation state where you give the data to initially, but then all the other ones, you don't have to give your data to you just give them the ZK proof, which I think is very cool.
00:27:19.940 - 00:27:36.812, Speaker A: But anyway, enough ranting about that. You can check out uni rep protocol for yourself. I almost said uniswap there. The name is. I guess there's a nod to Uniswap, but still. Funny that I'm getting mixed up there. But yeah, you can check out the thread, the accounts, the Twitter account and the blog post.
00:27:36.812 - 00:28:19.264, Speaker A: I'll link them all in the YouTube description below. All right, so finally here we have Aztec where they've put together a thread where they said a new grant season means new requests for here are a few aztec connect use cases aztec grants is funding this year, such as wallets, tooling, front ends, Aztec connect bridges, and fully fledged as fully fledged aztec native applications. So if you're interested in applying for a grant for any of these things, you can check out this thread from Aztec, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But this speaks to what I was thinking about before about getting involved with L2s. Aztec is obviously a L2, a privacy preserving L2 on Ethereum. This is just another team that you can get involved with. I mean, you can get involved with any and all of them, whichever one suits your suits your fancy here.
00:28:19.264 - 00:28:39.632, Speaker A: But if you wanted to get your feet wet, if you don't want to go full time, if you don't just do a grant or a bounty or something like that, you can. They usually have these programs, they being the L2s. And the details about Aztecs one is are in this thread, which will be linked in the YouTube description below. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:28:39.632 - 00:28:43.504, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
