00:00:00.200 - 00:00:26.446, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Lego refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan the designer, the 26 July 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So we've had three days now of the ETH ETF's being live, and I think they've gone just as I expected, to be honest, in terms of, like, inflows, outflows, kind of price action. Honestly, I'm not surprised by any of it. For those of you who remember when the BTC ETF's went live, BTC went down.
00:00:26.446 - 00:01:05.182, Speaker A: I think it was 15% from the ETF day, and then two days later it was down 15% there. So I'm not sure why people are surprised by the price action, to be honest, considering it seems to be the exact same or close to the same price action that we saw with the BTC ETF's going live. But again, that's all short term noise there. What I did want to focus on was just updating you guys on what the flows have been like and giving a bit of context around that. But I do want to say that going forward after today's episode, so starting next week, I will only be kind of reporting on the flows probably once a week at the end of the week on the. On the Friday episode, and then eventually I'll just change it to like, maybe once a month or something like that. Or unless we get like a really big day of flows or something.
00:01:05.182 - 00:01:40.810, Speaker A: Because I think I want to practice what I preach, where I basically have said many times that it's irrelevant to look at day to day flows, even week to week flows, potentially even month to month month. It's all about the longer term, right? It's all about what the flows look like over a few months, over the years. And as I've said before, I think they're going to, of course, be positive there. But at the end of the day, like, hyper fixating on what the flows are each day and kind of looking at the daily flows, it's not healthy, I don't think, and it doesn't really give you any signal. It's more noise than anything else. So I just wanted to put that out there. But yeah, I wanted to start off before I got into the flows, with just putting out this tweet from bitwise.
00:01:40.810 - 00:02:19.030, Speaker A: So they had a banner hanging outside of the New York Stock Exchange. You can see here with their branding on it, obviously, because they're offering their own ETF, which is the Eth w a bitwise ethereum ETF here. And I spoke last episode about how if I was buying any of these ETF's, it would probably be the bitwise one, because these guys deeply understand crypto. They're very crypto native, and I just really love their approach to the ETF generally as well. But I wanted to just show you guys that it's just cool to see that rights. It's cool to see Ethereum on the front of the New York Stock Exchange here, because for me, who's been in Ethereum for such a long time now, I couldn't have imagined something like this back in 20 17, 20 18, 20 19. Right.
00:02:19.030 - 00:02:46.506, Speaker A: Even up until maybe a couple of years ago, I couldn't imagine something like this. Ethereum has just come so far. ETh as an asset has come so far. You know, I know that crypto, Twitter always hyper fixates on, on ETH, not doing what it want, what they want it to do, but ETH is a $400 billion asset, guy. Like, it started at basically nothing. I mean, if you count the ICO market cap as like its starting point, I think it was $18 million or something like that. It is one of the greatest investments of all time from when it ICO to today.
00:02:46.506 - 00:03:06.038, Speaker A: And it is worth more than the vast majority of companies in the world, to be honest. Like public companies in the world, it is one of the most valuable assets on the planet. So I think that's worth keeping in mind, to be honest there. But yeah, none of my wildest dreams, though, would I have seen something like this. That is just crazy. And I love that. I can still be surprised by things like this.
00:03:06.038 - 00:03:37.150, Speaker A: So I can still kind of take, take solace in that, you know, Ethereum at least I think Ethereum is big within the crypto ecosystem, but we're just breaking in to the tradfi ecosystem now. It's a long term journey there, and it has been a long term journey to get there. But we're really on day one of the tradfi journey, so it's great to see that there. But yeah, related to that, obviously, is the flows here. So this is the far side page that I've told you guys about before where it basically tracks the flows. The last two days of flows is probably is what I'm going to talk about. So obviously we had some more big outflows out of grayscale.
00:03:37.150 - 00:04:07.026, Speaker A: As I said before, totally expected, like, I don't think anyone expected there to be like zero outflows from grayscale. I certainly didn't. I did say that I didn't think that would be like, you know, the same amount of outflows as the BTC ETF's. But I also mentioned that what matters is net flows. At the end of the day, it doesn't matter if the outflows are big, if the inflows kind of match that. But over the last two days, obviously, that hasn't necessarily been the case. We've had on yesterday there was a $326 million outflow from ETH and a $346 million outflow today from ETH as well.
00:04:07.026 - 00:04:55.930, Speaker A: Sorry, the last two days. So the day before yesterday and yesterday for a total of almost 500 million of outflows. But if you kind of, I guess like putting all the inflows from all the other ETF's and calculate that the net outflow for the last two days was around $280 million, I think, yeah, on, and if you go over the last three days, you can say that the net outflow is about $180 million there. But again, when I say net outflow here, I'm just saying like, as it stands today, because remember I mentioned about when it comes to like, the grayscale products or when it comes to Ethi that I still think there's going to be be a lot of that flowing into the other ETF's. But it doesn't have to happen on the same day. People can wait. Maybe they want to do, maybe they want to wait for a little bit before buying back in because they, maybe they think they're going to get a cheaper price because everyone's been looking at these grayscale outflows and being like, oh, sell eth because there's so much eth being sold in the market.
00:04:55.930 - 00:05:25.750, Speaker A: So there's definitely that aspect to it as well, I think. So that's why I said before, I don't think checking the flows day to day is going to give you any signal at all. But obviously, it being the launch week of the ETH ETF, I figured it was worth kind of putting this out here. But in terms of who's been the strongest, I guess like, out of the other ETF's, in terms of inflows, obviously Blackrock is really, really strong. It had $70 million today, 17 million yesterday, 266 million the day before. Fidelity's ETF has been strong and so is bit wise. So they're the top three, really.
00:05:25.750 - 00:05:49.626, Speaker A: The rest of them kind of bringing in, I guess, like eight, 6 million here, you know, 20 million on vanex one yesterday. But really, they're. They're definitely not as big as the top three here, which is obviously blackrocks fidelities and bit wise. Bit wise, definitely batting above their average there, which is. Which is really great to see. But as I said, like, looking at day to day is just silly. Like, look at the variance in Blackrock on day to day.
00:05:49.626 - 00:06:23.216, Speaker A: There was 266 million on day, 117 million day two, and now 70 million on day three. There's so much variance day to day that you like. It really doesn't give you any signal, as I said, by looking at this, all that really matters, I think, are two things. The long term flows, but also the. The cumulative flows, like how much money's actually gone into these things and how much money is stayed in it. What's the total aum of all of the ETF's? I think for bitcoin right now, it's something like $20 billion, including the grayscale ETF, of course, and that's all that matters. Like, that's been, what, six months now? I think, of the BTC ETF's being live.
00:06:23.216 - 00:07:02.408, Speaker A: So let's look at Ethan six months and see what the total aum is at that point. Because I think these grayscale outflows are going to be over relatively quickly. I don't think it's going to take maybe as long as it did for BTC. I think for BTC, it took a few months, actually, for them to be, like, not over, for them to slow down considerably. I think it was all the way to march, actually. I was looking at the charts just before, or the ETF inflow charts just before, but also I went back and looked, and I think I was looking at the right data because I cross referenced it with other data. But I don't think BTC had a positive inflow day or consistent positive inflow days until, like, what was it, a few days? Like five or six days or something after the ETF's went live.
00:07:02.408 - 00:07:36.786, Speaker A: So they had the first couple of days where it was these big inflows, but then the grayscale outflow started and the inflows couldn't, couldn't offset that. So that's why it's, again, worth looking at the longer term. You're not looking at data, not hyper fixing, hyper fixating on the day to day stuff that's going on here. But as I said, going forward, I'll be reporting on this once a week. So next Friday will be the next time I talk about this, unless there's some big days for some reason that something's worth reporting on and then I will switch to probably like once a month or something like that, or just whenever it's relevant. Because as I said, we all know that. Or we all should know by now that these things are very passive vehicles.
00:07:36.786 - 00:08:14.000, Speaker A: They are probably going to be up only over time. And it's all about just looking at what that AUM number is. If the AUM number of all the ETF's of all the ETF's is higher next month than it is this month, we should all be happy campers because that means that was a net inflow, means it was net buying happening and it should reflect in the price definitely over the longer term at least short term price. Guys like I wouldn't even bother with looking at anything got to do with that because there's just no signal to be had there. But if you wanted to, I guess like embrace your mental illness and check the day to day flows, you can definitely check Farside's website. I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do so there. All right, moving on to some non ETF related news.
00:08:14.000 - 00:08:37.568, Speaker A: I know the ETF's has taken up so much time over the last few months, but there's a lot of stuff happening outside of that now. Terrence from Prylabs here tweeted out that he's syncing the Electra devnet one with Prism and Geth. And you can actually join in on the action here if you would like to. Now, Electra is obviously one half of the Petra upgrade. It is the contentious layout side of it. Whereas Elektra is the not Electra. Sorry, the pe.
00:08:37.568 - 00:08:51.248, Speaker A: I forget what it stands for here, but it'll come to me. One sec. I think it's. Yes, Prague. Prague, that's right. That was thinking like what PE was standing for here, but it's actually just the p and then the rest is elect Electro in the name Pector here. So it's Prague and Electra.
00:08:51.248 - 00:09:06.444, Speaker A: But as I said, that you can get involved with this devnet one if you would like. All the links will be here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But it's great to see that devnets have kicked off here. As you guys know, that's the usual process that happens with these Ethereum upgrades. You know, you have the devnet and you have testnets, then main nets. I still.
00:09:06.444 - 00:09:31.876, Speaker A: I'm still sticking with my Q. One prediction for Petra to go live on main nets. I don't think there's been like a final kind of, I guess like finalization on the exact eips going in. Yet there's obviously a lot of eips that are part of the Petra upgrade. But as I mentioned, I think on the last episode or the episode before, there has been a lot of discussion recently between the core devs around whether to include all of the EOF related eips in Petra. Now. I think Geth is the holdout team.
00:09:31.876 - 00:10:14.180, Speaker A: They definitely don't think that it should be included. They have a different philosophical view on things as well as a different security view on things. I think it really comes down to that. The fact that they think that the EVM improvements should be done at L2 and shouldn't really be done at layer one because it introduces security issues or introduces potential security vectors, you know, critical bugs and things like that. And I kind of sympathize with that view. But at the same time we should still be upgrading the layer one where we can, especially if it's in service of the L2s, of course, but also just in service of regular users. Because as much as the L2 is going to be for the everyday user, there are still going to be people using layer one, there's still going to be entities using layer one.
00:10:14.180 - 00:10:29.668, Speaker A: Obviously the L2s will use layer one, but there's still going to be big entities doing. Doing so. Right. For example, you know, Blackrock doing all their tokenization stuff. I'm sure a lot of it's going to happen on layer one Ethereum, right, right. They already have something on layer one, Ethereum. And then you think about all the other entities, they interact with it, so.
00:10:29.668 - 00:10:59.248, Speaker A: And they're very price insensitive to. Even if the fees go up so much, I don't think they really care too much. Right. So when you look at it from that perspective, I think that this, we should be still looking to upgrade the layer one where we can, but definitely it should be done with security in mind, because that's the most important thing for layer one Ethereum is that it's secure, it's reliable, it's resilient, it's stable. I think stability is probably the North Star, to be honest. Like liveness, right, where it's essential for Ethereum layer one to never go down. It has not gone down since Genesis.
00:10:59.248 - 00:11:45.430, Speaker A: The closest that came, I think, well, I guess like there might be some other, there might be some arguments around the closest that came here, but I guess like the closest in terms of some people considering it a outage, was the Shanghai Dos attacks. In late 2016. Besides that, there has been some hiccups along the way. Of course we saw some bugs with the consensus layer where a bunch of the network fell off, but the network didn't go offline. It just basically stopped finalizing a couple of times, I believe, and there was that critical bug, I think, within Geth that was exploited, I think I remembering this correctly, or was patched before it was exploited. But essentially the Ethereum mainnet has, for all intents and purposes, never actually gone off offline. That is not a guarantee that it won't go offline in the future, because the Ethereum network is obviously changing and evolving over time through these network upgrades.
00:11:45.430 - 00:12:19.080, Speaker A: But we want to keep that record essentially, especially because the whole, I guess, roll up centric roadmap is about making sure that Ethereum layer one is stable and always stable and always available for L2s, so they can be the scaling layer for, for users out there. But anyway, as I said, you can go join this devnet if you would like. I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, the ethereum.org transathon is now back. You can take part in a unique hackathon style ten day online contest where you can compete for prizes by translating ethereum.org content into different languages.
00:12:19.080 - 00:12:46.136, Speaker A: Now, I think this is like the second or third time they've done this, done this. I've spoken about this in the past on the refill, of course. So if you are interested in participating in this, you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. There is a link to apply here, but it's great to see that the ethereum.org team is doing this again. Because as you guys know, I believe that Ethereum, if it wants to be a truly global network, it needs to be able to appeal to as many different languages as possible and be, I guess, consumed by as many different languages as possible out there.
00:12:46.136 - 00:13:33.908, Speaker A: Not just English, right? Not just the popular languages, but as many as we can get translated here. And I know that there are like auto translators out there, like obviously Google Translate and the AI stuff as well. But a lot of them probably will struggle with actually translating ethereum related stuff and in an ethereum related context as well. So I think doing native translations is extremely important to make sure that nothing is lost in translation, because we all know that these auto translators definitely do lose things in translation, especially when it comes to more nuanced topics like a theorem related stuff, right? Definitely. I think some stuff would get lost there. But yeah, if you want to participate in this, you can only get in the YouTube description below for you to go check out. All right, another thing I'll link in the YouTube description below is a new page on the ETH staker website called Research or Staking Research.
00:13:33.908 - 00:14:24.040, Speaker A: So this is available at ETH Staker cc Research. Essentially it includes includes a bunch of research around proof of stake ethereum with regards to staking issuance Max EB inclusion lists, mev burn epbs and changes to the block building structure. This will get you up to speed on the latest thinking around all of these topics. To be honest, this is a really great curated list of resources here and it's definitely, I guess, like covering a lot of what I spoken about on the refill before, but it's going in depth with it. So if you're confused about any of this stuff and you want to learn more about it, this is your one stop shop really. I mean you can use the weekend, you know, this weekend while there are no refuels to consume, to basically go and read this and check all this out, because all of this stuff is critically important. I mean, the issuance discussion around staking has kind of, I guess like died off in terms of the discussion around it, but there is still a lot of research being done on it.
00:14:24.040 - 00:14:53.266, Speaker A: Who knows what if the issuance curve is going to be changed for whatever reason at some point in the future, but it's still good to know what the kind of current bleeding edge research is like. Obviously Max EB is critically important to the network going in the Petra upgrade. You can learn more about that if you still want to. Inclusion list definitely still important as well for censorship resistance. It's something that has been worked on in a really big way. Mev Burn has fallen, I guess like on the back burner, but still being worked on. Epbs obviously hugely important.
00:14:53.266 - 00:15:45.920, Speaker A: Definitely something that is, is being worked on by a lot of different people, I believe, and then changes to the block building structure is, I think, something that is part of like a pretty wide roadmap item here. And it is something that is getting more and more attention as time goes on. And this falls into what I was talking about the other day about how there's a lot of discussion with reducing the Ethereum slot times, ethereum layer one, slot times or block times, I guess from 12 seconds to 2 seconds. Now this is, this may sound like simple on the surface. Oh, we can just change the block times from 12 seconds to 2 seconds. That's like a one line code change, it's like, no, it's so much more complicated than that because there are so many things that change when you change the slot time on Ethereum. Like for example, if you change it from 12 seconds to 2 seconds now, you're basically kicking off a lot of the lower power devices on the network as it exists today.
00:15:45.920 - 00:16:12.620, Speaker A: There are ways around this, but as it exists today, if you were just to change from 12 seconds to 2 seconds, you kick off a lot of the low power devices, you kick off low bandwidth users because they probably have a really hard time keeping up with the head of the chain. And then MeV gets even like more nuts because there's different MEV strategies that can be employed here. There are different considerations when it comes to network stability generally. So there's a lot of different things that go into this. So it's not just a simple change. And I don't know when this is going to happen. I don't even know if it's going to happen.
00:16:12.620 - 00:17:07.058, Speaker A: Like the reason they want to go down to 2 seconds, I mean, at least from my understanding, is that they, it's kind of this conversation around like based pre conformations, or pre conformations where I've discussed pre confirmations on the refill before, where it's this mechanism where you could essentially guarantee, or like crypto economically guarantee inclusion for a L2 into a block, because the L2 wants to be a base roll up. But if they want to give the users fast transactions, then they'll have to use pre conformations. Because as you guys know, 12 seconds on Ethereum, l one to process a transaction is way too long when l two users are used to basically instant transactions or one to two second transaction times. So that's why when a base roll up context, when you have two second block times, you don't have to use pre conformations essentially. I mean, you can because it still gives you a benefit, but you don't have to. And it doesn't rely on crypto economics, it just relies on the Ethereum network itself relies on that two second slot time there. So you basically get the best of all worlds.
00:17:07.058 - 00:17:48.414, Speaker A: You get the scalability, but you also get the fast transactions without having to give up trustlessness, without having to give up decentralization. And you can just basically use the l one in a really scalable way to verify or to validate transactions on your roll up here. So yeah, a lot of research going into that, but you can go read this also doesn't, I mean, these resources here don't just cover that, but they cover other things like execution tickets, rainbow staking, execution auctions, so on and so forth. So there's a lot to digest here, but you can go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, the second edition of the ETH quarterly Investors Club here is out, so you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:17:48.414 - 00:18:20.846, Speaker A: It's basically free to read, but there are, of course, nfts to mint. As per usual. This is probably the highest, no, I'm going to say it is the highest quality Ethereum report that exists today. I've got the first edition. You guys know I'm an advisor to the ETH Investors club here, but I am foregoing any advisor shares. I'm just basically donating my share to the protocol guild. So I'm not biased in any way here when I say that I do believe this is the best resource right now to keep up with what's happening across the ethereum ecosystem from a, both a higher and a low level, because it's not just high level.
00:18:20.846 - 00:19:05.490, Speaker A: They do definitely dive into low level stuff here. And I'm really glad that it comes out quarterly because it means that it can be packed full of stuff and then you can just like show it to someone who just wants to stay on top of Ethereum and just wants to be passively or casually invested in it. Now with the ETF's, it makes even more sense because let's say you have like people that you know in your real life and you say to them, hey, go buy the ETH ETF. I think it's going to be like a really good investment for the long term. And they're like, well, what, how can I learn about Ethereum? How can I learn what's happening with Ethereum? I'm just going to blindly put my money into something. I'm not some crypto degen, right? So you can send this, literally send them the first edition, send the second edition and say, hey, well, there's an edition that comes out every quarter, it's free to read. And then if you want, you can get a wallet and mint the NFTs for your, for yourself here and basically get more involved with the ecosystem if they really want to.
00:19:05.490 - 00:19:39.110, Speaker A: So I think this is a perfect complement to ETF, I guess, like in investors, ETF investors. And it's, it's fitting that the bitwise guys are actually on the COVID of this, this quarter's edition. And I'm sure they've sent this on to a lot of their clients that they work with and saying, hey, check out this report. We have this new ETH product. And essentially the ETH Investors club is doing the marketing for bit wise for their clients to bring it into bringing more aum into the bitwise ETH ETF here. So this, this is, this is the real stuff, guys. Like, this is the stuff that gets me all giddy because we're all about bringing more people into the ecosystem.
00:19:39.110 - 00:20:12.602, Speaker A: Well, 8th Investors club is doing just that by allowing people to digest and understand the ethereum and eat value proposition from, as I said, a high level but also a low level. And being able to do this in a, I guess like a fashion that people are used to, like getting quarterly reports, people are used to reading that, people used to reading things online, reading magazines. People are used to basically that, digesting this stuff. A lot of people don't want to just be plugged in every single day and look, going on crypto, Twitter and digesting all this stuff and trying to make sense of all the noise. Not at all. That's what the ETH investors club does. So kudos to all the contributors for the 8th Investors club.
00:20:12.602 - 00:20:42.648, Speaker A: There are a lot of them out there. But yeah, you should go check out the second edition for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. So. All right, now a bit of exciting news out of Coinbase. Now this, this is what I really like to see. So, you guys know, I've been on this crusade over the last like six to nine months that I really believe that base should really be making us DC as big of a payments kind of asset as they can on base as a payments network because of the fact that they are perfectly positioned to do this.
00:20:42.648 - 00:21:07.522, Speaker A: And I spoke a bit about this the other day. Well, today they announced a vampire attack on tether. So you can now transfer your tether on TRON. So not just, it's not on a theorem, it's on TRon, where as I discussed the other day, tether is very popular on TROn. So you can transfer your USDT or your tether on TRon to your coinbase wallet. And when you do, it'll convert to USDC on base for free. There is no conversion fee here, guys, for free.
00:21:07.522 - 00:21:40.970, Speaker A: So essentially, if you're holding tether today and you want to get on base and you want to take advantage of the base ecosystem with USDC and with all the perks that come with that, such as free transactions. You can now offload your tether for USDC for free on base. If you're on TRon, on the tron network right now. And it's very, very simple to do. I love this. Guys, like, vampire attacks are back on the menu like they should be, because this is the, this is how you compete within crypto, one of the ways you compete within crypto, you vampire attack your competitors here because it is a very effective way, when done right, of basically getting market share. And I'm hoping to see more of this across the ecosystem.
00:21:40.970 - 00:22:08.302, Speaker A: Honestly, I don't consider it to be like a dubious or a kind of like scam or grifty tactic. I consider it to be fair game. Like, this is an open market, this is capitalism. It's fair game to do this. There are, I guess, real life businesses outside of crypto that do, I guess, some version of a quote unquote vampire attack on their competitors all the time. Right? Whether it's like some big sale that their competitors aren't doing or whether they're offering perks that their competitors can't offer. Like, this happens all the time within the non crypto epic ecosystem.
00:22:08.302 - 00:22:39.052, Speaker A: And obviously it's happened a lot in the crypto system before, but I'm loving seeing it happen with critically important things like stable coins. So big kudos to Coinbase for doing this. I am very happy at this stage. Like, I'm very happy that, I don't know if anyone at Coinbase heard my pleas for them to do this. I'm sure it was already on the roadmap, but I'm happy to see that it's just, it's played out and it's played out just beautifully here. But anyway, if you've got USDT or tether on Tron and you want to convert it to USDC for free on base, you can now do that using the Coinbase wallet. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:22:39.052 - 00:23:15.546, Speaker A: And actually, just, just an FYI high here. Actually, I should, I should caveat this, and I think this is actually even more bullish. So this is only available in certain jurisdictions. I've said this in the second tweet here where essentially it's available in Latin America, Africa, Asia Pacific, including Argentina, Brazil, Ethiopia, South Africa, India and Pakistan. And there's a direct link here on mobile to play with this. I think the reason why they've done this is because of the fact that, that these markets where USDT on TrOn is most popular and they're basically going for the throat here with this vampire attack. So I don't know if us users get access to this or anything like this free conversion.
00:23:15.546 - 00:23:59.322, Speaker A: I doubt there's many us people that actually use tether on Tron, to be honest. As I've said in the past, like, a lot of the usage tends to be concentrated in these regions, right? Latin America, Africa and Asia Pacific. So going after those regions I think is very, very smart and I'm glad that Coinbase is doing that there. Alright, to finish up today's episode, just a little bit of. I guess I'm not gonna say it's gonna be a rant because I don't wanna get too ranty here, but it's bit funny because obviously if you guys spend as much time as I do on crypto Twitter, you would have noticed this. But I put out a tweet yesterday where I said, ethereum continues to execute strongly on its well defined and long term roll up centric roadmap. And then the Ethereum haters now say, well, we've come to the conclusion that roll ups, L2s, aren't actually, it's Ethereum.
00:23:59.322 - 00:24:36.360, Speaker A: There's just no winning with these people. So remember a while ago I said to you guys that the gas fee fud and the, I guess, like other fight about Ethereum, it's just a way to, like, hate on Ethereum. Like, it wasn't about the gas fees in particular. Yes, obviously the high gas fees are wrong and we need to, you know, not, not ideal and we need to make sure that we can scale Ethereum for users. But the goalposts always shift. Like, I remember when the goal posts were that roll ups would never work and then it shifted from that and then I, it shifted to like, oh, they're all centralized. And then as they've begun to progressively decentralize it and, and all the other Fud seems to just get dispelled every day on Twitter.
00:24:36.360 - 00:24:55.496, Speaker A: They've finally moved to this fud of the L2s aren't Ethereum, which is just beyond stupid. Like, it's actual Fud doesn't make any sense. Layer twos are Ethereum as much as an app that lives on Ethereum. Layer one is Ethereum. It's a set of smart contracts. Guys on the Ethereum chain, you can verify for this for yourself. Running your own full node, you don't have to trust anyone.
00:24:55.496 - 00:25:30.794, Speaker A: That's the beauty about this, because there's no trust involved here. You run your own full node, you can essentially verify all of this for yourself and say it all for yourself as well as use third party tools if you want to as well. Like l two beat has all of the contracts listed there for you to go and verify. You can verify that on either scan and on your own node, you can cross reference it with other explorers out there. There is no need to basically just look at crypto Twitter and basically listen to these idiots. But I'm going to call them idiots because that's what they are saying, that L2s are actually a theory and they are a theory and they are directly connected to a theory, especially if something is like a base roll up, for example. That is a hundred thousand percent.
00:25:30.794 - 00:26:07.962, Speaker A: If you're like, there's no conceivable argument that you could make. That's not a theory. I'm like, I know sometimes people will make the argument that, oh, well, if they're posting their data off chain, then it's not a theory. I think, well, no, because then you can just extend that argument out to a lot of the apps on Ethereum, l one, and say, okay, well, because this app doesn't only has a centralized front and doesn't have a decentralized front, and that means this app only partly lives on Ethereum. It's like, well, no, the smart contracts are on Ethereum, the apps on it, on Ethereum here, yes, there is supporting infrastructure around it, but it lives on Ethereum. Right. So I just really don't like this narrative, this talking point, because of the fact that at least in the past, there was some valid criticisms to be had.
00:26:07.962 - 00:26:31.732, Speaker A: Like there's the valid criticism of the l two s being centralized, like completely, you know, completely valid. Right? Like, I'll give points to that. But as I've said in the past, like the l two s are decentralizing over time. The criticisms over the fact that they have obviously multi sigs like security councils. Yeah, sure. That falls into the centralization argument, the criticisms around liquidity fragmentation. While I believe they them to be overblown to an extent, they're still valid.
00:26:31.732 - 00:26:53.874, Speaker A: So when you look at it from, from that perspective, like there is valid points of criticism here. But to say that L2s aren't ethereum is not a valid point of criticism. It is cope, guys. Like, it is cope and seeth. Because I think in the other ecosystems where we say, well, ethereum layer one isn't competing with these other ecosystems. Ethereum L2s are competing. Ethereum layer one is essentially competing with bitcoin.
00:26:53.874 - 00:27:28.838, Speaker A: Like I, in my mind, ethereum layer one and bitcoin layer one, obviously are competing here, whereas the L2s are competing with the other layer ones to be execution layers. Whereas ethereum l one is trying to be that global sentiment layer, which is what bitcoin was trying to be, or is maybe still trying to be, and doing that by basically remaining decentralized, basically keeping node requirements low, sacrificing this stuff that people, I guess, like criticize Ethereum for. But that's what makes Ethereum strong. That's what makes Ethereum unique. Ethereum layer one should not be trying to scale its execution like other layer ones are. That's not the Ethereum roadmap here. The Ethereum is the roll up centric roadmap.
00:27:28.838 - 00:27:51.882, Speaker A: And if you disagree with that, if you think that it's a bad roadmap, you don't have to be in Ethereum. You can go somewhere else. Like I would love for you to stay in Ethereum, don't get me wrong. And I would love to be able to convince you to stay in Ethereum and convince you that modularity and the roll up centric roadmap is the right way about scaling a blockchain to the world. But at the end of the day, you're not forced to stay in this ecosystem. You're not forced to hold Eth. There's no one forcing you to do anything here.
00:27:51.882 - 00:28:21.148, Speaker A: There are other ecosystems out there that you can go enjoy, that you can go play in, and that's totally your choice here. So all I can do is give you the information available to me and I can educate you as best I can. I can try not to be tribal and biased about it. I can try not to put bad information out there, but I'm not going to force you to stay if you don't want to, if you don't like the roadmap or like the road Ethereum has gone down, not everyone has. There's been people that have left over the years. Like, I know a few of them myself, and that's totally fine. But honestly, I feel like a lot of people who left tend to leave crypto altogether, really just leave Ethereum.
00:28:21.148 - 00:29:10.570, Speaker A: And I think that a lot more people come into a theory after spending time in other ecosystems, because these other ecosystems just end up repeating what Ethereum has already done and repeating the same mistakes that Ethereum already did in the past, and then coming to the same conclusions that Ethereum already did in the past and then saying, well, okay, I guess we're all just building the same thing then. It's like, well, yeah, because there really is only one way to sustainably scale a blockchain for the world. And I believe that way to be the roll up centric roadmap, the modularity roadmap. And I strongly believe that's my strongest held belief in crypto, besides decentralization being the only thing in crypto. And without that you may as well just have a centralized database. But those two things I think marry together because the whole reason I strongly believe that modularity is the way forward is because it preserves that property of decentralization. Because without that, we don't have a blockchain, we don't have something different.
00:29:10.570 - 00:29:27.284, Speaker A: We have, I guess like the same thing that we already have with the, in the tradfi, centralized ecosystem, just with a new coat of paint on it. And I'm not here for that, guys, and I'm sure a lot of you guys aren't here for that either. But enough on that for today. I think that's going to be it. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:29:27.284 - 00:29:30.900, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
