00:00:00.520 - 00:00:38.374, Speaker A: Okay, today's speakers is Elan Rusbeck from Bengali University. So. And Elon is going to talk about exotic circle actions on classifiable css. Thanks, Ali. So, okay, so Stewart commented on my abstract classification program for nuclear sister algebras is arguably nearly done. We're nearly done. Is the only small thing which, which is left is this.
00:00:38.374 - 00:02:08.370, Speaker A: Oh, no. I mean, I'm sure you will argue. Okay, so we know that. So, c star algebra, so simple, separable nuclear sister algebras which satisfy the UCT are classified by the elegant variant. Provided they are these tables, they are regular, where there are several irregularity properties which are equivalent, let's say, provided they are disabled, the stable, meaning that they absorb tensorially the lengths of algebra. Okay, where. So the kind of remaining small issue which has to, still has to be settled is whether the UCT automatically holds.
00:02:08.370 - 00:02:17.114, Speaker A: But some people are working on it. So surely, like, you know, in a day or two, we'll have a. An answer. But, um. So, um. No, sorry, that's a major open problem. But, um.
00:02:17.114 - 00:02:57.162, Speaker A: What we know now that there is some sort of, um. Uh, dividing line right, between the z stable case. I mean, so, I mean, the. If we want to go back a bit in history, I mean the, um, let's say the Elliott classification program aimed at classifying simple, separable nuclear sister algebras. It took several decades until the first counterexample was constructed. That's due to Andrew Thomas following some ideas of Jesper Willeton. And it became later clear that basically the dividing line, or what's missing is z stability, that there are some regularity properties.
00:02:57.162 - 00:03:29.372, Speaker A: There are three ones. Conjecture to be equivalent. Z stability finds nuclear dimension and strict comparison. One of those implications is not quite resolved yet. And then there's huge developments in classification which showed that, okay, with this condition, which is the kind of sister algebraic version of Macduff, we have classification. And with that, we don't know what's happening. We don't have classification, but we don't know what to do with it.
00:03:29.372 - 00:04:01.172, Speaker A: So you somehow have this very crude map of the, of the, of the world of simple, separable nuclear sister algebras. We have the Z stable, or let's say the regular case or fine group of dimension, or whatever you want case. And we have the nazi stable. Okay, so. So here at least they're classified. They're seen as somewhat nice. And what happens here? Well, we know there are examples.
00:04:01.172 - 00:04:26.914, Speaker A: They're constructed. There's some idea. We roughly know how to construct those. Some of those, we have some essentially two construction due to Wiedersen, which give us ways of constructing all sorts of strange things here and now. You could proceed in several ways. You could just give those a bad name. Let's say these are pathological or something like, we don't care about them, they're like bad.
00:04:26.914 - 00:06:04.008, Speaker A: And just focus on those and move on and do something else with your life. Or you could just say that maybe those are just friends we haven't met and we need to understand them better. They're just misunderstood. And part of the, and I think that a good part of the question, or trying to figure out whether we want to like, you know, understand those better or want to do something else should be in how, how thick is this line? Or how tall is this fence? I mean, um, I mean, is this like a reasonable world to live in? And these are just those scary monsters which we can live alone? Or are there many holes in this fence? And we can like, you know, easily move here, in which case maybe we don't want to ignore the existence of these. Okay, so, so I guess the test question for this can be, or one test question would be, well, take one of those, do something which we consider reasonable to it. For example, form a cross product and ask yourselves, do we still stay here? Right? Because if this is a very robust class, whatever reasonable thing you do to it, which is not crazy, leaves you here, then maybe you could say, okay, let's ignore these. So the question, which is kind of a general question, which is been guiding several papers recently, I've owned some of them, other people, is this, let's suppose that a and whatever is there called classifiable for short.
00:06:04.008 - 00:07:33.710, Speaker A: Okay? And let's, let's ignore the UCT question, because the UCT is, we don't know whether that's holds for all nuclear sister algebras. In particular, whether the UCT, the UCT problem is equivalent to the question of whether it's preserved under actions of finite groups or complex groups. So let's say that nice are classifiable with everything else. So suppose a is simple, separable, nuclear and destable. And suppose, let's say g will be some amenable group and alpha would be an action where if G is not discrete, and I mean it's point norm for thing is, is the cross product. Does this satisfy the same property, let's say I write disabled, because the other properties are basically reasonably well understood. The conditions which to ensure separable, we just need G to be the second countable.
00:07:33.710 - 00:08:10.242, Speaker A: And nuclear would be whenever g is amenable. That would work. Simple. Actually there are some interesting questions there, but at least if G is discrete, that would follow if this action is point ways outer. If G is locally compact abelian, that would follow if the action has what's called full strong const spectrum. I can define that if you, if you want to, but. And if G is locally compact, not, but not discrete, but not n at a billion, there is actually not clear what the answer is.
00:08:10.242 - 00:09:21.194, Speaker A: And that's an interesting question. Okay, but. Okay, so let's suppose that we have an action such that is again simple, nuclear, and let's say in the group, let's say second countable just to remain in the separable world. The way you want to understand is this cross product z stable. Okay, that's a good question. Test question of how easy it is to jump over that fence. Okay, so let's list some known results in the discrete setting.
00:09:21.194 - 00:10:29.214, Speaker A: So if g is the integers, or if I in group, then yes, if the action has the rotten property. This was results myself in villain winter. This was generalized to. I'm not going to talk too much about that. So it has the versions with and without community towers. I'm not going to go into the distinction here. And this was done first in paper of myself winter in Zacharyas.
00:10:29.214 - 00:12:38.754, Speaker A: For the case of G is the integer defined groups. And there's groups we have, there was a result of, was generalized in the paper of sabotage and the highest to the case where G is virtually nopetent and discrete. And by go to the other four compact groups in the paper with and Subo or the case of R. Okay, so this works assuming some sort of regularity property for the group action. We also know this goes back at least for the case of Z. That goes back to that paper here with Winter and zacharias, but also generalized to the virtual Neil patent case that the actions which have finite dimension are generic. They form a dense g delta set in the automorphism group or in the set of actions.
00:12:38.754 - 00:14:30.710, Speaker A: It's a reasonably common property for. Okay, I will say that, okay, I won't go through all the groups, but for at least for those discrete settings. Okay, now there are also several papers which give provide results that don't assume financial condimension which go through strong outliness which rohan dimension would imply in those contexts. So, further results, I mean, these results actually don't assume that a has to be simple or that. So, okay, so assuming a is stable, finite for Ng is discrete and the action strongly outer. Strongly outer means that whenever you take an invariant trace, you look at the DNS representation. You have an induced action on that phone algebra.
00:14:30.710 - 00:15:49.214, Speaker A: You want that action to be point voice outer and invariant trace. Now the induced action on this closure is point with error, or what's called properly outer. It means a bit more because we don't want to have any corners on widlitz center. Um, so here, uh, let's list them. So if a is, uh. Assuming this tray space is bower and the extreme boundary is finite dimensional. If the hour means that this is a simplex, then the boundaries is compact.
00:15:49.214 - 00:17:01.862, Speaker A: Then we know that we have the result assuming that G is arbitrary, amenable, discrete, amenable and the action, right. If you have an action on a it and this is an action on pretty much anything associated to a. So on the trace space on this extreme boundary, we want this to factor through a finite group action. So not the entire group action, but that's the way it acts on traces. Actually that's a paper with Grodela and Andrea Avakaro. This generalizes results of, I should put here of Matsui Sato and Sato. So when we improve on their methods.
00:17:01.862 - 00:18:06.616, Speaker A: Sato first proved that for. Sorry. Matsui Sato proves that when you have finitely many extreme traces. Sato proved it for the case where the action on this is trivial. So two same conditions on trace space and g is integers. Then it works for with no restriction. This is due to list of others and also to a and to b.
00:18:06.616 - 00:18:48.336, Speaker A: It's the same paper and same conditions where G is virtually impotent and the action on this extreme boundary is free. That's also due to Valerie. The same paper. Okay. The method there could be used for other things. The idea is basically you go back to this Rocham dimension paper. It's known that for acting on the billions Easter algebras free actions have fine Rohan dimension.
00:18:48.336 - 00:20:30.758, Speaker A: And so somehow you somehow use the fact that you couldn't have fine Rohlen dimension on this extreme on the strata picture and pull that back to a result on sister algebra. It's a method which I'm sure we'll see more of and three some more recent reprint this is when the trace space is still bower. But there is no finite dimensionality assumption on the extreme boundary. So this has to be a compact metroidville space. So here G is taken to be z to the d and the action is assumed to be free and minimal. So this, this is due to graudella, Giffen, Nariskin and Vikarl. So I should point out there are no known counterexamples or conjecture counterexamples.
00:20:30.758 - 00:22:16.174, Speaker A: In the case where we have a discrete group action, I still am still not sure what's the right, if it's reasonable to conjecture that this is preserved. I mean, this gives some evidence, but maybe not quite enough. So who knows? But it's certainly an important question. So the theorem I want to discuss now since the first preprint they put out last month, um, is that we have a negative result for the case of uh, non discrete groups. So at least for a circle, namely so there exists a, uh, simple, separable, uh, nuclear, the stable C sharp algebra unto leven in the well, it's also UCT and enacting alpha of the circle group such as the cross product is simple but not disabled. Okay, so first of all, maybe let me comment on why it's just simple here. Actually, in the case where the group is discrete, we don't have a counterexample even if we don't assume errorness.
00:22:16.174 - 00:22:58.004, Speaker A: So it's conceivable for any action the cross product is going to be stable. When a group is not discrete, it's easy to give a counterexample without assuming simplicity. So it seemed clear that we need to have some error in this condition. We do know that fine rock dimension would preserve the stability and find Rohan dimension is some sort of an algebraic condition, relatively strong one. Okay. And in fact this counter example came about out of my failed attempt to try to prove the opposite. That basically some analog of this for the actions of the reals strong outlines would somewhat imply.
00:22:58.004 - 00:23:27.094, Speaker A: Fine to mention or imply this. So I wasted a lot of time on it until I realized that I have a counterexample. I'm glad I didn't spend more time on it. And now you won't have to waste your time on it either. So that's good. So maybe let's comment first on why didn't say that simplicity is without simplicity is trivial in this case. That's because we take a dual action and that's how I actually have this construction.
00:23:27.094 - 00:24:16.010, Speaker A: So note so without simplicity, simple, it is easy. Certainly would merit writing a paper on this. Simply take. So we take a to be a cross product, let's say by some action beta, okay? And these can certainly be classifiable. Take a minute. Some minimal homeomorphism. This is fine dimensional.
00:24:16.010 - 00:24:53.300, Speaker A: We know that the cross product is classifiable, right? And then simply take the dual action, okay. Alpha the beta hat the dual action. So the cross product by the circle is just going to be by the chi duality. Is just going to be c of x tends for compact. And this is not disabled. Okay, so, so, okay that's, so, I mean that was obvious to be. Literally didn't waste time on this.
00:24:53.300 - 00:25:54.984, Speaker A: But, so, but then the question is, well, would outerness be enough or the suitable version of outerness? As I said, I didn't write the suitable version of outerness is what's called full strong const spectrum. It's not important what definition is because it's equivalent to saying that the cross product is simple. That's by, that's in a paper application model where you introduce that basically to give the correct some of structural condition for what's needed to get implicitly. Okay, so what I want to do with, I mean this pre print is actually fairly short. So I'll just give the outline, the idea of the proof, fairly simple. And mention some open questions and then we can have coffee. So that's the plan.
00:25:54.984 - 00:26:44.540, Speaker A: Any objections to that? So, okay, so here's the idea of the proof. Essentially going to give you the full idea. I mean, everything else is just checking details or you know, I mean you need to be modular VlAd construction which is not very complicated either when you understand it. So, okay, so it's essentially the same thing, the same situation, right? I mean if you look at this trivial example, right. What we start with is an action on, in this case, we started with an action on C of X. C of X is not destable because it's mutative, right. We form a cross product which gives us something destable.
00:26:44.540 - 00:27:01.034, Speaker A: And then we take the dual action, we get back to something non destable. But we, so we just need to start with something which is classifiable, right. So we want to replace C of X by. Sorry. By something which is, which is simple but not classifiable, right? Okay. So we want to construct. So we want to find.
00:27:01.034 - 00:27:21.918, Speaker A: Right. And at least conceptually, it's a bit easier because it's kind of hard to think about how to make something not z stable, right. It's kind of hard to prove that. But making something z stable, we have technology for that. So. And we have technology for constructing non zstable things. So if you can somehow find a non z stable thing and make it z stable, then you can.
00:27:21.918 - 00:28:49.514, Speaker A: Now we know how to go back. So it's essentially the same question of can we? And actually maybe phrase like that. It makes it seem that, you know, the, this conjecture or this idea that this class would be robust seems less reasonable. Because asking. Because if you, if you phrase like this can we take one of those, let's say one of those guys and bring it back here? Then we can hop back in this direction, right? And maybe so, so, I mean, if there are holes in the fence, they go in both ways. Uh, so, so we uh, we construct a, uh, simple, separable unital nuclear, in fact an a calgebra osseter algebra b, and an automorphism, automorphism beta. Certainly the cross product, oops.
00:28:49.514 - 00:29:48.194, Speaker A: Is the stable. Right. Okay, so if we can do that, we take the dual action and we're done. Okay, so how do we construct non Z stable? Basically those kind of counterexamples, you all go, I mean they, there are two types of construction of Wielotsen. We are using the one I understand better. And they all go back to basically those two papers of Elizabeth. I mean, I think all the known counterexamples are some variation of one of those.
00:29:48.194 - 00:30:53.034, Speaker A: And so you have something like, so there is a village in construction where what you do is you take some inductive system. And in the simplest case, I mean there are some variations of that. You can make those spaces contractible. But the simplest way to thing to understand is to take x to be some products of spheres. So maybe x zero would be s two and each x one would be some x zero to the power, let's say d one and so on. So x n would be, would be, I guess xn to the power of d n plus one. And we wrote it here where you have some sequence these, which would increase rather rapidly, right, compared to some other parameters.
00:30:53.034 - 00:31:49.272, Speaker A: And we'd have those, I mean, so you'd have those parameters, the n's, you have the d's, you have to somehow play with them correctly. And the kind of maps which go from here to here are going to be some number of coordinate projections. So I mean, for example here I just took d one, a copy of d one product of d one copies of the sphere. So it had the projection into each coordinate, right? So f would go to f compose the projecting amount of the first coordinate, second coordinate until the dth coordinate. And then if I only do that and not going to get anything simple, right. So then I need to put here something which is intended to make it simple, right? So some point evaluations, for example, if of let's say some, some point, let's say x zero, right? And it doesn't have to be one point. I can take some number of points evaluation.
00:31:49.272 - 00:32:16.292, Speaker A: They can do something more complicated than point evaluations. But I need a certain number of maps here which actually turns out doesn't really matter what they are, which are just there to make the inductive limit simple. Right. So to make the inductive limit simple, what you need to do is to make sure that any element here, I mean, these things are very far from being simple, would become full meaning nonvanish at some point later on. So if you evaluate at points and you make sure those points are somehow reasonably dense, that's going to work. There are other ways to do it. It doesn't matter, so.
00:32:16.292 - 00:32:50.124, Speaker A: Right. And then there's some sort of computation involving turn characters, which would show that some property of non stable k theory, which we're interested in in this case would be perforation would. In case zero would make it to the limit. Right? That was Gillobson's original construction. Right. You need to make those D's grow much faster than fast compared to the ends that somehow. That's relative, that's somehow important.
00:32:50.124 - 00:33:24.996, Speaker A: Right. And or. Sorry, sorry. The dimension of those spaces, it would have to grow relatively fast. And then, okay, there's some flexibility in this construction, but if you get those parameters correctly, then you can make sure that the inductive limit is simple and not, for example, in this case, k zero would be perforated. Okay, this is not a counterexample to the eliot conjecture. Exactly, because you need to find two of those with the same elite invariant, which are not isomorphic, and it's too difficult to figure that out.
00:33:24.996 - 00:34:08.404, Speaker A: But, so the idea of Andrew Toms was to somehow push that obstruction from k zero to the Kun semigroup, which is not part of the Elliott invariant, and that's how we got the counterexample. So, so this is the idea. Right? Remember, we can put several point evaluations here, as long as there are relatively few of those compared to this d, and relatively few is something you can, you can make precise. Okay. So I'm certainly not going to go into the parameters, but, but that's something which is, you know, once you understand it's velocity construction, it's. You have a machine that you can use. Okay, now the problem is that, okay, so we could, you could look at this kind of thing, right? Which is a starting point for our construction, and we might want to, and then we want to construct a homeomorph, an automorphism of that, that lacrosse product is destable.
00:34:08.404 - 00:36:02.384, Speaker A: Now, uh, okay, that's, um, a nice idea, but, um, I mean, I don't really know how to construct any other morphins of this, uh, which are not trivial. I mean, it's, you know, okay, you can kind of understand why case you is unperforated, but to actually construct the, understand the automorphism group of that, that's not that fun. So I have no idea how to do it. So we need to somehow have some version of this where we can actually not only have automorphisms that we can somewhat describe, but ones where you can also say something intelligent about. For example, we want the cross product to be z stable, right? Okay, so, okay, so there's some here we prudence on a paper which says that if suppose a is separable, neutral, we don't really need unital, but. So phrase it. And suppose alpha is an automorphism of a which has a rotten property and is almost periodic.
00:36:02.384 - 00:37:02.752, Speaker A: Almost periodic. It means that for any finite set and for any epsilon, you can find some power of this automorphism which almost got the finance back to where we're starting. Okay, then the cross product is the stable. Okay, even if a is not. Now what we an example of this. So I'll give a, it's a thoroughly unexciting example, because these things are understood for far more complicated things without those conditions. But a nice example to have in mind with those odometer actions, right? Which, because we're sister algebraic, I'll describe with the broader diagram.
00:37:02.752 - 00:37:34.660, Speaker A: So we take for example, um, right. Let's write a broader diagram. So it's a complex number. Each of those are complex numbers. Okay? So, but let's list those as, um, and so on. We can do that in a systematic way. Uh, so we, let's do the binary odometer, right? And think of those as being listed by, let's suppose that this is like z mod two and this is emod four and so on, right? Okay.
00:37:34.660 - 00:37:59.860, Speaker A: Parameterized like that. And some of the way, the way we map this to this would be to simply take this group element mod two. Okay, so, sorry. Right. So we have, we have detective map from here to here, and, okay, so we have an, we have an order two flip here, right? We can flip those two. And we have an order for automorphism here which is consistent with these two. Right.
00:37:59.860 - 00:38:19.196, Speaker A: So we can draw this, right. This would, I mean, we can do it consistently, but for example, this would go here, and then this would have to go here. This goes here and this goes here. Okay. Depending on how I label them. And you can continue, right. Okay, so we'd have an order eight automorphant here, which is consistent with this one, so on and so forth, right.
00:38:19.196 - 00:39:13.730, Speaker A: The inductive limit here is the counter set, and you have this almost periodic accelerant. Why? Because, for example, you know anything, this algebra at this level, right? The c plus c, the thing is, has exactly periodic, has order two, right? And here it has order four, and so on and so forth, right? So any element is approximate. Any fine set of elements is approximately in one of those subalgebras. And the action there is honestly periodic. Okay, so we know the cross product by odometer action is the same. Well, of course, that's not exciting at all, because we know that for far more general minimal homeomorphisms, right? If you're interested, you can, you could play with this idea and get an automorphism. Those are those in flung algebras in the early days, there is this construction of Dixie Lanz, of this hyper, of this type two factor, which has property gamma, but is not McDuff.
00:39:13.730 - 00:40:11.214, Speaker A: And that's constructed as some group phenomenon algebra. You can look at the sister algebraic version of that. So with some trickery, you could somehow have an example of an automorphism of that weird c stratophones cross product d stable. You do the phenomenal, you take the w star completion. That will give an example of an automorphism of this dixmilian example whose cross product is Macduff. But that's not what we're doing here. So, okay, so what I want to do is take this example, which is really simple and very well understood, and that example, which is.
00:40:11.214 - 00:41:09.410, Speaker A: Well, and somehow merge those two. Okay, so suppose we take, and this goes back to this idea I have in paper with Chris Phillips on internal asymmetries of merging diagrams, and was also used in some, later in the paper with Ali, Chris Phillips and Golestani. So the idea is this, let's draw the same diagram for this of a binary tree, but overlay that with the villas and cosmos. Okay? And let's give those names to make things a little bit easier. Let's call this, I know, let's call this b zero, b one, b two, just to make it easier to write. So we'd have here b zero. And instead of having this one map, it's the same map.
00:41:09.410 - 00:42:06.044, Speaker A: Okay, so we're not going to give this name, but take this map and simply split it right into a direct sum of two copies. Okay, so just, I just take the map into the two summons, then it keeps on going and so on and so forth. Okay, so I could do that. And I could do the same automorphism and get the thing to be disabled. Of course, that's not remotely exciting, because if I do that, I'm going to get the tensor product of this Vladin algebra by the continuous function on the counter set. And this is just a tensor product automorphism, which is so, so trivial and not what we wanted. Okay, so the idea, now, let's modify this to make it simple, right? So if we look at this map, let's think of the, let's draw these in two colors.
00:42:06.044 - 00:42:49.040, Speaker A: Suppose let's, let's make this yellow and this red. Okay? So think of this being essentially two arrows. There's a yellow arrow and a red arrow. Okay? The red arrow is those point evaluations. The yellow arrow is all the other stuff. So, no, okay, so let's redraw this. I have here these interesting maps, right? Which are some of what's needed to get this unstable k theory phenomenon into the inductive limit.
00:42:49.040 - 00:43:42.036, Speaker A: And then they have those point evaluations which are just there, which they have a very small number of them compared to the yellow ones. I mean, the yellow arrow is much bigger, very thick yellow arrow and a very, very thin red arrow, right? Okay. And you have the red arrow there, which is just a matter which is just there to make things simple. And I know that somehow we can construct the machinery that as long as they know that I don't put too many of those, then no matter how I put those red arrows, those point evaluations, it's not going to mess up this bad behavior in the inductive limit, this perforation in k three. Okay, so, so here's this thing. But of course, you know, I can also, I can add some more point evaluations, right? I mean, I can also have point evaluation going like this. Right? You can put a little bit of those.
00:43:42.036 - 00:44:03.714, Speaker A: So I definitely had to modify those numbers a little bit to make a bit of room for it. But, you know, there's some flexibility here, right? So we'd have to make those n one, then two s a little bit bigger. But that's okay, as long as you make this d and grow exponentially fast, large enough, it's fine. So. Right. And so on. Right.
00:44:03.714 - 00:44:26.662, Speaker A: So I can do this and then I can continue. You can draw the next level, but that will have lots of arrows. Okay, so I could do this. And if I did this, I simply add those points evaluation and make sure everything goes across. Now, the negative length will be simple, right? And now it looks a lot like the previous dagger. So now what I need to do is essentially slightly modify that automorphism in a way which will still make sense here. I can still flip those too.
00:44:26.662 - 00:45:03.536, Speaker A: That's fine here. When I take an order for things of those, it has to take into account that, well, when I move things here, I also have those arrows went there. So I'd have to somehow correct that kind of picture to make sure that, for example, the order for automorphism here is consistent with the order to automorphism here. That can be done. So it's not, you have to think about how to do it, but you have to conjugate by some unitaries basically, which somehow reorder those point evaluations to make sure they work right. So, so, but when you do that, you get a very similar situation. I mean, I have an honest order to automorphism here and honest order four automorphism here and so on.
00:45:03.536 - 00:45:39.468, Speaker A: So, okay, now if that happens, they haven't, if they have an order to automorphism here which flips those two and order four here and so on, that's almost periodic. It all has a Rohan property. What does the Rohan property mean? It means we have projections which gets basically moved around, right? I mean this is a very strong version of the Rohan property. In this case, they actually have the identity of this, this, this and this, right. And they get permuted and they're also, they also need to be approximately central. But we get that right, because these will be central productions here, right. And so on.
00:45:39.468 - 00:46:34.528, Speaker A: So when we do this, what happens is we get this vods in type algebra, which is kind of modification of that thing where unlike that case here, we actually know how to construct all the morphism which satisfies those properties, those nice properties. So the cross product is going to be z stable. So that's basically the idea behind the proof. And the rest is just details and checking that the parameters work the way you want them. Um, okay, so may, I'll just finish this with some questions. Don't forget anything. Um, yeah, so, uh, well, some questions.
00:46:34.528 - 00:47:09.514, Speaker A: So first of all, um, you can ask, well, so this works in stable finite case. I don't know what works in the purely infinite case. We know that in this discrete setting, awareness would be enough to show that pure infinite is preserved. So, so it's a different situation. But, and of course, on the other hand, o infinity stability is not preserved. Just take the gauge action on o two. The cross polls car algebra.
00:47:09.514 - 00:48:37.698, Speaker A: So we don't expect o infinity stability to be preserved. But what about z stability? I don't know. So is there an example of a circle action on o two, such as the cross product is simple, but not the stable? I assume at this point, I assume yes, but I don't. And a more general question which, I mean, maybe it's a more kind of vague research project this. I mean, okay, so if we now decided that there are holes in that fence, and maybe that other side of the fence is not so bad. You want to understand it? The Wielandson construction gives you something of sister algebra which has positive radius of comparison in the sense of Andrew Thoms. So that's another invariant which is only real.
00:48:37.698 - 00:49:01.974, Speaker A: Interesting in the non classifiable case. And what happens? This construction gives us an example. We start with something with positive radius comparison could be arbitrarily large. Radius of comparison radius. Yes, sorry. So, okay, what kind of radius? I think you can get anything. You can get any number.
00:49:01.974 - 00:50:24.340, Speaker A: Any number? Yes. Okay, so it's numerical invariant, the radius of comparison, right. And what happens here is we have an action which takes something with positive radius comparison and brings all the way down to zero. Now in the finite group case, there's some work of Ali and Chris Phillips which gives you various rate of comparison between the. So if the rate of comparison of a is x, then you can get anything in x and x divided by the order of the group. So the question what would happen to the rates comparison under reactions of the integers? That's suppose, what are the possible values? Okay, so let's suppose that. Okay, so we've shown that it can go down to zero, but can we get anything which is between any numbers between zero and, and the radius of comparison of a.
00:50:24.340 - 00:50:53.844, Speaker A: Can we get anything larger than the radius of comparison of a? I don't know. Okay, what is the context? I thought you just said it could be. It could be zero, but, but I don't know if it could be like. No, half the radius of comparison of a. Or could it be twice the radius of comparison of a? What is a? A is, let's say, you know, simple. Yeah, simple, separable unital, let's say if you want nuclear. I don't know if that's relevant.
00:50:53.844 - 00:51:30.124, Speaker A: Okay, so, so, I mean, okay, now, so we know that something can happen. We can start with something which is has positive rates comparison form, cross product gets zero. You know what else could happen? I mean, it seems plausible that you can get anything between zero and the radius comparison a. But that's not a theorem. And I don't have no idea how you can go up, if that's even possible. So that's just a vague question. And maybe just one last remark.
00:51:30.124 - 00:51:43.784, Speaker A: Okay, I mean, this doesn't really tell us anything. I think about the, about the discrete case. Group case. Right. I mean it's. This is certainly for. Works for the circle.
00:51:43.784 - 00:52:19.214, Speaker A: I don't know what happens for the reals. I expect that the same thing happens, but the construction would be more complicated so I don't know how to do it, but I would guess it should. Surely we should have examples of the reals such as the cross product is not the stable and simple. But one thing we could notice is if we take a dense copy of the integers inside the circle irrational angle. Right. Then. Okay, the cross product of that may well be stable and most likely is.
00:52:19.214 - 00:52:48.394, Speaker A: But the fixed points of algebra is the same. So this does give you an example where you have an action of the integers on a classifiable C star algebra such that the fixed points of algebra is simple but not destable. Okay, the fixed points of algebra behaves differently than the cross product. So it's not a counterexample or anything, but it's less a curiosity. So okay, let's end here.
