00:00:04.330 - 00:00:04.606, Speaker A: What up?
00:00:04.628 - 00:00:38.662, Speaker B: Coordination on the pod. Today we have Gregory Landwait, who is co founder of the Region Network. Region Network is a Web Three marketplace where you can buy, trade and retire ecological credits in a voluntary carbon market. So Gregory has been an inspiration for me since writing the Green Pill Book and starting the Green Pill podcast. The second time we've had him on podcast. On the podcast today, we're talking about what's new since the last time we had them on. We are talking about regen punk, which is kind of a more earthy, less high tech variant of imagining the future that we want to live in.
00:00:38.662 - 00:01:35.094, Speaker B: Relative to solar punk. We talk about deep green Pilling. So basically a little bit more of an Earthy refi type of Green pill. We talk about the eight forms of capital, which is something that Gregory was involved in creating. The idea that we don't just have financial capital, but we have spiritual capital and we have intellectual capital, we have cultural capital, material capital, many different types of capital. And what if we could use Web Three to regenerate not just our financial system, but all of those different types of capital? So this episode, in a fun, meta way, is regenerative of intellectual capital and at least for me, spiritual capital, because Gregory is just such an inspiration, has been working on this space and the things leading up to the regen network for the last ten years or so. And he's just one of the thinkers that I respect the most when it comes to building a regenerative crypto economic movement, green Pilling, and now Deep Green Pilling, the Web Three ecosystem and creating more coordination.
00:01:35.094 - 00:01:40.310, Speaker B: So really enjoyed the episode with Gregory, and I think that you will too enjoy coordination.
00:01:40.390 - 00:02:23.946, Speaker C: Working in Web Three is awesome, but working outside of the typical W Two employee structure is a deal breaker for so many. Opolis is helping the self sovereign worker focus on what they do best their work. Tax time is coming up. Opolis helps professionalize your business by helping you form an entity, generate proof of employment through Pay subs and receive a W Two at the end of the tax year. Are you self employed and forced to spend money on expensive healthcare insurance with limited coverage? Opolis leverages group buying power through a community employment coop, helping you save 20% to 50% on high quality, affordable healthcare options through Cigna. And finally, Opelis's member owners share in Opelis's success and profits based on their work token holdings. You must be authorized to work inside the United States in select Canadian provinces to receive Opolis's benefits.
00:02:23.946 - 00:03:02.774, Speaker C: Book a 30 minutes free consultation with Opelis's experts and join Opelus by March 31, 2023 to get 1000 work and a thousand bank tokens. Go to Connect Opolis Co Bankless to get started. And if you're going to East Denver, make sure to stop by the Opolis booth or attend their future of work Summit hosted by Opolis. The Glow Dollar is a new stablecoin with a very special property. As the market cap of Glow goes up, extreme poverty goes down. Glow is a dollar backed nonprofit stablecoin that creates basic income for people living in extreme poverty. Glow is basically the same business model as USDC with yield generating treasuries on one side and a stablecoin on ethereum on the other.
00:03:02.774 - 00:03:32.990, Speaker C: But instead of being a for profit company, glow is a nonprofit that donates 100% of all yields from the Glow Reserve to Give directly's basic Income Program. Givedirely is a charity that gives people money, no strings attached, to people living in poverty and is a charity that Vitalik has previously donated to and supported in the past. With Glow, you can reduce poverty just by holding a stablecoin. Glow is launching in early 2023 and you can join the waitlist@glowdollar.org greenpill. That's glodollar.org greenpill.
00:03:34.130 - 00:03:35.860, Speaker B: What's up, Gregory? How are you doing?
00:03:36.550 - 00:03:39.650, Speaker A: I'm good, Kevin. Stoked to be here.
00:03:39.800 - 00:03:55.480, Speaker B: Yeah, so good to have you. I really enjoyed the episode that we did about a year ago when Green Pill was just getting started and wanted to invite you back to chat about a bunch of stuff. So maybe we start by talking about Region Punk. What is.
00:03:59.450 - 00:05:06.590, Speaker A: Sort of I believe there's this emerging, I guess, art and ethos culture that isn't quite fully encapsulated or described by Solar Punk, but is sort of adjacent or a subtribe, but has some clear differences, I think. And maybe it's a little bit more cottage core than it is like utopian techno future or something like that. And maybe it's got a little bit different set of kind of like maybe it's a little bit deeper green than brilliant neon green and maybe it's a little bit more focused on the relationship between humans and the greater than human world agriculture, land use. It's just a little bit more and I think it is kind of a subtribe within the larger it's probably a little bit less beyond meat and a little bit more holistic grazing.
00:05:07.890 - 00:05:39.446, Speaker B: So let's play back a couple of these things just for the audience. Solar Punk is about sustainability and sort of nature integrated with technology, but in this high utopia world where there isn't a lot of people and Region Punk is more of a deeper green than that. It's more about land use, salt of the earth, less beyond meat and more eating. I actually don't remember what you said there. And then what's cottage core can you take us?
00:05:39.468 - 00:05:57.600, Speaker A: Deep? Cottage core is like an internet aesthetic where people post photos of cool little log cabins in the woods or like mossy hobbit houses and stuff like that.
00:05:58.290 - 00:06:19.670, Speaker B: So this deep forest imagery, does that come from actually using web3 in order to create material capital? Basically using web3 in order to regenerate the earth? What is the intellectual sort of analog to this vision of being in the deep forest. Do you think that it informs that aesthetic?
00:06:21.290 - 00:07:14.310, Speaker A: It's a good question. Yes. I think in Regent Punk there is maybe just a little bit more technoskepticism than techno utopianism. But very clearly there is kind of the DIY like we own and operate our own digital networks and computer aided governance and are embedding market mechanisms and funding public goods. I think that's all really, as you're saying, that is the pathway to get there and I believe and is kind of intrinsic. I was recently talking with Daniel Schwachtenberger, who many of your guests probably familiar with. You did a couple of great episodes with Daniel and shout out.
00:07:14.310 - 00:08:13.594, Speaker A: Daniel and I have a podcast on the Planetary Regeneration podcast coming out pretty soon. And one of the things that he said that really resonated with me, which I would identify kind of in a way both with Solar Punk and Region Punk, is the embrace and acceptance of high technology, but the emphasis on high ecology, right. Where this isn't sort of like a luddite revolution necessarily. It is really like, hey, we need to roll up our sleeves. We need to learn to be owner operators of this sort of digital enablement of humans to coordinate. But maybe we're also going to try to do that in as minimalist way as possible. Maybe we're going to also understand the potential for addictive behaviors and degen behaviors to sync all of that.
00:08:13.594 - 00:08:16.090, Speaker A: So we're not going to love it just for its own sake.
00:08:16.670 - 00:09:15.710, Speaker B: Yeah, well, I think that's interesting, what you said about being tech skeptical and more local. I feel like if solarpunk is high utopian, high tech, high globalist, then Region Punk feels like it's more about putting control and sovereignty back into local communities and that leads to the more minimalist way of life and the high ecology way of life. And for me, understanding the it feels like there's almost an analog here with the Ethereum architecture, which started off as this giant layer one and is now decentralizing into all these L2s to what Cosmos has with IBC, where it's kind of like every sovereign Cosmos chain to itself. There's almost more like an emphasis on localism in Cosmos and I see that mirrored in Regen Punk, whereas in Ethereum I see a little bit more of a Solar Punk aesthetic. Not that I would say most Ethereums are globalists. There's the nuance there. But do you see an analog there with the Cosmos architecture informing the philosophy?
00:09:18.610 - 00:10:23.970, Speaker A: I think Cosmos architecturally and from an ethos perspective is very Region Punky. And yes, it is that localism as one of the core sort of design principles, sort of this idea of bringing sovereignty as close to the local interactions and relationships as is possible and then allowing people to assemble and federate into larger conglomerations and coordination systems, in our case in Cosmos via IBC, via shared security. But you always want the tools so that you don't force people into the tyranny of network effect, into large monolithic globalized systems because that's where we start to lose diversity and nuance and beauty and kind of inspiration. All of those things get squashed when you get into these big, monolithic, modernist globalist schemes.
00:10:24.310 - 00:10:46.250, Speaker B: Yeah. So it's like, how do we create the sovereignty of local values and of local goods, whereas in the globalist economy, everything becomes like Bud Light and Super Bowl ads and cheeseburgers, like global commodified sort of goods when you're in the more high globalist type of economy.
00:10:47.390 - 00:12:15.042, Speaker A: I think that's a tendency. Right? And look, I don't think we need to be sort of naive. We don't need to naively dismiss globalism and the role that that may have played in having a somewhat stable, peaceful last 40, 60 years of the world. But on the other hand, we can also understand that, look, wow, there are consequences of this sort of like globalized, homogenized, accelerated economy that came about for maybe people wanted progress and affluence and all these good things, but it has consequences. So then we can ask how do we coordinate and maintain that kind of, I guess, relative peace and prosperity, but also ground that and root that in local sovereignty, in local, again, regenerative relationships. And how do we I'm very passionate about this question of how do we recenter the economic relationships between humans and the greater than human world. Our biosphere, the ecosystems we're part of in our economy so that we're actually coordinating to be a keystone species, a force for regeneration, so that as we practice agriculture, we're deepening the soils, we're making them more carbon rich.
00:12:15.042 - 00:12:56.802, Speaker A: As we practice forestry, we're improving the forest health. And that is completely possible. I mean, there's a huge body, actually, of scientific evidence that humans are capable of enhancing ecological health while extracting value for our food and our building and our medicine. That's totally possible. It's just how that exchange and that relationships takes place, right. That's region punk, that's permaculture, that's regenerative agriculture, that's sort of that sphere that meme plex the quest to try to unfurl that. And Web Three has such a powerful set of tools to explore that design space, I think.
00:12:56.936 - 00:13:55.154, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. Well, the reason why we do these episodes on the endless procession of punks, solar punk, terrapunk lunar punk, is because there is a loop between imagining the world that we want to live in and then building it. So the more that we can imagine it and articulate it as articulate those value systems, the more the engineers and the creative people in the world can pull the hearts and minds of humanity towards it. And so that's why we do those episodes, these episodes about these different types of punk. And one of the things I'm really excited to talk, get really deep and weird with you on Gregory, is that it says in the Green Pill podcast album, art regenerative crypto economics, the Green pill podcast album art is like light green, so I want you to take me like deep regen punk. I want you to take me like deep forest green pills, and let's do some deep forest green pilling here. Tell me about web3 permaculture.
00:13:55.154 - 00:14:04.380, Speaker B: Tell me about living in harmony with the people in the communities around you, but also the nature around you. Let's take some dark green pills together.
00:14:05.390 - 00:15:27.720, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, first off, just invite everyone to take a quick tour of Permaculture design ethics and principles. So permaculture for listeners who aren't familiar with it is a design, art and science that was brought into the world by Bill Mollison and David Holmgren, two Aussies who were heavily influenced by observing indigenous people interacting with their environments and directly observing nature and then kind of asking themselves, what would it look like for us to create a sort of design science that encapsulates what we've learned in a set of simple ethics and then a set of principles to kind of guide how we're thinking about things? There's kind of a whole global movement of permaculture. I used to be very deeply in the Permaculture world, and so I'm quite, I guess, influenced by that and how I think about things. So just to out that lineage and give people an opportunity to dig in and do your own research, there's so many different great teachers and resources there. The three ethics are earth care, people care, and fair share or care for the future generations. That third ethic is articulated by different people in different ways.
00:15:27.720 - 00:18:00.198, Speaker A: And then there's a set of principles that we ask when we're trying to design something. And if we're going deep green as opposed to bright green, we might be a little bit more likely to think about key design principles such as observe and interact. Like, there's this idea in Permaculture that before you make a design intervention in a landscape, you should probably watch that landscape for at least a year, right? So there's this idea of going slow and really observing the system that you want to engage with. Now, if I was to critique this sort of, like, bright green, solar punk, high utopian vision in the web3 space and be like, hey, I want to invite you all to take a deeper shade of green pill, it'd be like? What are the ways that we can be more deeply informed, for instance, around Dow governance, around the experimentations that have preceded us to understand how human coordination works and doesn't work and really base our design on those sorts of things? How can we observe relationships between different living systems in a watershed, for instance, outside our doors and really base our design decisions and our technological decisions on those functional emergent phenomena of life? So that's one sort of piece of things. Another piece, as you were mentioning earlier, that I really think is important and deeply regent punk, and you really honed in on this is just we have to be considering, I guess, local sovereignty and integration and self regulation. What does that mean? Right. Well, to me, that means in web3 design, that means really deeply exploring things like sovereign application or community specific blockchains that can choose to engage in shared security or roll up relationships or other pieces like that, but where you're really aiming to build the capacity of a community to maintain its own consensus about what it thinks is important.
00:18:00.198 - 00:18:37.038, Speaker A: Because that enables us in a deep green perspective to have a diversity of approaches instead of a singular monolithic approach. So that diversity that mimics how we see rainforests work and how we see ecosystems work, right. Different communities, different actors need to adapt to specific circumstances, so they need a maximum of flexibility around how they're designing it, but they do still need sort of consensus and interoperability across those systems. So again, that's kind of an invitation maybe into the deeper shade of green pill.
00:18:37.214 - 00:19:26.738, Speaker B: Yeah, that's so interesting. So you're taking me there. I'm digesting the deep green pill and I want to get to the cosmo stuff and the design philosophy, but first I want to just recap the permaculture because that's where we started on this journey. So I almost look at it as like, permaculture is a way of accepting that there's a short term debt cycle and a long term debt cycle not only in our financial world in how we borrow money in the short term, but how long term debt accumulates and the whole system resets. Fourth turning style. But I take that and I apply it to the eight forms of capital which you're one of the primary authors behind. There's not just financial capital, there's social capital, there's material capital, there's spiritual capital from how we treat each other.
00:19:26.738 - 00:19:59.530, Speaker B: And so when I think about permaculture, it's about managing the short term and the long term debt cycle of our soil and of our spiritual relationships with each other through Earth care and people care and fair share and care for future generations. There's a long term debt cycle where if you don't care for the people in your community and you're creating spiritual debt, if you don't care for your soil, then you're creating soil debt and you won't be able to grow anything anymore. And so I don't know, in my mind, permaculture just seems like a way of managing those debt cycles, except with different types of capital. Am I on the right track at all?
00:19:59.680 - 00:20:22.178, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. I think that that's the right track. That eight forms of capital framework really emerged out of the permaculture movement. It gets used a lot in the permaculture movement. It's sort of like a folk economics framework. And at some point I can tell the story of how that framework emerged for Ethan and I who co created it with me.
00:20:22.264 - 00:20:22.900, Speaker B: But.
00:20:24.710 - 00:21:17.874, Speaker A: One story I just love to tell everyone because I feel like it can help take us to the Deep green Pill. The place where we're seeing it really living and thriving is in the Web Three space. We talk a lot about liquidity. We talk a lot about liquidity. Yeah. So I'm going to just invite everyone to imagine a landscape that is denuded of life, that is just dirt. And imagine what happens when there's a giant liquidity event, a torrential downpour, a tropical storm, a monsoon comes and it just is just unloading this liquidity from the sky.
00:21:17.874 - 00:21:20.050, Speaker A: What happens to that landscape?
00:21:20.210 - 00:21:28.890, Speaker B: Well, I'm no expert on this, but I'm imagining that a lot of the topsoil gets washed away by the liquidity.
00:21:29.950 - 00:22:02.530, Speaker A: The topsoil gets washed away, big gullies form. And all of it rushes super fast down to the biggest body of liquidity of them all, the ocean. And it deposits all the sediment into the ocean. The ocean then is polluted and has all of this sediment and it kills the species. It silts over any coral reefs and it clogs up all the mollusks. It just creates havoc right in the ocean. It also creates havoc upstream.
00:22:02.530 - 00:23:09.146, Speaker A: And then a day later, after the sun comes back out, what happens? The landscape is dry and it's cracked and it has retained none of the moisture. Now let's think about what happens when that same rainfall event falls on a vibrant forest, an agroforestry system that has swales and ponds and deep soil and a canopy and is just fully vegetated, right? What happens? And it just absorbs it and there could be hardly any runoff. But then what happens is it recharges the groundwater and springs pop up and those springs flow down into the ocean. So all the liquidity still goes to the biggest liquidity pool of them all, the ocean. It just takes way longer to get there. It's slow. And in that stream there are fish and there are crawfish and all sorts of things.
00:23:09.146 - 00:24:06.486, Speaker A: And in the ocean, there's so much more life. It hasn't been silted. And so this, to me, this visual metaphor, this is the invitation for how we need to think about our digital infrastructure, our Web Three infrastructure, and embedding liquidity and markets into the commons, into living systems and taking that information and thinking as entrepreneurs, as community members, as Dow members. How do we grow the forest? Because the liquidity comes, right? The liquidity comes. But how do we manage it? How do we absorb it and flow it slowly in such a way as to create abundance? I think that's a really illustrative story for those of us who are passionate about public goods funding and commons management, common pool resources, and who maybe self identify as regions and have taken the green pill.
00:24:06.678 - 00:25:11.598, Speaker B: Yeah. One of the stories that I've always been inspired by is aya from the Ethereum Foundation. The executive director of the Ethereum Foundation has this story about how Web Three is like this infinite garden where you have all these different fauna that are all overlapping with each other and symbiosis, but also sort of competition with each other for resources. And that web3 is like this infinite garden where this diversity of an ecosystem all sort of depends on each other, and every organism is optimized to do one little thing different from every other little organism. And it's through that that we SOP up the liquidity and the sunlight in the ecosystem. And I saw this beautiful metaphor for biomimicry in our digital ecosystem, and I think it's the thing that stands out to me here, Gregory, is that in a pluralistic ecosystem that's very diverse, it's not like you can really invest all your capital in making one of those organisms survive. You really need to have the whole ecosystem in symbiosis and growing together.
00:25:11.598 - 00:25:46.540, Speaker B: So it's like rediscovering the commons in the digital age by having to build this ecosystem. Me for my perch at super modular, you at Regen Network, but everyone else who's funding public goods in their own ecosystem is building their own little special fertilizer and formula for regenerating the infinite garden. And I just think it's a beautiful thing. But I guess my question is, how do how do we get humans to coordinate, to actually build this rich commons? How do we get more people to see that we don't want to have that barren wasteland, but we want to actually have more liquidity and puts in the effort to make it happen? That's kind of where my mind goes.
00:25:48.430 - 00:27:02.930, Speaker A: Yeah, well, that's a great question. I think you see people doing it, I mean, at region network, the way that we're approaching it disclaimer. I fully am an adherent of this sort of pluralistic infinite garden idea. I love that. I think it's a great metaphor. But speaking concretely, from my personal experience, my answer to that question really is how do we show the use of a state machine of a community that's generating consensus, computational consensus, maintaining that computational consensus over time? What's the highest leverage point? To engage that type of tech, in my mind, is to try to generate computational consensus about ecological health and to be able to bring that ecological health into social consensus around how to value it. And so this is my passion around living capital, specifically around the relationship between living capital and the other forms of capital, the relationship between living capital and financial capital.
00:27:02.930 - 00:27:29.146, Speaker A: How do we build infrastructure that allows communities to express preference and desire and actually sort of, like, generate profits from regeneration? That, to me, is enormously exciting. And I think you can kind of use the eight forms of capital framework to think about that, about each of the other forms of capital as well. I just happen to be super passionate about the living capital relationship.
00:27:29.328 - 00:27:44.194, Speaker B: Yeah, I think at this point, it's worth reminding listeners what Regen Network does. I know that you've got a toolkit that allows people to, I think, generate this consensus about the health of their commons and would love to have you tell us about that real quick.
00:27:44.392 - 00:28:23.702, Speaker A: So right now, Regen Network is an application specific blockchain that also is connected via bridges to the ethereum world. Several EVMs other things going on. We have our own validator set, and it's built to be a registry and marketplace for eco credits. And the bulk of those eco credits that are live in the system right now are carbon credits, which have an existing marketplace, an existing value. They're sort of considered to be real world assets. And we've developed a system and we're sort of blockchainifying more and more of this system over time. But we're also very pragmatic.
00:28:23.702 - 00:29:18.426, Speaker A: Like you got to hit things where they're at and build what you need to build in order for something to work. So right now, if you were to go to App Region Network, you'd see a marketplace that has these really cool carbon credits in which people communities are getting paid to sequester and store carbon. They're very high quality. They sort of follow the most rigorous science available and we're more and more building tools for this to become sort of a disintermediated and self service marketplace and process. But that also takes time because people need to learn how to sort of represent these eco credits in a rigorous and robust way. So it's sort of a slow and steady progress to maintain counterparty trust and really build out a vibrant marketplace for these sorts of eco credits, for these units of account for living capital.
00:29:18.618 - 00:29:47.240, Speaker B: So I'm wondering if you could tell us about how you solve the Oracle problem of the creation of a carbon credit in one of these local communities. Are there sensors that ingest into the blockchain and attestation that a carbon credit or sorry, not like a carbon credit, but like an ecological credit, a superset of what carbon credits are? How do you solve the Oracle problem? What's a typical use case for these credits? I'd love to just get real hands on with the tech and the use case of region network because I think that's where the rubber meets the road on a lot of this stuff.
00:29:49.230 - 00:30:46.090, Speaker A: Totally. Yeah. So it's funny, I don't use the term Oracle very often. Okay, so we take more of a trust graph approach around ecological data claims and then the credit minting process. So at the moment, how this works is we have sort of governance gated token issuance in which it's very clear who's issuing the token and what the agreement between counterparties of what that token needs to be in order to be issued. And that includes what data needs to be present, what methodology needs to be followed, and who maybe needs to audit it. So we're sort of like at this first phase where we're sort of taking the legacy approach to this where you have legal contracts between counterparties and we're going through those processes, we're representing those on chain and we're also automating certain pieces of it.
00:30:46.090 - 00:31:57.714, Speaker A: Phase two, we're building out this larger trust graph where we start to be able to automate some of this. We start to be able to engage with sensors, with satellites. And by the way, there is already satellites and sensor and machine learning embedded into the credits that are being generated. Sometimes that data gets anchored and signed as it relates to the credits and just more and more of that is moving closer and closer and more deeply on chain, essentially where there's larger metadata loads and automation processes around the specific claims. But again, ecological the science of Earth observation isn't. And the blockchain toolkit, we're sort of bringing those together at region network, but there's still work to do to bring them fully together. So if you go and find that like a city forest credit on region network or the carbon plus credits on region network, what you'll see is a metadata load and a tokenization that is referring to also a set.
00:31:57.714 - 00:32:38.480, Speaker A: Of legal contractual frameworks between counterparties that again kind of follows legacy carbon credit approaches but has been augmented and improved and made more transparent. And so essentially it's like a step by step incremental process to really build this more transformative trust graph in which we have an Oracle network, a trust graph network that is allowing us to then issue credits programmatically according to an algorithm that represent ecological health, but we're not there yet. That's going to take us more and more time or more time with our community continuing to build everything out.
00:32:38.930 - 00:33:28.926, Speaker B: Wow, that's incredible. I just think that the thing that I respect about Regen Network so much is that all this regen punk stuff and Web Three permaculture sort of philosophy that you have, you're practicing it day to day and building out technology and just iterating to make it happen. And you all are such long term thinkers on this. I know because Gregory, you and I have been in touch for years, but I know that your career working on this stuff goes back on the order of decades, not months, not years. So I think it's neat how you're connecting the tactical to the philosophy there. I'm curious if there's anything I didn't ask that you want to tell us. Where should we go next? What's the coolest thing in the region punk region network community that you want to show off?
00:33:29.028 - 00:34:13.406, Speaker A: Well, awesome question. I love that. Thank you. One of the things that I'm most passionate about is one of the things that we need the most help with and one of the things that's, like the least finished. And that is this vision of region network being owned and operated by landscapes, by nature, by indigenous people, by farmers, by scientists, not just by Web three speculators or VCs. And so we have this amazing. Organization called Regen Foundation, which unlike a lot of foundations in the space, isn't like a Swiss foundation that received a big chunk of money and is stewarding it.
00:34:13.406 - 00:35:30.822, Speaker A: No, it's a US 501 that is responsible as an organization for supporting and ensuring that these communities are really we're embedding the market mechanisms that we're building into the hands of these communities. They have a big task. It's digital literacy, it's dow tooling and onboarding for communities that are not automatically in the web3 world, in the web3 family. And I'm really excited about that. And that's one of the things that, in a way, I'm most passionate about, but is hardest. And it's sort of like in this beautiful tension between success in the marketplace and having people buy a carbon credit and offset it, which predominantly there are blockchains offsetting, there are smart contracts offsetting, there are corporations offsetting. But the ultimate expression of this vision is really to ground the process into a platform cooperative ownership structure that is really owned and operated by the land stewards and the indigenous people, by Amazonian tribes, by rivers in New zealand by a plurality of what it means.
00:35:30.822 - 00:36:27.506, Speaker A: Because that's how we're going to start to be able to express rights of nature and sovereignty and living capital in a really clear way. Right? That's where the market can actually serve life. On the other hand, there's lots of experiments in the refi space and I respect all of them, but many of them aren't really rooting with this deep green pill. Many of them aren't really rooting things into ownership and governance of these communities which are ultimately producing the value through how they interact with living systems. So that's something that I don't as often get to talk about and I don't sit on the Region Foundation side. As a founder, I influenced and helped co create that vision. But there's a very clear separation between the company that I'm CEO of, which is Region Network Development public Benefit Corp.
00:36:27.506 - 00:36:58.130, Speaker A: Right, and Region Foundation, which is this 501. And so I get to sort of be a fan and sometimes use my soapbox to talk about it and as a community member help co create and connect. But there's sort of this organization that is really led right now by Austin Wade Smith, who's brilliant and is going to be at ETH Denver as a that's what sprung to mind when you asked that great question about what was sort of under the surface or missing that I'm really excited.
00:37:02.870 - 00:38:18.540, Speaker B: Saw as I was doing my research for this episode. You retweeted Speaker John Ash, who has a take that says we need to establish protocols to make sense of the level of alignment between individuals and groups. And what you said about that relationship between the global economy and this deep pool of liquidity that's sloshing around and the local communities and their need to maintain diversity and plurality and represent their local values. It feels like the history of those things has been one of like global imperialism and domination from the global or of the local. But if we can sort of reverse that cycle of domination such that we have Bottoms Up community currencies and sovereign communities that are thriving because of their plurality and diversity, that feels like a huge leverage point for humanity to establish that sense of alignment between the global collective and our local communities. And so yeah, it feels like a high leverage point to me, I guess. How can the Green Pill community engage with your vision and help make this world a reality? What should we focus on?
00:38:20.110 - 00:38:52.930, Speaker A: Well, I mean, obviously we love people to come check out Regen, become community members, engage with us. If you've got a vision for an eco credit, awesome. Come jam. We have this community of scientists and project developers. Disclaimer Region Network isn't really a developer focused community. We don't have arbitrary smart contract endless choose your own adventure permissionlessness like Ethereum does, which is awesome and we love. However, via IBC.
00:38:52.930 - 00:39:55.370, Speaker A: If you're sort of like a solidity dev and you have cool refi aspirations, you could be potentially deploying on Evmos and interacting directly with Regen and sort of like doing dow governance and tooling and all sorts of fun stuff. But Regen, we sort of have a more lean strict things have to go through governance to get on chain slower, more methodical. So just to set that expectation for people, don't expect that it's like cool, there's like a dev rails engineer. But if you're a farmer, if you're a scientist, wow, do we have an amazing community of people who are working to build this blockchain just for you. So come and engage. And if you're a developer, I mean, obviously we'd love that. I just want to set expectations about how the development process tends to work in our world, which is a little slower government gated, governance gated rather and sort of like really focused on the core use case because we don't want to compete with everybody.
00:39:55.370 - 00:40:42.870, Speaker A: We want to create this ledger of record for ecological state and a well governed marketplace for eco credits. That's what we're doing. Let's see. So discord. Probably pop it into the show notes. I always love to engage with people on Twitter as well. And for those of you who are interested, we've been doing this experiment with a GPT-3 sub model called series, which, working with Speaker John Ash, we've created trained on region networks, technical papers and white papers and blogs and then in a dynamic process with myself and some other sort of like, founding members so you can actually go interact with our first attempt to create the Voice of Regen.
00:40:42.870 - 00:41:13.234, Speaker A: The voice of Regen Network. And we're going to be working to create other subvoices and actually start to experiment with Dow governance where these are sort of automated protocol politicians for subdaos that are helping govern specific elements. That may sound kind of far fetched, or maybe it doesn't because things are moving so fast, but what's cool is it's already underway. So Saris exists. She's out there. You can communicate with her in our discord. We'll probably be trying to get her up onto Twitter before too long.
00:41:13.234 - 00:42:08.360, Speaker A: And I know at some point, you should have John Ash up on your podcast, because his vision of Cognizant and The Iris sort of being able to use these tools to allow communities to train and express their voices. As individuals or as smaller communities, I think is a really core and important part of how in addition to sort of the web3 computer aided governance, this Dow vision, but having the ability to train a voice that can amplify and articulate things efficiently and clearly for communities. And to be able to govern and upgrade that and calibrate it as you need to is really exciting. And transformational. So shout out to him and definitely really inspiring work.
00:42:08.890 - 00:42:33.920, Speaker B: Yeah, well, it feels like there's a lot of interesting stuff going on here. I've got Speaker John Ash in the podcast queue, I think, for the next month or so, and then we're going to do another episode together where we go deep on cosmos and regen network's position in the cosmos ecosystem. And I think that we're going to take a few more deep green pills the next time we record one of these. So this is a good starter, though. Gregory, thanks for coming on.
00:42:34.930 - 00:42:45.850, Speaker A: For sure. Yeah, it's been a love the, love the podcast and super excited. Hopefully see you here in a couple of weeks at ETH Denver.
00:42:46.010 - 00:43:09.030, Speaker B: Yeah, that's right. I think this episode will probably air around ETH Denver as well and looking forward to hanging out IRL. Gregory, you're an inspiration to the community. I think that your work has been foundational in the Regen community. I think you coined you and people around you were talking about regen back when I was still working in Web Two startups. So massive respect for you and thanks for coming on the Pod, Gregory. Can't wait to do the next episode.
00:43:10.090 - 00:43:14.050, Speaker A: Thanks, Kevin. I'm inspired by you as well. Cheers.
