00:00:04.730 - 00:00:40.150, Speaker A: Hi, everybody. Thank you for joining us. I'm thrilled to be joined by Jonathan Arenfeld, who is responsible for security strategies at Swift. Jonathan is one of the most thoughtful people I know from the institutional finance world, and he's had a lot of background in both how securities infrastructure evolves over, over time and how blockchains and other systems might be able to fit into that. So I'm truly thrilled that he can join us and share his genuinely insightful point of view. Thank you very much for speaking with me here at the conference. Jonathan.
00:00:42.090 - 00:00:45.098, Speaker B: Thanks. Thanks for inviting me. I'm happy to be here.
00:00:45.264 - 00:01:05.140, Speaker A: Great, thank you. My first question is, and this is one of the topics we discuss once in a while, and I'm sure everyone would be thrilled to hear your point of view as well, is how do you see global financial infrastructure evolving over the years to come, and what role do you think blockchains might possibly play in that?
00:01:08.230 - 00:02:14.610, Speaker B: I mean, Swift is sort of at the center of the financial industry, right? We do have conversations almost every day with big investment banks, asset managers, marketing infrastructures, and it's part of our role, it's also part of my role personally. So we follow these trends sort of as quickly or as rapidly as any big consulting firm. But I will try to do some sort of personal opinion about it. So I think, first of all, financial services industry needs to catch up, right? If you think about how they work today, we continue to be in a hybrid mode where you have a big mixture of digital and very analog processes, right? So we haven't made the choice between digital or traditional assets. There's still paper based assets. We haven't made the choice about automated or manual processes or workflows. So you cannot imagine the number of faxes that you continue to see in the financial industry.
00:02:14.610 - 00:03:06.086, Speaker B: Even I'm not talking about small firms, but about big firms. And then I don't think there's still a clear line between what are the things that today are done on premises versus the things that are done on the cloud. And those are things that some other industries that are as big or as important as financial services have made the choice to move to the cloud, to be fully digital and fully automated. It doesn't make sense that financial services continues to be in sort of that 50% of processes that are in one or the other. So that's one thing. The second, I do think that more than ever, asset managers and wealth managers and pension funds, everybody that is very close to people, because market infrastructures and custodians and brokers are not really serving people. Right.
00:03:06.086 - 00:03:35.582, Speaker B: They are serving corporates, they are serving institutional investors, or they are working for the asset managers. So I do think that is a big role for the asset managers, the pension funds that are actually working with the money of actual people. I would say that you have seen in the last few years a real focus on new customer demands. And those customer demands are the same that you see in other industries. You need to be green. You need to be socially responsible. You need to have the right corporate governance.
00:03:35.582 - 00:04:32.260, Speaker B: You need to invest in responsible innovation, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So I think banks, asset managers, pension funds, everybody, industry, will need to go and know their customers again, because we think we know our customers, but I don't think we do. And one of the big shifts that will happen is that a lot of the millennial generation, which I'm part of, and a lot of the generation that is coming afterwards is going to inherit a lot of money from grandparents and from their parents. And these people, all these millennials, are not going to invest in the same products or are not going to invest their money in the same way that their parents or grandparents did. So if banks don't change that, and if the pension funds and asset managers don't change that, this is going to be a hard time for them. And I don't think it's just about just having an ESG fund and say, this is green. I do think it's going to be more than that.
00:04:32.260 - 00:05:14.580, Speaker B: So that is something that will be nice to see. And the last thing is that there is the right combination of drivers today. There's enough regulation, there's enough cost pressure, there's enough technology. There's enough sort of digital models coming out, and that is going to accelerate the shift and the change for the industry to be better. And I think we don't like to use a lot about the pandemic because it's just one year or a year and a half, but the volumes that we have seen in our network and the volumes that our customers have been able to cope just shows that this is not going down and this industry is still there to stay for a long time.
00:05:16.950 - 00:05:17.698, Speaker A: Makes sense.
00:05:17.784 - 00:05:52.382, Speaker B: Go ahead. No, I mean, the second part of your question was, how do you see blockchains playing a role in this system? Which for me, it's not the role that blockchain will play. I think it's everything around blockchain. Right. Blockchain is one technology, and as one technology, you can compare it to any other technology that has come into place. I think it's everything around it. There are elements that are blockchain based or that are part of the blockchain environment which are truthfully interesting for us.
00:05:52.382 - 00:06:41.900, Speaker B: Right. One is the fact that assets could be digitalized and we can talk about it later about what does that mean, smart contracts, it's so basic but so important that in the past we used to have future or options that were not programmable. With smart contracts, just be able to define prices, to define conditions based on anything that you want and define it in such a standardized and simple way. And then the fact that you can also have programmable money or cryptocurrencies, that those three things are smart contracts, digital assets and cryptocurrencies, which are part of the whole blockchain hype, will probably have unprecedented impact into the industry and we can discuss further. But I do think it's not blockchain itself, but everything around it.
00:06:43.310 - 00:06:50.714, Speaker A: Right. So when you say everything around it, I think you mean all the value and utility people get from what they can do on a blockchain.
00:06:50.762 - 00:06:50.974, Speaker B: Right.
00:06:51.012 - 00:06:53.326, Speaker A: Like all the outcomes they can get from it.
00:06:53.508 - 00:07:13.174, Speaker B: Yeah. And again, I think if you break down blockchains as being, all right, there is a smart contract component, there is a digital asset component, and there is the cryptocurrency component. Those three things are more important in combination or independently that blockchain as a whole. Got it.
00:07:13.212 - 00:07:32.638, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree with you. I think it's not just a matter of here's a blockchain and it holds some kind of state on chain, and that's great. And that's it. We're done. I think you're absolutely right that it has to create a smart contract. It has to create a real world settlement. It has to create some kind of valuable transaction in ways that wouldn't be possible before.
00:07:32.638 - 00:07:34.366, Speaker A: So I completely agree with you.
00:07:34.468 - 00:08:00.920, Speaker B: Yeah. On my side. Now that we're talking about blockchain, right. This is something you and I, we have discussed many times in the past, but blockchain is going to use many new technologies and new infrastructures. But how do you see existing infrastructure, right. Any infrastructure that exists today or that has been there for a while, how do you see that interfacing with blockchain today?
00:08:02.490 - 00:08:59.138, Speaker A: Yeah. So I think that my point of view on this for many years now, I think for over four or five years now, has really been that you already have PKI systems, private key signing systems, you already have messaging standards, you already have a lot of interfaces that people have built within banks. Those interfaces then flow up into other user focused applications. You have a lot of infrastructure that can essentially send digital commands, right? So if they're not cryptographically signed commands that could be input into a blockchain, that's their only real limitation, right. You can still define a lot of interactions digitally. And so that level of digital interaction is something that already exists and is something that a lot of people are trained on. And there's a lot of systems like Swift that already enable that very well.
00:08:59.138 - 00:10:37.774, Speaker A: And so my point of view has always been that you should use the systems today that work well for what they do well. And then you should allow the additional properties of blockchains and smart contracts and oracles to be added to that. Because what you're really trying to do is create a stack with focused components. And if a part of that stack already exists and can already sign messages using some kind of PKI or some kind of messaging system or standard, like Swift's messaging system and standard, then that's fine, right? That's not necessarily the innovation of blockchains or the innovation of smart contracts. The innovation of blockchains and smart contracts is these cryptographically guaranteed agreements, these cryptographically guaranteed state changes to settle transactions and move value and control all of these critical things in a transparent way. But the actual ability to send a command to those systems can absolutely come from a digital system, right? So it can come from a system that already has some kind of HSM infrastructure to hold private keys, some kind of PKI scheme to sign transactions and put them into a system that can possibly reformat them into many different blockchain transaction types. And this direction, to me, just seems like the most efficient direction because you already have a very large part of the world that uses these standards, uses this PKI, uses this private key signing infrastructure.
00:10:37.774 - 00:11:25.110, Speaker A: And if we as a community, as the blockchain community, really want to see blockchains and smart contracts adopted as the state storage and contractual mechanism, then we want as many systems as possible influencing that and being able to interface and enact those types of systems, right. To enact the useful aspects of smart contracts, for contracts, for settlement, for transactions, for whatever they can be used for global trade or securities or whatever topics. My point of view is that the existing infrastructure can absolutely and should absolutely be used using the existing PKI and the existing messaging standard of systems like Swift.
00:11:26.250 - 00:12:08.020, Speaker B: Yeah. Not everybody sort of on the industry that we are all are and all the fintech companies has realized that, right? That the fact of using existing infrastructure and very old technology like PKI that you were mentioning, just messaging, it's not about just starting from scratch and building on top of a white paper. You need to build on something that already exists. And the fact that that PKR certificate and a messaging network is used by, I think today we're more about 12,000 users. Today is not something that you will be able to achieve just by starting with a blank sheet of paper.
00:12:08.870 - 00:12:54.194, Speaker A: Yeah, I completely agree. And Jonathan, when you say 12,000 users, I've always understood that's 12,000 actual banks. So that's the vast majority of the world's banks. Right. And each of those banks then represents hundreds of thousands or millions of individual users. And that's really the user base that on the front end is using SWift through the back end relationship that the banks have. Yeah, I really don't see that the interfacing or the messaging standard for digital commands or the ability to have a PKI that signs transactions securely through an HSM or some other private key secure storage model is what needs to be innovated here.
00:12:54.194 - 00:13:37.658, Speaker A: It can definitely be innovated on. It can definitely be improved. There's multi SiG, there's a number of great security properties that you can get from improving PKI and increasing its security, which I know you guys are always thinking about in great detail. But the reality is that that isn't the innovation of blockchains. Right. The innovation of blockchains is all those useful outcomes you described. And I think really, if we as an industry are able to interface with all the useful systems out in the world, we can actually make blockchains and smart contracts useful for everybody much, much faster.
00:13:37.834 - 00:13:38.560, Speaker B: Correct.
00:13:38.870 - 00:13:59.154, Speaker A: Because the fundamental goal, once again, isn't reinventing the user interface, that the user interface isn't going to change. It's going to be on the web, it's going to be a website, it's going to be a bank middle office application that sends a digital command through some message routing, probably using swift alliance access to trigger something somewhere.
00:13:59.202 - 00:13:59.654, Speaker B: Right.
00:13:59.772 - 00:14:38.050, Speaker A: Those things don't necessarily need to change. The thing that needs to change is where that goes and where that ends up as a final state and as a transparent way to settle and as a transparent way to do global trade and all these other things. So I think there's just this kind of idea that somehow there's all of these goals just reinvent everything. I think if you have a very focused goal and you want to reinvent how the system works on the backend, then the interfaces that can plug into that backend and allow it to be more adopted more quickly is actually a huge accelerant for its adoption.
00:14:38.130 - 00:14:38.326, Speaker B: Right.
00:14:38.348 - 00:14:58.060, Speaker A: And that's always how I've intuitively viewed this. So from your point of view, Jonathan, how do you see DeFi decentralized finance evolving to become included in the global financial system? And what do you think needs to happen for DeFi to become included in that global financial system?
00:14:59.390 - 00:16:15.378, Speaker B: Yeah, it's an interesting question, right. Because I think in the end, much of that depends on who finds DeFi useful and why they find it useful, right. I think many people believe that any DeFi project, it's going to draw a lot of users, right. And that means that any application makes financial services a little bit more inclusive, a little bit more democratic for more people to have access to such platforms. And think about what Robin Hood did a few months ago. So I think in that sense, that idea of democratization rather than decentralization, it's probably where the success of DeFi will come from. What is interesting about DeFi, too, is that what we're talking about, blockchain, is that DeFi sort of expands the usage of a blockchain beyond just the transfer of value, right? And a lot of the applications that are being built on DeFi today are touching core parts of the securities industry or the financial industry, like loans, insurance, or parts that are derivatives or parts that are more retail oriented, like, I don't know, crowdfunding, betting technologies, et cetera, which in most cases use like a central control power.
00:16:15.378 - 00:17:13.798, Speaker B: And this decentralization sort of changes the game. And one of the things that will take, of course, in my opinion, for this to be accelerated and to be adopted and to be integrated into the full ecosystem, I think one thing would be for the regulator to sort, know, put some sort of canvas to it. And I think that has happened already, at least in the US. So you have, the SEC recently has approved a few DeFi companies or environments to work. I think the latest one was ARCA, which is an ethereum based technology that was approved by the SEC. So it's a fund in the end, and Arca is fully based on DeFi. The second thing is how asset managers are going to use it, because coming back to my point that was making before, for me, asset managers are the main actors of the industry, right? They are the ones driving how things change.
00:17:13.798 - 00:18:15.370, Speaker B: They are the ones, the ultimate customer of the big banks. And so they are an important piece of the puzzle. And if they start to take DeFi seriously, that is going to change the game. And I think the most prominent recent case on DeFi being adopted by asset management is the foundation of Grayscale, which I think is now sort of the largest crypto fund. Right. And I think that's interesting. Now, one thing that I would say that DeFi needs to do, and it's probably not DeFi as a whole, but I think everybody that is writing blogs or talking about DeFi in conferences, articles and papers, et cetera, is this idea of trying to cut the middleman every time you come with the idea that let's get rid of banks, let's get rid of greedy corporates, and let's just cut the middleman and make the middleman disappear.
00:18:15.370 - 00:18:50.200, Speaker B: That's not the primary advantage of DeFi. And to be honest, if you cut the middleman, another middleman will come. So I don't think that should be the pitch. The pitch should not be about cutting that sort of big bad wolf. It should be about what are the advantages that DeFi have. More on the democratization side, the access for everybody, and to be able to participate in the industry, which is not inclusive today, but trying to get rid of banks or trying to get rid of central infrastructures just for the sake of it, I don't think it's going to be the pitch that will save them.
00:18:51.450 - 00:18:54.518, Speaker A: Yeah. When I look at this. Go ahead.
00:18:54.684 - 00:18:56.520, Speaker B: No, that was it.
00:18:57.450 - 00:19:07.786, Speaker A: When I look at this, I really see a number of existing institutions, whether those are banks or asset managers or fintechs, that have a user base.
00:19:07.888 - 00:19:08.202, Speaker B: Right.
00:19:08.256 - 00:20:10.526, Speaker A: And they basically have a user base that they have so far been curating assets for and catering to well, in the current kind of digital securities environment. Right. And what I think is very natural and I think has already started to actually happen through PayPal offering the purchase of cryptocurrency. I think really, that's the thing that kicked a lot of this off and made a lot of people kind of stand up and go, well, if something of that size starts to offer this as a key piece of real estate on their interface, then there must be some kind of future here. And so I don't necessarily think that every single middleman and every single participant in the current global financial system is just going to poof and disappear and just become obsolete and irrelevant. I think all of these fintechs and banks and all of these and the digital banks that are coming out now because the hurdles to making a bank are getting less and less and less. I think all of those market participants really just have a new market to go after.
00:20:10.526 - 00:21:32.090, Speaker A: And the ones that go after that market successfully will see the benefits of going after that market successfully. And that's really just a simple way to look at it, right? If I already have a fintech application, if I already have a bank relationship and that bank offers me access to Internet banking 20 years ago or ten years ago, then I stay with that bank because they have Internet banking. And if it doesn't offer me Internet banking and I need Internet banking to pay my bill or do whatever I need to do, then I stop using that bank, right? And that's just kind of the simple reality that I think is going to be much more fundamental than are you a bad middleman? Are you a good middleman? I think fundamentally, capitalism just forces people to adapt, and it's going to force the large institutions, the asset managers, the digital banks, the fintechs, everybody who wants to own a user relationship is going to force them to adapt to all this. And I think that adaptation will actually come in two forms. It'll come in the form of them needing to interface with all of these systems. So they're going to need to interface. And in the more advanced institutions in the larger places that already have an existing infrastructure, they are going to want to do that through their existing systems.
00:21:32.090 - 00:22:26.780, Speaker A: So I think at the end of the day, it's about the fundamental value of our industry and the demand that generates from consumers, and then the banks and the fintechs and everyone else in the global financial system that gets behind that and provides an interface into all of that value for their users, then their users will stay with them and they'll go into their next chapter of growth. And the people who ignore it, it'll be akin to ignoring the Internet, right? It'll be very similar to saying, hey, the Internet isn't going to happen. We don't need to worry about the Internet, right? Which obviously isn't in retrospect, is obviously a ridiculous decision. But there were very clear periods of time where those were very serious discussions by banks and others that, like the Internet, hey, not a big deal, we can ignore it. So I think it's a very clear analog to that.
00:22:29.310 - 00:23:46.694, Speaker B: In the end, even before blockchain or Defi, there were big initiatives in the market that were not driven by technology. They were driven by regulation or by efficiency. I mean, one of the good old ones, T two s in Europe, when T two s was actually launched in Europe, this huge settlement engine that actually settles securities across any european country, everybody was talking about disintermediation, and custodians will disappear and sub custodians will become irrelevant because then a german investor can go immediately into a french CSD and why the hell would they use a subcustodian? And nobody has disappeared, right? Everybody has adapted, everybody has changed their models. Some people have lose some things that they use to make money out of it. A lot of these lucrative inefficiencies, and that's a good point too, is that if you're making money out of an inefficiency, that's something that will disappear. Whether it's because of technology regulation or customer expectations, you're not going to be able to make money out of failure or exceptions or stuff like that. Those things will probably disappear with technology, but for the rest, everybody will be adapt, as you said.
00:23:46.694 - 00:24:28.434, Speaker B: I mean, it's just a logical evolution of the banking system. But you and I have worked many times in this type and we have had many discussions. I remember you were just a few people in your company before the first time you collaborated with Swift. And throughout the years we have had many projects together. You have been part of the inner tribe, sort of alumni, which is our innovation hub. You have presented in front of our board, which is 25 directors from the biggest banks in the world. And they have been impressive about what you guys have been doing with smart contracts and with chain link and everything else.
00:24:28.434 - 00:24:53.660, Speaker B: But I was always wanted to ask you the question of what attracted you to work with Swift. Right. Because not every fintech company wants to work with Swift or with the sort of incumbent, but. So what do you think that we bring? Is it the member owned model we were talking about before? Is it something else? So what exactly did attracted you to work with us?
00:24:55.230 - 00:26:00.862, Speaker A: Yeah. So my thinking about Swift was always that it's something that powers a lot of the world's transactions in value and that there has to be a number of reasons for that. It's not just a coincidence that something like this continues to exist and be critical to the global financial system since the 70s. So I don't know if a lot of people fully understand the history of Swift or the value it's played or how it's been able to continue playing its role in the global financial system. Now, my view obviously isn't as educated or informed as other people's at Swift or at other places that know the fuller history. But as I understand it, I think there are fundamentally three things. I think the first thing is that Swift created a lot of efficiency, basically taking the world from something called telex machines and something like faxes and this paper based model so Swift was really at the cutting edge of digitizing the movement of information about value back in the 70s.
00:26:00.862 - 00:27:50.494, Speaker A: So there really isn't an organization with more experience around digitizing value than Swift in that it was doing that before the Internet was even a realistic construct that people could rely on to send low value, unencrypted plain text messages about their cat or their dog or their vacation or whatever. So swift in that sense has a long history of experience. The second thing is that swift is fundamentally a kind of standard, which I found fascinating when I actually understood it more that Swift isn't necessarily just its own proprietary technology, it's actually a standard that people can use globally. So it's a global standard for how to message about transactions and define the role of different financial systems with each other. Now, once again, I never really believe that that is what needs to be reinvented. So I don't think we need to reinvent how we message commands or the private key infrastructure, which I also knew Swift basically had the largest institutional public key, private key infrastructure for signing transactions, signing something to the order of quadrillions of dollars in value, right? So these types of systems that sign quadrillions of dollars in value over the last 50 years, they have something that is right about them, right? There's something about their security model, there's something about their PKI, there's something about how they work that has some kind of value. And once again, I don't really understand why we would not use that part of the stack as essentially a signature layer and a messaging layer to issue commands into blockchains.
00:27:50.542 - 00:27:50.706, Speaker B: Right?
00:27:50.728 - 00:28:21.520, Speaker A: So it's completely unclear to me why we would say, hey, let's get rid of this private key infrastructure. Let's not use it for whatever reason. People already have it. It already secures large amounts of value. It already secures very high value transactions on a regular basis. It already has a messaging standard to which you can add a new message type about blockchains. The only piece of the puzzle, in my opinion, that's missing is the ability to efficiently interface with multiple chains, because that is what's going to need to happen for all of the different.
00:28:23.250 - 00:28:23.566, Speaker B: Kind.
00:28:23.588 - 00:30:16.450, Speaker A: Of environments that the 12,000 member banks want to work in to be done efficiently. Right? So if we want all of the member banks that have swift PKI and swift messaging standards directing how their systems operate today, suddenly interfacing with multiple chains, they already have the PKI, they already have a messaging standard they can add some new message types to. I think what I always thought even from the beginning was, how can we possibly make this infrastructure used for interfacing with blockchains? And I think what that will result in is actually a massive influx of value and liquidity into all of these different blockchains that do become integrated into bank systems. Because once again, I don't think the problem to solve here is the private key signing HSM security of private keys problem. I think there's a sufficiently robust infrastructure that can be expanded with multisig schemes and other schemes that are more attractive to blockchains. And even a lot of the multisig providers out there, I know they use existing hardware and existing sock two and other standards for securing their systems, right? So even the multisig providers are using certain existing hardware, existing processes, right? That isn't what we need to reinvent. What we need to do is take all the world's value that is controlled by systems powered in those ways, with private key infrastructure and HSMs and all that infrastructure, and we need to accelerate the speed at which it can interface with DeFi, with decentralized insurance, with decentralized global trade, with all of these applications.
00:30:16.450 - 00:31:35.370, Speaker A: And in my opinion, once that integration happens, and once banks, insurance companies, global trade companies, and everyone else can interface with the various on chain contracts, that's when the amount of value accessible and placed in those contracts will go from billions to trillions pretty rapidly. That just really seems like a very logical path. And so from the beginning, my question was always, how can I work with the existing infrastructure to funnel its value into these blockchain smart contract systems in order to make them more useful for society quicker? Because that value is in those systems. And the speed at which we can get it into the blockchains and smart contracts is the speed at which those will become valuable and useful by whatever path we might take. And this is probably the quickest, most efficient path to just let people with existing systems use that. The final thing that I realized in the process of working with Swift is, firstly, that everyone at Swift is actually a really nice person. You guys are in Belgium, right? You're really nice people, you're pretty relaxed.
00:31:35.370 - 00:32:10.466, Speaker A: I actually always had a great time working with everybody at Swift to begin with. I'm a big fan of Belgium, big fan of a lot of the people at Swift that aren't in Belgium also. But it's just a very relaxed kind of nice group of people. It's not some kind of very aggressive banking type of organization. So that's the first thing that I found very positive. And I always really enjoyed about working with you guys and also how collaborative everybody is. And then the final thing that I realized mainly a few months into working with you guys was that you're member owned.
00:32:10.466 - 00:33:33.082, Speaker A: And so what I think many people don't understand about why Swift has existed for 50 years, why it has moved quadrillions of dollars in value every year for decades, it's because it's actually very similar to a dow. It is a member owned cooperative. So if you actually looked at the governance structure of SWift, it's not some complete for profit private entity that somehow creates a monopolistic advantage for any one bank or any one group. It's completely member owned. The directors, the board of governors, whatever sets of different processes and layers of processes they are, they're actually directed by the SWIFT member banks in proportion to their usage of SWIFt. So the degree to which a bank uses Swift actually resets their ability to direct Swift. And so there isn't even a set committee of member governors or member kind of people directing the organization in that it purposefully adapts to usership, which really, in my view, is quite similar to the Dow and proof of stake and other models where the degree to which you use a system is the degree to which you should be able to have sway over how it evolves.
00:33:33.082 - 00:35:02.134, Speaker A: And the fascinating thing is that Swift has been operating this way for over 50 years and has been able to insulate itself from competition to a certain degree because of this, because all the member banks know that they aren't going to put some kind of monopolistic company in between them and their counterparty that then is going to eventually become a monopoly rent seeking technology provider. Because as I understand it, Swift even returns fees back to its members if those fees surpass a certain threshold, so that the members are never having monopoly rent extracted from. So that's a fascinating model because it's actually the model that a lot of dows and a lot of organizations in our industry aspire to arrive at. The organizations in the DeFi industry and in the blockchain industry want to arrive at a governance model where decision making is decentralized across all interested parties. Decision making can change based on people's interest in the network, and Swift's ability to change its member voting based on transactional usage is exactly that. And it's been working for decades. So realistically, when I saw how the people at Swift operate and when I understood the member owned model of Swift and that it wasn't just the standard for profit monopoly rent seeking organization, it became clear to me, this.
00:35:02.134 - 00:35:58.640, Speaker A: This is the type of thing that realistically should and can continue to just own the PKI and the interfacing into all of these systems because the members of it want to use it, because they have the type of relationship with it that DeFi and other blockchain systems aspire to have with their user base. And I think this thing has never really been that clear to people in our industry. And when I understood it, it was kind of eye opening for me. So between those two first things and the third one about being member owned, those are the things that have led me to kind of actively pursue a working relationship with Swift to the degree that I can, because I just see all of these clear benefits boasted to what the technology does and the infrastructure that already exists and to how the organization operates and how it relates to its members.
00:35:59.090 - 00:36:52.906, Speaker B: Yeah. And people underestimate sometimes also the power of that standard speed that you were mentioning before, or they relate it too much to the messaging side, which usually sounds a little bit old. I think one of the first or second POCs that we did together with you back in 2017 was the fact that we show how the same messaging standard, which is ISO 22, that it's used today to just write messages in XML, can actually afterwards be used to write a smart contract. Today we probably have billions of APIs that are reading today or circulating our network that are also reading in ISO 20 of the two. So you can take everything that you said, you can take the messaging component out of it and you still work, right. You just need a meter of communication. It could be a smart contract, it could be an API, it could be a message, it could just be different nodes communicating with each other.
00:36:52.906 - 00:37:09.720, Speaker B: And that standard, which is open source, is often underestimated, and it will have huge benefits if people start using it more. But great explanation about Swift. It's even better than I think everybody within Swift could have done. So thanks for that.
00:37:10.490 - 00:38:32.910, Speaker A: Yeah, of course. I think it makes a lot of sense. And I think at the end of the day, that people who make open source standards, people who create member owned systems, people who have a PKI that has all this value already successfully secured, that's a useful, valuable system. Right? There's every reason why the blockchain industry and the smart contract industry should be able to benefit by getting all of that value efficiently transitioned onto multiple chains, right? By basically connecting that PKI, that messaging system, that messaging standard, to hundreds of different chains. And then overnight almost, you will see banks, insurance companies being able to transact with a multitude of different chains, and the amounts of values that they'll be able to transact will be orders of magnitude higher than what we see from other applications. Not to say that they won't be useful, I actually think that that interfacing using that standard and using that PKI will accelerate the amount of value that can flow from institutions and enterprises into deFi, into decentralized insurance, into the protocols that are being built in the public blockchain world today. So it's really a win win for everybody.
00:38:32.910 - 00:39:32.018, Speaker A: It's a win for the enterprises and the institutions in terms of their ability to interface with this technology. And it's a win for the blockchain applications because they suddenly have immediate access to a massive user base, as long as there's a way, maybe through something like Chainlink or some kind of system that enables the interface to all the different smart contracts and blockchains out there from this existing world. And so that's the body of work that we're working on and excited to be pursuing very actively once again. Jonathan, it's been a real pleasure to chat with you again and to get your feedback on all this. I really appreciate your thoughtful and insightful point of view on how the financial institutional world and the enterprise world will eventually be interfacing with the blockchain world in meaningful and important ways. And I think you're right. I don't think it'll be getting rid of everybody.
00:39:32.018 - 00:40:06.638, Speaker A: I think it'll be a question of who is able to adapt and provide their user base with access to this new type of experience, these new types of systems. That's really what innovation and improvement is all about in the financial industry as well as in every other industry. So I'm thrilled that we had a chance to chat and chat through all this. I think your point of view makes a lot of sense, and I'm very grateful that you took the time to speak with us about it here. Thank you very much.
00:40:06.804 - 00:40:15.550, Speaker B: Of course. Thanks for the invite, and always a pleasure to talk to you, Sergey. Well, thank you, Jonathan. And thank you, Sergey, for that fantastic discussion.
00:40:16.050 - 00:40:19.340, Speaker A: Awesome to see that connection and discussion happening.
