00:00:04.890 - 00:00:35.250, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning into this week's news recap. First headline A wall of institutional money is coming for NFT use. On Monday, Visa announced its purchase of CryptoPunk 7610. The payments company spent 49.5 ETH, or approximately $150,000, on the NFT. Visa has been collecting such items, dubbed historic commerce artifacts, for over 60 years. The expensive JPEG will be joining early paper, credit cards and the Zip Zap machine among Visa's collection.
00:00:35.250 - 00:01:34.682, Speaker A: Not exactly the most inspiring company for NFTs to be lumped into. However, Visa is bullish on NFTs. In a report, the payments giant said that quote NFTs represent a deeper and more innovative way for fans to engage in potential new revenue streams for organizations. We think NFTs will play an important role in the future of retail, social media, entertainment and commerce, said Kai Sheffield, Visa's head of Crypto. Visa was not the only quote unquote institution to make NFT news this week. Budweiser also made a splash in the nonfungible world, purchasing a hand drawn beer rocket NFT for eight ETH, in addition to registering the ethereum domain name beer ETH for 30 ETH, or roughly $100,000. Also, Fox Entertainment invested in Alluvio, a blockchain focused on storing, distributing and monetizing digital content at scale in a Series A valuing Alluvio at $100 million.
00:01:34.682 - 00:02:34.634, Speaker A: As part of the deal, Alluvio will act as the technology platform for Fox's NFT business blockchain creative Labs next Headline Analysts bearish on bitcoin price as positive bitcoin news hold steady Bitcoin broke 50K for the first time in three months on Sunday. However, according to Arcane research analysts, the seven day average BTC trading volume is lagging behind the positive price action. If the trend continues, Arcane analysts think the market could become exhausted and fizzle out. Onchain analyst Will Clemente agreed, saying he quote was short term bearish on Monday, citing illiquid supply and coins moving onto exchanges at publishing time. It appears that Will and Arcane could be right about BTC moving bearish, with the price falling back down to 46K. Despite all that, Bitcoin had a pretty good week. Here are five highlights substack, a newsletter and content platform, integrated bitcoin as a payment option through a partnership with OpenNode Onchain.
00:02:34.634 - 00:03:19.580, Speaker A: Analysts Willie Wu and Dan Held, director of growth at Kraken, will be some of the first writers to accept bitcoin sent onchain or through the Lightning network. El Salvador plans to launch its government supported bitcoin wallet on September 7. According to President Naive Bukele, those who download the wallet will receive $30 in bitcoin. The wallet release will coincide with El Salvador's bitcoin law coming into effect. Business intelligence firm MicroStrategy announced another bitcoin purchase this week, adding 3907 coins, or $175,000,000, at an average price of $45,000. The company now hoddles roughly 109,000 bitcoin on its balance sheet, or roughly $5.5 billion.
00:03:19.580 - 00:04:16.090, Speaker A: Citigroup is awaiting regulatory approval to begin trading bitcoin futures contracts on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. If approved, Citi would join Goldman in offering bitcoin futures trading blockstream. A bitcoin technology company raised $210,000,000 in Series B funding, valuing the company at $3.2 billion. The new influx of cash will fund an expansion into manufacturing mining chips, also known as asics finance increases verification requirements for users as rumors of a 200 billion dollar raise swirl, finance, the world's largest cryptocurrency exchange, is now requiring all new users to complete its intermediate verification process. Existing users who have not yet completed intermediate verification will see their accounts severely limited. This means customers will need to submit a government issued ID along with a selfie to obtain approval to trade, deposit and withdraw on the platform without restriction.
00:04:16.090 - 00:05:08.160, Speaker A: The move is meant to align Binance with what the company called evolving global compliance standards, with which the crypto exchange has become intimately familiar as of late. The new verification mandate is the latest in a string of compliance friendly moves by the exchange. A few weeks ago, Finance reduced the daily withdrawal limit for nonverified accounts from two bitcoin to zero six. The company also recently capped trading to a maximum of 20 X leverage, down from 100 X in July 1. Explanation for the increased verification requirements could be that Binance is attempting to raise money, as Chinese journalist Colin Wu reported. Wu cited multiple sources writing that, quote Finance is considering obtaining investment and protection from government funds at a valuation of $200 billion. Singapore is one of the most likely options.
00:05:08.160 - 00:05:59.870, Speaker A: In related news, the UK's Financial Conduct Authority published a memo saying Binance is not capable of being effectively supervised by the agency. Last month, the FCA banned Binance from conducting regulated activities in the country. The infrastructure bill is likely to leave the controversial crypto provision intact. A controversial crypto provision tucked in the bipartisan infrastructure bill is likely to become law after the House voted to move forward without any new amendments. As in the Senate, the decision is a blow to the crypto industry because the current wording could classify miners, validators and developers as brokers. Each broker would be responsible for a filing of a 1099 form on behalf of their customers and reporting any transactions over $10,000 to the IRS. For many entities captured by the current broker definition, it would be nearly impossible to comply.
00:05:59.870 - 00:06:44.074, Speaker A: According to CNBC, an unnamed treasury official said that the US. Treasury Department will not target nonbrokers such as miners, hardware developers and others, even if there is no amendment coinsender's. Jerry Brito remains unconvinced, though. Quote I'm glad to hear that treasury officials are telling reporters on background that they don't intend to target miners if the infrastructure bill's crypto tax provision becomes law, but I'm afraid that that is of little comfort for now. The plan is for the House to vote on the infrastructure package by September 27. If approved, it will go to President Joe Biden, who will almost certainly sign it into law. In other regulatory news, representative Darren Soto, Democrat of Florida, reintroduced two bills on Wednesday.
00:06:44.074 - 00:07:31.226, Speaker A: The first is the US. Virtual Currency Market and Regulatory Competitiveness Act, which directs the CFTC to produce a report on worldwide digital currency regulation and how the US. Can promote digital asset innovation. The second is the Virtual Currency Consumer Protection Act of 2021, which asks for a report on price manipulation in digital assets and recommendations for regulation that could mitigate any found issues. Next Headline USDC Plans to Make Reserves 100% Backed by cash Circle announced that its stablecoin USDC will be 100% backed by cash and short term US. Treasuries by September. Center, the consortium building USDC formed by Circle and Coinbase, cited community sentiment and a commitment to trust and transparency as reasons for the change.
00:07:31.226 - 00:08:43.554, Speaker A: In July, it revealed that USDC only held 61% of the reserves backing USDC in cash and cash equivalents, with the rest backed by Yankee certificates of deposit, meaning CDs issued by foreign, nonus, US. Treasuries, commercial paper, municipal and corporate bonds. From Circle's perspective, the move to back USDC by cash and cash equivalents comes shortly after the company a shared plans to go public via a SPAC and b announced its desire to become, quote, a full reserve national bank. Speaking of stablecoins Paxos, the blockchain infrastructure firm is rebranding its stablecoin from Paxos standard to Paxos dollar. The token formerly PAX will now be listed as USDP. Next Headline Avalanche's AVAX token pops amidst Liquidity mining program AVAX, the native token of the scalability focused blockchain Avalanche, is up about 100% over the past seven days, the largest price increase for a top 100 token by market cap. Avalanche's DFI ecosystem has also been flooded, with deposits ballooning from just $380,000,000 in total value locked to $2.4
00:08:43.554 - 00:09:36.310, Speaker A: billion in total value locked in just seven days. The network's popularity coincides with the recent launch of Avalanche Rush, a $180,000,000 liquidity mining incentive program spearheaded by the Avalanche Foundation. Phase one of the Rush program has already begun, with three DFI, Stalwarts, Ave, Curve and Sushi participating in the liquidity mining program. Over the next three months, $40 million in rewards will be given to Avalanche based LPs providing liquidity on those platforms. Going forward, it remains to be seen whether Avalanche will thrive once the incentives dry up. As crypto investor Muni told CoinDesk, it could go one of two ways liquidity mining incentives kickstart a flywheel effect around their ecosystem, or enthusiasm dries up and the hot ball of money moves to the next pot of honey. For now, Avalanche will continue onboarding blue chip DFI protocols.
00:09:36.310 - 00:10:33.202, Speaker A: Next headline. Andreessen Horowitz publishes Best Practices for DFI Delegation. In a Thursday blog post, A 16 Z shared details about its token delegation process, including best practices, delegate assessment criteria, legal mechanics, the current delegate network, and ideas for future improvement. As an early investor in DFI protocols like Uniswap, Compound and Sello, among others, A 16 Z has collected a large number of governance tokens over the past year. A 16 Z has delegated the majority of its governance rights in protocols to a collection of nonprofits, startups and universities with the idea of lowering a 16 z's sway in onchain voting. Quote Unlike traditional companies, protocols are meant to be governed on a decentralized basis. This unlocks their core value, prop neutrality, and ensures they'll remain open to anyone who wants to use build on them, tweeted a 16 z's Jeff Amico.
00:10:33.202 - 00:11:32.354, Speaker A: To truly serve this purpose, though, a strong form of delegation is needed, one that not only reduces surface level concentration, but that optimizes for certain other key principles as well, including quality, diversity, engagement, and, perhaps most of all, independence. Time for fun. Bits board Ape Yacht Club versus Arizona Iced Tea. Last Friday, Arizona Iced Tea announced that it had Aped into the Board Ape Yacht Club collection by scooping up one of the 10,000 popular NFTs Decrypt reports that while the Board Ape Twitter account welcomed the brand into the community by YC, creators think the brand overstepped its commercial limits. In its announcement, Use Labs grants a commercial license to board Ape NFT owners to use the image as they see fit. However, Arizona Iced used the Board Ape Yacht Club name and logo with the announcement, which apparently does not count as authorized use. Quote Owning one of our NFTs does not give any rights to our name, logos or branding.
00:11:32.354 - 00:11:50.410, Speaker A: However, that was inappropriate usage and we've messaged them about it, the Yuga team told the crypt. All right, well, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Nick and the Ethereum name service, be sure to check out the links in the show notes. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch and Daniel Ness. Thanks for listening.
