00:00:06.250 - 00:00:27.800, Speaker A: All right, with that, we are ready for our next talk. So next I want to invite our bull from Human Finance to talk about how do we actually stream salaries, salary backed loans. And I think this also is a really nice segue for what we just answered. So this kind of enables a lot more new creative ways to talk about this. So without further ado, it's welcome and I'll let you take it from here.
00:00:28.570 - 00:01:20.440, Speaker B: Thank you so much, Kartik. Hello, everybody. I'm going to share my screen quickly. I changed the topic slightly to streaming income back bonds because I think salary is a component of that. And instead of talking about Human finance and how the product works and everything, I'll kind of talk more about why this is important and why right now is the right time, and how superfluid actually enables this experience to be so much greater than what could it be. So, again, Ergil from Hemofinance, I'm one of the co founders and glad to be here. The first thing to understand is basically where things start and where they are going in the grand scheme of things.
00:01:20.440 - 00:02:09.190, Speaker B: You all know it started with this white paper by Satoshi that defined Bitcoin. What is Bitcoin, as many people call it? It's kind of like a digital gold. It's a digital asset and it has a blockchain system behind which is a distributed ledger that keeps track of who owns what. Correct. And that obviously excited a lot of people, including many people in this room today. But that was very limited because it only defined a single type of asset and only basically who owns what. And the biggest innovation after that was actually Ethereum, because Ethereum enabled this new concept called asset portfolios, right? Because of the ERC 20 standard NFT standards, you have all these different standards that can actually liberate people who are creators to create this kind of assets.
00:02:09.190 - 00:03:09.090, Speaker B: And we started building asset portfolios. People started to talk about these asset portfolios, their asset portfolios, their token portfolios, NFT portfolios, and naturally DeFi, as we call it, the centralized finance. Start basically thinking about, okay, how do I tie these things together, these assets together to create protocols that kind of like does some kind of a financial engineering, maybe introduce some kind of inflationary token, some reward mechanism so people can utilize asset portfolios. So for a long time, if you look at the DeFi protocols, they only understood assets, they only leveraged assets. And they only created these kind of pairing structures or bonding structures between assets to do finance, financial engineering. And we got to a point where majority of the DeFi protocols were overculturalized protocols, where you have to have a lot of assets that you need to collateralize to be able to benefit from these protocols. And that created not only a small market for a small number of whales and speculators, because there's not much use for overclocking all these assets.
00:03:09.090 - 00:04:44.934, Speaker B: It also created a highly capital inefficient market and it also created a highly dependent market where every single token is tied to each other, right? You had all these engineered payers and things that tied to each other where anytime something bad happens to one of them, we had this cap getting effect across the ecosystem and we are in one of those probably downturns right now, unfortunately. And that's also probably one of the reasons why DeFi as a kind of whole hasn't really grown as much. But innovations are right in front of us. And one of those changes happening in the whole ecosystem outside of DeFi is basically this transition from asset portfolios to income portfolios. If you think about the next billion people coming into this ecosystem, they're not bringing in millions of dollars in assets, they have not much utilization for all these overclocked protocols and they're not necessarily interested in speculation. They are coming into this ecosystem because of income opportunities, right? Income opportunities that are eminent in the NFD marketplaces as craters, income opportunities in Dow marketplaces, income opportunities as web three builders and developers like ours, but also income opportunities in these new play to our next turn ecosystems. And people are being attracted to this and the next billion people are coming in because of income opportunities and they're starting to build income portfolios, right? Instead of the kind of real world scenario where you have maybe one job and one salary, now you have actually all these different ecosystems and communities you're a part of and you're building these income portfolios and that's going to be the new type of passion gig economy in the next ten to 20 years.
00:04:44.934 - 00:05:37.014, Speaker B: So that's why I call it buy by hoddlers and welcome biddlers because that's kind of like where we are going and the next billion is interested in. And this actually gives us a pause because if you think about the next building coming for this income opportunity and buildings income portfolios, there is no DeFi protocol today. They can actually leverage that. They can actually understand your income portfolio and can lend you against that. However, when you got stuck in assets, again, we talked about this capital connections problem. The income underwriting income and underwriting helps us solve this capital nettles problem. If you actually look at how traditional finance does lending today, income is the most critical input in lending, right? So if you want to get a mortgage, if I get a car loan, if you want to get a personal loan, credit card, business loan, doesn't matter what you want to get if you go to a lender, doesn't matter.
00:05:37.014 - 00:06:39.114, Speaker B: Also what your credit score is, the first and foremost thing they want to know is what is your income, right? You need to provide this payroll statements or cash flow statements if you're business getting a loan. And then they actually put that in as the most important input into calculating what kind of a loan they're going to provide you and there's this term called debt to income ratio and that's kind of like the critical input they use from the income. Again, yet there is no use for income today in any of the DeFi protocols. And that's kind of like why we believe it is both the time but also it is our opportunity and responsibility to provide these kind of financial opportunities. Otherwise, if you're like me, if you spend most of your time in this world and actually majority of income comes from this ecosystem, if you want to get a mortgage and go to a traditional bank today, they will laugh at you, they will not give you anything. If you want to get a car loan, they'll not give you anything. Again, it doesn't matter what your credit score is because your income doesn't necessarily count in that world.
00:06:39.114 - 00:08:02.582, Speaker B: So that's where we believe this critical input needs to have its own primitive and needs to actually become a significant part of the lending protocols. And Superfluid here provides a very interesting opportunity. When we went to Ethereum Denver a few months ago and started thinking about, okay, how do we really leverage this and build this? One of the first things we realized is first and foremost when you again go to a traditional financer and want to get a type of loan, they ask you for this copy or photo of your income statement. It's pay slip or whatever you might have. But it is much more useful for DeFi protocol for these incomes to be actually in a contract. And streaming is one of the actually best ways to look at and understand income on chain because streaming signals a couple of different things, right? Streaming means that the payer who's paying this income actually has very high trust in this payee because they're creating this very continuous form of payment which is streaming. It's also something where you can understand in real time if there is actually a breach of contract or if some kind of a divorce between the payer and payee because the stream is going to be cut at that point.
00:08:02.582 - 00:09:24.260, Speaker B: So you have full understanding of the different events that might impact this kind of underwriting. So when you start looking into Superfluid, obviously like many of you, you're very impressed with what they have built and it gave us a very easy SDK to utilize to understand all these different streaming incomes that are happening and we're able to build a simple prototype that leveraged that. And not only that, it actually helps us in another way, which is one of the most important things in automated lending is to be able to collect also the money you lended automatically. Again, this doesn't necessarily happen in traditional finance, you have to remember to pay the lender back. But if you're actually getting paid in a stream the moment actually the user borrows money against their stream they can also open a payback stream as well and start paying back every single second, right? So this was not necessarily again possible in the real world and traditional finance scenario, but it's possible in a streaming scenario because both you can have a very strong understanding of the income because you have this stream going. On and it's in a smart contract and you have the events emitted, but also you can open a payback stream and the people can actually start paying back in second the moment they borrow the money from the protocol. So it's also very convenient from that perspective and creates a larger amount of trust within the protocol itself.
00:09:24.260 - 00:10:52.458, Speaker B: The other thing actually when you look at what's going on with the large ecosystem is this new paper published by Vitalik pujai and Glenn I guess about ten days ago or so and you have to read this if you haven't read this yet. It's called the Central Society funding Web Three Soul and it's talk about the soul bank tokens. One of the challenges in undercuritalized lending of any kind, especially uncautilized lending that's income back is mechanism that understands who is behind us, who is on the other side of this borrowing. And in our current form of our kind of like we run design, we don't have a great mechanism to actually understand who is behind us. That's why we have to design a protocol that understands the wallet and talks about the wallet and looks at the income potential of the wallet. However, going forward there is a huge enablement that comes with these soul bound tokens because soul bound tokens can make sure that certain things are necessary transferable between different wallets and they are kind of like soul bound to the person that's behind that wallet. In the paper itself, it talks about basically one of the biggest enablers for this technology is basically the issuance of unculturalized and unculturalized lending.
00:10:52.458 - 00:12:15.778, Speaker B: Another actually interesting utilization of this technology is creating a debt statement that actually stays in wallet, right? So if actually someone takes a debt position against their streamed income, you can actually create a token that defines their debt statement that is sole bound forest vault as well. So there's kind of like a lot of interesting ways you can create this more contract like environments and use cases on chain. And again, when we look at the evolution of FEMA finance and why we started especially with superfluid, one reason was the utilization of the superfluid streams in terms of the understanding and the signal of the income. But the other aspect of it was basically the awesomeness of the superfluid tim. Because when we started digging into how to utilize this SDK they built and the ecosystem they built, we quickly found a group of people who are very passionate to sit down with us and dig in with us into how we can build things both within superfluid ecosystem and also directed ecosystem. So we found great partners and we started building our prototype at Ethereum Denver two months ago utilizing their technology. And we were the DeFi track winner at Ethereum Denver.
00:12:15.778 - 00:13:19.334, Speaker B: And also we were picked as the best overall project built on Superfluid. And that really gave us the kind of courage to actually all go full time and do this as a real startup. And we just raised $8 million also in seed funding from some of the best investors, again, thanks to Fran and the Superfluid team. And they're one of confidence in us and some of our other partners. And where we're going next is providing a credit line for every wallet out there because we strongly believe income serves credit ready to use anytime. And it's also important to denote that we should never think about income only as a streaming salary because the overall growth of the ecosystem is showing us that income can come in any form. So one of my co founders, Richard, he's a big participant in the Playtor Ecosystems, he's actually earning probably upwards of $1,000 every month by just playing web three games.
00:13:19.334 - 00:14:13.002, Speaker B: And we're seeing millions of people coming into these ecosystems and earnings total of billions of dollars from this ecosystem. Same thing with Crater Ecosystem, same thing with metaverse, the same thing with some other mechanisms where artists actually can start earning in this ecosystem through royalties and rents of different types of tokens. So there's just this growing ecosystem of income portfolios, as we see. And that's why we're so excited to be here today, talk about what we started building. We don't have a website that has an application just yet. We will have something in the coming weeks and we will be in production in Q Three this year. But in the meantime, I'm more than happy to take your questions and talk more about income backed, streaming income backed loans and anything along those lines.
00:14:13.002 - 00:14:17.262, Speaker B: Thank you. Amazing.
00:14:17.396 - 00:14:25.954, Speaker A: That was super awesome. And I'm super excited to hear that all this happened in the last three months. That must have been a crazy journey already.
00:14:26.072 - 00:14:27.502, Speaker B: Indeed, indeed.
00:14:27.646 - 00:14:46.200, Speaker A: So maybe one kind of obvious question would be just how do you kind of expect people to use this? And would you have some ideas for how this could be a better integration? What would you like to see from the end users and what can we do beyond just the basics of streaming this?
00:14:47.290 - 00:15:55.866, Speaker B: Perfect question. So the way we kind of going about integrating this into different ecosystems is we're looking at special two ecosystems. One is the on chain payments ecosystems, right? So Superfluid obviously is a key participant in this ecosystem. But if you look at what Superfluid is also integrating with, you see things like Request Network, for example, where Request Network is an invoicing system where hundreds of millions of dollars every year is running through their invoicing system. You see payment companies like Paymagic, Utopia Labs, where these are the tools utilized by DAOs and their treasuries to pay people. So we're looking into direct integrations with those tools because we heard from many of these players and partners that people who are actually getting paid are in need of simple financing, right? So they cannot go to their own bank, they cannot necessarily go and double down on the credit cards because their income that they need to utilize to borrow against is on chain. And we will be integrating deeply with these ecosystems and partners to basically provide us as a native capability in those applications.
00:15:55.866 - 00:17:02.590, Speaker B: Another partner ecosystem we are talking to right now is this again, play to earn ecosystems and external ecosystems. So, if you think about the biggest barrier for different type of gamers to join those ecosystems is the barrier to acquired assets required to play the game. So, for example, if you want to play certain play to earn games, you might need to put up $2,000, maybe sometimes more to acquire first assets and then play the game. And yes, there are maybe guilds that will lend you some of these assets and then they take away 80% of income, but you never have the assets yourself, you never liberate as a player. And more you play, the guilds have more income, not you. So we're looking at basically partnering with some of these large ecosystems right now so that when they want to onboard new gamers, actually we're able to look at their future income, opportunity and lend against it. So there is more of a liberation from the players perspective to participate in more of these ecosystems.
00:17:02.590 - 00:17:35.900, Speaker B: Those are the two big ecosystems we're looking at and we're very excited about the growth of those overall. We have some other ideas in mind that we haven't prioritized yet. One of them is we're talking to some wallet partners where again we envision eventually a credit line for every wallet. So let's say you go to MetaMask, you go to Rainbow Wallet, whatever is your favorite wallet and you say check my credit line, powered by human boom. You have a credit line that might originated by some of our liquidity partners. So it's kind of like the different use cases scenarios we're thinking through and building for.
00:17:36.610 - 00:17:44.160, Speaker A: That's a really good note, especially if it's available as a line of credit on a wallet that just gets to a closer normal banking experience.
00:17:44.790 - 00:17:45.540, Speaker B: Exactly.
00:17:46.230 - 00:17:57.890, Speaker A: As a question from the audience, from Rachel, the question is going to could this also be used for business income as well? Because you kind of talked about personal loans, but is there any logistical difference?
00:17:57.960 - 00:18:28.974, Speaker B: There totally there is no difference from a protocol's perspective. The protocol understands income, right? On a world perspective. From a world perspective, if anything, actually business income usually is more reliable as a mechanism to underwrite against. And a lot of these Dows that actually also paying service Dows or small businesses of the crypto world, and this information is the same. It's represented either as a stream, as an invoice, as something else. So it can be utilized by both.
00:18:29.092 - 00:18:31.870, Speaker A: Business purposes or personal purposes.
00:18:32.530 - 00:18:32.954, Speaker B: Awesome.
00:18:33.012 - 00:18:42.820, Speaker A: Well, hopefully that clarified your question. Maybe I'll put you on the spot with the final question, which is, when can we expect the app to go live?
00:18:43.910 - 00:19:06.854, Speaker B: Great question. So we're working hard with our initial set of partners for Alpha launch sometime around September, so please look forward to that and feel free to reach out to me on Telegram as well as you can also email us at GM at huma finance and we will soon put up a website where you can also join our waitlist. Thank you.
00:19:06.972 - 00:19:12.140, Speaker A: Amazing. Well, please follow at Huma finance on Twitter to keep up with everything they're doing.
