00:00:01.360 - 00:00:37.720, Speaker A: All right, welcome back, everyone. I'm maddie, head of growth at Solana Labs, and this is another session for the Riptide hackathon. Please register if you haven't done so already. But today we have two special guests. Tristan from Zeta markets and Ayush from katana. These guys were actually hackathon participants in previous events, and each one actually won the grand prize for both zeta and katana. And so I'm really excited to chat with them today.
00:00:37.720 - 00:00:42.084, Speaker A: And, yeah, would be great to just start out with just an intro from each of you.
00:00:43.064 - 00:01:13.740, Speaker B: Yeah. Awesome. I can jump in, as Matty already mentioned. Hey, I'm Tristan. We're building zeta markets, which is Defi options and futures Dex built on Solana, and we've been going for almost a year now. Started in the Solana Solana season, hackathon, was it in, like, April last year, and we're fortunate enough to win that. You know, we kind of really slugged it out, put in a lot of time and effort into that, built out an early version, mvp of our platform, and have just been kind of building iterating on the platform since then.
00:01:13.740 - 00:01:18.704, Speaker B: Went to mainnet pretty much in early January, and have just been growing the platform ever since.
00:01:21.404 - 00:01:47.944, Speaker C: Yeah, I'm Ayush, founder of Katana. I also was previously in the Solana season. Hackathon ran a project back then and then decided to re enroll also for the most recent ignition, Hackathon. So Katana is essentially yield generation protocol. So we run automated option strategies to generate yield that's not tied to liquidity mining. Yeah, super excited to have the chat today.
00:01:48.804 - 00:02:08.184, Speaker A: Awesome. I guess, like, you know, you're both really interested in crypto at a high level. Why? Why did you guys just decide to build projects in this kind of, like, defi decentralized, like, finance space and specifically, like, why derivatives?
00:02:08.964 - 00:02:38.068, Speaker B: Yeah, it's really good question. I think this just a massive opportunity given that the traditional finance ecosystem and market cap is just incredibly massive. And you're starting to see this really take off in crypto, especially. DeFi now feels like a really legitimate use case for crypto. And you're seeing kind of volumes, I think, on centralized exchanges, increasing massively. Like, perps have found incredible product market fit. I think at the peak last year, perpetuals were doing like $2.4
00:02:38.068 - 00:03:17.530, Speaker B: trillion worth of volume. And you're seeing this kind of just like only growing, I think, over time. And for us, yeah, we realized this is like a massive, massive market. If you look in traditional finance, especially derivatives, volume absolutely eclipses spot volume by like 30 x or something ridiculous like that. We're not quite there yet. In terms of Defi, I would say so a cool stat, I think, recently from jump was that options volumes only make up like 2% of overall volume, whereas you look at our us equities and it's like 35 x. So we definitely feel like we have a couple of orders of magnitude to grow.
00:03:17.530 - 00:03:30.574, Speaker B: And that's why we came into the space. We didn't see a really viable defi derivatives platform out there. And, yeah, we really wanted to capture, and I guess bring that to market and have people trading in that space.
00:03:33.254 - 00:04:32.204, Speaker C: Yeah, some pretty similar considerations on my end as well. I think really what draws me to Defi in particular is just sort of the hyper scalability of these protocols where, you know, we're just, you know, sort of two people, five people, and the protocol doesn't really care if there's $10 million or, you know, 100 billion in the sort of contracts themselves. And I think that's really, like, the most interesting part to me in terms of driving further efficiency in capital markets and also looking at sort of the hyper liquidity that exists where you can essentially trade anything and sort of get a price on anything as well. So those were the two main draws to Defi in particular. And then with regards to derivatives, as Tristan said, it's sort of the next frontier, I think, in Defi's development, still a very nascent space. And I think you're seeing a lot of cool projects come out of there. So, yeah, definitely a place that we like to be as well, is just sort of on the leading edge of what's happening.
00:04:32.204 - 00:04:35.744, Speaker C: And that was sort of the attraction to derivatives specifically.
00:04:36.164 - 00:05:08.244, Speaker B: Yeah, and I'd tack onto Ayusha's point as well. Like, finance is such a big thing for people. Like, everyone needs financial services. And the cool thing with Defi is you basically got a bunch of people putting code out there that kind of provides this to this global audience and anyone can tap into. And it's not like traditional finance, where it's kind of this guarded communities and all these trading firms working against one another. You're kind of taking a lot of the principles of open source software and able to give these tools to people and have all these different composable projects and all these tools and services that people can use. So it's really exciting.
00:05:08.244 - 00:05:15.484, Speaker B: I think you're muted, Maddy.
00:05:17.864 - 00:05:43.564, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I was just saying, you guys spelled it out really clearly why Defi is exciting. And, yeah, I think you mentioned just at the end there, Tristan, like, composability. And I know you guys recently had an announcement, right, where Katana is now composing and integrated with Zeta. So it would be great to hear from both of you kind of about what that integration is and why you're excited about it.
00:05:44.944 - 00:06:16.552, Speaker B: Yeah, I can kind of kick off very quickly, but Ayush can kind of take it away. I think it's something that's been in the works for a very long time. I met Ayush, maybe what was it like six months ago? I don't know. We did the same hackathon and we've been talking for ages, I think, in terms of an integration and working together. And yeah, he kind of came to market very early with these kind of yield generation protocols, and there was not really much underlying infrastructure, I think, for it back in the day. Hence why he's kind of like, I think took a bit of a break for a while and then came back once the ecosystem matured. And then.
00:06:16.552 - 00:06:44.714, Speaker B: Yeah, like most recently, we basically launched, I guess, kind of a exchange that would cater to a lot of these vault products like Ayusha is building out. And we did, I think, our first expiry kind of last week. So migrated a bunch of vaults over and then. Yeah, obviously going through another one today, tonight, which is pretty exciting. So it's good to have proper TVL now into those vaults and really exciting to partner with great protocols like Katana on this.
00:06:46.594 - 00:07:30.710, Speaker C: Pretty much that and I would add on super excited to work with Zeta after, as you mentioned, a very long period of time. I think for us, the sort of core considerations are Zeta offers european cash settled options, and they built a special product for us called Zeta Flex where we're able to select the strike and expiry and they provide the settlement mechanism. One other layer there is like auctions now happen entirely on chain. Previously, some portion of it was off chain and filled through escrow. Entirely on chain. Everything's super transparent and I would say much more efficient. I actually spent a lot of my early morning running the auctions.
00:07:30.710 - 00:08:12.834, Speaker C: It happens at a weird time, like Friday at 03:00 a.m.. Eastern, just lining up with dare. Bit expired, but yeah, I mean, I think like, you know, super excited about not only, you know, the current integration, but we have a lot of products in the works. You know, working very closely with Zeta, I think is. Is important in terms of like, you know, being on the leading edge of defi option vaults where, you know, today they all look the same, but I don't think that'll be the case, like, you know, in the coming months or, you know, if we can do anything about that, you know, exact same, but yeah, that's sort of what we're working on. And then, yeah, open to any and all partnerships on the community side as well there. Nice.
00:08:14.574 - 00:09:18.284, Speaker A: And I think you guys are both working on interesting layers of the stack where Zeta is kind of at somewhat of a lower level in terms of providing infrastructure for, for apps like, you know, dapps, like katana, where you're trying to, like, make it super easy and simplified for the end user to kind of like get exposure through like a covered call strategy, for instance. Like, I guess, like, you know, a covered call is like a pretty common strategy, but do you think that. That you'll see kind of like a Robin Hood, like, kind of explosion of retail users, you know, just, you know, entering into vaults like that in the future? Is this more catered to? Kind of like more traditional finance Wall street types that want to get more and more complex with the strategies over time? Or like, I guess, Ayush, how are you thinking about, like, what the next strategies will be and who will they cater to?
00:09:19.304 - 00:09:57.074, Speaker C: Yeah, I think you kind of hit the nail on the head in terms of like, you know, the rails, which is zeta here. And then I think, like, the point of ingestion is supposed to be the katana vaults where we simply like, sort of package up the underlying strats. But using zetas, rails and the whole value add really, of these products is number one, like simplification. So users don't actively manage their positions and get perpetual option exposure. What that means is essentially like, you know, in sort of a normal strategy, you would roll over every week manually. In option vaults. You simply sort of sit in the vault for however long you want and the vault automatically runs the optimized strat for you.
00:09:57.074 - 00:10:49.424, Speaker C: Additionally, there are a couple other key considerations when looking at how option vaults are set up. Today, we bring our own liquidity with us. We're partnered with the top ten crypto option market makers in the space who provide bids on our assets, OTC, where we don't rely on organic liquidity. So we're able to offer assets where there is no organic liquidity for, let's say, ray call options, for example. And then lastly, I would say with regards to target market, it's very much, as you said, number one, retail. I think simplification of these strategies is important and it definitely is a nice way to generate yield that's different from the traditional farm and dump a token then. Secondly, I think you can offer very different risk profiles that, that make it more and more exciting to use some of these structured products.
00:10:49.424 - 00:11:24.610, Speaker C: I think one thing that we're still solving for is user experience. In my view, that was Robinhood's big unlock. So simplification without obfuscation. I think you want to see all the requisite information to make the appropriate decision, but you don't necessarily need to understand covered calls that sort of the nitty gritty. You don't need to target a certain delta, do the strength selection yourself, but you want to have some input into maybe your risk preference as well as like, you know, how you interact with the products. But I think that's what we're trying to solve for at the moment with regards to additional strategies. You know, plenty of, plenty of ideas there.
00:11:24.610 - 00:12:16.104, Speaker C: I think we're just gonna operate with the principle like, you know, do what's most interesting to retail at the moment and then really optimize what we currently have, which with the Zeta integration we're pretty much there on the covered calls and cash secured puts. And I think like, you know, it is pretty exciting for institutions to use this as well. And the last target market I would add is like thousand treasuries to that mix. And I genuinely think like a lot of the Defi options market will come or a lot of the option market in crypto will come in defi and sort of happen on chain because the assets are sort of already there, especially like the long. That's what I think our niches. And then you know, hopefully one day think like, you know, we can compete with Darabin in terms of like total volume, you know, with Zeta as like the rails there. But that's sort of like the vision.
00:12:17.004 - 00:12:52.074, Speaker B: Yeah, all really good points and I totally agree. Vaults are really exciting use case for us, especially both from a UX perspective as well as kind of like a exposure and new product perspective from like a UX perspective. Obviously options are pretty hard to get your head around. There's like so many parameters and there's quite a bit of knowledge, I think, that goes in. And that's why you see people who trade them tend to be like pretty pro traders on like Wall street. But yeah, you have seen this boom of like say like the kind of Robin Hood market. You know, we've been kind of looking into that and I guess figuring out how we can tap into that.
00:12:52.074 - 00:13:57.404, Speaker B: And a lot of it was just building our exchange in a way that's like really user friendly and I think that, like, doesn't simplify to like a, you know, super watered down perspective, but something that's like intuitive and easy to use. And even like, we have a mobile kind of mobile optimized interface, which is like, definitely takes like some small inspiration from Robinhood, I guess, trying to simplify down that experience for the end user. But what we've seen, even with that, I think a lot of the kind of casual defi user base is still kind of in that mindset of putting your money into kind of uniswap type vaults and expecting some kind of APY from that. So that's been people's mentality and I think people are just like, very accustomed to those kind of products. That's where I think Vault's kind of catered to that kind of market. I think people who just don't want to do strike selection and think about all the kind of nitty gritty details of options. It's a really nice way to be like, hey, I can be exposed to these pretty sophisticated financial products, but I don't have to go through the cognitive overhead of figuring out how to price options and then figuring out which kind of strikes and expires to buy.
00:13:57.404 - 00:14:59.930, Speaker B: That's already handled by a protocol that's done a bit of science under the hood to give you kind of like the most optimized outcomes there. And yeah, I'm just like really keen to see the kind of use cases and who ends up using, I think, a lot of these strategies, ones like covered calls, I think, like Ayush mentioned for treasuries, I think that's just such an awesome untapped market. It's like you're sitting on these massive bags of treasury tokens. You want to somewhat like monetize that now, I think, and you kind of forfeit, I guess, some of your like really high upside exposure. I guess when your coin ends up ripping upwards, you're pretty happy anyway. I think that your entire treasury is just appreciated so much and so you kind of almost trade off, I guess, some of that really extreme upside for kind of like cash in hand now, which I think is just like a great sell for treasuries because that's what you kind of end up paying your developers with and that's kind of what you use to kind of, I think, hedge out some of your risks. So it's really nice to be able to like customize your risk profiles rather than always just being like one to one.
00:14:59.930 - 00:15:05.934, Speaker B: Like, I'm holding spot and it's just like, either it goes down and I'm not having a good time, or it goes up and everything's great.
00:15:06.794 - 00:15:07.978, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure.
00:15:08.106 - 00:15:08.370, Speaker B: That.
00:15:08.402 - 00:15:28.276, Speaker A: That seems like a pretty no brainer like, strategy for. For a lot of these, like, treasuries for daos. I mean, has, has anyone even integrated with, like, a lending, like, just a basic borrow protocol to, like, lend out and get some API that way? Are you guys aware of any daos, even ethereum? Have you guys seen that actually, in.
00:15:28.300 - 00:16:36.718, Speaker C: Practice, I think people use urine's, like, earn product in some treasuries. So they're just lending optimizers, swapping between compound, whoever else. I have seen, like, manual management of daos, and there's sort of a question as, like, how decentralized his dad? Or is it a guy managing the funds like Sifu? But, yeah, for us, this sort of consideration would be b to dao or dao to dao, almost, where we're sort of pitching a full decentralized governance forum. And then the intention is the people on the multisig who control the treasury then sort of implement based on the communities vote. But I think that's kind of skating to where the puck's going to be in terms of where Solana is today. Not a ton of daos. We do service invictus Dow, so we run covered calls on their treasury assets, but it's not inj or, sorry, it's not Invictus in token, but it's their sole msoul and so they're in our vaults.
00:16:36.718 - 00:16:52.934, Speaker C: But hopefully in the future, I think we'll expand that business line where it's sort of truly like Solana native, like all the Solana native projects we run native covered calls on where, like, to the extent that there is, you know, decent pricing, which is like, the other limitation there.
00:16:53.394 - 00:17:32.944, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it would be super cool to have this actual, like, decentralized kind of treasury management because I think, yeah, mostly how it is now. I think you're starting to see it pop up a little bit more on Ethereum, but most of it is like, you go to a hedgehog hedge fund or kind of market making firm, and they, they go and do some kind of clever trading in the background, like either lending it out or doing stuff like a basis trade and earning you, I don't know, 15% to 25% yield on that. And you kind of trust them, I guess, with your assets. So there's some process of vetting and I guess, hoping that they do the good job that they do. Whereas if you can just plug into a reputable defi protocol and it does on your behalf. I think that's super cool. And then you'd have the Dow treasury kind of vote on it.
00:17:32.944 - 00:17:35.034, Speaker B: Yeah, pretty exciting.
00:17:36.054 - 00:17:59.194, Speaker A: Awesome. Speaking of daos, what are your guys thoughts on creating a DaO for each individual projects? I'm curious to kind of get your thoughts on how you guys are thinking through that, when to kind of get more community control over the underlying protocol and like the timing for that and what your thoughts are.
00:18:01.624 - 00:18:40.090, Speaker B: It's a really good question. I think from our perspective, we're super keen to go down the Dao path. It feels like the right way to involve the community. I think be community driven rather than, I think just have a small group of core contributors. You start opening it up to literally the untapped thousands, tens of thousands of people that are in the community. There are definitely, I think it's a double edged sword where there are some drawbacks of speed versus decentralization. Kind of like the more distributed you are as a team, the harder it becomes to kind of coordinate, reach consensus and kind of like just genuinely like ship product for us.
00:18:40.090 - 00:19:40.092, Speaker B: That's especially, I think, a big consideration given it is like an extremely technical and sophisticated product that I think requires quite a lot of fundamental knowledge about. Just like general smart programming, smart contract programming, and then also just like options and derivatives, knowledge on how to do a margining system, how to make it under collateralized, how to interface with CRM and Solana. There's just lots of components. We're actively working towards that and now we're in a nice middle ground where we're very active on our discord. We're engaging a lot of community contributors, we're putting out a lot of bounties. So, like a lot more of our features are now starting to be community driven and we're having people kind of build clients and kind of new features and kind of tooling around our platform from the community, which also just scales our resources within the team quite a lot. But yeah, that's definitely like the long term goal is like decentralized as much as possible, have it owned by the.
00:19:40.108 - 00:20:53.956, Speaker C: Community and yeah, yeah, very much similar line of thinking there on our end. Like, we've always been a community driven project, especially with, in terms of features, Ui, Ux, like how people interact with the application. I think a lot of my thinking there and what I've seen work best, as Tristan mentioned, you don't want to sort of prematurely go to Dao where you do introduce the operational overhead of governance. And I think while you're iterating to product market fit, it's great to have a small team that is implementing as opposed to kind of going through like the governance steps where I think it's easy to get in that scenario. So for us, like the ideal end state of this protocol is a fully automated decentralized protocol where there are people building on top of us, whether it's protocols or individuals and others contributing to the base layer of the protocol in terms of mechanism design as well, like how we design the incentives, I think there's some very interesting schemes that, you know, can incentivize other builders to contribute strategies to the base layer itself and earn for doing so. So, you know, urine is a good example here. And then also looking at insurance, you know, how people think about, you know, truly decentralizing.
00:20:53.956 - 00:21:42.334, Speaker C: The front end I think has become more top of mind when you look at sort of the regulatory climate as well. So a lot of ideas there. And then with regards to timeline, I think it's more of a qualitative decision as to like when we feel we have, you know, some degree of product market fit. And that's when we kind of hit the lever on fully decentralizing, introducing governance and then throwing up grant programs and getting contributors. Today we view ourselves as just one contributor to the larger Katana protocol. So separation concerns there where we're not the protocol ourselves, but rather just write the code here that is like bootstrapping the protocol. And then ideally in the future, it's sort of a coalition of different strategists and different developers in space.
00:21:44.194 - 00:22:12.614, Speaker A: Yeah. When do you foresee the ability for anyone to kind of like create their own strategy using both of your protocols? Like what, you know, is that on the roadmap and do you think that's going to be like the biggest unlock because there's only so many strategies that your core team can come up with, but if you open up the platform to anyone to create their own type of vaults and try to get users into their vault, like, I guess, what do you think of that concept?
00:22:13.034 - 00:23:01.944, Speaker C: Yeah, I like it a lot. Yeah, sorry. Just like permissionless vault creation, just to draw the analogy, like permission, permissionless pool creation, that's a truly decentralized data for protocol where we don't want to be here prescribing certain risk preferences and certain ways to execute the given strategy. So in the interim we're already going to expose some more levers in terms of how you. But there's like sort of that, you know, entirely permissionless component as well, where anyone could come in, throw up their own strat, and really like, yeah, I think Zeta today is a fully, like, flexible product where theoretically, you know, you can kind of curate whatever strategy you want, whether it's, you know, individually, manually, or through. Through a vault as well. Yeah, I'll kind of let Tristan speak to that better.
00:23:02.404 - 00:23:47.328, Speaker B: Yeah. So we have two products, one being zeta Dex, which is like the CRM based, like, order book options and futures exchange. And that one, by its nature, we kind of have to restrict, I guess, the markets that we list just to concentrate liquidity and also keep it standardized. Like, if you list every expiry under the sun, you would just have infinite markets, essentially, that would never be able to be market made. So we stick with those kind of standardized parameters. These aren't actually decided by us like you see in some other somewhat not so decentralized protocols where it's picked ahead of time or that's at least what derevit and stuff would do. But ours are auto generated based on the spot price every week, and we have this set of strikes that are auto generated by the smart contract.
00:23:47.328 - 00:24:16.326, Speaker B: And so that's kind of the new markets that will go out for kind of that week. We are pretty hands off with that. And that just kind of rolls over every week permissionlessly as it's cranked. But we have to kind of keep standardized expiries and strikes there. But in terms of zetaflex, which is our other product, which is like the more vault centric product. Yeah, that's completely customizable, permissionless. We have no opinions there, and we basically just give it to vault protocols.
00:24:16.326 - 00:24:29.084, Speaker B: And literally anyone out there, the katana team, and they can go ahead and kind of mint any kinds of options, run any kind of auctions that they want. We kind of take no opinions there. It's like fully customizable and permissionless.
00:24:34.104 - 00:25:21.986, Speaker A: I guess. One question for you guys. It seems that the narrative around Defi has been somewhat subdued compared to, like, in 2020, right, when or even in like 2019, when kind of the first DeFi wave happened. And a lot of it, and there was a lot of excitement around a lot of those core financial primitives. And it was kind of actually considered kind of like, the main view is like kind of where crypto had product market fit at the time. And I think over the last couple years since then, seems like Defi has. Has not really like the narrative taken off compared to things like nfts and other verticals.
00:25:21.986 - 00:25:37.454, Speaker A: And do you think that the DeFi narrative will come back this year. Will the market kind of shift again? Just kind of want to get your thoughts on, just like, broadly, why you think the DeFi narrative has been somewhat subdued in crypto recently.
00:25:38.864 - 00:26:12.940, Speaker B: That's a good question. And I think Defi is honestly going to be the slow burn kind of use case. It's something that I feel like is pretty ubiquitous and it's not just going to disappear out of nowhere. Everyone needs financial services. They're pretty important thing, but I guess they're definitely a lot less sexy than nfts and gaming, which have popped up more recently. I feel like that's more of a sector that appeals to the new wave of crypto that we've kind of end users that we've seen come through in like the last year. NFT is obviously kind of like, blowing up.
00:26:12.940 - 00:26:36.068, Speaker B: It, I think, has a very low barrier to entry. People can kind of get in. It's very easy to understand. Understanding like, nfts and artwork is definitely, like, a lot more intuitive than understanding, like, black scholes and, like, options pricing. Like, that stuff is pretty complicated and probably scares a lot of people away. So I'm kind of hopeful that, like, you know, it's not going to be like, necessarily cannibalistic. I think this stuff is pretty synergistic in that.
00:26:36.068 - 00:27:10.564, Speaker B: I remember we were building on Solana before, like the whole NFT boom, and before, like, DJ napes and, you know, TVL was definitely getting up there, but then suddenly you just had this like, cascade of people who got in and started using it. And then, you know, I guess my. My hope in the long term is people coming for the chain and then they kind of stay for all the other kind of applications that are out there. Like, you're not going to be gaming 24/7 you're probably going to be gaming, you're going to have these assets, you're going to maybe liquidate them. What do you do with it? You probably lend it out on some kind of borrow, lend or put it in a katana vault and start earning premiums on that.
00:27:13.064 - 00:27:58.776, Speaker C: I think I have a lot of thoughts there as well, a lot of similar things to what Tristan said. I think the narrative initially with Defi was clear, proven use case, hyperscalable, hyper liquidity, clear efficiency that's driven by these sort of code that operates on a blockchain in a permissionless manner. I think a lot of the zero to one innovations have kind of slowed down. So initially you had the amm, you had the perps, those are new things. Everlastings are cool, but how many people use them? I think now you're looking at narrative, and that was sort of spearheaded ETH. Gas fees are high, so people are looking for that they can use. And what you've seen there is just, they kind of suck 2019 of ETH, but on every single other chain.
00:27:58.776 - 00:28:38.984, Speaker C: So it's been a lot of sideways progress. I would say, like, everyone goes and builds the money market on Solana, or they go and build the money market on near or cosmos, and slowly more builders are sort of just building the foundational blocks in different ecosystems. I don't think it's necessarily no bad thing. And conceptually, those things are important. In every financial ecosystem, there are some big unlocks. So you see CRM, for example, properly scale out a central limit order book on chain. And I think right now, a lot of the actual frontier, I would say, is in derivatives, which is very interesting and a good place to be, in my opinion.
00:28:38.984 - 00:29:16.154, Speaker C: But when looking at the narrative with nfts and gaming, I think it's as Tristan said, you know, much more relatable product, and you're just adding some financial aspect. Right? Like, art is a thing, gaming's a thing. Now there's sort of like, you know, something that happens on chain. So I set up a wallet, right, and I view it as like a great trojan to the ecosystem. I think salon's a great job through metaplex and, well, just get people set up with the phantom and hopefully, you know, that's not the end of their crypto journey. I think, like, you know, there's also the sort of, like, the greatest casino in the world. It's kind of crypto, and people just are, you know, playing around with things.
00:29:16.154 - 00:29:51.492, Speaker C: But I think slowly, like, everyone knows about nfts now, which I think is cool. You know, some people know about Defi, and I think as people learn about crypto, you know, defi will. Will be there for sure. I think it's just like, you know, less novel thing now. People have somewhat gotten used to it. And then the other thing is, like, the Ux sucks, and, like, that's sort of on us to enable retail to really use this stuff where anyone can buy art and look at it. I think not anyone can come onto uniswap and start swapping assets or providing liquidity or come on to, well, definitely can't do it on uniswap because it's expensive.
00:29:51.492 - 00:30:17.154, Speaker C: But if they were coming on Solana, there are a lot of challenges and things that we can do as protocols to enable easier initial use. So that's kind of where katana is focused as well. I think it's just like simplification and catering to retail, but hopefully the narrative does change, shifts back a little bit towards DeFi or it all grows together, but I think everything is moving in the same direction.
00:30:19.094 - 00:31:06.134, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I think you're completely right that nfts and games have been such a great entry point for a lot of crypto newbies, and it's just about getting them to be comfortable holding their keys and that will lead them down the path to maybe using DeFi protocols later on for financial services reasons. And I'm curious though, have you guys given much thought into incorporating nfts into derivative products? I know I was reading the other day, I think this researcher at Paradigm, Dave White, had a paper about four for nfts. Have you guys kind of gone down that rabbit hole yet about more advanced financial primitives around nfts?
00:31:06.834 - 00:31:57.362, Speaker B: There's actually kind of what I wouldn't say was nfts necessarily, but this is what Bartos kind of pushed us towards building in the early days when we first started. We started and we're like, hey, we're going to build vanilla options. And he's like, there's already a team doing that. Do exotic options or do this kind of like funky stuff or like options on the weather or something or other, or you know, these kind of crazy things. And the cool thing with our framework is anything that has an oracle price, you can pretty much list an oracle on it if you're somewhat able to price it, I guess. And so, yeah, like, I think if there was like a reliable oracle, I know, kind of pith potentially, or some others I think are looking at maybe doing like an NFT kind of floor oracle stuff like that, I'm sure maybe like, yeah, switchboard and others are going to look into this kind of more long tailed stuff. And then, yeah, I think if there was sufficient demand, it's definitely something we could list.
00:31:57.362 - 00:32:16.734, Speaker B: The pricing might be a little bit tricky because it probably doesn't follow black Scholes kind of log normal distributions or all these kind of assumptions. But yeah, it's something interesting, worth exploring and I definitely read through that Dave white paper. I know some people I see on Twitter have been having a crack on it, so I probably need to dig in more and see what the progress has been.
00:32:17.754 - 00:32:49.460, Speaker C: Yeah, on my end view it as like a very interesting space. It's still niche, right? Like, it's not everyone with NFTs is trying to lend against them. And I think, like, it's very bespoke in traditional finance, right? Like, it's not, you just go to like your art money market and suddenly, like, there's a, there's a full market for it. So it's definitely a new thing. And I think, you know, there are problems remaining to be solved, right? How do you properly price illiquid assets that are not fungible? Right. They're all slightly different. And then there's a lot of trust introduced there, even fractionalization.
00:32:49.460 - 00:33:18.630, Speaker C: There's a lot of problems to be solved still. People have it, but I think some people that are looking at it pretty closely. Bridge split, I think on Solana is an interesting one. Definitely uniquely focused on NFT DeFi and how do they work together? For me, I think definitely interested. Again, we're a community driven in project. If that's of interest to people, we would pursue it. But I think that still very nascent in terms of oracle.
00:33:18.630 - 00:33:52.008, Speaker C: Risk is a huge thing in DeFi as well. And when you think about price manipulation, if I hold 400 monkeys, I can change the price a lot. And how does that impact financialization of those products? There is a lot of risk. It's easier said than done, for sure. When I think about like how DeFi slash, like, nfts progresses, I see a lot of like, you know, use cases of nfts as a broader standard. Not the profile picks, but, but just like a broader standard in DeFi itself. And then also I think it's a great community tool.
00:33:52.008 - 00:34:23.834, Speaker C: So you see the hedges, you see like the, you know, everyone's launching their little like Defi native NFT project as well. And I think it's cool, like definitely keen to, you know, explore that pathway, but, but maybe, you know, do something novel, like instead of just having it sit as art. Maybe it does have some, you know, intrinsic value in the protocol itself and does like enable unique experiences or, you know, some unique unlocks as well just by nature of holding them. But yeah, I think cool design space overall is sort of a TLDR in mind.
00:34:24.414 - 00:34:25.214, Speaker A: What do you think?
00:34:25.334 - 00:35:09.385, Speaker B: Interesting thing as well, which is like, nfts are like super illiquid, right? And if you're trying to like exit out of them, it can sometimes be really tough. You're always going through these kind of auction interfaces, which almost starts parallel, paralleling like some of this option stuff we're doing through like rfqs where you don't have like an order book and like a liquid kind of fungible token exchange. And then you get like perps on the other hand, which is just these like hyper liquid products of like the two billions of dollars of volume on like centralized and even some decentralized exchange exchanges now. So be really cool. I think if people start listing, that might come up with some really interesting market dynamics. Maybe people get like NFT index products. You start having options on the whole NFT index or on some other kind of types of products.
00:35:09.385 - 00:35:52.604, Speaker B: And I think this is nice because it probably breaks down the barrier to entry for some of these bigger tier kind of NFT projects, say like crypto punks or Solana monkey business suddenly trading at these pretty unattainable prices. I think for kind of newcomers to the market. Like I wouldn't necessarily be able to buy like a crypto punk outright, but if I was to be able to buy an option or a perpetual on that, you know, it's kind of almost fractionalized in the sense where you'd have some kind of limited exposure to it, but I wouldn't have to fork out some like ridiculous amount of money. And then there's probably other crazy stuff, you know, like lending against crypto assets using like, sorry, against like nfts. Using nfts is like collateral and stuff like that. That would be pretty wild.
00:35:54.944 - 00:36:23.594, Speaker A: A lot of green fields. And I think there was some just really good hackathon project ideas in there, Kristen. So I'm curious though, from both your perspectives, like Hackathon is about. I guess there's about a month left before project submissions. What do you guys want to see come in out of this? What would be most impactful for, for the Solana ecosystem, in your opinion, and also for your individual product?
00:36:25.974 - 00:37:02.242, Speaker B: Yeah, I can kind of go first. So obviously I'm going to shield derivatives a little bit because I'm very excited in this industry. I think there's just so many things to build and it's the first time we've properly had, I think, good rails like Ayush mentions to finally build on. And I kind of always liken it to early days of the Internet. We've kind of built, I think, the fundamental protocols, TCP and HTTP, where it's like you can now mint and sell options and we've kind of standardized that. And I think you don't have to reinvent the wheel anymore. And so it's now about building these applications, building vaults like katana, and kind of getting more creative with that.
00:37:02.242 - 00:37:41.926, Speaker B: There are definitely so many ideas currently, vaults are just limited to so far, like covered call and put selling vaults. But there's just really like an infinite amount of possibilities out there that's really exciting. I think there's a lot of stuff there. Options, I think as well. Their use case is a lot for hedging and insurance mechanisms. If people find nice ways to integrate that into existing protocols, doing impermanent loss hedging on orca, say, would be really nice. Or say you go long on a mango position, being able to buy, put options to cover your downside and lock in profit there, stuff like that would be really neat.
00:37:41.926 - 00:38:12.004, Speaker B: And then outside of the derivatives stuff, I'm really personally excited, I think, for the Solana pay stuff that came out recently. I think it's just such a cool product. I think it just unlocks so many opportunities and that feels like a big opening of the floodgates to get a bunch of people in there. Because currently, I think on ramps and just getting your money into cryptos tends to be a pain in the ass. But whether it's of in there, you've got this awesome ecosystem and it's like very liquid and you can kind of move all your assets around. It's like super, super smooth.
00:38:13.504 - 00:38:48.796, Speaker C: Yeah, I think on my end, like pretty similar things, to be honest. Well, firstly, I think the coolest thing to see is how many people are building now on Solana. In my first hackathon with Tristan in May, it was probably 30 teams and two were on Mainnet. It was pretty know, early stages, like the building experience was terrible or like, you know, pretty, pretty close to that. And I think now it's just like, you know, not that much later, but the ecosystem has grown so much. I think the quality of talent has also grown so much. And then looking at like, you know, the projects are, you know, what, what I'm most interested in.
00:38:48.796 - 00:39:38.942, Speaker C: Like, I was also working on a sort of crypto fintech product in the interim between like, sort of last hackathon and the most recent one for me. And it incorporated some portion of Solana Pay as well. So that's pretty close to my interest. I think fintech front end Defi backend is a nice concept and there are a lot of things to be solved for when you look at customer service, which is non existent in DeFi, when you look at non custodial or custodial software and offering seamless on ramps, those types of things are very interesting to me. Solana Pay is pretty new, so definitely worth exploring through the hackathon and then more so just like, yeah, more builders have a reason to build in the space, meet friends and join projects. Maybe after as well. So I think honestly excited for it all.
00:39:38.942 - 00:39:46.342, Speaker C: And I also like the not to like, throw shade. I like the gaming stuff as well. I love the NFT stuff. Just my interest is more so defi.
00:39:46.398 - 00:40:26.964, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. I think the Solana pay thing is interesting if like, one of the things I've been thinking about is, like, if you can convince a lot of, like, merchants and, you know, medium sized businesses to and even larger businesses to accept, like, USDC itself. And there, you know, a lot of companies actually have pretty large, like, cash balances. Right? Like, just like you were kind of mentioning with daos, right. There's so many, like, businesses that have all this cash. It's just sitting there. They're not going to utilize it on, like, they're not going to invest in stocks or because it's like, really hard to move that money around.
00:40:26.964 - 00:40:53.414, Speaker A: But if it's already in USDC, it's already crypto native. Things like vaults maybe make a lot of sense for some businesses to hold their cash in for whatever reason to earn a yield. So I think, yeah, we're just way underestimating kind of, like, the potential of all this defi stuff for just even like, regular businesses beyond just retail users. So, yeah, should be pretty exciting if there's some adoption there.
00:40:54.434 - 00:41:07.186, Speaker B: Yeah. Taking this huge amount of static capital that's out there, that doesn't really do anything at the moment, and you're kind of using the power of software to go out there and make it kind of work for you overnight, which is kind of cool.
00:41:07.370 - 00:41:25.014, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely cool. I think that's all the time we have today. But thanks so much for jumping on. Yeah, and good luck to all the hackers, and good luck to your guys projects as they evolve. So thanks for joining, thanks a lot.
00:41:25.054 - 00:41:27.374, Speaker B: Good luck to the hackers and thanks for having us on.
00:41:27.534 - 00:41:32.734, Speaker C: Yeah, thanks for having me. And, yeah, super excited for the project. So, yeah, keen to judge this.
