00:00:00.170 - 00:00:23.280, Speaker A: Nice. Thanks for coming to the talk. I'm excited to share. There's a lot of different stuff. I've kind of tried to take a bunch of big ideas that we've been working on and compress it down so that we can cover a lot of content quickly. But I'm excited to share it with you. Hopefully we're able to get through most of it.
00:00:23.280 - 00:01:16.322, Speaker A: So, yeah, if you're not already a member of our community, we welcome you. We have all the kind of standard social medias and feel free to follow. One link I would call out specifically is like, our YouTube channel. So Brent put in a lot of work to creating explanatory kind of videos that break down our smart contract architecture from a very high level and then going into specific smart contracts in our pipeline and explaining how they work. And so it's a really good learning resource, and I would recommend you check it out if you're interested. And then we're hiring. So we're looking to hire an engineering manager, a financial analyst, and workplace experienceculture teammate.
00:01:16.322 - 00:02:37.760, Speaker A: So if this sounds like a good fit or you know, someone that might be, let us know. Okay, so I'm going to start out just by just laying out our vision for what we want to achieve with zero X and what we think the world will look like in the future. Then we'll just kind of review what zero X is so far, like to date, what does our ecosystem look like, and then we'll talk about kind of the different stages of evolution that zero X might go down in the future. And a lot of the content towards the end of the presentation is like me just like, putting out ideas where I think the project could go in the future. But the future is unknown, and things change very quickly in this space, so there's a good chance that things will change in the future and in our kind of roadmap might diverge in a different direction. Okay, so instead of explaining the vision for zero X and what we want to achieve with it on my own, I feel like this video does a much better job of it, and it's like a minute and a half long, so I'm just going to show it to you rather than try and do it myself.
00:02:46.150 - 00:03:18.682, Speaker B: I have something you want, and you have something I want, so we should make a deal. To make a deal, we come to the table. The problem is the table belongs to someone else. So when we sit at their table, a middleman controls the process, holds our valuables, and charges us a lot of money. It's risky, slow, and expensive. What would it look like if this weren't just a table, but a network? A network that no one owns and would portray directly with each other without anyone in the middle. Enter zero X.
00:03:18.682 - 00:03:51.410, Speaker B: Zerox is a decentralized exchange protocol. It's a set of rules that businesses and developers use to create a network of exchange that no one controls. With Zero X, anyone can come to the table. This means that if I want to trade my currency for your currency without anyone else, I can do that. Or if I wanted to trade my currency for some real estate, I can do that too. I can trade anything for anything with anyone. See, Zero X isn't just about charts and order books.
00:03:51.410 - 00:04:24.130, Speaker B: It's about the exchange of value. Developers can use zerox to create marketplaces for the entire world of assets, old and new. They can create markets for game items from your favorite games, or for digital commodities like storage or computing power, even digital art and collectibles. The Zero X protocol is open source and governed by its users, removing all geographic barriers and opening the door to markets that could never have existed before. It will all be possible thanks to Zero X. Come to the table.
00:04:25.910 - 00:05:47.994, Speaker A: Yeah, there's no way I could explain things like with that level of video. I guess so, yeah, you can probably take away from that video that we envision all forms of value being tokenized on public blockchains like Ethereum, and that through this tokenization, we can democratize access to different types of assets and financial services in the same way that the Internet democratized access to information. So it's a pretty big vision. It'd be pretty amazing if we were able to achieve it, and we're working as hard as we can to take small steps in that direction. Okay, so, so far, what is Zero X so far? What does the ecosystem look like today and up until now? So Xerox is a system of smart contracts that processes these off chain orders that specify the details of a trade. And different people can create custom marketplaces that allow different people to exchange all these different types of assets. And we launched the first version of Zero X about two years ago, and we were really surprised, actually, by the amount of adoption that we saw.
00:05:47.994 - 00:06:41.310, Speaker A: We were thinking, we'd really have to try and convince beg developers to build something cool. And it turned out that there were a number of teams that started building awesome marketplace interfaces on top of Zerox called relayers. Over time, we've started to see these relayers kind of focus in on more and more specific niche markets, which is really cool because we're starting to see this vision of different types of assets being tokenized. We're starting to see that vision kind of take shape. It's very early, but we're starting to see it. And so, yeah, these third party developers, they create user interfaces that are built on top of Zerox protocol. And Zero X protocol is responsible for settling trades.
00:06:41.310 - 00:08:22.234, Speaker A: And in the last two years, there's been like, a pretty good amount of usage. We've seen over a million trades settled on the Ethereum main net and over a billion dollars in volume has gone through the smart contracts. Okay, but where do we see zero X going in the future? How do we see zero X evolving today? Zero X is the smart contracts. It's this message format and people just kind of use the message format and the smart contracts to build their own products. But one of the things that we've kind of dreamt of building since the very beginning and we actually mentioned in the original white paper was the idea of instead of having these off chain orders that represent trades instead of having them sit in a centralized database and being served through a centralized server? What if we could move these orders into a peer to peer network that is distributed and censorship resistant and just couldn't be taken down by a government? And so it was kind of like the North Star that we would go and build that at some point, but it didn't really make sense for us to try and do everything at once and we weren't sure if it was even necessary. So maybe Relayers would kind of fill this gap and we wouldn't need the decentralized version of the order book to exist at. You know, we've been working with a variety of projects.
00:08:22.234 - 00:09:08.460, Speaker A: One of them is Auger, and Auger is building prediction markets. So prediction markets are like markets that allow you to bet on the outcome of specific future events. So say you want to bet on who's going to win a political election or who's going to win a sports event. Auger allows you to do that. And it is critically important for Auger to be fully decentralized at every single layer of their technology stack. And the reason is because prediction markets are legal in some jurisdictions and they're regulated in others. And it's really kind of a hodgepodge depending upon which country you're based in.
00:09:08.460 - 00:10:36.454, Speaker A: And so Auger has this vision of allowing anyone in the world with an internet connection to participate in these markets with no limits, no barriers. And in order to do that, they have to have a system that won't go down, that can't be censored. And so they are interested in using zero X because of this efficient architecture that Zerox offers where orders are living off of chain and the ethereum blockchain is only hit when value is being transferred between counterparties, but otherwise we're not touching the ethereum blockchain. The problem is that to date, those orders had to live in a centralized database. So working with Auger really motivated us to build out zero X mesh, which is this peer to peer network for sharing orders, propagating zero X orders. And so one of the very first stages of evolution for Zero X that I think is going to become increasingly important in the future is the kind of transition from strictly relying on third parties to host servers and databases for order books and instead also having the option of having orders living in this censorship resistant peer to peer network. And so I'll talk a little bit about it.
00:10:36.454 - 00:11:43.440, Speaker A: It's a peer to peer network. So different people run nodes and these nodes connect with peers. And the peers are able to inject orders and propagate them through the network to anyone that is listening. And one of the really exciting things about Zerox Mesh is that it's going to be the first peer to peer network ever to be able to run in the browser. And so you'll be able to browse to a website when you open it up. That website will load a Mesh node in your browser behind the scenes, and it will connect to the network and start pulling in orders that are relevant to the market that you're looking at. And so instead of having to download this node software and run it on your laptop and like an ethereum node, you can actually just connect ad hoc when you go to a website.
00:11:43.440 - 00:12:24.346, Speaker A: And so we think that this will massively increase the reach and distribution of Mesh. And so Mesh is live, it's in beta. We're just finishing beta like right this week or next week. And so it's been running for a few months. And over the last 30 days, there have been over 100 different nodes joining the network. Not all of them necessarily at the same time, but like, joining or leaving the network. And over 2 million Zero X orders have moved through the network over the last 30 days.
00:12:24.346 - 00:13:51.666, Speaker A: So it's alive and it's starting to kind of do what we want it to do. And it's going to be out of beta very soon. So Zero X Mesh represents kind of the first stage of evolution for Zero X as a project. But there are more steps. What comes next? Okay, so next, how do we take Zero X from kind of being a tool that the core team is developing and we're kind of responsible in many ways for deciding which features to build. And we have kind of like a pretty centralized structure in terms of decision making. How do we, how do we shift from that to being a self governing network? So the people that are using Zero X, the developers that are building marketplaces, the market makers, the people that are consuming the liquidity, how do we make them, the people that control how Zero X evolves over time? When I say evolves, I mean like, how do the smart contracts actually change and add new features and functionality? And so today, Zero X, we do have a governance process for upgrades to the smart contracts.
00:13:51.666 - 00:15:03.230, Speaker A: And we've gone through four formal governance processes to date. And actually tomorrow is the last day for ZRX token holders to vote on the Zero X version three upgrade. But what does this governance process look like today? Right now it's basically trusted. So people are cryptographically signing these votes off chain and they're sending them to us through this website and we're tallying up the votes and we're looking at the vote breakdown locked to a specific block number. And so the community does have decision making power over these proposals, but it isn't enforced on chain. It isn't binding on chain. So one of the steps that we're going to be taking in the near term is actually giving the community of people that are using the protocol the ability to make decisions in a way that is binding on chain and that we cannot censor.
00:15:03.230 - 00:15:26.470, Speaker A: And so, yeah, we have zero X mesh. We have these orders living in there. The orders are fed into this system of smart contracts. So it's called a pipeline because it really looks like a pipeline of different smart contracts that are linked together. And we're wrapping this pipeline in an on chain governance process.
00:15:26.540 - 00:15:37.886, Speaker C: Yes, this mesh network is purely a P, two P network. Or it also has a consensus algorithm, kind of say this OD book like Mutable.
00:15:38.018 - 00:16:29.702, Speaker A: Good question. So the mesh network does not have any sort of consensus. It's purely like a gossip protocol. And so what that means is that depending upon which node you are in the network, you might see an order book that looks slightly different depending upon where you are and the orders will hit your node at different times. And we think that this is like the right trade off to make because consensus is by design, extremely inefficient. We want to make sure that nobody can manipulate the data that we're building consensus around. And that means we have to have, if we were to have the order book on the blockchain, we have to have like 10,000 nodes all over the world storing the order book in perpetuity till the end of time.
00:16:29.702 - 00:16:44.320, Speaker A: And that's not a very good use of the blockchain. It bloats the blockchain. It's also really expensive to maintain that order book. So we don't need consensus. What we do need is the ability to just propagate your orders as widely as possible, as quickly as possible.
00:16:46.290 - 00:16:54.930, Speaker C: Measures. Maybe some Dishonest node in the machine network.
00:16:55.670 - 00:18:25.954, Speaker A: Yeah, so every single node in the network will there are a number of different security measures that prevent DDoS attacks and that ensure that orders are only propagated if they are verified and can actually be filled. And I'm happy to go into more detail later on in the Q A. So we have mesh and then we want to move to this self governing network. So the people that own ZRX tokens are making the decisions, but who are the people that own these tokens? Do we really want these people making decisions? I think that's like very questionable and probably something we need to be sure that they have the best interests of the ecosystem in mind. So all right. Okay, so I'm just going to run through what does governance mean more mechanically? What is happening on the blockchain when Zero X governance is taking place. Okay, and why do we need governance at all? What if we just had one smart contract that has all of the Zero X exchange business logic in it, and every time we want to upgrade it, we can just deploy a brand new smart contract and tell everyone to start using that instead? Why do we have to have this governance process in the first place? Well.
00:18:25.954 - 00:19:18.012, Speaker A: So if we were to use a single smart contract for Zero X and tell people to move to the new one every time there's an upgrade, we basically end up telling every single person that is using the smart contract to withdraw their funds, deposit them into a new smart contract, which is expensive, and we need everyone to do it. And so that leads to churn. Some people just won't upgrade. They'll just kind of continue using well, they just won't upgrade. They'll just drop out of the ecosystem completely. Yeah, or there'll be fragmentation. Right? So some people will upgrade to the newest version of the protocol.
00:19:18.012 - 00:20:05.740, Speaker A: Some people will lag behind for a variety of reasons, and it leads to this fragmentation. Exchange markets are extremely dependent upon network effects, so there need to be as many buyers and sellers on either side of the market as possible for that market to be efficient and to allow for the best prices. And so if we have people churning out of the ecosystem, if we have people fragmenting across different versions of the protocol, we lose all these valuable network effects around liquidity. So we need to have an upgradable smart contract system. And so that's exactly what we have here. So we have some traders. These traders feed these off chain Zero X orders into the exchange contract.
00:20:05.740 - 00:21:20.104, Speaker A: The exchange contract calls into a variety of other smart contracts within the pipeline. And at the opposite end of the pipeline, the Zero X smart contracts are actually moving value between counterparties. And so how can we do the upgrades without causing churn? By basically putting in a new exchange contract, plugging it into the existing pipeline, and allowing people to migrate from the first version to the second version, and then having a cut off date for when the first version is deprecated. Okay, so this begs the question, back when we were first designing Zero X, we knew that we knew that we needed our system of smart contracts to be upgradable. And actually, when we started out building Zero X, we weren't actually building it to be an open protocol for anyone to use. Amir and I were actually designing our own kind of for profit proprietary exchange. And so the question of who gets to decide on upgrades was very simple.
00:21:20.104 - 00:22:37.590, Speaker A: It was like, well, we built it, we own it, we're charging fees, we'll just upgrade it when we want. And there's a whole separate story around why we decided to build a proprietary Dex and move to an open protocol that allows anyone to build on top of it. But the takeaway from this transition was that, okay, now we have this upgradable system of smart contracts, there are people building businesses on top of it and many people relying on it, maybe even billions of dollars flowing through it every day if we're successful. Well, upgrades are a huge deal and who decides on these upgrades? And so we thought through a bunch of different options, but basically we need to have some sort of governance system. And the only way to really come to consensus is to have having votes, assigning people votes. And the only way that made sense to us at the time was we need to have a governance token where if you own the token, you are entitled to a vote. And the important part here is that for governance to be effective, those tokens have to be in the hands of users, the people that are using the protocol and building businesses on top of it.
00:22:37.590 - 00:23:45.690, Speaker A: Okay, so how did that work out? Well, initially it didn't work out very well. We created this governance token, we put it out into the world. And the initial use for the token was to pay fees to access Zero X liquidity. Turns out people don't really like to interact or deal with tokens that they're not interested in trading directly. So if you're a trader or someone that wants to just buy $1,000 of dai, you don't really care which decks you use, you'll kind of go anywhere and you definitely don't want to be having to go and buy another token in order to get your trade done. And so the result of that was that after a year and a half of Zero X protocol being alive, we found that there was very little overlap between the people that were actually using the protocol and the people that were owning the token that own the tokens and were responsible for making governance decisions. And so that's not very good.
00:23:45.690 - 00:24:33.452, Speaker A: In order to ensure that governance decisions are being made in the best interest of the ecosystem and the protocol, what we have to do is maximize this overlap. We want that overlap to be as large as possible. And so how do we achieve this? So this is achieved actually in version three of the protocol, which is currently being voted on. It took a really long time. It took like a year, a year and a half of R and D. We designed a new incentive system within the protocol and with the explicit goal of maximizing the overlap between these two groups. And I'm not going to go too deep into it, I'm just going to explain it at a high level.
00:24:33.452 - 00:25:08.804, Speaker A: And if you want to learn more, there's a bunch of resources online. But we added an incentive into the protocol and with the explicit goal of moving tokens into the hands of users and not into the hands of any user. We actually want the tokens in the hands of a very specific user. So in zero X, there are three main categories of users. We have makers, market makers that are providing liquidity. We have relayers that are establishing these marketplaces for marketplaces, for buyers and sellers to meet. And then we have takers.
00:25:08.804 - 00:25:57.976, Speaker A: These are the people that are just coming to consume liquidity from the marketplace. And so when we first designed the incentives into the protocol, we didn't really have a strong hypothesis around which category of user was most important. We just thought like, they're all important, so we just want all of them to own tokens. But over the last two years, we've learned a ton about our ecosystem and the people within it. And we've actually identified market makers as the most important user within our ecosystem when it comes to making governance decisions. And so the reason is because again, as I mentioned before, takers, these are people that are just consuming liquidity, they don't have a strong preference for which decks they use. They'll use whatever has the best price.
00:25:57.976 - 00:26:53.448, Speaker A: They don't really care. So they probably aren't going to be making governance decisions in the best interest of the ecosystem because they just don't care. Relayers, relayers, they have some alignment with our goals for the ecosystem. They want it to grow because they make money from trading volume. But relayers also have an interest in maintaining a competitive advantage. And there's a natural tendency for relayers and marketplaces to form into monopolies or oligopolies. And so if a relayer is responsible for making governance decisions and they grow into one of the biggest players in the ecosystem, their incentive will be to create, to pass proposals that are anti competitive, that make it harder for people to compete with them.
00:26:53.448 - 00:27:39.320, Speaker A: And they also have an incentive to own the user relationship. So they might kind of eat the entire ecosystem and then they might even decide to just kind of fork off and bring their users with them. And most importantly, relayers. This is kind of like the classic platform technology platform or marketplace play is you build these network effects, you build this monopoly and then you crank up fees so people can't leave, there's nowhere else for them to go and they have to pay heavy, heavy fees. So that's not what we want long term. We want exchange to be global permissionless and as low friction as possible. And so therefore, we can't be creating a monopoly.
00:27:39.320 - 00:29:05.508, Speaker A: Market makers, however, they make money from trading volume, so they want the ecosystem to grow and that's the only way they make money. They don't make money from fees or anything like that, they just make money by moving inventory. And there also isn't this natural tendency for market makers to form into monopolies or oligopolies. And this is because there's so many different types of markets and usually market makers kind of focus in and specialize in a specific type of market and so it creates this natural fragmentation. And so the incentive system we've built into Zero X, basically it adds a small fee to every single trade denominated in ether and that ether is paid back out to market makers that create these staking pools. The payout is determined by two things how much liquidity that market maker is contributing to the ecosystem and how many ZRX tokens are staked within their staking pool. You can dig deeper into that reward function but the basic idea is that if a market maker is doing 10% of all volume on Zero X and their staking pool should kind of converge on having 10% of all ZRX within it.
00:29:05.508 - 00:30:02.580, Speaker A: And market makers, they basically inherit 50% of all voting power associated with the tokens in their staking pool. So we've created this financial incentive to push ZRX tokens into staking pools that are owned by market makers and then the market makers are inheriting this voting power and so they have a lot of influence over the governance process. And again, if you want to dig into it deeper, there's a lot more materials online. So yeah, to achieve our goal of having a binding on chain governance system and to allow the ecosystem to be self governed, we have to have the tokens in the hands of the right users. Those users are market makers. And with version three of Zero X we've created an incentive to move the tokens into the hands of the market makers.
00:30:03.480 - 00:30:06.420, Speaker C: So the takers will not have the token.
00:30:10.360 - 00:30:14.660, Speaker A: They could, but they have to be market maker.
00:30:14.820 - 00:30:17.480, Speaker C: So they have the proportional weight.
00:30:18.060 - 00:30:59.872, Speaker A: Yeah, we can dig into it after. But basically the people that are providing liquidity, they're the ones that are receiving these rewards that are paid out in ether every kind of time interval, which we're calling an epoch. So every trade there's a small fee in ether. These kind of accumulate over time. And at the end of this fixed period of time called an epoch, that entire pool of ether is paid out to these market maker staking pools. And yeah, we can go into it in more detail. Okay, so now we have Zero X with this peer to peer network for propagating orders, we have an on chain governance system.
00:30:59.872 - 00:32:13.084, Speaker A: So the people that are providing liquidity to the network are the ones that are making governance decisions or at least they have a lot of influence over that process. What's the logical next step? Next, we need the ecosystem to be able to fund itself. So how do we take care if we look at Zero X? Like the smart contracts and the tooling built on top of it? If we view this as a public good that exists for everyone's benefit rather than a for profit venture, there needs to be some source of funding that allows us to maintain and upgrade this system over time. And so yeah, we presented at DevCon Four a little over a year ago our proposal for how this self funding mechanism will work, or at least how funding will be paid out, but at a high level. The way that this works is that we have these incentives built in to create the ideal governance outcome. We want part of that ether that is being paid out to market makers. A small amount of that will be diverted into a community treasury.
00:32:13.084 - 00:33:22.660, Speaker A: And you can think of this as like an ecosystem tax. Every epoch a small amount of this ether will be going into a community treasury and that community treasury will be governed by the token holders. And so they'll be able to allocate that funding for developing a Python library on top of Zero X version five or whatever it may be. They'll have a way to continue funding and evolving the protocol to meet their needs. And so the governance structure that we propose for allocating that capital is a committee based approach. So ZRX token holders, these market making staking pools, they elect a small committee that is responsible for allocating the community funds and the committee is accountable to the token holders. And they can be impeached more or less if they do something that is not in the best interest of the ecosystem.
00:33:22.660 - 00:34:31.470, Speaker A: And ideally, since the token holders are the ones electing that committee, the committee members will be vetted and they will have the best interests of the ecosystem in mind. And yeah, if you want you can dig into this more later. But it's basically the kind of sequence of steps that determine how committee members are elected or removed and how capital is allocated by that committee. And so we want all of this to live within a smart contract and this smart contract will have control over the community treasury contract. So all of this is living within a smart contract. So now Zero X, we have this distributed peer to peer network for propagating orders. We have market makers driving the governance process and we also have this pool of communal resources that is continually accumulating ether and that can be allocated by a committee that the market makers elect.
00:34:31.470 - 00:35:35.564, Speaker A: Okay, what next? So now we're getting into an area that is like much more me just kind of guessing what's going to happen. And a lot of this depends upon Ethereum 2.0 coming out. So in a world where Ethereum 2.0 comes out and there are like 1000 shards or 100 shards, I'm not sure what the number is. The latest number is people have talked about the issue of all of the different DApps and protocols wanting to colocate on a single shard and that's because you get composability and many users already have their assets parked there so that shard will gain network effects and those network effects will disincent people from building on other shards. Well, there needs.
00:35:35.564 - 00:36:35.948, Speaker A: To be a way to prevent this. And the design pattern that I think will end up being adopted by most projects that are building, like kind of basic building blocks or public infrastructure will be to have copies of that system of smart contracts deployed to every single shard. And so if you are using Auger on shard A and you're trading those auger assets, you're going to be using Zero X to do that. If you're trading, uma, markets on Shard B, then you're going to be using hopefully Zero X to do that. And the idea is that we have this technical standard. It works the same exact way regardless of which shard you're on. And the important part here is that we need all of these copies to remain synchronized and to change in the same way.
00:36:35.948 - 00:37:51.412, Speaker A: So we don't want the Zero X system on shard A to change and the Zero X system on shard B to remain the same or change a different way. We need to have a unified governance process that pushes out upgrades to all of these copies in a synchronized manner. And so I'm not going to get too deep into it, but I gave a presentation at Ericon that discusses how a cross shard governance system works, and specifically how if this is Ethereum 2.0, we have this beacon chain and we have all these shards that are dropping down off of it. Instead of having a separate governance system on each shard, we need to have one governance system, one governance token, and we need to have a way for that governance system to push these upgrades out to every single shard in a way that maintains kind of the same behavior across shards. And so if you're interested in learning more about that, I can share out this deck, and I'll include a link to the Ericon presentation. Say again?
00:37:51.466 - 00:37:57.560, Speaker C: How do you push out? They use wars. Binary.
00:37:58.380 - 00:37:59.130, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:38:00.060 - 00:38:01.940, Speaker C: What's the technical mechanism?
00:38:02.100 - 00:39:10.960, Speaker A: So it definitely requires some technical explanation, but the idea is that there's this meta model, and so each one of these shards is homogeneous. So it's not like you have to have a custom system of smart contracts for every shard. So we create this meta model, and this meta model describes how the system of smart contracts fits together and what those pieces are, what are their interconnections? And then there's a dispatcher smart contract on every single shard that basically pulls updates from the meta model and translates those updates into the context of the local shard that it's based on. But if you want to learn more, I'll share the link. And so, yeah, who knows when Ethereum 2.0 is going to ship? It could be a year, it could be five years. But if it does, and when it does, I think that this will probably be the design pattern that many different DApps follow, where there is a single governance process for upgrades, and then there's a copy of that building block on every single shard.
00:39:10.960 - 00:40:32.120, Speaker A: Okay? Sharding is exciting because it increases scalability but people have talked about the downsides of sharding being you lose composability in some senses. If we don't have the pattern that is described here where you have the same building blocks on every single shard and you have different building blocks on different shards you lose that composability that makes Ethereum 1.0 so interesting and exciting to build on. And you also lose the ability to have kind of synchronous trades across shards. And so if you want to trade an asset on shard A for an asset on shard B designing a decentralized exchange system that allows you to do that is very challenging and there are a number of ways that trades can go wrong. I'm not optimistic that we'll find a suitable solution for synchronous cross shard communication for the use case of DEXes. So what we need is we need a scalable side chain that plugs into each shard and that allows people on each shard to deposit their assets.
00:40:32.120 - 00:41:52.820, Speaker A: And on this side chain, within the context of the side chain you can do synchronous cross shard exchange. Yeah, it's like a hub and it's a hub where you can deposit assets or withdraw assets from whatever shard your local assets are based on. There are three main components that are needed for this to happen. We need a way to order trades that are occurring off chain on this side chain. So how do we arrange these different trades? In kind of like a first in a way where trades are ordered according to when they arrive within the network or when they kind of like saturate the network. We need a way to take a batch maybe there's like 10,000 of these trades that have been ordered correctly. We need a way to take those 10,000 trades push them into more or less like a zero knowledge proof based compression or like Approver Node that will take those trades and it will generate a succinct proof that shows the beginning balances and the ending balances.
00:41:52.820 - 00:43:13.324, Speaker A: The transition between the starting and ending balances was done correctly and according to a set of rules that are known ahead of time. And then we need a way to move that succinct proof that captures all of that information associated with those 10,000 trades. We need a way to transport that succinct proof into the blockchain into a smart contract that verifies the proof and kind of settles the trades on chain in a way that can't be reversed. And so the idea here is that if you have trades between assets that are colocated on the same shard and you want composability and you want kind of the interesting use cases that you have today on Ethereum 1.0 then you can use the local version of Xerox pipeline on that shard. So this is one shard on Ethereum. You have the Xerox pipeline here.
00:43:13.324 - 00:44:17.010, Speaker A: If you want to trade with someone else who's also located on that same shard, or if you want to interact with other smart contracts on that same shard, you can do that locally using the Zero X pipeline. If you want to trade for assets that are on other shards or potentially even other blockchains, you can move to this side chain and you can do your trading there. And then you can withdraw back on whichever shard or blockchain that your new asset is located on. And this entire system here, this Verifier contract and this local copy of the Zero X pipeline are both wrapped within this on chain governance process allowing for upgrades. And so that's kind of like the ideal outcome and kind of like the ideal evolutionary path for Zero X. Whether or not this will be the path that we end up taking, not really sure, but it's interesting to think about. And yeah, that's all I have, so I'm happy to take any questions.
00:44:17.010 - 00:44:20.050, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:44:25.800 - 00:44:41.896, Speaker D: To the market makers is a function of how their stake, or their Zero X stake and the volume they contribute. Right. I'd be curious how that is weighted. Is it a prerequisite to have a stake to be able to get those rewards? And then how do these two function together?
00:44:42.078 - 00:46:03.380, Speaker A: Yeah, so we actually use the reward function is actually it's called the Cobb Douglas production function. And it's basically a way of weighting two different kind of factors or parameters. And so the two parameters that drive the reward payout for each market maker is first, it's the, like, out of all trading volume that went through the protocol during this fixed period of time, what percentage of that volume was driven by this specific market maker? And then the second parameter is what percentage of staked tokens are located within this specific market maker's staking pool. And so the nice thing about this reward function is that if you don't stake anything, then you get zero payout. If you have a bunch of tokens and you're staking them, but you don't provide any liquidity, you get zero payout. And as you increase the amount of liquidity that you provide, your payout increases. And as the size of your staking pool increases, so does your payout.
00:46:03.380 - 00:46:44.480, Speaker A: And there's kind of this optimal value where you're maximizing the rewards that you're getting paid out. And that's when the portion of liquidity you're providing is equal to the proportion of tokens staked within your pool. And so to be clear, as a market maker, you don't necessarily have to own ZRX tokens to put them in your staking pool. You can choose to accept tokens delegated by other people in exchange for a percentage of your payout. And that percentage is driven by market forces.
00:46:49.860 - 00:46:52.024, Speaker C: I also just voted, by the way, for Beachree.
00:46:52.092 - 00:46:56.084, Speaker A: Oh, thank you, thank you.
00:46:56.202 - 00:47:27.948, Speaker C: Aside from switching wallets and stuff. So basically when saying that you're rewarded for providing more liquidity, a couple of questions. Providing more liquidity, could you use a success benchmark of uptime, you could say, in that setting? And in addition to that, how is one selected to provide liquidity and what type of, I guess, selection process is put in place to allow people to provide liquidity?
00:47:28.124 - 00:47:53.176, Speaker A: So I'll address the second part first. Who gets to provide liquidity and get payouts so anyone can so anyone can establish a staking pool and at the end of each epoch the reward payout for that staking pool will be calculated. It might be zero. If you're not providing any liquidity, how.
00:47:53.198 - 00:47:55.028, Speaker C: Are you selected to go inside of that epoch?
00:47:55.044 - 00:47:56.488, Speaker A: I guess is what I'm saying.
00:47:56.654 - 00:48:12.750, Speaker C: So like the right to provide liquidity and the right for assets to be pooled inside of your book to market make with any GPOs, is it a randomization thing?
00:48:14.880 - 00:49:12.930, Speaker A: Yeah. So there are market makers that are creating these orders off chain and these orders propagate. Somehow they find their way to a counterparty that wants to fill that order. That taker when they go to fill the order they're going to pay a small fee that's denominated in Ether and it's equal in value to the gas cost to fill one order. So it might be like $0.10, it might be like a dollar, depending upon how quickly they want their trade to be mined into a block. And that small fee goes into this liquidity reward pool that accumulates all of these fees from all of the different trades and every single fee within that pool is attributed to the specific market maker that generated that order.
00:49:12.930 - 00:49:17.090, Speaker A: Okay, yeah.
00:49:22.200 - 00:49:27.380, Speaker C: I guess what orders I become taker as based on fees.
00:49:28.440 - 00:50:04.850, Speaker A: So as a taker, every single order doesn't matter which one you fill. You're going to have to pay a fee that's equal in value to the gas cost of your transaction. And since as a taker you choose the gas price, you get to choose how much am I willing to pay to fill this order? It might be $0.10, it might be if you're an ARB bot and you're trying to front run someone, it might be $50. But at the end of the day that fee gets diverted into a pool and that fee is attributed to the person that created the order, not the person that filled it.
00:50:11.770 - 00:50:14.082, Speaker E: In this gospel network for the mesh.
00:50:14.146 - 00:50:14.760, Speaker A: Part.
00:50:16.890 - 00:50:43.310, Speaker E: Kind of a weird question, but what's my incentive to pass along information about orders to other people? Because if I'm like a selfish participant in the market, I have no reason to want anyone else to see orders that I'm seeing. I don't see why I would love orders. So what's to prevent the whole network from being selfish? Just trying to keep the information they have private?
00:50:43.730 - 00:50:46.160, Speaker C: Select the path to the link?
00:50:46.470 - 00:50:47.220, Speaker E: Yeah.
00:50:49.190 - 00:51:59.624, Speaker A: So I guess right now if you're a market maker, professional market maker, and you want to get as many orders filled as possible, then you're going to want to propagate your orders as widely as possible. And so you don't necessarily have an incentive to share other orders that aren't your own. Necessarily. If you're a taker, then you want to get as many orders as possible from every single source. And so you'll want to connect to as many nodes as possible. If you're a taker or if you're not a professional market maker and you want to broadcast an order to the network but you don't want to run a node, then you might go through a relayer and the relayer could pin your order to their node and they can charge a fee when it's filled. But I think that yeah, I think that's right.
00:51:59.624 - 00:52:48.616, Speaker A: Okay, so if the network topology will change over time so when a node first connects to the network, it will just connect to some random set of nodes and over time it'll start to kind of only maintain connections. With nodes that are sharing as much information as possible and the nodes that aren't propagating orders as quickly or are selectively propagating orders will slowly drop out. And so not only will you as a selfish node, not only will you not be sharing orders as efficiently, but you'll also not be receiving orders as efficiently and quickly because people aren't maintaining their connection to you almost like a.
00:52:48.638 - 00:53:02.044, Speaker E: Retaliation that those will have for you not being super, for you not communicating with them. They're going to basically not communicate with you. They're not going to want to connect to you because you're not really providing value to them. They're going to kind of not provide.
00:53:02.082 - 00:53:43.802, Speaker A: Value to yeah, that's right. And you can probably tell I'm not like the expert on this specific question. That would be Weijay who is specifically focused on the incentives within the network and he would probably be able to provide you a much more nuanced answer than I can right now. But I think the answer is that if you're being selfish then the network will naturally not favor you as much, if that makes sense. Right? Yeah, totally. Thank you. I wouldn't call it a reputation system, but yeah, I guess there is.
00:53:43.802 - 00:54:50.900, Speaker A: Like I mean, maybe it is called a reputation, but there is a system that each node uses to make decisions around which nodes it maintains a connection with and it'll boot nodes that are yeah, but I do think that to start out just leaving Beta, I think it's basically like an MVP. Like the core functionality is in there and if there is a malicious node in the network that's very clearly malicious, it's not going to be able to maintain connections. But I imagine that in the future, over time as the network is supporting more orders and more nodes, we'll probably have to come up with better ways of efficiently propagating orders. Yeah, interesting. Cool. All right, any more questions? Can take one more, otherwise thank you. For coming.
00:54:50.900 - 00:54:54.260, Speaker A: All right. Thank you.
