00:00:00.480 - 00:00:30.594, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 24 March 2021. Alright, everyone, let's jump in. So obviously, the biggest bit of news of the last 24 hours was that uniswap V three was detailed in all its glory. Now, I'm, you know, I know yesterday on the refill I was saying that I was expecting it any day now, and here it is. But there is a little bit of a caveat here that this is just the details of V three. It is not actually going live on Mainnet until May 5.
00:00:30.594 - 00:01:02.062, Speaker A: It's going on testnets in the next few days, which is cool. But obviously what everyone's waiting for is the main net release on May 5. And then shortly after that, they're saying that they're going to have an l two deployment on optimism. So, you know, basically confirming that they're going to be building on optimism, which we all pretty much already knew about. And also, you know, saying that it'll be going live may 5, which is, you know, it's not too long, it's about six weeks away from now, which, which isn't too bad. You know, it was, would have been cool to see them launch this week or something like that, to end out march on a pretty high note. But, you know, it is what it is.
00:01:02.062 - 00:01:51.590, Speaker A: So I guess there's a lot to talk about here, right? And I'm sure you've seen, you know, plenty of people on Twitter talking about this today and kind of doing breakdowns of it, what the implications are and everything like that. But basically the major features of V three. So there's a few, I guess, like the biggest one is the, what they're calling concentrated liquidity now, basically, I mean, if you don't know how, I guess, like amms work or how curves work in general, maybe I suggest going and reading the pros for a full breakdown of this. But I'll do my best to kind of explain it here. So when you provide liquidity on uniswap, as it exists today on v two or even v one, you're providing liquidity for basically the whole curve. Now, what ends up happening is that the whole curve goes from like zero to infinity. So you got this curve, you got $0, sorry, $0 and then infinity.
00:01:51.590 - 00:02:31.806, Speaker A: And then, you know, the price trades between that. Now, what concentrated liquidity aims to do is so, is make it so that liquidity providers can actually specify the price range. They want to provide. Provide liquidity to. So for example, say you want to provide liquidity for ETH, but you only want to provide it for the price range, right? And you might wonder, why would you do this? Well, it's. You would do this because you, you need to provide less capital to get the same, say, to get the same or more kind of fees from the, from, from the trading that happens on the, on uniswap, right? So what ends up happening is that you can provide less capital or less lp. Right, than you would have to on uniswap v two, like much less, I think.
00:02:31.806 - 00:03:42.698, Speaker A: And then you could actually go and do something else with that money, which is, which is really, really cool. So basically, you know, if the price was to move below $1,000 or above $2,000 and you haven't changed your kind of profile of our paying there, then what would happen is that you wouldn't get any fees from that anymore. The people that had the, I guess, liquidity in those price ranges outside of your one would get the fees. But yeah, you can always kind of adjust it on the fly. And, you know, a lot of people were speculating, well, this, this kind of is going to lead to, I guess, very complex kind of strategies popping up around this. So you're going to see like, this would basically be someone, someone's full time job to come up with the most profitable strategies and, you know, providing the most liquidity in a price range, essentially, and capturing the most fees between that price, price range and then constantly moving it. And now if this sounds like to you, like a classic market maker on a club exchange or a central limit order book exchange, like just a classic order book, then it is, right? Like, I guess the innovation that uniswap brought to the table is that it's passive market making, right, where anyone could LP and then, you know, on, on the amm, and then, you know, the trading fees would be captured by the, the passive LP.
00:03:42.698 - 00:04:25.486, Speaker A: Now we're kind of venturing into a territory where that's not going to be them, you know, an optimal strategy anymore because of the fact that to capture the most fees, you're going to basically have to monitor your liquidity provider position at all times because of the concentrated liquidity. So there is a trade off here. And the other trade off is that, you know, as you can imagine, all these positions, you know, when you provide liquidity, you get LP tokens back and they're fungible with each other, right. Every LP token for the ETH die pair is the same as every other LP token, whereas with concentrated liquidity, all the positions are unique. Right? Or at least most of them are unique. Like, I guess if someone has the same kind of price range as you do, you can kind of, I guess, probably wrap those up and kind of like, put them in a. In an ERC 20 or something like that.
00:04:25.486 - 00:04:47.838, Speaker A: Something like NFTX does. But, you know, generally every position is unique, which means that they can't really be used as collateral within rv and maker. Like I was discussing on the refill the other day, where, you know, using LP tokens as cluster collateral. So that's another drawback there. But I think there are ways around it, and I saw, you know, a bunch of people kind of talking about that. So that is the killer feature that's coming in v three. You know, it.
00:04:47.838 - 00:05:48.188, Speaker A: I mean, if it works like as advertised, which I'm sure it does, I don't think they would have put this out there if it didn't work as advertised. The capital efficiency here is absolutely massive, right? Absolutely insane. You know, you can see here that if two people had a million dollars to deposit and one of them deposited it, a million dollars and kind of like LP, between the price range of $1,000 and $2,250 for ETH, they wouldn't have to lp the whole million dollars. They could lp, I think, $184,000 instead, and still capture the same amount of fees or more fees. They say you'll capture a lot more fees than you would have having to kind of like, I guess, provide the entire $1 million of liquidity so you can go do whatever you want with that. And, you know, this is a theme that I've been watching for a while within the Defi space, is this theme of, like, efficient capital, right? Because there's so much capital that just does nothing. You know, if you think about it, right? There is so much capital in a uniswap LP pool right now, or even sushiswap or whatever, that just sits there and does nothing.
00:05:48.188 - 00:06:16.656, Speaker A: Because the ETH price hasn't gone below $1,000 for months now, right? So. So there's no trading happening there at all. And it hasn't gone above $2,000 for a little while. Hasn't ever gone above like, you know, $2,500 or whatever. So there's like, there's all this liquidity that just never gets kind of like, I guess. I guess used in either direction, right, until the price moves up there, you know, this would be like a market maker on an order book exchange, you know, putting, you know, I guess like, um, orders at like, you know, under a thousand ETH. Under a $1000 ETH.
00:06:16.656 - 00:06:44.654, Speaker A: Yes, maybe one day it gets hit. But like, that's not an optimal strategy for a market maker. An optimal strategy is basically placing orders around the, I guess, know, as close as you can get to the current kind of spot price of the asset. So that's what this kind of like concentrated liquidity does. It's basically a hybrid, I guess you could call it, between amms and clubs, which is, which is pretty cool to see. But, you know, I think the trade offs here are actually worth it. And I don't think that this is going to be the death of like passive LP.
00:06:44.654 - 00:07:29.286, Speaker A: I think, you know, there's going to be, obviously, sushi swap still exists and I don't think they're going to go for concentrated liquidity. Maybe they do one day, but for now, anyone who wants to be a passive LP can on sushiswap and can still do it on uniswap v two. But yeah, I guess, like eventually most of the liquidity will move to v three. And it remains to be seen how it plays out. I mean, if the volumes really are this high and the capital efficiency is much better, then I think that, you know, I don't see who's going to be LP on the, you know, on Sushiswap rather than uniswap. You know, there might be liquidity incentives with, with the tokens and stuff like that, but kind of outside of that, it just becomes a little bit of. A little bit of a, I guess, like open question, like, what's going to happen there? So, yeah, that's the killer feature.
00:07:29.286 - 00:07:52.744, Speaker A: If you want to read more details, of course this will be linked in the YouTube description, but that's essentially how I understand it. You know, any errors? There are my own. You know, I studied it today and I had to wrap my head around it. And as I was studying it, I was like, holy shit. Like, this is huge, right? If this works, this is absolutely massive. This unlocks so much capital within defi. Like in Uniswap, there's billions of dollars, right? And a lot of that money is just not doing anything.
00:07:52.744 - 00:08:30.354, Speaker A: So if you can basically, you know, reduce, I guess, overall 80% of the entire capital needed to power Uniswap and still capture the same fees or more fees from the trading volumes. Right. Because at the end of the day, TVL is like a meme metric because you can have TVl just doing nothing, right. Doing absolutely nothing in the system, and then it's just like dead capital. Whereas what matters is the fees generated by the platform and the volumes generated by the platform. So for Uniswap, what ma, the only thing that matters to LP's are the fees that they're earning and the kind of volume the fees come from the volumes that are being generated. You know, for Makerdao, all that matters is the stability fees for the system, right.
00:08:30.354 - 00:08:51.394, Speaker A: That are paid by people who are taking out leverage. Now, you can imagine how many people have taken out leverage in Makerdao, have a lot of ETH backing it up, but their liquidation price is really low because they're scared of being liquidated. That is dead capital, right. It's just very inefficient. Yes, you know, you're scared of being liquidated, but there are much more efficient ways to do a leverage position. So, you know, there's that as well. I mean, and this is everywhere.
00:08:51.394 - 00:09:31.834, Speaker A: So what might end up happening is you may see a lot of tvls, kind of, I guess, like shift. So you may see a lot come out of uniswap, you know, during v three, and then a lot of that go to something like, you know, compound or aave or whatever, more of the capital intensive kind of products because of this. So it's going to be interesting to see, I guess, what happens here. The other features include basically range orders, which I think are kind of like, you know, your classic order book as well, where you can set orders at different ranges to execute. There's also flexible fees, so you can set a fee of 0.05%, which is actually extremely competitive with something like curve. So this is another thing I didn't mention about this.
00:09:31.834 - 00:10:07.062, Speaker A: This concentrated liquidity is, you know, people were saying, okay, this is a curve killer because you can concentrate the liquidity for stable coin pairs to like very, you know, you know, very low kind of, I guess, prices, obviously, because stable coins ideally don't, you know, shift too much, right. And because of that, and because of the, the fact that you can set a low fee here, people were like, well, you know, this is going to kill curve. And I mean, I don't think it's that simple. At the end of the day, I hate when something someone says, oh, this is going to kill that, or this is going to obsolete that. You know, it's such zero sum thinking. This is why I've always hated Ethereum killers as well, because it's like you're not going to kill a theory. I'm right.
00:10:07.062 - 00:10:31.828, Speaker A: Just focus on adding value any, in any way you can. Like a theorem is going to thrive, you know, and you, you know, you as another layer, one blockchain, maybe you can thrive as well. If you find a use case or if you find some kind of thing that a theorem doesn't have with a theorem, can't be everything to everyone. At the end of the day, as much as we would all love it to it, it can't. So, you know, and the same thing happens with all these apps. It's like, you know, this is the X killer, this is the Y killer. It's like, it's never, never going to work out like that.
00:10:31.828 - 00:10:53.364, Speaker A: I do think that curve is going to keep innovating. You know, they have a massive war chest at their disposal, too. They have a really good liquidity mining program to incentivize stable coins to go in there. So I just, I mean, I don't buy into that, that kind of rhetoric. But outside of that, there's also two other fee parameters here. Obviously the 0.3%, which is the standard uniswap LP fee parameter now, and 1% as well.
00:10:53.364 - 00:11:29.608, Speaker A: So, you know, it's going to be fun to see what happens here. I mean, this is very similar to what Balancer has, except balancer lets you set like a, you know, obviously I think up to 5% in fees and stuff like that, but I think Uniswap opted for kind of simplicity here, where obviously the 0.05% is probably going to be used for the stable coin swaps. 0.3% is just your standard and 1%, you know, I'm sure there's a use case for that as well. So there's that. The flexible fees and they briefly mentioned about, you know, the uni token, or at least the, I guess, Uniswap governance, being able to turn on fee capture for the Uni token, I wouldn't expect this to go live for quite a while.
00:11:29.608 - 00:12:17.708, Speaker A: Uniswap seems to be taking an approach where they're kind of like building for the very long term here and don't actually care about capturing fees. And, you know, why would they? I mean, look at the unitoken's value right now. It's the most valuable defi token and it's literally has no fee capture because it's the most valuable based on how much it's going to grow into the future and this kind of prospect of turning on, on this fee, you know, fee capture eventually, which I believe eventually it'll be turned on but I don't think anytime soon, that's for sure. Other features include advanced oracles, so they've, they've upgraded their kind of like Twap oracles that, that, um, you know, are being used, I guess, like sparsely within Defi. I'm sure, you know, more people are going to use them as time goes on. And I guess the last interesting thing here was their license. So for those who don't know, every kind of piece of software has a license behind it, even open source software.
00:12:17.708 - 00:13:02.420, Speaker A: Now your software can still be open source, but you can still have a copyright license on it where anyone who kind of like takes your code and reuses it doesn't, doesn't have your permission to, you know, you can go after them and you can request them to take it down. And if they don't, you can get the law involved essentially. Now the way that uniswap has done it is that they've licensed their v three core code base under what's called the business source license 1.1, but only for two years. So it's basically a time delayed thing where, you know, you can't copy and, you know, directly copy Uniswap V three s code base and use it for your own project and monetize it or whatever for two years. And after two years it goes to a GPL 2.0 license, which basically allows you to, to essentially use it as you would in general open source software.
00:13:02.420 - 00:13:32.060, Speaker A: So, and that, that will last into perpetuity. And they actually mentioned here that Uniswap governance can either accelerate this or they say, can accelerate this. They also can probably push it back as well, I'm assuming. But yeah, this was interesting because people were saying, you know, okay, well, if Uniswap v three comes out, it's just going to get forked straight away, you know, someone else is going to copy it and blah, blah, blah and whatever, and this prevents that. You know, if you want to be a named team within the ecosystem, if you're not completely anon, right. And if you copy this code, you're gonna get wrecked. Like Uniswap's lawyers.
00:13:32.060 - 00:14:14.248, Speaker A: I mean, I'm sure they have like some of one of the best legal teams in, you know, in the world, considering how much money they have, you know, they're just gonna come after you for that. And I actually don't blame them for this. Like, imagine if you work really, really hard on something for, for a long time, you know, which, which v three has been worked on for a long time and then straight away someone just copies it and beat you to market and just does it in a way, in that way because they don't really care about security or whatever, you know, that would, that would piss people off, right. So I think they found a happy middle ground here where they're basically time delayed it. So by the time it becomes open source, you know, it's been, it's been two years, right? It's been a very long time. And by that point, you know, I'm sure there's going to be other innovations too, right? And maybe it's not even worth copying it at that point. So, yeah, I actually like this.
00:14:14.248 - 00:14:58.538, Speaker A: Even though I'm a big proponent of everything being open and open source. I mean it's always open source, right. But I'm not a proponent of projects just straight up like stealing. I mean it's not stealing the code but like just copying it and not doing anything with it and just like copying other people's work. I've always hated that in this ecosystem, but you know, that's the ecosystem that we're in, right? And you know, things being open source is beautiful for like cross collaboration and people forking stuff, making it better, but at the end of the day there has to be a middle ground, right? You can't just like launch something that you've worked on so hard and you fund it out of pocket, you know, and then someone come along and copy it with no work. So, I mean, I like this, I do like this and I know people have other opinions here and that's fine. You know, this stuff can probably be reverse engineered anyway using a new code base, right.
00:14:58.538 - 00:15:29.222, Speaker A: But it does take time. You need to get audits and stuff. So you're basically putting, you know, the burden on people who want to fork you to actually do it in a way where they actually have to recreate what you've built, which I think is fair enough. So basically that's, that's, I guess most of what they announced yesterday, they got the launch details here and everything like that. As I said, the smart contract are going to be deployed to ethereum testnets in the coming days, so you can play with it on there. But you know, most of us don't really use the testnet, so that's fine. But I feel like I'm going to use the testnet for this because I want to play around with this.
00:15:29.222 - 00:16:08.860, Speaker A: I want to see how it all works. I want to actually, you know, get in the weeds of things because I think it's very interesting and yeah, that's, that's it. So I guess patiently waiting for May 5, you know, the mainnet launch, and then I don't know what shortly after means for the l two launch. You know, I don't know if that means like a week after, a month after they, they kind of, you know, left that open. And I, I'm also speculating now, is optimism delayed? Right? Like, is their main net launch delayed from March? Because I said they were launching in March and there's a week left of March, and I haven't heard anything from them. Like, we haven't heard anything from them all month, basically. So, you know, I guess, like, I'm taking this, the, the approach here where I think that it's going to be delayed a bit.
00:16:08.860 - 00:16:30.020, Speaker A: I don't know if it's going to launch, you know, in April now or launch in May. I know there's other l, two solutions also. I'm going live. I'm soon, like, immutable x and arbitrum and stuff like that. You know, I think in this ecosystem, I'm used to delays at this point, so I think we all should be. But, yeah, a little bit disappointing here. Hopefully, optimism still surprises us and launches either, you know, maybe this week or next week or something like that.
00:16:30.020 - 00:16:57.702, Speaker A: But, yeah, I think this is kind of like a sign that maybe it's, it's delayed a bit here or, you know, I'm not sure what that would launch with. Right. When they launch, like, I know they've got synthetix. I'm going to talk about the update that came posted a bit later, but basically, yeah, we'll have to see how that plays out. But still very exciting. You know, the next few months for a theorem are, like, super exciting. And, you know, Kane actually put a tweet out about this, which I'll go over as well, you know, the, over the next few months and kind of like what that means for ethereum.
00:16:57.702 - 00:17:47.288, Speaker A: So, yeah, exciting news from uniswap. Really great to see this finally out there and, you know, we'll see how this evolves over time. So I guess the other biggest piece of news from the last 24 hours was that Elon Musk announced that you can now buy a Tesla with bitcoin. And not only did he announce this, he said that Tesla is using only internal and open source software and operates bitcoin nodes directly. Bitcoin paid to Tesla will be retained as bitcoin, not converted to fiat currency. So pretty big, right? I mean, there's going to be a lot of people who are bitcoin rich who want to buy a Tesla, and this is just a perfect way to allow them to do that without having to cash out their bitcoin. And they also know that if they buy it with bitcoin, it's not going to be converted to fiat, which means that if, you know, this is just adding more pressure because maybe someone, I guess, cashes out bitcoin and then, sorry, buys a Tesla with bitcoin and then goes and buys more bitcoin.
00:17:47.288 - 00:18:08.722, Speaker A: So it can be long term good for the bitcoin price, I think. And obviously, anytime Elon Musk talks about anything in general, he's got, like, what, 50 million Twitter followers. At this stage, you're almost 50 million. You know, obviously that's going to reach a lot of people. It's going to. It's going to make a lot of headlines. So pretty bullish in general, I think, you know, the price action has been kind of muddy lately, but I think, you know, maybe we're setting up for a nice April.
00:18:08.722 - 00:18:40.180, Speaker A: We'll see how it goes. But, yeah, pretty, pretty cool to see these. I hope it's next for sure. So speaking of, I guess, like, ETH being next and kind of like, I guess, fundamentals and the price being kind of muddy lately. Antiprosynthesis put out a good tweet here, basically saying that feeling when fundamental metrics and relative market cap are literally reversed, Ethereum even settles more ETH over $13 billion a day than bitcoin. Settles BTC, less than $12 billion a day. And to top it all off, transacting ETH on Ethereum is cheaper than transacting BTC on bitcoin.
00:18:40.180 - 00:19:11.594, Speaker A: So essentially what. What ante is kind of pointing out here is that Ethereum's fundamentals are, I would say, stronger than bitcoins right now. You know, in terms of, like, network usage and fees paid and, you know, just sheer amount of builders and developers and sheer amount of apps, obviously, you can't really build anything on bitcoin. But, like, you know, and it's funny because you would expect ETH to be kind of like, performing better against bitcoin. And it's sad to say that it isn't. I do think that's just a function of the fact that bitcoin kind of owns the macro narrative. You know, it's bitcoin, bitcoin, bitcoin everywhere.
00:19:11.594 - 00:19:39.184, Speaker A: You know, all these companies are putting bitcoin on their balance sheets. I just spoke about Tesla, who's done that, and at the end of the day. That's what a lot of the outside world sees. If we want the outside world to pay more attention to Ethereum and value ethanol, we want the ecosystem to value ETH more, then we're going to need that. We're going to need more mainstream attention. Like, you know, how many talking heads go on to mainstream media and talk about ETH? There's hardly any. How many do it for bitcoin? There's so many, right? Like, I mean, all the time.
00:19:39.184 - 00:20:20.570, Speaker A: And that's kind of the divide that we're seeing, is that even though Ethereum's fundamentals are so much stronger, what ends up happening is that because Ethereum doesn't have that mainstream attention, and Ethereum has a lot of enemies as well, you know, and a lot of, I guess, like, it does have problems, too, right now with the high gas fees and stuff like that. You know, it causes this kind of downward pressure and it causes this kind of, like, pause in people. They're like, oh, why would I buy ETH when I can buy Ethereum? Killer XYZ, for example. So, yeah, that's unfortunate to see. And I mean, that kind of, like, segues into what Keynes tweet was talking about today, which I thought was pretty good. And he basically says, you know, why, why are we seeing both macro crypto and defi market consolidation right now? Often there's no explicable reason right now. I think there are many good reasons.
00:20:20.570 - 00:20:48.636, Speaker A: It would actually be weirder if the market was not moving sideways. Let's explore. He's got this whole tweet thread here. I'll let you read it yourself. But I guess the TRDR here is that right now, especially within the Ethereum ecosystem, there's a lot of risk, right? There's a lot of execution risk, because if you think about it, like, as much as we all believe that, you know, we're going to execute, and I still believe that the execution risk of L2 is quite high. Right? Is it going to work as we expect? It's going to work, and I think most of it will. Some parts warrant.
00:20:48.636 - 00:21:16.052, Speaker A: That's just the nature of new technology. You know, some parts will have to deal with. You know, I think the fact that liquidity is going to fragment is going to be a bit of a, of an uphill battle for the next few months to kind of re cent, not centralize that liquidity, but, like, you know, unfragment it, so to speak, or defragment. I think that's, that's, that's the reverse over the next few months. There's obviously the 1559, you know, launch. We want that to go live in July. You know, we say it's going to go live, but is it actually going to go live? Right.
00:21:16.052 - 00:21:30.852, Speaker A: And I believe it will. But, you know, you never know. Something could happen. Then there's the merger, which doesn't have a defined timeline. Could happen end of year this year, could happen early next year. You know, I'm betting on early next year, hopefully, like very early next year, like January, February sort of thing. So.
00:21:30.852 - 00:21:54.026, Speaker A: But, but all of this leads to this kind of, like, I guess, risk in people's minds and this uncertainty. And markets hate uncertainty. You know, any kind of hint of uncertainty, markets absolutely hate it. You see this play out all the time. So I think Kane has a very good point here. I think that bitcoin doesn't suffer from this like ethereum does, unfortunately. You know, it always amazes me that bitcoin can do absolutely nothing on the protocol level.
00:21:54.026 - 00:22:49.158, Speaker A: Not don't upgrade, you know, no, no building being done. It can literally just exist as it is and still, you know, dominate in price and still be a trillion dollar asset. And I think that's a function of the fact that it can't, it doesn't do anything. I think that people kind of like, like that to an extent, right? They like that there's no, I guess, like, execution risk, and, and bitcoin is going to be around forever. I mean, I don't agree with that because I do think there's kind of risk withholding bitcoin in, you know, the, the medium term, I guess, like the next kind of decade or so in that bitcoin security profile is not great, and security kind of, um, I guess, like once the blocks block rewards, kind of like have enough, you know, if, unless the price of the bitcoin is like a million dollars plus or something like that, it doesn't make up for that. And then the network becomes insecure, but that's like really deep into the crypto weeds, like your everyday investor. Even the company's putting it on their balance sheet.
00:22:49.158 - 00:23:17.896, Speaker A: They're not thinking about this. This seems like a distant problem to them, and they're just thinking about the next few years because a lot of them will probably sell at some point, right? They're not going to hold it forever. So from that point of view, that's, that's the least risky thing for them. Then they look at ethereum, right? You can imagine a public company that has, you know, funds that are in their treasury that they're beholden to shareholders. You know, they can't just willy nilly ape into anything. They want to get exposure to this asset class, you know? And most of them look at this. I'm like, okay, what's the least riskiest thing? Well, obviously, it's.
00:23:17.896 - 00:23:40.980, Speaker A: Bitcoin has the most liquidity, right? You know, has the most defined. I guess, like, you know, I guess it's not even a roadmap, right? Just. It is. It is bitcoin. It is what it is, right? Has the biggest community, has the most awareness, and that's the first thing they buy. I mean, a lot of us bought bitcoin first, right before we delve deeper. But then they look at something like a theory, and they might realize the value, but they also realized the risks associated with Ethereum and the execution risk.
00:23:40.980 - 00:24:05.916, Speaker A: And this isn't to say that it's bearish, it's actually bullish that they're. They're probably not going to buy a theorem till much later, right? Till a lot of these risk is kind of, you know, priced out, or at least this de risking event, because they waited for a long time to get into bitcoin, mind you. You know, Michael Saylor didn't buy bitcoin till, like. And he's the one who started it off to, like, $10,000. That's a long time. And this was $10,000 the second time, not. Or at least a third time, I think, you know, not 2017, during 2020.
00:24:05.916 - 00:24:26.268, Speaker A: So if you look at that as well, you. You know, Bitcoin took a long time to enter the public balance sheets of these companies. So, essentially, you know, the. And, and I think, you know, looking at a theorem, they just see all this risk, and they're just like, okay, I'm just gonna wait until all this risk passes. You know, maybe I'll miss some. Some gains here, but I don't care. You know, there'll still be more left for me down the line sort of thing.
00:24:26.268 - 00:24:45.086, Speaker A: So that's, you know, it doesn't just apply to these public companies. That applies to a lot of investors in this space, unfortunately. And, you know, there as. I mean, there's no denying that there's risk there. But for me, you know, the more risk, the more reward. And I actually don't think there's that much risk there. I think that there is, you know, obviously an element of it, but I think it's overblown.
00:24:45.086 - 00:25:09.732, Speaker A: I do think l two is going to live up to the hype. I do think that EIP 1559 is going to ship in July. I do think that the merge is going to happen, you know, as soon as possible, being early next year. And I do think that, you know, ETH two is going to be everything we want it to be with. We obviously, it's already live with proof of stake. We're going to have sharding and, you know, we're going to have all this massive scalability. So for me, the execution risk just isn't there.
00:25:09.732 - 00:25:36.904, Speaker A: Right. I buy, I still buy ETH all the time. I'm fine with the volatility, but for a lot of people, they're not, they're not fine with the volatility because ETH is more volatile than bitcoin at the end of the day and they're not fine with the risks, which is it is what it is. So, you know, eventually we're going to get to a point where that's going to go away and Ethereum and ETH will become de risked for these investors. But it's going to take a little while, I think, and that's okay. Right. Maybe more time for us to accumulate, who knows? Not investment advice, of course, but I think it all makes sense.
00:25:36.904 - 00:26:04.500, Speaker A: And definitely go check out Keynes though, because he does a great job of breaking it down as well. So, Hermes network, I've spoken about this team before. They're a L2 team, basically doing, I guess, ZK roll ups focused on payments. So essentially, I guess, an alternative to ZK sync, which you, you all would have probably used in gitcoin during the latest matching round. So they're live on Mainnet today. You can go to wallet, Hermes IO, you can test it out for yourself. They've got a blog post here that basically describes their mainnet launch in more detail.
00:26:04.500 - 00:26:28.754, Speaker A: So you can go check that out as well. Just another L2 solution online, right? I mean, these guys came out, I guess, like a few months ago, I heard of them and they just came out of nowhere. And I was like, okay, wow, another L2 solution coming up that I didn't even hear of until now. And I just thought that was really, really cool. So you. Yeah, I mean, more competition, more alternatives, you know, I don't want there to be like a, you know, one day or two wins, all sort of thing. I don't think it's going to be that.
00:26:28.754 - 00:27:07.004, Speaker A: So, yeah, it's really great to see this out there. So definitely go check this out if you haven't yet. So Synthetix put out an update on their optimistic ethereum kind of implementation that's been going on. So for those who don't know, they're rolling out synthetix onto optimism over various phases. So phase zero is complete and they've been live for a little while. Phase one is next, obviously, and that's got a bunch of different features coming in and they have, like, phase two, three and four. And they basically said that essentially here they were answering question like, why is it taken longer than initially expected to reach phase one? You know, basically the engineering effort here has taken longer than expected.
00:27:07.004 - 00:27:53.060, Speaker A: You know, the optimism team has taken longer than expected to, I guess, like, you know, take the learnings from the phase zero and apply them to phase one. Then they go on to say, you know, what needs to be done before phase one comes out. You know, it's basically waiting on the optimism team to essentially finish preparing optimistic ethereum for these additional contracts and stuff like that. This is just another sign to me, unfortunately, that optimism is maybe, probably not going to launch in March, you know, as a main net kind of capacity here. Maybe they do. I mean, there's still seven days after March or whatever, but, you know, this coming out at the same time is like the uniswap stuff. And, you know, I don't know, I feel like an April launch is more realistic at this point, which I guess isn't that far away, but, you know, a little bit disappointing because we all wanted it to go live in March, but I won't hop on about that.
00:27:53.060 - 00:28:30.392, Speaker A: I would rather them do it safely, right. And make sure that it's secure before going to mainnet and then there being a massive bug and like hundred, you know, $100 million being like, stolen or whatever. I just, I would rather that not happen. You know, I'd rather them take their time. So I think I'm fine with this as long as it's not too long of a delay. You know, we need this aSap, right? We're bleeding users to other kind of chains that are offering these lower fees and stuff like that, you know, and that's not bearish for aetherium in general. I think Ethereum still going to, is still succeeding and still fine, but I don't want, I want users to experience the Ethereum that, like we all experienced when gas fees were cheaper, right? The one we all know and love that still exists today.
00:28:30.392 - 00:28:52.640, Speaker A: But these other new users have just been priced out of it, right? No one can. I mean, realistically, the new people coming to this ecosystem haven't made like, massive gains over the years on crypto already. So for them, you know, they don't have these kind of, like, I guess, ETH gains that we all have to spend on gas fees. And we're fine with it to an extent. Right. Maybe it annoys us, but for these new people, they're just like $50 fees, like, get. Get lost.
00:28:52.640 - 00:29:29.000, Speaker A: I'm not paying that. You know, that's a, that's a lot of money, right? $50, like, you know, and I totally get that. So, you know, I'd rather just this stuff and this technology be deployed in such a way that is very safe and secure because a lot of the people transacting on there are going to be new users, so we obviously don't want their first experience of L2. The solution that we've all said is going to kind of like, you know, make the fees cheap to be one in a very negative way as well. So, yeah, definitely. We'll keep an eye on this, keep tabs on this, and we'll see how optimism goes here. So, Arthur Zero X put out an interesting little mini tweet thread here and I'll read out what he said.
00:29:29.000 - 00:30:03.480, Speaker A: He said, if you guys keep buying worthless layer one tokens with no unique value proposition, no users, no developers, no applications, aka a ghost chain, this super cycle thing might not happen. Allocate your money wisely, guys. And then the second tweet says, as if the market never learns its lesson from hundreds of layer ones that launched from 2017 to 2018, and they're as good as worthless now. Or most of the market participants now are formed by the new wave that never experienced 2018 before. And then third tweet here, even dog shit layer one is oversubscribed in their public sale now. Blockchain. Blockchain built for enterprise adoption is absolute horseshit.
00:30:03.480 - 00:30:15.476, Speaker A: It's proof of swindle. It has never worked, will never work. Stop throwing your money away. I don't want to relive 2018. I wrote more about this in the newsletter today, so I'll only go over this briefly here. You can read the newsletter for more on this. But he is so right.
00:30:15.476 - 00:30:54.864, Speaker A: I mean, it's frustrating as someone who lived through 20 17, 20 18 20 19 saw the hype of 2017 of all these other chains and then saw them completely die in 18 and 19. Seeing it repeat itself during this current cycle is really disheartening and really saddening because I thought the market had at least wisened up a bit. But the simple explanation here is that we have so many new people coming into the ecosystem, they don't know, what's good and what's bad. They're fed a lot of hype, they've fed a lot of promises, and I don't blame them for falling for this. At the end of the day, back when I first got into crypto in 2013, I fell for everything. Like, I was just like. I mean, it was so bad.
00:30:54.864 - 00:31:09.896, Speaker A: And it wasn't even ethereum back then. It was just like forks of bitcoin. I was such a noob. I think I was like 21 or something like that. It's like early twenties. Only had a little bit of money, had, you know, rich kind of like diamonds in my eyes, being like, oh, my God, I'm gonna make so much money. And, you know, of course I didn't.
00:31:09.896 - 00:31:26.544, Speaker A: I mean, I I didn't. I don't think I lost any money. I think I ended up just, like, selling what I had left in bitcoin and just kind of exiting the markets. That's exactly what's happening right now with a lot of new people coming in. They just, they, you know, they obviously see all the gains that's, that's being made. They. They kind of, like, do some cursory research.
00:31:26.544 - 00:32:01.210, Speaker A: They kind of find these different things and they're like, well, okay, you know, Ethereum has high gas fees, and this other chain is promising to basically kill Ethereum and, like, take all the developers away because it's got lower fees, right? That's kind of like the surface level knowledge. And I've discussed this with various people, and that's kind of like their thesis. I'm like, well, guys, like, that's not the point. Like, I know the fees are bad, but that's not all that makes a blockchain, right? If scalability actually mattered for as much as you think it mattered for, you know, eos would have won because eos launched in 2018. They had, like, all this scalability. And, you know, that that that's not what mattered, right? Eos didn't win. Ethereum went on to grow and grow and grow.
00:32:01.210 - 00:32:32.132, Speaker A: So there's more to it than scalability at the end of the day. But it's a very easy narrative to feed to new people. And a lot of the layer one blockchains feed on this, right? Because they want adoption for their own chain. They want to pump their tokens. And, you know, I think it's actually to a point of where it's borderline scammy, you know, not to say that all the layer ones are useless, right? There. There are some out there that are actually legitimate projects doing legitimate things. But the ones who position themselves as Ethereum killers that just, you know, the team and the community just bags out Ethereum constantly and says that Ethereum shit and they're gonna kill it.
00:32:32.132 - 00:32:53.476, Speaker A: Those are the ones that, like, are just like, complete promise chains, complete hype. They're never gonna deliver on anything. So, yeah, as I said, not to say that all layer ones are worthless, but there are so many things out there. I mean, like enterprise blockchain, enterprise adoption, stuff like, this is bullshit. Like, as Arthur says here, like, it's just absolute crap. It's not gonna go anywhere. There's been so much money invested into this stuff, and it's just wasted.
00:32:53.476 - 00:33:17.380, Speaker A: It's just completely wasted. So I'm not gonna go on ranting a little bit longer there, but you can read the newsletter for more of my, it's linked in the YouTube description, of course, for more of my kind of thoughts on that. But, yeah, I mean, it's just, it's, it's pretty, pretty frustrating as someone who's been in this ecosystem, and especially as a, as an educator, right. I mean, I try so hard. I do the newsletter, I do this video every day. I'm on Twitter all the time. I'm talking to so many different people.
00:33:17.380 - 00:33:36.486, Speaker A: Like, I respond to pretty much everyone that DM's me on Twitter. Unless it's like a straight up, like, you know, asking me for investment advice or whatever. I respond to them as best I can. But again, I can't reach a lot of these people. There's a lot of big youtubers out there who are just shilling everything to their followers because they're just making money off them. And I, frankly, I think that's disgusting. And I, and I will never do that.
00:33:36.486 - 00:33:53.086, Speaker A: I'm never going to show you guys, like, any, any tokens. And I always disclaim when I'm, when I'm an advisor or an investor to a project. But, you know, a lot of people just do it, right? They just do it because they can. So it is what it is. I'll keep going. I'll keep educating, of course. And I hope you guys stick with me, you know, while I keep doing this.
00:33:53.086 - 00:34:18.834, Speaker A: And I hope that, you know, you pass on this education to your friends and family and anyone that you have an audience with, because it's going to take more than me, right? It's going to take an army to keep growing Ethereum to keep kind of fighting back the enemies that Ethereum has and the people that want to take Ethereum's market share away. I want to kind of like kill Ethereum. So yeah, we're all part of that. And you know, I'm glad to be on this journey. At the end of the day, this isn't like a bearish thing. This isn't me saying I'm going to exit the ecosystem or anything. I would never do that.
00:34:18.834 - 00:34:50.011, Speaker A: But just me saying I think that we need to do better on the education front for sure. So lastly here, a bit of positive news to end the refuel on. I know I've gone over time here, but I did want to mention this. So gitcoin grants, round nine and as I've been going on for a while, it's ending very soon, I think within the next day or two. So definitely get your donations in. But what I did want to highlight here is that there has been over 130,000 contributions from over 9000 people and over $1 million has been raised by the community, which is absolutely amazing. This breaks all the previous records.
00:34:50.011 - 00:35:32.924, Speaker A: It's amazing that we have over 9000 people donating here because this is a very like, I guess, Ethereum community centric thing where, you know, I don't expect that many kind of like people that spend a lot of time in the bitcoin community would be using gitcoin, right? All the people in the quote unquote crypto community aren't using gitcoin, but the fact that we're growing to this kind of number is just amazing. This just shows me that there's like almost 10,000 like super active Ethereum community members. Because by super active I mean like people that like spend, you know, every day or every hour, every second day in the ecosystem, paying attention to what's going on, trying to add value. Right. Donating on Gitcoin grants like they've done here. Just absolutely amazing. So kudos to everyone who donated here and of course, thank you for donating to the daily way and to Ethub as well.
00:35:32.924 - 00:35:58.666, Speaker A: I mean, obviously I'm one half of Ethub and, and we really appreciate that. But yeah, just like if you haven't yet, definitely go get your contributions in before time's up. But you know, there's going to be around ten in a few months as well, so you can give then as well. So, yeah, really, really positive kind of, kind of movements here with Gitcoin and absolutely love that the community's come out in a big way for this. All right, that's it for today, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:35:58.666 - 00:36:04.354, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Join the Discord Channel, subscribe to the newsletter, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
