00:00:06.490 - 00:01:08.702, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap. Yuga Labs's metaverse plans involve a 16 Z coming off a busy week that included the purchase of CryptoPunks and mebits commercial rights, along with the arrival of Apecoin, board Ape Yacht Club creator Yuga Labs kept the good times rolling with the announcement of $450,000,000 raise led by a 16 Z. The funding round values the firm at $4 billion, which is interestingly less than one third of the current value of Apecoin the cryptocurrency, with a $12 billion market cap that will act as the main currency for Board Ape Yacht Club, of which Yuga Labs owns 8%. Yuga Labs will be using the influx of cash to build out its metaverse, dubbed Other Side. Yuga dropped a trailer for Other Side over the weekend via Twitter, revealing that the project will launch in April. The trailer follows the journey of a board Ape after it chugs a potion labeled Don't Drink Me and takes a psychedelic adventure across a dystopian metaverse landscape.
00:01:08.702 - 00:02:25.750, Speaker A: Notably, the video includes references to a few other popular NFT projects, including Mutant Ape Yacht Club, CoolCats CryptoPunks, Cryptodes, Mebits Nouns, and World of Women. As an aside related to Yuga Labs, crypto, Potato calculated how much an original Board Ape Yacht Club member would have made by holding a single NFT from Mint until now. In total, an OG BYC buyer spent zero eight ETH in 2021. Since then, original Minters received a Mutant Ape Yacht Club NFT, a board Ape Kennel Club NFT, and rights to the Ape AirDrop, which all told as up to something close to $477,000 from an initial $500 investment. El Salvador's bitcoin bond put on hold El Salvador's $1 bitcoin bond offering is delayed, as Alejandro Zalaya, El Salvador's finance minister, told Reuters on Tuesday. Zalaya cited unfavorable conditions like Ukraine's defense against the Russian invasion and bitcoin's volatility as reasons for El Salvador pushing the launch date back. The bond was initially planned to go out between March 15 and 20th.
00:02:25.750 - 00:03:21.806, Speaker A: Zelia says El Salvador is still looking to launch before September 2022. However, Adam Cochrane, partner of Cinempane Ventures, was unconvinced that El Salvador's decision to postpone its bond was due to market conditions. El Salvador postponing their bitcoin bond due to unfavorable market conditions is hilarious. If you actually believed in an asset and can drum up demand for your bond, a down market is ideal to sell. It pretty clear no one wanted this instrument, he tweeted once. Or if issued, El Salvador, which made bitcoin legal tender and holds the crypto asset in its treasury, plans to use $500 million to purchase more bitcoin, with the other $500 million going towards the construction of energy and mining infrastructure. The news comes during the same week as a bill looking to mitigate the risk of El Salvador's bitcoin adoption passed out of a Senate committee dubbed the Accountability for Cryptocurrency in El Salvador Act.
00:03:21.806 - 00:04:38.178, Speaker A: The legislation would monitor remittances from El Salvador President Naib bukele expressed disdain tweeting Never in my wildest dreams would I have thought that the US government would be afraid of what we are doing here. Goldman Sachs puts Digital assets center Stage Goldman Sachs made its first ever over the counter crypto transaction this week via Galaxy Digital. The traditional finance behemoth executed a Bitcoin non deliverable option, says Galaxy, claiming that Goldman's trade is the first OTC crypto transaction by a major bank in the US. Coinciding with Goldman's Trade was a change to the front page of its website Goldmansax.com. On Wednesday, Goldman featured digitalization as the key trend on its main website, counting research and insights from cryptocurrencies to the metaverse. On the topic of traditional finances adoption of crypto, CoinDesk reported this week that the world's largest hedge fund, Ray Dalio's Bridgewater, is preparing to back its first crypto fund. While CoinDesk reports that Bridgewater will not be investing directly in crypto assets itself, the $150,000,000,000 asset manager has plans to back an external vehicle.
00:04:38.178 - 00:05:33.926, Speaker A: Ray Dalio himself disclosed a Bitcoin position back in May 2022. Additionally, BlackRock CEO Larry Fink revealed in a Thursday shareholder letter that the $9.6 trillion asset manager is studying digital currencies after seeing increasing interest from clients. L Ones are going after Bitcoin Bitcoin is suddenly all the rage in DFI. Luna Foundation Guard, a developer supporting Terra's main stablecoin UST, revealed that it has already amassed a $3 billion treasury that it will soon use to purchase Bitcoin. LFG plans to use the purchased BTC as a forex reserve mechanism to help keep UST's peg at $1 in any market condition. According to TerraForm Lab CEO Doe Kwan, LFG plans to up its forex reserve to $10 billion by the time it is done, which would cover two thirds of UST's market cap.
00:05:33.926 - 00:06:27.874, Speaker A: LFG's actual plan to back UST with Bitcoin remained a mystery until Wednesday, when Jump Trading's crypto arm published a proposal on Terra's Governance Forum outlining a Bitcoin reserve pool that illustrates how LFG will help keep UST's price pegged to the dollar. On the other hand, at the Avalanche summit in Barcelona Ava Labs, the firm developing Avalanche's blockchain, announced two significant updates. First, it will be launching a wallet called Core. Secondly, the firm will add Bitcoin bridging functionality to Avalanche. The beta launch of GameStop's NFT marketplace was weird. GameStop launched the beta version of its marketplace this week on top of Loop Ring, sowing confusion among anyone who has been keeping up with the gaming company's foray into crypto. According to Loop Ring, the new GameStop NFT marketplace is built atop the second layer of ethereum.
00:06:27.874 - 00:07:11.240, Speaker A: Specifically Loop Ring l Two. This is a bit surprising because in Q four 2021, GameStop announced a partnership with Ethereum scaling solution Immutable Disclosure, a former sponsor of my show, to support the development of an NFT platform in a deal that included millions in IMX tokens. GameStop and Loopbrink's announcement prompted a response from Immutable claiming that this was the plan all along. LRC integrating was not a surprise, and we welcome them, explained Immutable on Twitter. The GameStop marketplace will ultimately be an aggregator with immutable as its preferred partner. Not surprisingly, loop ring's native Token LRC shot up 27% on the day of the announcement. Immutable's Token dropped half a percent.
00:07:11.240 - 00:07:58.734, Speaker A: Cashio lost millions on Wednesday. Cashio Dollar, an algorithmic stablecoin project built on salana, was exploited for $27 million. On Twitter, Cashio described the bug as an infinite mint glitch. According to paradigm researcher Sam Sun, because cachio didn't establish a root of trust for all the accounts it used, an attacker was able to steal approximately $50 million by forging a chain of fake accounts. The result of the hack decimated the project with total value locked in the protocol, crashing from $30 million to roughly $500,000, according to data from DFI llama. And the price of a single cash dropped from $1 to far below a penny. The DOJ is going after Frosties The US.
00:07:58.734 - 00:08:36.930, Speaker A: Department of justice is charging two individuals with conspiracy to commit wire fraud and money laundering related to an NFT project called Frosty's. It is the first such action against an NFT project by A-U-S. Regulator. According to the DOJ, the two Frosty's founders allegedly abandoned the Frosty's NFT project within hours after selling out of Frosty's. NFTs deactivated the Frosty's website and transferred approximately $1.1 million in cryptocurrency proceeds from the scheme to various cryptocurrency wallets under their control in multiple transactions designed to obfuscate the original source of funds. Time for fun bits.
00:08:36.930 - 00:09:23.882, Speaker A: Greg Types his Way to a Tesla If you are a crypto Twitter native, you probably follow the meme account at greg 1667-693-5420. In a very humorous exchange with FTX founder and CEO Sam Binkman Fried, it appears Greg won himself a free Tesla after cheekily asking FBF for a free Tesla if Greg could type more than 100 words per minute. If you want a smile or a laugh, you should definitely check out the video Greg posted to show off his accomplishment. It's a riot. Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Andy and the Juno whale saga, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Nuss, Mark Murdoch, Shashank and CLK.
00:09:23.882 - 00:09:25.450, Speaker A: Transcription thanks for listening.
