00:00:00.280 - 00:00:24.398, Speaker A: Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of Delegate refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony designer, and it is the 2 November 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode everyone. Another rug fuel, especially at the start of the month, 1 November. Right? But there is no pop for yesterday's rug fuel as the pop is not ready yet. I did mention the other day that there will be pops for future rug fuels, but not yesterday's unfortunately.
00:00:24.398 - 00:01:04.386, Speaker A: But anyway, let's get into the news from from the past couple of days here. So the first big update comes from Josh here, who works as in the R and D department at the Ethereum foundation, where there's a bunch of updates around the statelessness efforts in Ethereum. And these were updates fresh from yesterday's or I guess a couple of days ago. Verkle implementers call now the TLDR here is that, as Josh says, we have a new testnet live with four clients and counting work is underway on integrating Verkle into Gethsemane, which will happen over the next few months. Several other client teams are making significant progress as well. Still early, but it looks promising that the performance of VRK will be competitive with the current Merkle Patricia tree. This is a shadow fork.
00:01:04.386 - 00:02:03.424, Speaker A: There is a shadow fork in the pipeline as well, which will help verify our current assumptions. So as you guys know, a big portion of Ethereum's roadmap is dedicated to something called the Verge, which includes verkle trees and other improvements surrounding that which basically stand to improve Ethereum's kind of potentially its scalability, but also its, its security and being able to improve upon the Merkel Patriot tree, which has been with Ethereum since day one here. And as I've been saying for I think like the last few months, the efforts on building this have already started, even though it's probably not going to happen until 2025 at this rate. Maybe, maybe end of 2024. But we'll have to see, you know, it's more of a longer term roadmap item here, but it's great to see that this testnet is live with multiple clients actually on the testnet here. And as Josh said, Geth will be worked on over the next few months. Obviously Geth is one of the most important clients, or the most important still because of the fact that it is the majority clients on the network right now on the execution layer side of things.
00:02:03.424 - 00:03:16.554, Speaker A: But yeah, you can read Josh's, Josh's full tweet here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But it's just great to see progress being made on these things, because I remember when Vitalik first published that roadmap, people took it, that flowchart roadmap that I've shown on the refill before people took it to mean that there was a sequential roadmap, as in like we would get the merge and then we would do the surge, then we would do the verge, you know, and we do it one after the other. But in practice, what actually happens is that everything is worked on in parallel and then it goes live into the network when it is ready, basically. So obviously the surge with things like ERP 4844 have been ready beforehand and also probably more important than vocal trees. And oh, I did, I did forget to mention before, the vertical trees are also important for statelessness within Ethereum and to have true stateless clients and true light clients in Ethereum, which is very important for decentralization and for scalability from a different perspective. And it's more this perspective of scalability of nodes and people running nodes and he'll being able to verify things from their phones and stuff like that, like full kind of cryptographic verification from your phone, stuff like that. But yeah, back to what I was saying about the roadmap, it is being done in parallel.
00:03:16.554 - 00:04:03.180, Speaker A: There are efforts across pretty much everything on that roadmap, except maybe the, the more long, long term things like the moonshot ideas. But even those things are being kind of researched here and there by people who are interested in researching it. I mean, Justin Drake talks a lot about these things that he believes, like five to ten years out of potentially being implemented on the Ethereum network. But that's exactly what should be at the forefront of research. I mean, if you're, if you're a researcher and you're, and you're, you're dedicated to researching things that are five to ten years out on the Ethereum roadmap, then of course you're going to be going and doing the bleed, the bleeding edge, right? You're not going to be researching things that are going to go live on the network in a year. They're going to go live on the network in 510, 1520 years or something like that. Now, I know I've said before that I thought, I think this was maybe a year and a half ago that Ethereum had at least ten years left as part of its roadmap.
00:04:03.180 - 00:04:36.430, Speaker A: And it definitely does. And obviously, Ethereum isn't just a theorem layer one anymore. It's Ethereum L2s as well, which all have their own individual roadmaps. And then you have everything surrounding that as well from, you know, all the infrastructure stuff that surrounds that, all the wallets, things like the mev ecosystem, like all of this has its own individual kind of roadmaps and things that they're working to improve. And it really is a huge, huge team effort. It's not just like the Ethereum core devs and then everything else falls off of that. I mean, Ethereum layer one is the bedrock for most of this, but at the end of the day, there are independent roadmaps.
00:04:36.430 - 00:05:11.362, Speaker A: Like a lot of. A lot of the stuff that happens on these L2s doesn't require any changes to layer one. And that was the whole point of going with the, the roll up centric roadmap, right? At least one of the points of going with the roll up centric roadmap to make it so that these teams have the freedom to do what they want while still getting the benefits of Ethereum. You know, not having to rely on Ethereum. But yes, there are some things they have to rely on Ethereum for, such as ERP 48, 44 and eventually full dank sharding with that availability sampling. But in terms of actually improving their own L2 networks, they can do that independent of Ethereum layer one. They don't need to wait for Ethereum layer one to do something for them to work independently.
00:05:11.362 - 00:05:57.370, Speaker A: We've seen that across the board with various different improvements on various different altus, whether they be full roll ups or validiums and everything in between. Right? So that's why I've always loved Ethereum's model of development. And I've discussed this a lot on the refuel, that kind of bizarre model of development where there is no top down here, guys. It's really just a flat organization of people coming together from all over the world to build the most robust and most secure and most scalable decentralized network to ever exist. That is really the crux of what Ethereum is trying to be. Gone off on a little bit of a tangent here from Josh's post, but this is the stuff that I was thinking about when I saw Josh's tweet today. I was like, wow, okay, we're making so much progress on the vocal or the verge kind of roadmap item here, and there is other things in the pipeline for other parts of the roadmap.
00:05:57.370 - 00:06:30.800, Speaker A: It just feels like Ethereum's fundamentals are still so strong and just getting stronger all the time. And it's kind of funny when I look at that, and then I look at. I go on crypto Twitter and I look at everyone just kind of like shitting on Ethereum. Because the price of ETH has relatively underperformed over the past, I guess, I don't know, a couple of months or something like that. Then I think to myself, this is just crazy. Like, just because the market hasn't matched the fundamental reality doesn't mean the fundamental reality doesn't exist. And this goes back to what I always talk about when I say that the narratives are more powerful than the reality a lot of the time, but it's not a permanent thing.
00:06:30.800 - 00:06:48.756, Speaker A: It's like a short to medium term thing. And over the long term, that's where you see fundamental stuff play out. And it's just funny how people confuse that a lot. And I think that maybe a lot of it isn't people confusing it as much as them just shilling their own bags, which we all do to some extent. Right. And I totally understand that. But if you actually just look at the.
00:06:48.756 - 00:07:20.704, Speaker A: The actual fundamentals of the ethereum ecosystem, it's not bearish in the slightest. It's actually incredibly bullish. And just because ETH as an asset has underperformed bitcoin for a little bit or has underperformed some other coins, like Solana, for example. That's obviously been the talk of the town the past couple of months, doesn't really mean anything. Right? Because the reason doesn't mean anything is because the reality of the situation is, is that the fundamentals are stronger than ever and the markets are stupid. And I'm not saying the markets are stupid just because things are. Just because ETH is underperforming.
00:07:20.704 - 00:07:41.002, Speaker A: I'm saying markets are stupid. Because if you actually look at the top 20 coins, it's just a lot of trash, right? I mean, XRP is still in there. XRP is still a top five coin. It's trash, right? You have cardano in there, which I think is extremely overvalued. Even if some of their technology is, is, you know, is valuable to someone. It's extremely overvalued, in my opinion. Right.
00:07:41.002 - 00:08:18.114, Speaker A: And you can keep going down this list like ton coin for telegram, you know, I know some. Someone's going to inevitably hate me for naming coins here, but I'm just going down the list, right? And there's. There's a bunch of others. I mean, even you go to the top 30, it just. It looks terrible to me at least in terms of kind of fundamentals and reality. So I wouldn't really take the market, especially over the short to medium term, as a, as a good measure of what's fundamentally valuable versus what's not, especially in bull markets. Obviously we're not in the bull market yet, but it's especially true in bull markets here because, yeah, it just frustrates me going on, on Twitter and seeing all of this retard people saying, you know, ethereum's trash, ethereum's dead, screw Ethereum.
00:08:18.114 - 00:08:50.412, Speaker A: And it's just like, are you saying this just because you're trying to pump some other bags that you hold, or do you actually believe this? And I think nine times out of ten it's the former. Because if you actually look at the reality, ethereum obviously isn't trash. Ethereum still has the biggest developer community, by far still has the most users. You know, I'm talking not just a theorem, layer one, but obviously all of a theorem. And ETH is still worth a crap ton. And it's funny because if you look at its market cap, it's $220 billion. If you want to look at its closest kind of layer, one competitor, I guess, in market cap, it's now Solana.
00:08:50.412 - 00:09:17.928, Speaker A: That's $18 billion. Just the amount of staked ETH is like three times that entire market cap there. So when you're comparing these things, you really have to keep in mind that they're in different leagues here as well. And it's just something that I kind of try to get through to people and try to say to people, it's like, hey, like short to medium term stuff, it's going to be noisy, especially on crypto Twitter, where it's really, really toxic. But if you just focus on the fundamental side of things and then the reality, that is what you should be focused on. And that's what I focus on. That's why I do this show.
00:09:17.928 - 00:09:50.984, Speaker A: I mean, as I've said plenty of times before, and as you guys know, the show is not a trading show. It's not a price show. I don't talk about the price that often. I try to focus on the fundamental stuff and also try to explain to you why the fundamental stuff actually matters over the long term and why it may not necessarily matter over the short to medium term here. Anyway, enough of a rant. They're moving on from that one onto an update from nodeset today. So they've announced today that they are working hard to enable their community to provide validation services for vaults on stakewise with the first partnership expected to go live in December.
00:09:50.984 - 00:10:27.478, Speaker A: And there's more details coming soon for that. And then they said, you know, this represents one of the many opportunities for nodes and operators to earn more from the partnerships here. Now I remember highlighting that node set was looking for operators quite a while ago on the refuel, but I believe that they're still always looking for operators here. Don't know if it's open right now because they're doing a phase launch. I'm going to be a node operator for node set. I'm going to try and do things like stakewise vaults and also do things in other communities like potentially obviously in the, in the swell community, diva community, other, other staking communities there, rocker pool, obviously, stuff like that. Um, just to support as a node operator.
00:10:27.478 - 00:11:02.298, Speaker A: And it's cool because I actually had a call with one of the team members from, from noteset the other day. We're just running through. It was kind of like an, I mean, it wasn't really an onboarding call for, for node set, but it was a touching base call. And I had a call with him and noted set is trying to be much more than just like Ethereum staking. What they want to do is basically be a way for people to sign up as an operator and then basically sign on to different services. So for example, sign on to be an eigen layer node operator or sign on to be a node operator for a L2 or for multiple L2s or for some oracle network here or something else. Right.
00:11:02.298 - 00:11:40.444, Speaker A: So basically having a platform to enable that I think is obviously very important, especially for people who already run stuff on prem at home. Like for me, for example, as you guys know, I have plenty of hardware that I'm running Ethereum staking stuff on that I want to use for other purposes as well. And not just for, you know, maybe running kind of like staking pools, but also for doing things like Eigen layer services and running other things like that. I really do want to use my hardware to do that. So I think that's what note set is trying to enable here. But yeah, great to see that they've partnered up with stakewise here. Cool to see where this partnership goes.
00:11:40.444 - 00:12:27.980, Speaker A: All right, speaking of Eigen layout, the voting period for the Eigen layer LST contest is now open. So from now until November 8, which is only a week away or less than a week away, whitelisted addresses can cast their allocated votes for their favorite proposals. So you guys know that Eigen layer is running a voting contest for which LST to support next, as part of the Eigen layer protocol here you have a list to choose from. There are eight submissions currently that have been made from stakewise from swell and from a bunch of others as well. Which you can which you can read about here. But right now stakewise is winning with swell second as well as well in second place. Third place is always sorry o eight from Origin protocol here, but I don't know how many of these lsts that they're going to pick.
00:12:27.980 - 00:12:52.300, Speaker A: I can't remember exactly what they said. I think they may only be picking one or two of them, like the top one or two. But yeah, I mean they may have detailed this in the blog post and I've just forgotten here. But yeah, you can go vote for this if you haven't yet. It'll say if you're eligible to vote or not. Apparently sassle ETH is ineligible to vote. I don't think I signed up with Sassle ETH on this one here, but yeah, I'm looking forward to seeing which LST wins out here and which one gets on board.
00:12:52.300 - 00:13:24.488, Speaker A: And it looks like right now it's going to be stakewise. But that can change, right? There's no guarantee here and not that many of the votes out of the eligible votes have been deployed just yet. So if you are eligible, you can go to this link. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, it'll tell you, and then you can vote for which LST you want onboarded onto Eigen layer. All right, Tony has a new website for us today called Mempool Pics. So the aim of this website is to add more transparency to Ethereum's mempool. The site shows you all kinds of stats around private order flows and the actors involved.
00:13:24.488 - 00:14:00.248, Speaker A: Private order flow has grown more and more into a highly important topic, eventually determining the competitiveness of builders. The site can assist in getting a more comprehensive picture of the MeV PBS landscape. So I'm on the site here at Mempool Pix and there's a bunch of different kind of metrics and graphs and charts here that you can check out. I mean this is, this is really classic Tony here with the amount of detail he's put into these things. But you can basically see things like, you know, starting from the top here, what the private order flow over time looks like. And you can see it's kind of been slowly growing over time. I guess that, I guess you can say from July it was at like 8.2%
00:14:00.248 - 00:14:25.244, Speaker A: and now in, in I guess like November, it's 12.8%. So it has been growing, albeit albeit slowly, over time. And then you can see the kind of split up here in the kind of pie, in the pie chart. Yep, yep. And then percentage of the private order flow per block builder breakdown. Our private order flow per builder, again, broken down here by users, too. You can see Jared from subway ETH is just like absolutely smashing it here.
00:14:25.244 - 00:14:50.064, Speaker A: Like leading the pack something fierce. Like, he'd be responsible for most of the activity here right now. And you can also see what type of order flow is going on here, too. So is it a back run, is it a front run, is it an arb, is it a sandwich? And so on and so forth. And then, yeah, there's so many different metrics and different ways of displaying this data that you can go check out for yourself. And I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do. So.
00:14:50.064 - 00:15:48.428, Speaker A: Now, another dashboard that will be good to pair with this is one that Hill Dobby released today, which is a dune analytics dashboard tracking sandwich trade. So, as you guys know, sandwich attacks on the Ethereum network, or really on any kind of like, network, are a really crappy attack, right? It is an attack that directly harms users and something that needs to be weeded out of the ecosystem. And you can see here, if you look at the amount of Dex volume of other other trades or sandwich or sandwiched, you can see that the sandwich and sandwich are still a relatively small portion of volume, but it does make up a large portion of actual trade. So as of yesterday, the amount of sandwich trades was roughly equal to the amount of non sandwich trades. And that's in trade numbers, not in volume numbers. Right. And that, to me, I think, signals the fact that a lot of the smaller players are getting sandwiched, unfortunately, because the smaller players obviously aren't making it in volume, but they're doing lots of swaps and they're accounting for the swaps here.
00:15:48.428 - 00:16:18.614, Speaker A: And that's my kind of read of things. Now, maybe I've got that wrong, but. But someone can correct me on that if I have. But yeah, this dashboard will let you track all of the different kind of stats and metrics around sandwiching, as well as things like, you know, where it's actually happening, like what exchanges. You can see how dominant uniswap is here. Like, that's crazy, right? Like, Uniswap is pretty much like 100% dominant in a lot of these things here, which is only natural because, as I said, I suspect a lot of the people getting sandwiched are the noobs. And where are the noobs going? They're going to uniswap right there.
00:16:18.614 - 00:16:46.906, Speaker A: The more sophisticated actors are probably protecting themselves from as many sandwich attacks as they can because they know about them. They know that getting sandwich attacked is really, really bad for their bottom line. Whereas the newbie traders out there have absolutely no idea about this. They're not aware of this. They're just using vanilla uniswap, which is obviously some somewhere. We are definitely going to get sandwiched in a big way, especially if you start adjusting slippage and stuff like that. Because for whatever reason you need to do that, whether you're trying to buy a meme coin or something else.
00:16:46.906 - 00:17:17.908, Speaker A: I do think that that's why we're seeing the discrepancies here. But anyway, you can go check out that dashboard for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And as I said, it pairs very well with Tony's new mempool Pix website because a lot of this kind of like sandwiches tax versus private public order flow, this all kind of, I guess like plays into it and this all kind of plays into it and kind of like correlates with each other. So yeah, you can go check these out. We'll link them in the YouTube description below. All right, so Bartech has a couple of threads here that I wanted to highlight today.
00:17:17.908 - 00:17:49.764, Speaker A: First off, this thread is about account abstraction on Ethereum. And he says here, if you're still confused about the AA despite tons of articles, and wonder what is the difference between say, ERP 4337 account abstraction and what starkware and ZK sync are doing with enshrined account abstraction and say nurse's safe accounts, then you can read on here. Now there is not a TLDR. There's just a really great thread from Bartek here with with images as well. So it's not just text. You've got some pretty pictures here to follow along with. I highly suggest giving this a read.
00:17:49.764 - 00:18:02.492, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Bartek studs are always gold. Honestly, he deserves more followers. I mean, he's only got like twelve and a half or 1212.8K followers here. For those of you who don't know him, he's one of the founders of L two B. Been around for a very long time.
00:18:02.492 - 00:18:28.310, Speaker A: Super smart guy when it comes to both the technical and non technical stuff. And he's also really great at not just kind of, I guess, reasoning about things from emotion. He's pretty objective in a lot of his analysis about things, which is what. Which is what I like. But yeah, you can go check out this account abstraction thread. We'll link it in the YouTube description below. But the other thread he did was one that really resonates with me because this is something that I've been saying for a very, very long time that still hasn't gotten through to people.
00:18:28.310 - 00:19:17.226, Speaker A: But this thread is all about TPS or transactions per second. He starts off the thread by saying TPS is a very faulty metric to bet to measure blockchain throughput, and it's only going to get worse in the future. One of the potential alternatives is to measure you ops or user ops per second or user operations per second. But what are they? How do they relate to account abstraction? And is it really a feasible alternative? And he goes on in this thread about what this all looks like here. Now I want to explain my kind of reasoning about TPS and why I think it's one of the, the worst kind of measures of blockchain throughput. The first reason, main reason is because if something like claims to have 10,000 tps, let's just say, right, but it's only doing like 50 tps. Okay, well you have 9950 tpS.
00:19:17.226 - 00:20:03.060, Speaker A: That's doing nothing, right? That's not real TPs, that's theoretical TPs, right? So the real tps that you can handle is 50. If you've only ever done 50, it's 50. Okay, so why is that important? Like, okay, they're only doing 50 now, but what if they do 10,000 in the future? I'm like, sure, that's the thesis, right? That it gets to 10,000. But the problem becomes is that if you're only doing 50 and you're claiming 10,000, then you're really just misleading people into thinking that you're able to do 10,000. Because unless you're actually doing 10,000 tps, 10,000 real true TPS, right? Then you can't claim to be able to do that because you're not doing it in a live environment. You can say that you're able to do it all you want, but until you actually do it, it's not reality. Again, this is the narrative versus reality thing that I talk about a lot.
00:20:03.060 - 00:20:24.406, Speaker A: I can say that, oh, you know, I can run the 100 meters in the fastest time possible. I can beat the world record. I can say that as much as I want. Does it make it reality? No. Right? Maybe I can fool some people into believing that I could do it, but then I'll go run the hundred meters and I won't even beat any of the records. I won't even beat the local record with my neighbors. I don't remember the last time I actually ran, to be honest.
00:20:24.406 - 00:21:20.928, Speaker A: But you know what I mean, using that rough analogy there, it's like you can claim something all you want, but until you actually hit that in production, hit that TPS number in production, it's completely irrelevant, right? And that's the main reason why I've always hated TPS. But at the same time, looking at TPS between chains, between different L2s, layer threes, roll ups, validiums, whatever they are, it's going to be very, very different, because as Bartek explains in these threads, there's things like bundling transactions, there's like off chain orders, there's, there's doing things in off chain execution with things like risk zero, right? And co processing. There's all these different ways to do things that you could bundle something, and it only looks like one chain, one transaction on chain. But if you unbundle it, there's thousands of transactions in there, right? So TPS is just such an inferior metric. It doesn't measure anything. And it's been dominant in crypto for so long because people automatically think that, oh, wow, this blockchain says they can do 10,000 TPS. Scalability solved.
00:21:20.928 - 00:21:48.232, Speaker A: Whoo. It's like, no, we've had blockchains that can do that much TPS for a long time now. You know, pretty much all of them are centralized, but we've had that for a very, very long time. And none of them, none of them have ever been able to do that consistently in a production environment at all. Like, even the most popular ones have not been able to do that. So unless you're actually doing it in a live production environment, you can't claim to be able to do it. That's, that's my kind of view on things, because there is so much more that goes into it.
00:21:48.232 - 00:22:24.062, Speaker A: But then again, it is not a good measure of throughput for all the reasons Bartech lists in his thread here. And one of the reasons I just outlined before, and again, on top of that, TPS is no measure of value as well for a chain or the value of a block. Because, because at the end of the day, ethereum layer one has, you know, very bad TPS. It's like a max, what if, what is it, like 20 tps or something like that? Not even 1520 tps on Ethereum layer one. But it makes so much more money on that TPS as a share of kind of like fear of a news than any other chain. I mean, if you go to cryptofees, dot in fo, which you guys know about. I mean, I've showed this, this website to you guys plenty of times before.
00:22:24.062 - 00:22:59.506, Speaker A: Just look at the. The demand for ethereum layer one's block space as opposed to everything else. And keep in mind that no regular retail user needs to be on layer one anymore. You can sit at a L2 and do pretty much everything that you can do on layer one, from Defi to even NFT stuff to social fi. Like, as a regular user, you really don't need to be on layer one, especially if you're not trading. I mean, if you're not trading a ton of money, if you're trading, like, even ten there, there's enough liquidity there for tens of thousands of dollars worth of trades, which covers most people, right? Unless you're a whale, there's really no reason to be on layer one here. And yet.
00:22:59.506 - 00:23:24.096, Speaker A: And yet there is so much activity on layer one. Over the last day, Ethereum has done $6.2 million in fees. The next closest layer one to Ethereum, besides bitcoin, at $780,000 fees, is BSc at $336,000. Right? That is significantly smaller than Ethereum. And BSc can obviously do more TPS than Ethereum, but they're not making it up in volume. They're not making that fee revenue up in volume.
00:23:24.096 - 00:24:03.994, Speaker A: And the next one after that is actually a L2 option, one at 165,000, then you have Solana at 80,000 and optimism at $65,000. Right? So when you're looking at the orders of magnitude between these things, it's so totally different. And that's why TPS, again, is not a great measure of value. It's not a great measure of demand, because in my mind, something can have a lot of TPS. But if Ethereum, with its limited TPS, is still able to command a $6 million daily fee, revenue, or daily demand, you could say, for its block space as its product, then obviously TPS is not the thing that we should be looking at and should be measuring. And now, of course, all this isn't to say that scalability doesn't matter. Of course it matters.
00:24:03.994 - 00:24:37.610, Speaker A: It matters more than, more than probably anything for the long term sustainability of these systems. But the point I'm trying to make here is that scalability should not be measured in TPS, right? There's so many other ways to measure it. There are so many other ways to look at. Look at it and reason about it. And I think that at this point in time, the fact that we're still talking about this in almost 2024 is kind of frustrating to me because this, to me, was like a well known, kind of solved thing a long time ago. And maybe it's because I'm so deep in the ecosystem, I obviously are on top of these things. But the fact that people still fall for the TPS numbers is.
00:24:37.610 - 00:24:56.934, Speaker A: Is incredible to me. I mean, I don't really think that it matters that your chain can do a billion TPS if no one's using it. It's like building a ghost city, and then no one's there using it. Like, who cares that you have a massive ghost city, right? So, yeah. Anyway, enough ranting about that. You can go read bar text red. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:24:56.934 - 00:25:30.538, Speaker A: All right, so a little bit of drama out of wallet connect, of all places. So wallet Connect made a public statement a couple days ago where they said, in light of the latest legal and OFAC guidance, wallet Connect has restricted the availability of the wallet Connect protocol in Russia. Certain regions of Ukraine were temporarily impacted, but service has since resumed. We sincerely apologize for any inconvenience caused, and thank you for your patience and understanding. For more on this situation, please read the following words from our CEO. And there's just more, I guess, like legal speak here. So obviously, wallet connect is not decentralized.
00:25:30.538 - 00:26:04.886, Speaker A: I mean, I don't think it ever really tried to be decentralized. Not yet, at least. It is a way for, is basically infrastructure. But the fact that they can just like, unilaterally block a whole country like this based on the OFAC guidance, which is a us specific guidance, it's shitty, right? And it goes against the global nature of crypto. It goes against the, the ethos of decentralization, obviously. But at the end of the day, if wallet connect was decentralized, they wouldn't be able to do this. So again, it just speaks to the fact that we need that to work really, really hard to decentralize every layer of the stack.
00:26:04.886 - 00:27:02.512, Speaker A: Like the layer one. Like ethereum, being decentralized is awesome. You know, that's like the first layer of the stack. Well, technically, the social layer is the first layer of the stack, but you know what I mean. Then the infrastructure around it, rpcs, obviously, we need to decentralize those out, which has been worked on and is being worked on front ends, the me vehicle system, and then stuff like this, like wallet connect wallets generally, everything needs to be decentralized and distributed. It cannot, we cannot have any central points of failure because a blockchain is not only decentralized just because of the chain itself being decentralized, it relies on and requires all of this extra infrastructure to make it available for users. And if that infrastructure is centralized, then you get this, what happens here, right? You get, unfortunately, wallet connect caving in, or their lawyers at least kind of caving in here and fault and kind of like following this guidance here because obviously Russia is a sanctioned country right now from the US and OFAC sanctioned them.
00:27:02.512 - 00:27:30.092, Speaker A: So obviously Walt connects. If you know that if the team members are in the US, which I believe a lot of them are, or some of them are, they would be breaking the law essentially. So I don't blame them for doing this. But at the same time, I feel like we need to decentralize everything, or as this is just going to keep happening and stuff's in the works. Don't get me wrong, Ethereum is by far the first furthest thing ahead with decentralizing out its entire stack. But it's not going to happen overnight. It's going to take time and it's going to be an uphill battle, I think.
00:27:30.092 - 00:27:56.374, Speaker A: And even if we do decentralize things, there's still going to be weaknesses in that. There are still going to be problems in that, because how do you incentivize things to stay decentralized? All that sorts of stuff. You know, it's a tale as old as time when it comes to blockchains, but yeah, just had to see this from Wallet Connect. But as I said, don't blame them. Not unexpected. And it's just another call to the community that we need to decentralize the entire stack. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today.
00:27:56.374 - 00:28:05.574, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
