00:00:05.720 - 00:00:59.184, Speaker A: How's it going? My name is Zucky, co founder of Sommelier Finance, longtime builder in Cosmos Ecosystem, but building an ethereum defi app for the last two years. The app is a hybrid of EVM, smart contracts and Cosmos tech. It enables a bunch of really cool stuff, and I'm going to try and sort of walk through how it's working, what's going on. The original thesis is that you could do unique things that you couldn't do with just a smart contract alone, and that would produce sort of unique opportunities. And so this has now been running for a while, and we're going to talk a little bit about sort of what it is. So right now, we have. Our flagship strategy is called real Yield ETH.
00:00:59.184 - 00:01:51.936, Speaker A: And what's unique about real yield ETH, what this sophisticated adaptive system is doing is it allows you to do things so, like, you have what we call single competitive strategies. So instadap ice. So they basically are relying on a very simple leverage loop on staking yield. Real yield ETH, and enabled by the sommelier infrastructure, is basically able to do multiple things and adapt continuously to markets. So, for instance, right now it's LP Coinbase ETH. On uni v three, it's lp ing rocket pool ethan. It's also doing the leverage staking loops.
00:01:51.936 - 00:02:41.434, Speaker A: And basically the strategy will continue to adapt over time, pursuing the best opportunities. And because of the fact that it's able to do this, it has been consistently offering the best yields on ETH. So this is all, whenever we talk about yields in somilier, we are always talking about yields denominated in the underlying token. So when we talk about real yield ETH yield, we're talking about denominated yield. We're not talking about som token incentives or anything else like that. So the core idea is that having this sort of multistrategy adaptive system that was like here basically translates into, like, outperformance of. So basically the best way to turn ETH into more ETH.
00:02:41.434 - 00:03:43.624, Speaker A: So we have this sort of infrastructure that allows us to do this. So basically, what was the killer, the sort of vision behind building this infrastructure was like, what was the killer app in this last cycle? The killer app in this cycle was CDFI. But CDFI inevitably rugs the users. So how do you build a user experience that is comparable to the CDFI user experience that is, set it deposit and forget about it, and not have to, as a user, go in, constantly rebalance your position, make changes, stay on top of it every day? Just the ability to know that you're getting the best yields that DeFi can offer, the best opportunities that DeFi can offer without having to watch it every day. But also build a system where there are multiple layers of checks and balances such that the system cannot rug. So the architecture is. So there's a set of off chain strategy providers.
00:03:43.624 - 00:04:20.868, Speaker A: Those off chain strategy providers. Seven cs define logic labs, Cleargate Capital. We are constantly onboarding new third party strategy providers. Those strategy providers send messages to the cosmos validator set. The Cosmos validator set is actually running a side core processor. So depending on, if you have a mental model of this, it's like you have a tendermint blockchain, but that tendermint blockchain has a fixed validator set, or that validator set is decided by stakers. Every one of those are both validating the tendermint chain, but they are also running this additional process called steward.
00:04:20.868 - 00:05:22.408, Speaker A: And steward talks to the strategists, and steward can do things like simulate messages against, tenderly simulate messages using foundry, construct ABI and validate ABI messages, basically making sure that the strategist cannot send a proposed trade to the smart contracts that would in any way harm users. So you can never, trades are never risk free. But what we can do is we can restrict the possible space of messages to the smart contract such that absolutely exploitive things effectively cannot be expressed by the, by the strategy provider. So then they come to consensus using the tendermint chain. That is it, a sort of acceptable trade according to the system. And then once that consensus is reached, we have a bridge protocol. Right now we have our own bridge.
00:05:22.408 - 00:05:56.730, Speaker A: We also are integrating axor as a bridging protocol. But you can sort of imagine building the system on any sort of arbitrary bridging protocol. And then you get to our smart contracts. And our smart contracts are structured as almost kind of like essentially a system where every piece of sort of back office fund management is embedded in the smart contract. So we have the ability to take arbitrary positions in DeFi, so we can lend and borrow from lending protocols. We can lp on uni v. Three, or like, the strategists can do these things.
00:05:56.730 - 00:06:24.884, Speaker A: They can LP on unity v three. They can participate in balancer pools. There's a continuous lineup of new protocols that are being supported. Adapters have to be written. We have an adapter framework for doing that. But basically this enables arbitrary use of ethereum defi, and that is what the users interact with. When the users are interacting with familiar strategies, they don't need to know anything about the cosmos.
00:06:24.884 - 00:07:20.112, Speaker A: Chain. They don't need to bridge their tokens. They don't need to do anything other than just, like, interacting with any other Defi app. So why build all of this? The biggest thing is that what is missing in Defi is a decentralized way. So, like, large arbitrage opportunities keep appearing on chain, right? What we've seen is a decrease in the amount of sophisticated capital that is participating in on chain defi. And because these. But these large arbitrage opportunities, like, for instance, post withdrawals, CBeth's price relative to ETH was, like, needed to rise to reach parity or uniswap LP ing, are in pools that don't have.
00:07:20.112 - 00:07:50.446, Speaker A: That have an enormous amount of volume, but don't actually have a lot of capital in them, because no one's incentivizing those pools. These opportunities exist. But if you, as a regular, the average user, cannot take advantage of these opportunities. There's too much complexity. So having this infrastructure enables strategists to present these opportunities to users and generate the best possible returns. So, again, we have our strategy. Teams are continuously hunting for Alpha.
00:07:50.446 - 00:08:53.804, Speaker A: Anyone can join sommelier as a strategist and be part of that hunt. The off chain systems enable 24/7 monitoring. We are like, basically every couple of days, these things basically adjust their positions, and it's been surprisingly effective. The general thesis is, to be competitive in things like uniswap LP ing, you need to be able to adjust your positions all the time. Ultimately, this will all come down to MEV bots and just in time liquidity. The actual reality, the empirical reality that we've experienced with sommelier is that with very sophisticated data science teams, you can continuously be among the most profitable LP's in some of these pools without frequent rebalances. Strategies that we are building at sommelier have, like, also demonstrated, like, we what we believe to be an enormous ability to scale.
00:08:53.804 - 00:09:59.598, Speaker A: There are literally hundreds of millions of dollars of opportunities that are suitable for this infrastructure, and as are so, like, where we are right now, you know, real yield ETH is managing, you know, about 7,000,006, $7 million of ethanol, but with the existing set of tools, could easily be managing $100 million of ETH with very similar returns. And as the strategy evolves over time, with adding new capabilities, the ability to scale increases. So, again, this is the crazy infrastructure that we built. I think it really, this idea of having smart contracts augmented by off chain actors is becoming more and more common. You see this in the way. Synthetix purpose V two is running where they have an off chain keeper network. This is going to become more common with things like eigenware being able to use ETH validators to secure this stuff.
00:09:59.598 - 00:10:57.102, Speaker A: When we started building it two years ago, the only way to build something like this was launch a cosmos chain, launch a cosmos token to do this. But I think that this is going to become, this is sort of like a prototype of what I imagine the future of DeFi looks like. So this week, we launched a new set of opportunities called real yield governance. So, again, as I said, there's like, massive, like, sort of arbitrage opportunities in ETH DeFi that are not being captured by anyone. So when you have, like, you have all of these blue chip governance tokens, there are less than 1% yield opportunities on them. But what has happened is staking and Stakefi has basically created a new base rate for ethereum and for ETH yields. But essentially, DeFi has not yet equilibria to this.
00:10:57.102 - 00:11:56.194, Speaker A: And so it is cheaper to borrow ETH from most of the Defi protocols than it is to, than you can earn on a protocol like real yield ETH. So our strategies for generating ETH native yield can be used to close this arbitrage opportunity. So right now, we're sort of accepting, we're generating, we've launched this new support, so we are able to generate EnS link SNX uni denominated yield, and we are going to be launching bitcoin soon. So, basically, this arbitrage opportunity basically is between a one and a 3% net yield, depending on the token and LTV ratios that are achievable. And again, large scale arbitrage opportunity, hundreds of millions of dollars that could possibly be pushed through this. And our unique infrastructure is very well positioned for doing this. Sommelier strategies are audited.
00:11:56.194 - 00:12:24.214, Speaker A: We work with macro. They're super great. And, yeah, so this is just the. That's the basically summary of what is sommelier. Thank you very much. Are there any questions? Yeah. Cool.
00:12:27.954 - 00:12:33.890, Speaker B: I wanted to ask about the blockchain part. Why do you need the blockchain to do what you're doing and what's the role of it?
00:12:33.922 - 00:13:06.696, Speaker A: So what we mostly need is a validator set. What you need is a set of keepers and a coordination layer for those keepers. Tendermint is a super convenient piece of infrastructure. Like kendrament, Cosmos SDK are super convenient pieces of infrastructure. You also want permissionless. So, like Cosmos staking module, all of this stuff. You could imagine building all of this in a different way, but the Cosmos SDK is a reusable, off the shelf, very robust piece of software for building all of this stuff.
00:13:06.696 - 00:14:18.494, Speaker A: And you also get this. So, with Axor and our axor integration with the bridge, we're actually able to take advantage of native IBC composability. So you can send ABI encoded messages via Axor over IBC and get them executed on essentially, like, a dozen plus evms that support axor right now. So there's actually this, like. I mean, you just get this, like, you get this, like, sort of compounding infrastructure effect that is very difficult to replicate because of, like, sort of cosmos is actually ever increasing composability with EVM native environments. My general theme of where do I think Cosmos is going? Is more the inevitable fusion of Cosmos and Ethereum into this giant mecha robot. And the combination of IBC composability and ETH smart contracts on multiple chains gives you outposts of your project everywhere, but, like, a single control plane that is able to access them.
00:14:18.494 - 00:14:31.274, Speaker A: If we had built. If you were building sommelier today, it would be astonishingly easier than what we were doing before, because a lot of this IBC composability stuff has only gone live in the last few months.
00:14:32.054 - 00:14:49.308, Speaker B: One more question. Great presentation, by the way. How do you think about, like, the markets that might use sommelier versus some of the other LST staking products? There's a lot of those products coming out. Yeah. What's your model for that and where?
00:14:49.356 - 00:15:54.914, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I think there's an interesting question about, like, you know, so, like, similia demonstrably offers the best yields, like, empirically, but, like, adoption has been slower than, like, a lot of existing LSD five projects. And the question, and the underlying mystery is, why is that? One hypothesis is just trust and longevity. It is a complex system, no doubt about it. I'm pretty confident in the entire security architecture, both from the smart contract security part all the way out to the. I've been building these systems for a decade, but you never know. There's always risk here. But I think as this architecture proves itself, it becomes the inevitable final stage, because what we don't want is for DeFi to become only sophisticated actors, hedge funds, et cetera, are actually able to participate in DeFi and capture these opportunities.
00:15:54.914 - 00:16:30.906, Speaker A: The entire point of having these permissionless financial systems on chain is that anyone can provide, you know, can access these opportunities. Anyone can participate in the financial service. If we're just recreating a world in which, yes, everything is public, but only, like, very sophisticated actors can take advantage of these arbitrage opportunities. We haven't really accomplished the revolution that we're starting at. We, like, intend to. So I do think that, like, sommelier, like, what it will do, like, what opportunities fit well with the protocol, will continuously evolve over time. Like, what works right now is very much, like, of the moment.
00:16:30.906 - 00:16:41.506, Speaker A: But, like, the whole point of building a very flexible architecture was the ability to, like, continuously improve. There's one more question.
00:16:41.690 - 00:16:43.094, Speaker B: All right, last question.
00:16:49.474 - 00:17:34.798, Speaker C: Yeah. Thanks for the presentation and agree on the permissionless and the flexibility your product has is awesome. But I remember, correct me if I'm wrong, that we're taking a look into your product, the fee structure, like, for sommelier, and create an environment in which if me, as a retail investor, like, to be profitable enough, I will need to be like, I don't know, like one year or at least be like two months to be breakeven. And also, if we take into account that the main driver of the good yield, the real yield in sommelier provide this last month was because CBF and it might be difficult to, like, I will need to extend the break even point. Right?
00:17:34.886 - 00:18:07.684, Speaker A: Yeah, let's talk about. I'll just, like, quickly break these things down. So, one is the fees that the protocol and, like, the strategists take are all pro rata. So, like you are, you know, it's not like you pay upfront or on entry or exit. It's all done pro rata for however long you stay in the strategy. Now, gas has been a challenge because of the way the smart contracts works. You constantly have to enumerate the entire pricing structure and price, all of our DeFi positions every time you add and remove liquidity from the vaults.
00:18:07.684 - 00:19:03.174, Speaker A: So we're doing something interesting with the governance strategies where we're having this sow and reap period, where we take a position, we're earning yield, and then periodically, we have to take the profits from that yield, buy the underlying, let's say, link token, and during those periods of time, getting gas costs to enter and exit will be much lower. So right now, it's like five $6 to enter the governance token strategies, but when they're going to be deployed, it's going to be much more expensive. It'll be like $100 in fees. But then there will be another period to our estimate. It's going to be market condition driven, but it'll be about once a month, there'll be this opportunity to enter and exit the. The strategies cheaply. And if that works, we might roll out the same mechanism for the rest of our strategies, where we have these periods of time where we exit the positions and it's very cheap to enter and exit.
00:19:03.174 - 00:19:07.074, Speaker A: Cool. Thank you very much. Thank you.
