00:00:02.080 - 00:00:08.754, Speaker A: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the go to podcast for investors and builders in crypto.
00:00:17.254 - 00:00:46.320, Speaker B: And before we get started, just a reminder for you guys out there. The Blockcrunch podcast is intended for informational purposes only. Neither the host nor its guests or licensed financial advisors, and nothing discussed should be construed as financial advice. Views held by Blockcrunch's guests are their own, and sponsorship messages do not constitute financial advice or endorsement. With that out of the way, let's jump right in. Now, before we get started with today's episode, I've got some great news for you. Now, a lot of you have been asking for how I analyze projects that I bring on the show.
00:00:46.320 - 00:01:32.110, Speaker B: That's why I decided to create Blockchain's vip to share with you all the heavy research that goes on behind the scenes. Now, every week or so, our team prepares an in depth research memo with things like sector analysis, technical concepts made simple, in depth competitor breakdown, and even interactive models so you can learn about the most important projects before they become important. And our team is putting in hours every week, scouring discord, twitter, forums and blogs to help you get an edge in crypto and understand the latest projects and themes at the deepest levels. That goes way beyond just an interview. Now, in addition, we'll also host exclusive AMA's with myself to answer any of your questions. So all of these are only available to blockchain's VIP subscribers. And the good news is that while our interviews will always be free, the vip tier costs less than one coffee a day.
00:01:32.110 - 00:01:38.114, Speaker B: So head on over to theBlockcrunch.com VIP or click the link in the show notes below to sign up.
00:01:39.894 - 00:02:28.764, Speaker C: Alright everybody, welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. Now, with the recent implosion of multiple lending deaths in crypto now, many investors are justifiably worried or skeptical about all lending in crypto. But one of the protocols in Defi that offers under collateralized lending, maple finance, has noticeably performed very stably throughout this entire ordeal and seems to have grown during the bear market in terms of user deposits for Q one as well. So, to learn about just how this new DeFi darling is coping with, and possibly thriving in some of the more challenging times for crypto, I'm really excited to have founder of Maple finance Sidney Powell here on the show with us to explain what Maple does, how it works, how they manage risk, as well as more thoughts on the current state of Defi lending. So, Sid, welcome to the show.
00:02:29.584 - 00:02:33.640, Speaker D: Hey Jason, thanks for having me. Glad to be here. Yeah.
00:02:33.672 - 00:02:48.604, Speaker C: So as we were talking about before we started recording, this is some weird times, definitely some challenging times in DeFi right now. So, just generally, what are your thoughts about what's happening right now? Do you think there'll be more contagion, or has most of the skeletons been out of the wardrobe already?
00:02:50.034 - 00:03:39.194, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, it's certainly an interesting time to be in DeFi and be lending in crypto. I think initially the contagion fears were much greater. I think with the recent release of the paperwork around the three ac liquidation, I think a lot more people are starting to take comfort that there isn't much more contagion to be seen and that we now have a pretty clear idea of who was sitting exposed and who had counterparty risk, whether it be to three ac or to Celsius or to any of the other parties who have experienced distress. What I'm rooting for at the moment is that things start to return to more of a sense of normalcy and that the level of panic that we saw over the last six weeks starts to subside.
00:03:41.074 - 00:04:14.586, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. And before we move on to even talk about Maple, I think this is such an interesting thing to watch unfold, because I was just reading about long term capital management, and I'm just seeing how many parallel. Yeah. Between what's happening back in the nineties and what's happening right now. And speaking a little bit about your own background, I guess, during your previous life in trad five, did you kind of come across the LTCM type of scenarios as well? Does what's happening right now remind you of what's going on in trad five before? Yeah.
00:04:14.610 - 00:05:36.150, Speaker D: So I think, I mean, it is an interesting parallel to draw, of course, with long term capital management, they were dealing with extreme amounts of leverage to try to generate alpha off of basically reversion to the mean on very small mispricing in instruments. The instruments they were mostly dealing with were a mix of convertible debt, and it really, for them, it was a geopolitical event that triggered. That was the catalyst for LTCM unraveling, which was the russian default as well as the East Asia crisis. I think here what you've seen is that it was broader market events that triggered the unwinding of leverage and left a lot of people exposed. But it was a little bit different in that whilst there was a lot of leverage, the leverage was really chasing directional bets rather than trying to achieve alpha off of reversions to the mean on mispricing, I think the similarity or where the similarity lies. And this is where a lot of people are drawing parallels, is that LTCM posed a systemic risk because of the level of leverage that they had. So when they blew up, there were a number of parties that had counterparty exposure to them, and there was a very real danger that this could ripple throughout Wall street and the rest of the financial system here.
00:05:36.150 - 00:06:06.242, Speaker D: What we've seen is that three AC was touching a lot of different counterparties. And you can see that if you go and read the 1100 page document, that they were touching, really, all of the major lenders. And so there were definitely concerns around counterparty exposure there. So there are definitely parallels. I came into kind of the treadfire space after the GFC. So I entered banking in 2014. So I missed a lot of that excitement.
00:06:06.242 - 00:07:19.342, Speaker D: But a lot of the people I would meet in the course of, you know, in the course of my career there could tell me the stories of what it was like working through the, you know, working through the GFC, where what began as kind of a liquidity crisis actually morphed into an asset quality or a solvency crisis at the time as well, because you didn't just have a constraint on liquidity, which was kind of the issue that occurred in the 1990s. You actually had assets that were not really assets on the mortgage backed security side that were not actually worth what they were being valued at. And it wasn't just due to liquidity. It was due to a fundamental decline in asset quality. The other issue that you had there was that there was a system of reinsurance and CDs insurance during the GFC, and you actually have kind of this fundamental insolvency of the insurance. So you might have had an insurance policy against a default in place, but you couldn't rely on that because the insurer was not actually going to be able to meet those obligations. And I think one of the other interesting parallels here is that you've seen there was a movement to go risk off where people pull capital from lending platforms.
00:07:19.342 - 00:08:07.008, Speaker D: But interestingly, it was not just retail depositors who were pulling capital, it was institutions as well. And they weren't just pulling them from Defi platforms or smaller lenders. They were withdrawing them from the very largest lenders because they had concerns about the solvency of those lenders. And that extends to those who had multibillion dollar balance sheets. And so I think that's where it was unique and much more extreme than a typical sort of liquidity, liquidity crisis or concerns around the contagion emanating from a single party. So that was a bit of a mouthful, but I'd say, yeah. Overall, I do see a lot of parallels in terms of the concerns around contagion and the level of interconnectedness between three ac and the rest of the crypto ecosystem.
00:08:07.008 - 00:08:13.164, Speaker D: I mean, they were touching all sort of a lot of DeFi protocols, as well as all of the major c five lenders.
00:08:13.964 - 00:08:39.624, Speaker C: Yeah. And speaking of how indiscriminate I was, I think at the same time, a lot of people were using this opportunity to kind of talk about the benefits of DeFi, and they were saying how, you know, if all of the lending had been done in DeFi in a transparent way, none of this would have happened. I don't know if you agree with that, or do you foresee that, say, majority of the lending, if it didn't happen with all these centralized lending desks, but happened on different DeFi protocols, would it still have happened the same way?
00:08:41.744 - 00:09:53.086, Speaker D: It's interesting because in crypto at the moment, I'd say you have two different kinds of lending. So you have lending which is to achieve leverage or express a directional view. And that is ultimately actually what a lot of the lending for three ac was. They were taking partially collateralized or over collateralized loans out to express Suzy's view that there was a super cycle, and various assets were going to appreciate off the back of that, whether it was alternative l one chains like avalanche or Luna, or different specific assets. Now, that type of lending is speculatory in nature, and so it does naturally fall into the product offerings of like, aave and compound, where you put down an over collateralized position, borrow against it, and then you use that to achieve leverage. The other type of lending that occurs a lot in crypto is under or uncollateralized lending, which, it should be noted, is still secured by a legal agreement that the borrower takes out. And it's based on the underwrite of the borrower's financials.
00:09:53.086 - 00:10:39.648, Speaker D: So you're looking and seeing, is this borrower profitable? Does this borrower already have a lot of loans, or are they relatively debt free? And therefore you're more comfortable lending to them, but ultimately, you're forming a view based on a view of the borrowers financials on their ability to repay. That is most typically done for market makers, and they are providing a service of liquidity to centralized exchanges. So they are actually necessary for the crypto ecosystem to run as a well oiled machine. If you've ever been on an exchange that has very limited liquidity, and you can't get orders filled. That's really the service that market makers are doing. They're also enabling exchanges to not trade against their own customers. You would have seen that the SEC had some criticism of Bitmex early on for trading against their customers.
00:10:39.648 - 00:11:18.558, Speaker D: Well, when that can be done by a market maker like GSR or Wintermute or ambergroup, then the exchange can sit at an arm's length. So it's a more properly functioning market. But those borrowers are typically delta hedge. They're not taking a long view or a short view on broader crypto asset prices. They're actually just printing money by, by offering liquidity on centralized and decentralized exchanges. So that's one type of lending, and the other is, of course, for high frequency traders. And these might be players like Nibbio or Folkvang, but again, they're hedged, so they're not taking a directional view on whether bitcoin goes up or down.
00:11:18.558 - 00:12:05.650, Speaker D: Instead, they are just miss, you know, they are just arbitraging out, mispricing between exchanges. So again, they're kind of like a necessary, almost think of it like white blood cells for a healthy ecosystem where they're making sure that prices are at parity across exchanges. So again, kind of healthy. And that's a different type of lending that lending has. Or those borrowers all performed very well during the recent volatility, extending right back to kind of the collapse of Luna in mid May. The borrowers who did not perform well were the ones who were taking very directional risk and applying leverage to, to maximize those returns. And these were the likes of three AC who got caught out when the market moved in the wrong direction.
00:12:05.650 - 00:13:36.548, Speaker D: Now, if those players had been on DeFi, and a number of them were, you can see that the losses on the DeFi protocols were very minimal, and that was because liquidations were automated. So the issue that you found is that operationally, whilst some of these CFI lenders had over collateralized or near fully collateralized positions, when they have a window in which they request over telegram for a borrower to make a margin call, what was happening was they weren't able to liquidate those positions in time when the borrower wasn't actually going to make their margin call. There was too big a delay before they decided to pull the trigger and just liquidate or nuke the position, whereas that doesn't happen on the DeFi protocol. So for that type of lending, definitely, you know, definitely the losses borne by the lending, you know, the lenders themselves would have been minimized if it had been on DeFi, but for the other type of lending, it is much better accomplished through under collateralized lending opportunities. And I, you know, I'm going to obviously advocate and say it would have been, you know, would have been better if it had been occurring on DeFi because you wouldn't have the opaqueness where you could have a singular borrower being like 40 or 50% of the balance sheet of a lender. That's outsized concentration risk, and that transparency is achieved on DeFi, where you have a visible flow of funds. You can see who all the borrowers are at all times.
00:13:36.548 - 00:13:55.214, Speaker D: You can see any portfolio concentration to jumbo loans, and you can also see the cash and the history of repayments coming through from those borrowers when it's on chain through a lending platform, be it maple or Trufi, or Goldfinch or Clearpool.
00:13:56.394 - 00:14:18.204, Speaker C: Yeah, and I think that's an amazing segue to talking about what Maple is, because Maple is obviously part of this new class of DeFi lending protocols that I think newcomers might not be as familiar with. So can you help us understand what is Maple? And especially how does it compare to some of the so called DeFi 1.0 lending protocols, like Aave or compound out there?
00:14:19.344 - 00:15:00.232, Speaker D: Yeah. So the way to think of Maple is that, like those platforms, we want to be lending infrastructure. So, like the analogy I always use these days is Shopify, which is Shopify provides out of the box tooling for people to become an e commerce retailer or businesses to launch an e commerce platform. But they're not the online seller themselves. They're just providing a way for you to get inventory up, take payment, you know, drop ship fulfillment. What Maple is doing is we're offering a way to spin up a pool, take in deposits, originate loans out of that pool, and then pass the repayments back to the people who had deposited. So it's all of the operational side of running a lending business.
00:15:00.232 - 00:15:51.256, Speaker D: We don't want to be the lending business ourselves. Maple is not supplying the balance sheet. We are not trying to take on the credit risk ourselves. We're trying to prevent present a platform where others who have the skills to run, you know, to do credit underwriting, and who might have come from a background in banking or at a credit fund, like a, you know, like a fortress group, or at an alternative lender or fintech lender, they can leverage our technology to run their business in, you know, one, get that business off the ground in a much lower cost kind of way, and two, you know, really scale it up using blockchain technology. So, yeah, so on Maple, you have borrowers, you have the delegate who's managing a pool, and then you have depositors into the pool. And those are kind of the three core constituents on the platform. And using that framework, we've done about 1.5
00:15:51.256 - 00:17:08.964, Speaker D: billion in loans to date. Now, dipping over to kind of contrast maple from, because it kind of sits in between, in terms of business model construction, it kind of sits in between some of the other over collateralized DeFi lending platforms like AavE and compound, and some of the CFI platforms, in that you have more of an element of trust. So how does Maple differ from compound and Aave? The most notable aspect is that it's doing commercial lending, and it's doing this lending in an under collateralized format. So we're looking at institutions and forming a view on whether they can repay loans, and doing that through meeting management, looking at their balance sheet, looking at their profitability, and having them sign an agreement which obligates them to repay. And if they don't, then you can pursue legal recourse against them. Whereas a lot of the over collateralized platforms are really set up more to cater to retail or for leverage and speculation on crypto asset prices or monetization of existing crypto holdings. And they're able to do that because there's no, like, there's no analysis of the borrowers on the other side because they take over, they originate over collateralized loans.
00:17:08.964 - 00:18:09.016, Speaker D: So the view is always that it doesn't matter if the borrower actually defaults because they'll just be liquidated here. What Maple is trying to supply is lending to commercial businesses who can't take out over collateralized loans, because that's not how businesses work. Like, you can't set up a business, somehow fund it with a bunch of ETH, and then deposit that ETH as collateral. It's not really going to lead to any viable commercial enterprise. So instead, what Maple is targeting is businesses that have sustainable profitability, and so it's originating under collateralized loans, but those loans are higher yields. Like if you go on Aaver compound, you're going to be getting paid perhaps 1% or sub 1%, whereas here depositors are being paid a higher single to low double digit yield to take on credit risk of lending to these institutions. Those are a couple of the aspects.
00:18:09.016 - 00:18:42.608, Speaker D: And then I'd contrast it with some of the other protocols in the DeFi space, which might be goldfinch, notably. So goldfinch is similarly doing under collateralized loans to institutions. So we have similar customer set. It's businesses, it's not retail. And the type of loan is reliant on the creditworthiness of the borrower rather than taking collateral. Where the platforms differ is the target segment. So maple is targeting corporate borrowers within the crypto space.
00:18:42.608 - 00:19:41.046, Speaker D: So it's mostly market makers, high frequency traders. We do want to get out of this eventually, whereas Goldfinch is targeting asset originators. So these would be lending businesses, and they're typically more in emerging markets. So it might be in Nigeria or Mexico or Vietnam, but it is lending to these businesses who are looking to access wholesale markets for them to support their lending businesses. That's some of the difference. And then, yeah, I can pause there, but then there's also obviously going to be differences between the CFI lenders, most of which who have set themselves up to be an at call deposit product, whereas we're really trying to kind of serve, serve a niche closer to private credit where you would expect a longer lockup because the loans are being put out for fixed terms. And they are, those loans are higher yield because you're taking the credit risk on these institutional borrowers.
00:19:41.046 - 00:20:01.434, Speaker D: So you under, you do underwrite to an expectation of some level of defaults, but you price the interest rates high enough so that they can assume or absorb the cost of some of those defaults. So some people have a view that you would never take a default in lending. There is no lending business, I can assure you, in the world that assumes that no borrowers will default.
00:20:02.924 - 00:20:32.114, Speaker C: This is really interesting because it sounds like the enforcement of the repayment relies on off chain processes. So meat space kind of legal processes, and the auditing, the underwriting of the credit risks of different borrowers also seems to rely on centralized players in an off chain context. So can you help us better understand which parts of maple definitely requires on chain, or is it possible to replicate the whole maple model in a completely just off chain context?
00:20:33.294 - 00:21:25.150, Speaker D: Yeah. So the analogy I draw here would be if you had email. All of the functionality of email can be replicated with sending snail mail. And so a lot of people will say, oh, well, why wouldn't you just build this business off chain and rely on the existing system? Well, people were trying to build fintech businesses going back for the last 15 years, and they were not very successful when it came, you know, when it came time for the rubber to hit road. Part of the reason for this is that any fintech business that was trying to do lending was built on top of an existing stack of infrastructure which was owned by banks. So it might take you more than six months to even get off the ground. Opening a bank account that you need to begin originating loans, and you would have to pay transfer pricing to the banks to run that.
00:21:25.150 - 00:22:20.208, Speaker D: And then you have to have all these additional service providers like trustees and custodians in there to operate that bank account. And what happened was it really built up the margin, and it meant that these businesses were not competitive from a cost to income ratio. So you had existing web two fintechs were structurally higher priced, and that meant they had to pass on higher interest rates to their end borrowers. And they're leveraging infrastructure that couldn't actually be properly integrated with tech. So you can see probably a really good example would be plaid. So plaid is a multi billion dollar business that is built on connecting businesses to banking, because the banking infrastructure sucks so much. So they could actually build a multi billion dollar business offering solving this problem.
00:22:20.208 - 00:23:21.810, Speaker D: But if you're a lending business and you use plaid, you're then paying their margin. So the poor quality of banking infrastructure, which you needed to connect to if you were a web two lending business, meant that you basically ate away all your margin before you even got off the ground. So that forced them to then kind of look at poorer credit quality sectors. Whereas with web3, the fundamental difference is you effectively have a global swift system that you or anyone else can plug into and operate. So that system, the Swift system, has been maintained for 40 years by a bunch of banks, and it's effectively them sending text messages to each other saying, you know, where is money moving between the banks internationally? And so if you send a transfer from the US to Australia, it might pass through four different banks to get there. Whereas if I want to send USDC to someone in Australia, it's a singular transaction that goes from 0.1 to 0.2,
00:23:21.810 - 00:24:29.184, Speaker D: and it takes 15 seconds on the ethereum network and maybe cost me like a dollar or a couple of dollars depending on present gas fees. So it's like it's 100 x better in terms of speed, it's 100 x better in terms of cost. Absent short periods where gas is really high, I can build a lending business on top of that infrastructure because I can then have system. So the maple UX and web application just connects straight into this swift system. So it's like I've bypassed four different service providers margin. And so if I'm a lending business operating on web3, I have a structural advantage in my cost to income ratio. And I can actually use technology such that I can run a lending business with, you know, probably one, one fifth to one 10th of the staffing requirements for a conventional one because I don't have to have two or three people in operations just making sure that payments to the bank get uploaded at the end of each day and doing that manually.
00:24:29.184 - 00:25:35.934, Speaker D: All of this reporting, all of the payment processing can be instantly handled with the click of a button because we can connect directly to, in effect, the global swift system. So I'd say that was kind of a long winded way of saying transfer pricing, public or commons infrastructure that you can access as a web3 fintech. And then the other thing was we shifted business models. So you look at prior web two lenders who were trying to do peer to peer lending. So lending club, lending club syndicated each loan. Instead, what we've said is, let's take the concept of like a credit fund, and instead you just syndicate the credit fund so people can come in and deposit into a pool, which means that the manager of a pool can do larger loans and they can maintain a better relationship with the underlying borrower because the borrower comes, and instead of having to put up a loan request and then site unseen, they don't know whether that loan request is going to get fully filled or partially filled, or it could take a month to fill. This was the experience on lending club.
00:25:35.934 - 00:25:57.778, Speaker D: They can actually just come to a singular point of contact, which is on Maple, it's your delegate, and say, okay, I'd like to take down $20 million. And the delegate goes, sure, give me your financials. Let's have an interview. Complete this due diligence questionnaire. I don't have 10 million now, but we'll have 10 million in about a month's time. So we can take down the loan then. And then let's just negotiate the pricing.
00:25:57.778 - 00:26:05.294, Speaker D: So instead of you having to guess what will clear for the market, that delegate can just tell you what the prevailing market pricing is.
00:26:09.474 - 00:26:37.214, Speaker A: Hey guys, I'm really excited to tell you more about one of my favorite products in crypto right now, DyDx. This is a team I've known since 2018, and they've built one of the best exchange venues out there that also happens to be decentralized and mobile friendly. Now listen until the end, because there's an opportunity for savvy traders out there as well. And here are just a few reasons why I like DyDx over other exchanges. First, it's very liquid. It probably processes two to $3 billion every day. In volume and has 35 perpetual swaps as of this recording.
00:26:37.214 - 00:27:21.776, Speaker A: Which means you can trade things like ethereum, bitcoin, doge Solana and most of the most popular assets with up to 20 x leverage in the venue today. Second, its also extremely cheap and if youre down bad from the bear market you dont have to worry about gas fees at all because there is no gas fee on starkware L2 where DyDx is built on. That brings me to my next point as well. Incredibly fast. Unlike other L2 and high speed dexs, you don't actually have to wait to withdraw your assets anymore. And as an additional point, by using Starkware, DyDx also provides user with increased security and privacy. And my personal favorite feature is the cross margin feature which means I can seed one account with USDC and trade across multiple markets from there without needing to start sub accounts because I really hate managing so many different subaccounts.
00:27:21.776 - 00:28:00.474, Speaker A: And their iOS mobile app is also live right now and it's amazing because it's compatible with Metamask, Coinbase Wallet, Coin 98, Huawei Wallet, and a lot of the most popular mobile wallets out there and it's available for people outside of the US or sanctioned countries today. And one last thing, one exciting opportunity is their competitions, the most recent tier in the $10,000 equity tier, have won over $95,000 in rewards. And you can get started with as low as $500 in equity to compete for prizes. So if you're already trading, might as well get paid to do it. So if any of that sounds interesting to you, I highly recommend that you head on over to DyDX exchange to learn more. And I thank them for sponsoring this episode.
00:28:03.134 - 00:28:20.604, Speaker C: That's a really great segue to talking about how pool delegates work as well because there's this concept called pool managers on the maple platform. So can you explain kind of, first of all, how are these pool managers selected and what did they actually do with, you know, with my money if I'm a depositor on the platform?
00:28:22.104 - 00:29:03.494, Speaker D: Yeah. So the think of, so the pool manager or pool delegate, you can think of them like a team or a business that has credit expertise. They might have come from a financial services background being, you know, on lending or credit risk at a commercial bank or a merchant bank, or they might have been at a fixed income asset manager. So you know somebody who, you know, a business that purchases bonds, let's say, but they have to have experience in assessing credit. So they're not typically going to be somebody who's doing very speculative investments. They're more going to be looking at, you know, how does this business. How does.
00:29:03.494 - 00:29:32.676, Speaker D: How did the recurring cash flows of an underlying business pay me back? Or what is the asset quality I'm relying on such that, you know, I think if they default, I can. I can liquidate these assets and recover my loan. How we due diligence that business? So we're generally looking for three things. So it's the credit expertise. So, in the case of orthogonal and Maven, they were the first two delegates on the platform. And then we've since had. Exmargin also runs a pool on Solana as well as Genesis.
00:29:32.676 - 00:30:27.026, Speaker D: So in the case of orthogonal and Maven, they hired people who had credit expertise. So from both banking, in Maven's case, and then in orthogonal's case, it was somebody who was running a large bond portfolio, and then they had access to deal flow, so they knew the counterparties in the space, so that they could source new borrowers coming through the platform. And then they also had a strong enough reputation, they were connected enough to source deposits into their pools. And it's worth noting that each pool is self contained. So it's kind of like the number of delegates on Maple can grow, but each delegate is running their own lending business on the platform. And if a borrower defaults in one pool, it doesn't impact any of the depositors funds in the other pool. So there was a default early in the month of a loan to Babel that was in one pool.
00:30:27.026 - 00:31:41.652, Speaker D: So the orthogonal pool, an impairment was applied pro rata across the senior lenders, but it didn't impact. It didn't have any impact on anyone else in either the maven pool or any of the other pools on the platform. And so I think that's really important to note, because what we want to avoid is this issue of having too big to fail participants on the platform. So, by having a spread of different pools and different delegates, where risk is balkanized or quarantined or siloed within each of the pools, I think it creates a healthier overall ecosystem. But the other thing we're looking for in a delegate is how they manage risk. So we're looking at, increasingly, as we would look to add more delegates to the platform, we're looking at how do they deal with a turnaround? Like, if a borrower is in distress, do they have experience? Do they know how to manage a borrower out of that, from either the legal side or the enhanced servicing side, as well as their ability to communicate because I think in the crypto space, a big part is communicating transparently what is going on. And I think I would say overall, we did a fairly decent job of this.
00:31:41.652 - 00:32:02.064, Speaker D: Over the last month, both delegates were putting out reports on the health of their loan book, how they're managing risk, what kind of questions, what kind of questions they were asking borrowers about potential exposures to three ac, as well as their plans for the future. So I think that was the other really important element.
00:32:03.184 - 00:32:24.244, Speaker C: And I guess on that note, how would you respond to some criticism out there that the maple process seems quite centralized? You have these parties that are managing these loans, the funds get taken off chain. It's not a full on, kind of completely on chain defi experience. Is that a valid criticism? Is that something that you guys are thinking about?
00:32:25.544 - 00:33:13.900, Speaker D: It's something we're thinking about and it's. It's balanced, I would say, because in certain instances. So if I take a specific example from the platform, when there was the default that occurred, there was some line of sight or information in the market that that borrower was distressed a couple of weeks before they missed the on chain interest payment. So the improvement there is that we need to enable more trust and discretion for a delegate to trigger an early default. Whereas if you said okay, it needs to be totally trustless and on chain, well that was, you know, that was the issue. The issue that was caused from that was that people were trying to front run, you know, front run a default and exit the pool. So you actually need some latitude for discretionary decision making.
00:33:13.900 - 00:34:07.990, Speaker D: And I would say whilst there, you know, whilst there has been criticism of having discretionary elements, I don't view that DeFi needs to be trustless. I think DeFi is excellent decentralized infrastructure for settlement of loans, management of a lending business. But we're not trying to take, you know, we're not trying to take risk management or, you know, the assessment of creditworthiness and make that totally on chain and have zero decision making input in that. Because I think that's still part of prudent. Risk management requires the ability to have interventions. The centralized aspect is that you have a delegate who's managing the credit risk for that pool. How we try and resolve the principal agent problem there is by having the delegate put some money into cover so that they have skin in the game aligned with that of their lenders.
00:34:07.990 - 00:35:08.097, Speaker D: And it's worth noting that immediately before the liquidation of that Babel loan, the day before orthogonal put an additional million dollars into cover to enhance the level of protection and to increase their alignment and skin in the game there. So I think having this built on chain allows us to explore mechanisms of aligning principle agent problem. But I would say the aspects that really are important and on chain here are transparency on the flow of funds. So you can see who all the borrowers are. If you're a lender on the platform, you can always see the history of repayments and performance of all of the loans. So, you know, if a borrower is not repaying, you can also see the cash balance in the pool. And one of the things that occurs on maple is, you know, the delegates can't freeze or prevent withdrawals.
00:35:08.097 - 00:35:43.884, Speaker D: So as loans are repaid, people are always able to withdraw and they have an equal opportunity to withdraw. That mechanism is something we want to improve, but it's fundamentally unbiased versus, you know, versus like a c five lending business. And the other aspect is you can always see kind of a proof of cash or proof of reserve there for each pool. So you can see, you know, how much protection or ability to absorb losses there are. This is a long winded way of answering no.
00:35:43.924 - 00:36:36.204, Speaker C: This is such an interesting nuanced take, because basically that implies that decentralization can apply to different layers of the stack, but it doesn't have to apply to everything, right? At the settlement layer, you can have a decentralized settlement, but on top of it, you can have some, I guess, some flavors of centralization to manage things like risk management, which is an interesting take because, you know, a lot of the DeFi die hards, it's either completely decentralized or nothing at all. So I'm curious about whether you think that is the end game here to get to a state where we can be completely decentralized. And even when it comes to onboarding these pool managers and borrowers, maybe the credit score is somehow fed on chain from some off chain source, completely decentrally. Is that the dream for maple here? Or do you think that it needs to live in that middle ground between centralization and decentralization?
00:36:38.024 - 00:37:46.564, Speaker D: I think it offers most service if it continues to live in a middle ground between centralization and decentralization. So what we, I think a good example, you know, one that Jeremy Ilaira from circle often uses is the Internet enabled, like a long tail of content, right? So you could have communities that might have been focused on collecting stamps from the mid 18 hundreds. Now, the number of people in the world who do that is very small, but by aggregating them through the Internet, they can find each other and communicate. But here, what we are potentially offering is that you could have a very specific set of businesses that might be in a nascent or growing industry. Let's say it's the burgeoning space industry. And so you have new startups, but a bank is going to be very slow to develop the expertise to underwrite that new industry. But you might have people who have a specialization and an understanding, and they could then focus a lending business on underwriting that sector that requires specialized expertise.
00:37:46.564 - 00:38:57.404, Speaker D: So I think that is not something that's going to be well handled by just having a credit score on chain. Credit scores on chain cater to, you know, it's, it'd be like saying the equivalent in content would be like saying, okay, we want everybody to be able to watch television, but it's all going to be like NBC or some mainstream studio. And so it's going to aggregate towards what is going to serve the largest number of people, or rather the average taste. Whereas I think what we're saying is, and I share this view, there should be a long tail of capital markets where the scale of setting up a lending business issue, or the cost of setting up a lending business is shrinking so we can have more specialized lending businesses, which therefore mean that people doing innovative things that are perhaps not falling dead square in the universal average will get served or be able to borrow. Having a totally on chain credit score means, you know, means that it's going to be automated. But what you find is that when you create algorithms, they end up with the biases of those people who created the algorithms. When you see, let's say, you see, you know, sentencing.
00:38:57.404 - 00:39:59.026, Speaker D: So sentencing for crimes, they try, they've tried doing experiments where they leave that up to an algorithm because it's going to be fairer. But what they find is that it unfairly punishes minorities because it overweights them based on past data. So instead, what people look for is some element of human intervention to adjust out the biases that actually arise in algorithms if they punish the wrong kind of thing. And so you could see that a credit score might unfairly punish certain demographics or introduce outcomes that we don't want to see, and that if, if we were adjudicating it with human judgment, we would consider that a bad outcome. And so I think that's where I look at this and say the problem is not better risk management in lending. The problem that the blockchain is solving is coordination and the operational management of a lending business. So where it makes sense to automate things are like the dumb operational processes that aren't really value add.
00:39:59.026 - 00:41:02.384, Speaker D: If we strip those out, we can lower the cost of running a lending business. And what's really important for a society, I think there is not enough credit going to the private sector at the moment. I think you can see that there have been new businesses have overweighted financing from venture capital and equity, and they should actually, you know, there are actually a number of businesses that are earning good profits who should be able to take out, you know, take out loans. But banks are increasingly pulling back and going to more conservative sectors, whether it's already very large publicly rated companies, which typically are going to over index towards mature industries that are in a state of flat growth or decline like airlines, or they go to conservative asset classes like just residential real estate. And this is pushing up house prices. But it's meaning that we're not actually seeing a lot of new jobs formed in the private sector. And so I think from a healthy economy perspective, it's actually really necessary that we increase the supply of credit going to business.
00:41:03.484 - 00:41:19.784, Speaker C: Yeah. And would be really cool to see more kind of projects and founders expanding into venture debt as well. And on this note, I'm really curious. So for Maple, currently as a lending business, how do you guys make money as a business and how does the token fit in?
00:41:21.424 - 00:42:05.522, Speaker D: Yeah, so there's two sets of fees that come through the platform. So a borrower will pay an origination fee that's currently hard coded at like 1% annually. 66 basis points will go to the Maple Treasury, 33 basis points will go to the delegate. So that's fee number one that goes to the protocol. And then the other element is that we've had an interest carry that has gone. So for every hundred dollars of interest paid, $10 was going to the delegate and then $10 was going to this cover reserve that you can deposit the maple token in. What we found over the last month was that having that reserve denominated in the maple token as well as USDC, meant that there was some Runway risk.
00:42:05.522 - 00:43:25.644, Speaker D: When the market declines overall, crypto asset prices decline, and that's where you would be more likely to see a default. So having a cover, you know, having cover where the value of COVID declines in a market downturn, when defaults might be elevated, creates wrong way risk. So what we're going to improve for V two is just having cover denominated in the asset that the loans are made in. So in this case, it would be the dominant one would be USDC. And instead, what we'll have is a portion of interest, let's say it's probably like two and a half percent or something is going to go to the maple treasury where it can be used to fund either ongoing development or it can go to those staking the maple token because we did introduce earlier in the year around May XMPL which is staking the maple token and then it was receiving a portion of a stab fees. So you could either use that portion of interest carry to fund ongoing development and this would push out the need for any further raises, particularly where raises would be on worse terms in the current market or it can, as we hit a more mature state, could be distributed to the XMPL stakers through a buy and distribute of the mechanism of the NPL token.
00:43:27.104 - 00:43:32.524, Speaker C: Definitely. And for this v two, is this on the horizon or how far away are we talking about?
00:43:33.784 - 00:43:51.574, Speaker D: It's. Yeah, targeted before the end of the year. We've just gone through our OKR setting process for the quarter and so the goal will be to have an audit completed on v two by the end of this quarter and then roll it out in q four.
00:43:52.354 - 00:43:53.930, Speaker C: Got it. That's definitely exciting.
00:43:54.002 - 00:44:34.014, Speaker D: But I think having that fee capture mechanism is important for a scalable protocol. If you're going to continue expand, you're going to have needs to. To continue development. And you know, and so adjusting those tokenomics so that it is going to the, you know, to the fees are going to the protocol treasury where they can then be used either for example, or for ongoing development is necessary. And I think a lot of projects probably over indexed on the tokenomics side rather than the product side. I think product drives token, product drive tokenomics. Tokenomics is not product.
00:44:35.234 - 00:45:11.144, Speaker C: Yeah, I absolutely agree. I always make this point that founders that focus way too much on the token usually means the product isn't doing too well. So absolutely agree with you there. And as we come to the final part of the interview, I'd love for you to kind of give us a sense of what's next for Maple. So obviously right now a lot of the activity on Maple is with kind of crypto native firms or maybe market making firms taking out loans. But to really expand Maple's user base by say 100 x in the next decade or so, what are the key markets that you have to hit or what are some markets that you're most excited about in terms of expanding maple into?
00:45:13.284 - 00:45:46.934, Speaker D: Yeah, and this is super important. So I'd say what we observed is that the market within crypto lending is relatively narrow at the moment. And so we have good product market fit amongst market makers and high frequency traders. Traders. But we're looking at other, other adjacent web3 industries we can go to, and this might be mining. And then where do we look to when we want to go beyond just pure crypto lending so that we can be more diversified and have more immunity to crypto market cycles. So we don't want everyone to go.
00:45:46.934 - 00:46:55.366, Speaker D: If there was lending to, say, real estate or to fintechs, then people wouldn't go risk off as soon as there's an event like three ac, because they'd look at the underlying borrowers in a pool and they'd say, okay, well, these are fintechs that are doing either payment processing or something else. So we're not concerned about like contagion risk within crypto there. So, you know, our ultimate goal, and this is how we see it getting to like 100 billion in future originations, is that maple is offering infrastructure which is just a structurally better way to run a lending business. It's like the shift from running a survey business on mail out paper surveys versus going to surveyMonkey. With the advent of the Internet, we think most traffic will move in this direction. And so in ten years time, a typical lending business. And it could be, you know, could be, you know, it could be a industrials company in the kind of the real world economy.
00:46:55.366 - 00:48:13.262, Speaker D: So let's say like caterpillar or something, we think that these businesses will move to borrowing and they will go where borrowing is lower cost and they will go where they can, where they can get the best experience and the greatest sense of certainty on, you know, being able to, to take down the right size or the right fit for their business. And we think that that is not with banks because we don't think they're competitively priced to serve the corporate market. I think the other private credit providers at the moment are typically structuring in warrants. And because they don't have the technology to scale their businesses, like Fortress group and these types of players, they are forced to look at more esoteric type of credit and more complex deal structuring. I think we have the technology so that we can offer simpler private credit and therefore start to cater to the broader corporate sector of the US as well as the world. And this infrastructure that we're providing will eat and replace the kind of the conventional banking infrastructure in terms of how loans are managed, dispersed and repayments are collected. So I don't view it as us being tied solely to the crypto sector.
00:48:13.262 - 00:48:18.714, Speaker D: I think this technology will become the de facto way in which financial transactions are processed.
00:48:20.734 - 00:48:42.734, Speaker C: Absolutely. And this is such an exciting vision. And I do think this is the way forward for DeFi. We have to move beyond just the crypto native capital and expand to kind of real, quote unquote real credit. And this is one of the more exciting projects out there. So Sid, thank you so much for taking the time to come on the show. For people who want to keep up to date with v two and what's going on next, what are the best channels for them to do this?
00:48:44.154 - 00:49:14.374, Speaker D: I think we're definitely most active on our Twitter account. So aple finance, I'm generally retweeting most of the stuff that Maple puts out and then we try and run a monthly community call as well. So if you follow us on Twitter or you're in the discord, you'll see that. But yeah, definitely a plefinance on Twitter is kind of the best place to go. Otherwise, head to the website Maple Finance and we have a contact us page as well as our news updates.
00:49:15.154 - 00:49:18.574, Speaker C: Absolutely. Well, thank you so much for coming on, Sid. This is really fun.
00:49:19.154 - 00:49:20.894, Speaker D: Awesome. Thanks Jason. Cheers.
00:49:22.034 - 00:49:56.110, Speaker B: Alright, that's it for this week's episode of the Blockchain podcast. So thank you so much for tuning in. If you enjoyed this episode, please make sure to subscribe on your favorite apps. And in case you didn't know, this is interview is also available as a video on YouTube. And if you tag the blockcrunch on Twitter this week and tell us what you liked about this episode, I'll be sure to respond to you as well. Now if you'd like to go even deeper, we have a vip tier where every week or so we write an in depth research brief or investment memo on a project and we'll have exclusive AMA's with myself where I answer all your questions as well. Now, we already have analysts from some of the top funds and companies in crypto as subscribers.
00:49:56.110 - 00:50:04.332, Speaker B: So if you're serious about getting an edge in crypto, head on over to theBlockhunch.com VIp to learn more. And once again, thanks for supporting the.
00:50:04.348 - 00:50:05.324, Speaker D: Show and I'll see you next week.
