00:00:12.440 - 00:00:45.176, Speaker A: Okay, thanks. Okay, thanks a lot. For seven or eight minutes, which we have now. A couple of days ago we were discussing privacy. Two days ago we were discussing some really technical stuff over here. And today I'm here regarding the using of web3, whatever we create in the web3 ecosystem for, let's say, the traditional world of the NGO's and npos. This project is called non fungible brain.
00:00:45.176 - 00:01:45.948, Speaker A: We have been running this project for, I don't know, almost two or three years now, which was rather in some sort of the preparation stage. Why the non fungible brain? The reason is that it's really related to brains as such and where we will talk about the Alzheimer's disease. Why can I talk about this? Is that I'm one of the initiators of this project. That's one thing. The other thing is that I have really close ties to the telemedical field or medical field, let's say, researchers there, because I was heavily involved in the telemedicine, around two thousands at that time. We were doing at the time, like real time video transmissions of the procedure, of the procedures all around the globe. We are starting to use the Internet at the time to use those video conferencing capabilities and streaming also.
00:01:45.948 - 00:02:51.944, Speaker A: So it was way behind, way before the COVID and way before what we are used to use right now. So I always believe that we could use, or we can use the technology which is there, the cutting edge technology, and to introduce it into the fields which are, I would say conservative, but we need to start introducing it early enough in order to get the adaptation. And that's why we came up with the idea of the non fungible brain. It is related to brains as the Alzheimer's disease is also related to brains. It has the web3 and the Alzheimer has two same, I would say, aspects or factors. And that's the global phenomenon with web3 and with blockchain, we are always talking about something that should be decentralized all around the globe, ideally in all the countries, all the continents. The fact about Alzheimer's disease is that it's, it is already, I don't want to say decentralized, but it's like everywhere, it's happening in every part of the world.
00:02:51.944 - 00:03:54.476, Speaker A: And so it has a lot of similarities in the sense there are some other similarities which were mentioned to me by Doctor Hort. He is one of the initiators of this project and he's neurologist and he's heavily, from the research point of view, involved in Alzheimer's disease. He's one of the top professors and doctors in this country regarding this. And he mentioned that actually he sees the human brain as decentralized as the blockchain is that there are like, as you can see here on the slide, there are 100 billion neurons and. And 1000 trillion synapses within the brain where actually those, they do not have like immediate, like peer to peer. All the synopsis to all the neurons, to all the neurons connections, they have to go through the nodes, let's say. And then there is like a troubling aspect.
00:03:54.476 - 00:04:33.196, Speaker A: So he sees that very similar to how the blockchain works, where we have the nodes of the computers, where physically they do not meet. The other similarity is that we have the blockchain. The blockchain has its heartbeat, let's say, in the EVM space. We are talking about the 12 seconds for every block. In some other chains or L2s, we can talk about the other tendency, but the similarity here is that Alzheimer's disease is like, every 3 seconds there is a new case of dementia. That's what the Alzheimer's disease is about. It's about dementia that develops every 3 seconds.
00:04:33.196 - 00:05:30.582, Speaker A: So it's like there's also some sort of a clock which is ticking in the global state. So that's since we saw these similarities, we created this initiative that tries to leverage the blockchain technology and also the visual arts. Because the visual arts are storytellers, right? And we saw that in the Alzheimer's disease, there are a lot of, like, emotions. There are many stories there, and we were able to capture those trace. And what we want to bring is some authentic views on those real situations that are happening with the Alzheimer's cases. So we try to onboard the artists as well as the storytellers and to raise the awareness about Alzheimer's disease and potential funding. I have, like two minutes, one experience, which you have through all those years where we were running this project.
00:05:30.582 - 00:06:24.686, Speaker A: And it is that there is like a huge difference between the web3 and the crypto space, and actually those traditional non governmental npos. And that is that the web3 space is heavily volatile. But as you can see here on the graph, that's what we typically know, right? Or the digits know that, you know, the green and red lines there. So it's highly volatile. But this dynamic is expressed everywhere, I mean, within the project, within the activities, within the initiative. So one month you are doing something else, the other month we are doing something else and focusing somewhere else, basically, while on the traditional non governmental and nonprofit world. This is way more conservative.
00:06:24.686 - 00:07:06.794, Speaker A: That's that line which is going there. So there's a clash between those mindsets, I would say, and those attitudes and approaches. And this is the hard part. That's where actually we are trying to somehow work with the non fungible brain project to be able to merge these activities, to find the synergies and to find what's their best from one word and what can be used in the other world. This is very hard part. So if you ever try to do that, believe me, you will be burned by this part. What we do, or how we envision, is that we have some patience, experience.
00:07:06.794 - 00:08:01.086, Speaker A: That's what we are able to capture. Already. We have already onboarded some few artists, but we are still looking for more and more artists, especially those which are related to nfts or to web3 space and such. Then we are trying to capture those stories, the authentic stories, into some artwork that could be hybrid only NFT, or hybrid like both NFT and physical in different ways. Then there are the acquisitions, and then we have the audience engagement of those acquisitions. And then overall, it's facilitated by those, by the non fungible brain. We can call it network, but it's more like the initiative, which then tries to fund the projects regarding the research and care that has the implication on the patient's experience.
00:08:01.086 - 00:08:24.174, Speaker A: So this is some sort of loop which you are trying to facilitate. We see that in the triangle, like, we really like the triangles right in the outer space. So the triangle is that in between. In the middle is the patient. At the top is the doctor or the expertise. And then we have an artist that seeks for the higher sense. That's really the thing for the artists.
00:08:24.174 - 00:08:55.574, Speaker A: And then we have some organizations. Those can be daos, those can be literary institutions or something that seeks for exposure and engagement of something which is real. So it's not fake, it's authentic, it's real. That's what we are trying to find out here and provide. And at the end, I would like to say that non fungible brain needs your help. It's actually backed up by the Alzheimer National Fund. There is the DVRG collective as part of the artist groups.
00:08:55.574 - 00:09:09.954, Speaker A: And, yeah, we need any one of you, because this project is really trying to find out how to go into the web3 space and the market and so on, and not to be easy pump and dump scheme, but really to have some meaning. Thank you.
