00:00:00.090 - 00:00:42.780, Speaker A: Everyone, thanks for joining us today for this last talk today. And we're ending with a great session with the NFT Protocol team. We have Joseph Fiskela and John Story. Sorry if I'm sabotaging your name with my French accent and yeah, I mean everyone, if you want to ask any question, please feel free to ask in the chat here on Zoom or in the YouTube channel. And you will be able to find any further conversation in the sponsor channel on Discord. If you still have questions after this 1 hour with the team, I let you take it over.
00:00:43.470 - 00:00:57.930, Speaker B: Thanks. Hi. Hope everyone can hear me. Just okay. I'm Joseph from NFT Protocol. I'm here with John and my colleague and we are developing a few products on top of NFTs. Our website is nft.org.
00:00:57.930 - 00:02:01.858, Speaker B: John's going to be walking through it in a little bit on a screen share, but I just wanted to give a little background on myself. I'll let John do his intro and then we'll do a little bit of intro on Nft.org. So I've been in the space since about 2012, was mining bitcoins and litecoins with solar power energy. Got really involved in the development community back in the day on Bitcoin Talk, helped out with some altcoins and programming in the bitcoin space. I've been a part of the New York City bitcoin community since the very, very beginning, which is actually well, back in the day it was the biggest meetup group in the world when meetup groups were still possible. And that's just kind of like the beginning of the story. I've been working in the space since then, just full time, and came across Block Party, which was originally a NFT for Ticketing Company, and Block Party kind of focused more directly on NFTs for Art and began creating a marketplace for NFTs early last year.
00:02:01.858 - 00:02:29.180, Speaker B: And now NFTs are much larger, like the Market's much bigger. And we're able to make something like a Dex on top of an EVM chain, which we're going to be using Ethereum, and we're going to expand to Binance, probably The Hubi Eco chain, Phantom, as well as other chains that are not EVM based, like Flow and Cosmos. So we have a lot going on. I'm not going to go too deep into details. I'll let John introduce himself, then we take it from there.
00:02:29.550 - 00:03:48.102, Speaker C: Sweet, thank you. Hi, guys. Yeah, kind of getting into the space. I first got into it from a friend in 2013, but didn't really start coding in it until about 2016 when I learned about Ethereum and got really interested in the Smart Contracts and this idea of code as law and a lot of the work around organizing groups of people and the ideas around Dows really kind of brought me into the space. And at that time I was a web developer working just at an ecommerce sort of a platform and messaged a whole bunch of people in the space and found my way working with Consensus back in the day, working on a few different products for accounting and then for tokenizing real estate stuff. Anyways, I just been working in the space and yeah, took a little break, a little personal break a while ago and wanted to get back in and was really intrigued by, like Joseph was talking about the work that Blockparty been doing, their vision with Nft.org and the protocol, basically everything.
00:03:48.102 - 00:04:10.140, Speaker C: He's been talking about expanding to other chains and spreading just a decentralized marketplace, essentially, for these NFTs. It aligns very well with my motivations in the space. So very grateful and excited to be working on these tools and these products.
00:04:12.370 - 00:04:24.500, Speaker B: Awesome. Thanks, John. Actually I think your screen is set up for screen sharing, so maybe we can go through the Nft.org website and take a look at some of the products that we're building.
00:04:25.190 - 00:04:27.540, Speaker C: Okay, yeah, would that be.
00:04:29.510 - 00:04:37.860, Speaker B: Sorry, my computer is not set up for screen sharing right now. Okay, perfect, thank you.
00:04:39.530 - 00:04:44.118, Speaker C: Will you just direct me where you would like me to go to and I can yeah, let's do it that way.
00:04:44.204 - 00:05:20.306, Speaker B: That seems fine. Perfect. Cool. So this is our site, Nft.org and let's go to Docs, check out some of the stuff we've got going on. So basically I'm not going to read anything off, but what I'd like to describe here is the fact that we have voting, we have a swap platform that's launching soon and we have an index and staking kind of program. So the first thing that I like to talk about is actually the voting platform.
00:05:20.306 - 00:06:42.598, Speaker B: So if you're familiar with Snapshot Page, this is a off chain voting mechanism that everyone uses in the crypto space, kind of in line with John was talking about earlier, where you have a snapshot of all token holders and they can vote on specific initiatives that they want the development team to work on. And a lot of these initiatives are proposed by community members and then voted on by hundreds of different people who own NFT protocol tokens. And the reason for this is that we want the network to be completely decentralized. And even though Block Party is the lead developer and the issuer of the NFT protocol token, eventually the treasury and everything inside the treasury and all of the decision making should be completely decentralized in a way that the protocol perpetrates itself and lives on as an NFT enhancement protocol on top of EVM and other blockchain chains. So one way to do that, and pretty much the best way to do that is to organize decision making into some sort of voting mechanism where by owning certain amount of tokens gives you a certain amount of votes. You can even stake your tokens to have a larger percentage of a vote or to boost your voting power. Although that isn't live yet on our protocol, it's something that other decentralized protocols like curve are using.
00:06:42.598 - 00:07:52.562, Speaker B: We think that's extremely important. So as far as what NFT protocol is, this is really the base layer of what we're trying to do. We're trying to create something that perpetuates itself is a true protocol in the way that it just lives on as a piece of tech and doesn't have a centralized point of failure, such that everything is completely decentralized. All the decision making is decentralized. And that's really why NFTs themselves are valuable, because you have a thing that represents a single item or like, a group of items that isn't fungible, but it's still tradable as an ERC 20 or like a bitcoin is tradable, and you have all the decentralized properties of that permissionless, trade and the security that comes with the ether, whatever blockchain it's on. So, in line with those philosophies, we've built NFC protocol to live on as something like a thing that can exist alongside NFTs and really make sure that they perpetuate the same use cases and the same philosophy that the ERC 721 standard was released with. So we've done a number of proposals before.
00:07:52.562 - 00:08:29.786, Speaker B: Actually, the original Staking contract was written based on a community proposal. So this is just one way that we're making the community more involved in NFT protocol, but also making sure that there's no central point of failure because NFTs themselves are owned on the chain. So we want to keep in line with that. So that's our voting process and how we plan to be decentralized. If you could please go back to let's talk a little bit about our Dex. So one of the things that we want to do with NFT protocol is create a fully featured Dex. And DEXes exist, like OpenSea and Rarible.
00:08:29.786 - 00:09:36.946, Speaker B: Technically, they're web3 apps. You can log in, they're decentralized in the way that you can trade with them, and they use the EVM, they use the Ethereum network to actually facilitate those trades. But what we want to do is create something that's more philosophically aligned with how a Web Three application for NFTs and NFT trades should look. And what I mean by look is not only how the experience feels when you're using it as a user, but how the architecture is created such that there's no central point of failure and that there isn't any central control over the list of NFTs that you see or the trades that happen. So one of the really easy wins that we've added, and no one has really been looking at, is OTC trading. If you're part of the NFT community, you might see like ten to 15 NFT channels on your telegram pop up every day with thousands of different messages. And these are, for the most part, people trading collectibles and trading art and discovering art, discovering content that they like to consume that's being produced as NFTs.
00:09:36.946 - 00:10:08.634, Speaker B: And this is just increasing, increasing. So one of the things that we're doing is facilitating these OTC trades. If you look at a lot of those Telegram channels, people will buy an NFT and then they'll DM each other and trade with it. But that has the problem of who trades first. Right. If I'm sending one ETH to somebody to buy a piece of art, either I have to send the ETH first or they have to send the NFT first and then one of us can disappear. And that's a problem that we can solve with crypto and in fact has been solved for ERTC 20 to ERC 20 trades with AirSwap.
00:10:08.634 - 00:10:52.874, Speaker B: So what we're doing with the NFT decks on Nft.org is making an OTC channel where you can have a private trade between yourself and other person. And that's done with using an Allow list. So you can as a trader, create a trade, an order and send that to somebody, put them on the Allow list and then you'll be able to trade with them privately. So in the alternative scenario where you're using Wearable or something like that, you'd have to post your NFT publicly and then anyone with one ETH would be able to buy it. Whereas in our case, you have a private trade, you can send them a link directly to the trade and then they'll be able to take it from there without anyone else having authorization to buy it from you. So we're facilitating the need for these OTC trades that are happening on Telegram.
00:10:52.874 - 00:11:41.514, Speaker B: They're happening in different areas of chat and we're basically creating a Dex that allows the use of that. I see a question came through on Zoom. When you are trading, does it do it off change? So there isn't the same level of gas as the ETH network. So we're actually going to be deploying our decks on three primary networks, maybe four, that are EVM based. And the three that I would like to start with and we think are the easiest wins are Ethereum, Binance Smart Chain and Phantom Network. So, as you know, Phantom network and Binance smart chain are EVM compatible. So it's very easy to deploy code on Ethereum and then also deploy it to Finance and Phantom.
00:11:41.514 - 00:12:49.050, Speaker B: And actually about 12 hours ago, Andre, the creator of Urine, he released a documentation on how to get cross chain trades between Finance Smart Chain and Ethereum and Phantom Network going on MultiChain XYZ, which is a yarn product. So we're going to be working with that product to make sure that yeah, you can pull up MultiChain XYZ actually, if you'd like. Thank you. So this is a Web Three app where you can transfer assets between different chains. So to answer the question about gas on the ETH network, if an NFT exists on the ETH network and you'd like it to be on a different network, these bridges that allow you to transfer swap assets between one chain to another, these will pretty soon facilitate NFT transfers. Yeah, the site is a little bit finicky if you're not logged in. But if you go to Tokens you can actually see that the Token list pops up with a bunch of different assets you can trade.
00:12:49.050 - 00:13:29.274, Speaker B: But in any case, you can trade any of these tokens from one chain to another. Actually, it looks like they added Huobi there. If you look at about halfway down with any swap, there's Ethereum, Huobi and Phantom for any It's Hubi's eco chain is something that we're looking at as well. So this is all to say that we want to expand as many L1s as possible. And beyond EVM chains, we're looking at Flow and Cosmos, which also have really low gas fees and are supporting NFTs. I think Flow is the biggest supporter of NFTs as far as L1s go. In fact, the whole chain is based on that.
00:13:29.274 - 00:14:24.594, Speaker B: So yeah, we're thinking a lot about gas and in fact in April there's going to be an Ethereum upgrade which actually increases gas costs. So if that gets through, the gas costs on Ethereum are actually going to go higher. So we're thinking about for our users that are collecting a large scale of collectibles that have a lower price point, it's going to make more sense to do it on the Hobi Eco chain or on Phantom for example, or on Binance Smart chain. The next question from YouTube was in DAOs I participated in community members can make proposals. In community, however, the team decides what gets put in Core for an official vote, which can be limiting. How do you balance team and community involvement? That's a good question. There's actually a proposal right now that we're probably going to decline because only one person voted and it's not really in the ethos of voting to just have one person vote with like a million coins.
00:14:24.594 - 00:15:33.314, Speaker B: So I think the community should come to some agreement and have some guidelines on what constitutes a valid vote. If one person votes yes with ten coins or with a million coins and no one else votes, is that really something the team should do? And I think this is a property of off chain voting. So you have all these snapshot page pages and you have these suggestions that a team should go through being part of a lot of these decentralized communities in the past. If you go against a community vote and there's backlash, your token value goes down, you lose confidence in the community. You're actually undermining the voting process if you go against what the community has voted for. And in the same vein, if someone tries to sneak in a twelve hour vote, like at midnight one night and they're the only person that votes yes and they try to point to like, hey, this initiative passed, well, you have to reasonably assume that that is something that is not really like a legitimate vote. So there has to be some human element to this and I think that's really why Dows are powerful because it's not just code as law.
00:15:33.314 - 00:16:15.438, Speaker B: It's like well you have to deal with the community, you have to make sure that the community supports the decisions that are being made and you could use the voting as a guideline. Now once that gets into on chain governance and people are voting to facilitate a chain with tokens, it becomes more important to set those standards that I talked about. So maybe you need like twelve different people to actually vote to cast a vote for it to be a valid vote. Plus you have different things like for example compound. The compound creators have a veto key and they can veto any vote that comes through no matter how many people voted yes on it. So there are different trade offs to implementing those features for voting that I think Dows are working on right now. And in my opinion, this dao concept is still extremely new.
00:16:15.438 - 00:17:15.250, Speaker B: And in fact, one of the things that we were going to talk about is another feature which is going to be Gallery Nft.org, which is going to be basically, when you find a piece of art, you can make it into an NFT and then sell the future option on that NFT becoming sold via the creators. You find the creator and find the authenticity that they created that piece of art and then give them the opportunity to sell it as an NFT. They might not know about it or they might not know that someone has already pre purchased it. And then the issue there is what if they say no, I don't want to have anything to do with like delete this. You need some Dow or some governance process to revert the transactions and also you need a governance process in the case that they say yes to authenticate that they're actually the creator of that NFT. So I think we're still really early in Dows and making sure that everything works in a decentralized way like decision making in a you know, we're kind of pioneers in that right now.
00:17:15.250 - 00:17:52.586, Speaker B: It's still a young concept but yeah, there's a lot of trade offs there depending on how you give power to people, how much voting has power based on tokens, what kind of veto rights others have and I think it's just something we're exploring and it's going to be bigger in the future. I have a lot to say about Dows but there's like three more questions here that I'd like to answer. So is it possible to mint off chain and then trade via NFT protocol onto the chain so I never to pay gas? Yes. Actually John, you want to take this one with block party? I know we've been working on minting. You're closer to that than yeah, we've.
00:17:52.618 - 00:19:05.080, Speaker C: Been working with these flexible minting structures so that people can mint not on one of these basically on a side chain or on a different chain, and then only when you want to do using Ethereum as essentially like the settlement layer or the source of truth. When you do want to make one of these jumps, I think that's what you're trying to get to. But at some point you will always have to pay gas when selling an NFT if you want it to reside on Ethereum or whatever chain you're using. Now, I feel like we've looked at different ZK roll ups and ideas for how we're going to make that fee lesser. But Joseph, you probably have opinions on that as well, but for right now, our main focus has been in spreading to as many as possible and making these bridges to EVMs and then letting users say, oh yeah, I want to be using this just on the binance smart chain or just on another chain. And it's kind of up to the end user and the projects that are involved to really drive. That is how I've been looking at it.
00:19:05.930 - 00:20:06.554, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. So we have a centralized platform called Block Party, and that would be like to answer Andrew's question, the off chain protocol where everything is minted originally, and then the user can choose to withdraw onto Ethereum or withdraw onto Flow or withdraw onto Binance smart chain, whatever we implement in the future. So in that way, you're not paying any gas costs that you wouldn't want to pay. So what that means is if you want to pay the Ethereum gas fee to withdraw your NFT onto Ethereum, then you can do that. If you don't want to do that, you can just keep it on the Block party system and resell it, or you can withdraw it to binance smart chain or some other layer one that we're integrated with. And I think John also touched a little bit onto L2. We are aggressively hiring for NFT protocol and recently we're in talks with hiring somebody who's been working at Immutable X, which is a L2 for NFTs, and we're looking at integrating that into the decks as well.
00:20:06.554 - 00:21:20.830, Speaker B: So we think that the NFT protocol decks will have these really chain specific and crypto native features. Whereas if you look at a lot of our competitors, it looks a lot like ebay or like a webshop that you would normally you know, they have one website that has their front end and it has the links to the latest pieces of work. But who decides what gets put on the front page, right? Who decides which of the items are like the hottest items, where is that information stored? And we like to think that they would be eventually decentralized in that Way. But we're going to take a decentralized first approach and make sure that the dex is as simple as possible to run on something like IPFS or run on something like Rweave or even see a skynet to give it a decentralized architecture from the very beginning, because we think that That's, like, the super important part of this. Yeah, I think to follow up on that question, does it work on Flow? Currently, we're looking at getting some cadence developers onboarded so that we can port over the decks to Flow. In fact, it shouldn't be too hard to get that running. We're just worrying about EVM chains at first because there's so many of them.
00:21:20.830 - 00:21:48.170, Speaker B: And then Flow will be something that we're looking at in the future. I think we have a full node running on Flow, don't we, as part of our thing? So yeah, we know them pretty well. Yeah. Thanks, Andrew. I'm happy to answer the question. So yeah, I think that's all for the questions for now. Can you go back to sharing your screen? I think it got cutting the decks and we were going through the new interface that you created.
00:21:48.170 - 00:22:28.280, Speaker B: Thanks. So John's created this really beautiful interface for swapping NFTs for ERC 20s or NFTs to ETH. And we think that it should look something like this, where instead of having a super big gallery of millions of different NFTs, you have one trade for what you're doing and it's as simple as possible and you just get to use the decks and get in and out and that's it. So we like to think of this as a very specialized tool for trading NFTs and giving as many features on top of that concept as possible. Oh, this is a live page. Did you want to try the live demo?
00:22:28.810 - 00:22:31.494, Speaker C: Yeah, if now is a decent time for that.
00:22:31.532 - 00:22:40.634, Speaker B: It's risky. Yeah, totally up to you. Live demos can go. But I think you were working on I'll let you take it because you were working on this this morning.
00:22:40.832 - 00:23:09.460, Speaker C: Yeah, this is a live demo and right now this isn't. I guess everybody that's on the call that you just bear with me for these types of things. We have basically some of these contracts and I'm going to be using one that we've deployed. We're actually running this on Rinkv also. And so this is something that's already been deployed. And let me make sure I have my.
00:23:15.050 - 00:23:19.814, Speaker B: This looks great. Is this a replacement for the multi page thing? Everything's on one page.
00:23:20.012 - 00:23:56.530, Speaker C: I just put them all on the same because I was having to jump around. Let me make sure that this guy so I'm checking right now to make sure that Token ID, that my current guy owns this. And so essentially I'm going to input in. So this first address, right, is the Token address and then the ID of the Token. I'm going to trade these right now. Don't have like Token Uris and information that go along with them. They're pretty bare bones tokens I've just been using to test and develop against.
00:23:56.530 - 00:24:12.700, Speaker C: So yeah, pardon that. But I'm going to trade it for Token number one, which is owned by another one of the accounts. So, yeah, when I create listing great. Let's see.
00:24:17.790 - 00:24:47.940, Speaker B: In the full running version of this, once we're totally live, you would send this URL to somebody and be like, hey, I created this listing and it would pop up with the images. I think what John said is that we didn't set any images for this test because it was just testing the functionality. But essentially it should show you like, hey, this is being swapped for this. And then you click Go and it works. So that's what we're building towards right now. And yeah, the interface should look something like that.
00:24:48.550 - 00:25:34.100, Speaker C: Yeah, I'll keep going through this. So this first pop up is to do the approval and then it starts. Basically it'll be pending for a while because this is going to be the approval for the Dex to be able to transfer your NFT on your behalf. Then after it's successful, we pop it up again. And now this second one is for the actual transaction listing. So when this happens, this will be to start the actual transaction. What it's doing right now is moving that token into the Escrow contract and then putting as a requirement to be able to get that out.
00:25:34.100 - 00:26:27.310, Speaker C: This second one, the output, what you're expecting to receive as kind of payment for that first one, then it gives you this link to this would be essentially the link that you get to share to whoever you're doing the OTC deal with. You would copy it. And of course, it won't be localhost. It'll be at the time, what we're actually using in production. But when you come here, it comes preloaded with the addresses that you're doing the swap for. And this will probably end up looking different to show a little bit more like, hey, this has already been created, but for right now, it's just like read only inputs. And if you were the creator of it, you actually have the power to cancel it, which will essentially void the contract and you'll receive your NFT back and the listing will be closed.
00:26:27.310 - 00:27:11.134, Speaker C: But right now, I'm going to transfer over the person that has or the accountant that has the second address is this first guy. So there to fulfill this listing, it's going to do the same. It's going to ask to do an approval. We're going to have to wait for that to mine in the future. I'd really like to get it where they've started to do like, approve alls. And I am slightly curious to hear from people if they think that's important to do right now. I'm manually always checking for the approval of that token and not necessarily trying to do like an approve everything and then check to see if it's been approved.
00:27:11.134 - 00:28:50.824, Speaker C: But that will save on gas fees of having to do a second transaction. If that very first ideologically you could get behind, is that really responsible to do an approval some people do when doing ERC 20s you'll approve for a million tokens even though you're only planning to do ten or 20, just so that the DAP doesn't have to continually ask you for your approval to transfer things. But there's the other side of me that really likes the safety involved or just that process of okay, I know it's always going to approve before and it's a little bit more, I guess, like standard. Anyways, so we are going to confirm this and this is going to fulfill the transaction and this enables the Dex to transfer on your behalf the NFT. And so what happened is that one got put into the escrow and then when it gets fulfilled, we approve the Dex to move this one back to the original owner and then the Dex transfers that first one back to the other person. And just like that you have a successfully filled trade and we can verify it by going to the actual contract and making sure that the Dex isn't the owner anymore of any of the tokens. They should be owner of zero tokens and the owners of one and two have swapped, let's see, which is now this guy now has one when before he owned the other one.
00:28:50.824 - 00:29:27.028, Speaker C: And we're working a little bit. This has been an interesting page. Starting to go through the actual listings and create somewhat of a record of what's going on. This definitely needs help right now. These aren't accurately displaying, but this will be a useful place to be able to start creating indexes or start creating lists of essentially like a transaction log of what happens on the decks. So this is kind of what we've been up to.
00:29:27.194 - 00:29:47.336, Speaker B: Very cool. If anyone's ever used tornado cash, they also have that like previous transactions that go through. Pretty cool to actually see that happening. Thank you for the demo, John. That's actually great. Worked well and yeah, I can't wait to get those images popping up. Like if we start doing demo yeah.
00:29:47.438 - 00:29:57.340, Speaker C: And we could have I mean, if we go to something, if somebody even wants to it does recognize other like if I go to OpenSea or something.
00:29:57.410 - 00:30:01.500, Speaker B: Where'S my little so if you put in the contract.
00:30:03.600 - 00:30:09.970, Speaker C: Is there one in the DM? Let's see if somebody has something that's on main net.
00:30:10.660 - 00:30:34.200, Speaker B: I don't think so. I think you can find one though. While you're finding it. I'm going to answer these questions in zoom. So on the Dex topic, could you set up a private trade where someone trades more than one NFT for one of higher value? The answer is yes. So we started very simply with one NFT to ERC, 21 NFT to one NFT. But we're looking to expand to 1155.
00:30:34.200 - 00:31:16.048, Speaker B: And ERC, 1155 is a standard for trading collections. So once we have collections logic involved, we can also add multiple single, ERC, 720 ones, which are just one thing. So yeah. Those two upgrades will come at the same time. But yes, it is possible to do that and it's on our feature list. And then there's another question. When doing an NFT swap, when doing the NFT swap, is there a way to check whether the asset of the NFT is decentralized? I've been worried about if they have it in an AWS URL for, et cetera, then they can take an image down and have a useless NFT.
00:31:16.048 - 00:32:59.770, Speaker B: Yeah. So there are two concepts that this touches on. The first is that what are you actually buying when you buy an NFT, right? Are you buying the image file? Are you buying the assurance that it's going to be online forever? And I think that this comes down to information asymmetry, which means that the consumer has to either be guaranteed or they have to know the guarantees of the system. So, for example, if the creator of the NFT guarantees that that URL will live forever, then they either have to do that work themselves to make sure that the AWS bill is paid, or they have to use a system that is paid to do that work, which, for example, would be something like Rweave or IPFS with Filecoin or Cskinet. So the best way to check would be to actually go to the token metadata on a block explorer like Etherscan or anywhere that you can see that metadata, like I think on OpenSea or Rarible, you might be able to find that and check to see where it's hosted. So if you don't want to buy an NFT that has its data host on Amazon, then you just reject any NFTs that have their data Uris pointing to an AWS URL. And then the second part of that question is, is it useful or useless that you bought an NFT that the image doesn't resolve? Well, maybe you saved the image when you bought it and really all you want from that NFT purchase is to have the image saved on your local computer and then you also have the autograph of the creator sending it to you.
00:32:59.770 - 00:33:39.260, Speaker B: So that's really what a lot of people are buying NFTs for. They have that personal connection with the creator that, you know, if I get a signed copy of, let's say, boxing gloves from Rocky, right, then really I'm paying for the autograph. I'm not paying for the boxing gloves. It's probably a mass produced pair of boxing gloves. But those pairs of boxing gloves, they were signed by Sylvester Stallone. So to me it's valuable because it has the autograph. And you can think of the digital signature on the blockchain as the autograph that gives you the authenticity that it was produced by the creator.
00:33:39.260 - 00:34:13.192, Speaker B: That is what's so yeah. Is it actually useless if an AWS URL goes down? Maybe it depends on what you're buying the NFT for, but like I said, you can check to see if it's decentralized or not. Based on that data Uri. And there are multiple ways to find that I believe OpenSea. Even our know, like John was showing the listings page. You can drill into the NFT and see exactly where the data is hosted for it. But for the most part, I think people are buying that chain of authenticity that says that this NFT actually came from the creator.
00:34:13.192 - 00:34:46.760, Speaker B: And I have that digital autograph. So, yeah, good question. It's pretty deep concept. There's even the concept of authors being able to change the Uri. So if the image is popping up as like a cat image and then it changes to a picture of a rug, then is that considered a scam? Right? Because you actually bought the thing. But part of the code was that it could be changed. So there's a lot of different things that go into what makes an NFT useless or what makes it into something that could be changed.
00:34:46.760 - 00:35:15.532, Speaker B: It could be that the website goes down. It could be that the data itself is changeable by the creator. Anything like that could be programmed into the contract. So you have to be careful. And the only really way to know that is to either adhere to a standard and make sure that the standard is being followed or to check it yourself. So, yeah, it's a little bit of like the classic trust versus verify scenario. It's a pretty well known trade off.
00:35:15.532 - 00:35:18.244, Speaker B: Okay, so there's another question here. Sorry, go ahead.
00:35:18.282 - 00:36:13.830, Speaker C: Yeah, I was going to say, did we touch on doing multiple trades of multiple cards? Because I guess I wanted to touch briefly on that because we have been thinking about adding in 1155 support as definitely on the roadmap. And I think that that will be really powerful to be able to have that functionality of doing like kind of batch and multiple cards. And there are some other ways to do it that immediately come to mind around wrapping and creating these. There's been a little bit of work in the space around creating baskets of NFTs and say, putting them all into something and then being able to say, okay, yeah, we're going to trade this for this kind of like sets, but it's definitely on our mind of how we're going to do multi collectible swaps as well.
00:36:14.680 - 00:36:46.270, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. I think the 1155 upgrade will come along with trading multiple your C 720 ones. I see another question here. Would it be possible to set up a party session where a bunch of people trade cards between each other? Would it be possible to make it like chain trades cards in NFTs? That's a cool idea. I hadn't thought about that. Maybe you have a group OTC session where it's like three or four people are authorized to trade between each other and then they can construct like, well, two people will trade this for the other three people's thing. That'd be kind of cool.
00:36:46.270 - 00:37:10.730, Speaker B: Haven't thought about that, but it's definitely possible. And I think that to simulate the real life. I think what you're getting at is when you go to a real life meetup, when you're trading cards and you're playing card games, you often have these groups where people are trading together. I think it would be cool to make that into a blockchain based system where you can do the same type of trade you would do in real life at one of those events. That's a good idea. I like that.
00:37:12.140 - 00:38:05.640, Speaker C: It reminds me of like playing Monopoly where everybody has the different trades and you're all trying to get your monopoly, but you need this person to trade with this person in order for them to be happy, to then be able to trade this card to you. And I could see that being a really cool you'd essentially start giving out all these approvals of potential trades that are worthwhile. And what would be interesting is to see when one of them hits, it would trigger this chain and it would close other people's trades that then wouldn't be able you could give multiple approvals to different people to be like, hey, if you can figure out how to get me this card, I would give you this one. Or if you can figure out how to give me this NFT, like anybody who can get me a CyberPuck NFT can have access to any of these NFTs and so you can start doing conditional chain A. That is a cool idea. Just wanted to touch on that.
00:38:05.710 - 00:38:08.120, Speaker B: I used to sell people insurance in Monopoly.
00:38:10.060 - 00:38:11.950, Speaker C: How did that work? What was that?
00:38:12.320 - 00:38:19.628, Speaker B: It was interesting. Just take their Pasco money and then if they had to pay luxury tax, I'd pay it for them.
00:38:19.794 - 00:38:20.990, Speaker C: Oh, that's cool.
00:38:22.080 - 00:39:10.924, Speaker B: There's another question here. You mentioned it being changed from a cat to a rug, but if it gets changed to something, let's say not safe for work, that's something you absolutely can't want to happen. So is there some sort of security right now? I think people don't realize this, but ethereum standards are very loose. You really only just have to implement the few functions that are in the interface and that is it. So to make that into English, an NFT is valid as long as it can be traded? Pretty much. And it isn't the case that the URL for the image file has to be the same. So what you would have to do to prevent something like not say for work content being posted, you'd have to do one of two things.
00:39:10.924 - 00:39:54.116, Speaker B: You either have let any NFT through to your website, but have a curation standard where people are employed to curate the front end so that those unsavory images are not displayed. Or you create a new standard that mandates that those image links are not changed. And you would only accept NFTs that can't be changed onto your decks or onto your website. Both are possible. I think the first one's a little bit harder to do, but the second one is a little bit more limiting because you wouldn't be able to accept most of the NFTs contracts that exist today. Allow that change to happen. The magic card trade.
00:39:54.116 - 00:40:22.564, Speaker B: That's exactly right. Hey, by the way, like we had mentioned in our keynote, there is a 1000 NFT prize for the best idea for the decks. I think that trading card idea is winning right now. So if anyone else has a good idea that they think is something that we could do with the decks that others don't have, please let us know. You're now in the running for 1000 NFT protocol tokens. Yeah.
00:40:22.602 - 00:41:12.236, Speaker C: And touching on Andrew's question of could you put the contracts in escrow so during the time limit, no one could do anything with their NFTs while they wait for individual peoples for trades to go through. That is exactly how the Dex is working. So there's not necessarily a time limit, which that would be an interesting functionality to add of it going through. But really at the end of the day, I think we would want the issuer of that listing would have to withdraw anyways. We probably want to do auto transfer for them. It would just be up to them to come back and cancel the listing and then they would then receive their NFT back into their possession. And I'll go on this other one.
00:41:12.236 - 00:42:05.592, Speaker C: It says you mentioned something like a marketplace. Would it be possible to view someone's collection and make a trade request? We have a collector that we've been talking with that actually really liked that functionality of being able to view somebody's and offer trades. So yes, you can definitely offer them. It hasn't been on our immediate roadmap as we were talking about with Joseph. We're interested in OTC, but it's definitely come up in conversations of having kind of like a user profile and you can see different collectors and be able to you would essentially create the trade the other way around. So you would offer what you wanted or what you had to say, hey, I'll trade you this for this. And then you would probably have to contact them directly with it being fully decentralized.
00:42:05.592 - 00:42:33.396, Speaker C: There is a little bit of how these people get contacted, right? Like how do you contact an address to tell them somebody wants to purchase something from you or what Joseph was talking about earlier. If somebody finds like a piece of art and say, hey, I want to do this, how do you find know a creator or somebody? That brings up other interesting questions, but very worthwhile to think through.
00:42:33.498 - 00:43:48.524, Speaker B: Yeah, I think actually OpenSea has that functionality where it tells you if someone's offering a certain amount of ETH for your item. So we probably want to take those features and add on top of them. So I think it is possible to do that. Any thoughts for governance as NFTs catch on with the inverse problem with onchain metadata? That is, I mean, this is something that DC has been struggling with, right, where their artists are creating NFTs and they're selling them for absurd amounts, and then it's actually contractually DC Comics like intellectual property. And I'm not familiar with the Zack Schneider job, but I'm assuming you're talking about this issue where someone who's technically the illustrator of a comic but doesn't own all the IP started selling these things and proliferating this data and just making money off of it. And DC got mad about it, right? And they released a statement, and they were like, Stop doing this. So I think it's good.
00:43:48.524 - 00:44:56.340, Speaker B: It forces the issue. It's sort of like Bitcoin being accepted by financial institutions, right? Where do you draw the line when you have this new concept of who can trade what? And the restrictions of what can be traded are lifted? People are going to start trading with each other, and it's up to, I guess, really just the community to decide what's right and what's not. And if contractually, there's some obligation for these artists to not do these things, then it'll be litigated. And if it becomes too overwhelming of an uphill battle for, let's say, DC to fight against all their artists selling because actually know that Marvel does not have the same restrictions. So artists that work for Marvel can do one off sales of, like, Wolverine and stuff. And it's totally no, there's actually a stated allowance for them to do know. Maybe people will just start working for Marvel more than they work for DC's, and artists will stop working for DC.
00:44:56.340 - 00:45:57.156, Speaker B: I think that's sort of like a problem that's solved by, I guess, the market, right? The free market. But really, it's just what do we accept as a society to be valid or to be fair for the people that work for these big companies? And I think giving people the facility to trade and actually run into these issues head on is a good thing. So, yeah, I think it is sort of a problem right, with metadata and copyrighted data and something that we're trying to solve with a Dow where we have auditors and speculators working together to try to find the price for something that is identified but hasn't been verified yet. And then you have certain amount of those Dow votes go to authenticators who are, like, appraisers and things like that. So, yeah, it's pretty far in the future, but I think as these issues get kind of weighted through, in the meantime, we'll figure out how to get through it. If the assets were sorry, go ahead.
00:45:57.338 - 00:46:58.580, Speaker C: I was going to add to that one of the things that I really like about, I guess, the crypto space is this do your own research, or you have a lot of power. You hold the power as the consumer and as the user. And so even going back to some of those questions about like, oh, is the URL mutable? Can they go back and change it? It's like up to the consumer to say I'm not going to buy that NFT because it doesn't conform to what I want it to be. And I kind of feel like the same thing with these of, hey, if that's something, nobody can stop somebody from minting something. Like I could go in and take a Mona Lisa picture or try to tokenize all of banksy's things or go in and nothing can stop somebody from doing that. It's up to the consumer to say, oh, but I'm not going to buy it because I don't necessarily maybe agree with the way that it was done. And to a certain extent almost circling back to the off chain proposals that we were talking through with the legal stuff.
00:46:58.580 - 00:47:43.210, Speaker C: It's like the technology, I kind of feel like technology is never going to be able to solve all of humans problems. Humans are still going to always be able to use any technology for two things, right? You create a gun and a bullet and it's going to be used by all the different sides that want to be able to use those things. And so there will continue to be legislation and continue to be problems that humans have to solve rather than the technology solving. I mean, we can build in standards and things, but that's part of, I think the beauty of the technology platforms is it's kind of open and then we as a society get to determine what we like to support and what we want to help push forward.
00:47:45.180 - 00:48:40.952, Speaker B: Yeah, I like that analogy. So gun can be used for a lot of things, right? You can sell it, buy some vegetables, feed your family, you can use it to rob a bank, it's up to you. So yeah, powerful tech has implications for society, I think that's the bottom line. And it's cool to be part of something building that follow up to the legal issues and the copyright. Just as a matter of our company being semi centralized with our block party centralized marketplace, we do have access to a lot of really expert copyright lawyers and just people that have been involved in looking at art law for a long time, for better, for worse. And they're giving us a lot of good advice on how to navigate that field in a way that decentralized network can be compatible with the law. And just having that insight is really valuable.
00:48:40.952 - 00:49:17.888, Speaker B: So just wanted to touch on that really quickly. And that's from our CEO Vlad. His connections are very strong in that space so it's pretty much sorry, I think my internet's unstable right now. But yeah, that's, that's an advantage that I think we have another question here is that if the assets were on IPFS, then there'd be no way to take them down. So I think there's a lot of misconceptions about IPFS. So I categorize the decentralized data layers into two different categories. There's the SLA category, which in tech terminology is a service level agreement.
00:49:17.888 - 00:50:27.212, Speaker B: So that's like, for example, I pay Amazon $120 a year and they get that money from me to provide a service that they guarantee for a year, right? And that's their business. So we actually have IPFS and Siacoin doing this SLA type business on chain and they're basically like, hey, pay us our native tokens and we'll promise to host this data for you for X amount of years or X amount of months. Or this is the amount of data you get for the amount of coins that you pay. So I think that's really cool because it's a blockchain based SLA which is divergent from a contractual SLA that you would get from Amazon that lives in the web two world. I like the blockchain based ones because they're decentralized, they have permissionless properties, they're more connected to the marketplace because those tokens are actually valued at what the value of the SLA is. So if you're valuing the IPFS network as a whole higher, then the price of filecoin goes up. Or if you value the skynet network higher than IPFS, then the skynet see a coin price goes up.
00:50:27.212 - 00:51:11.836, Speaker B: And then the problem with that though, is there isn't really a guarantee that all of your data will be there because it requires this ongoing payment. And the question becomes like, who's paying for that? Right? So you can build an NFT system where every trade a percentage of it goes back to IPFS in the form of filecoin. And using uniswap, it can just be part of the protocol that you pay. Percentage goes into uniswap, gets traded to filecoin, and then you have a smart contract that drops it right into the bucket and it says keep this file going. Right? And then it could perpetuate itself in the code forever. Haven't seen anyone doing that, by the way. That would be kind of a cool idea.
00:51:11.836 - 00:52:15.100, Speaker B: And then the second category outside of the SLA, data storage is something like Rweave or actually a network that I've worked on previously called FlorinCoin where you pay upfront for forever file storage. And that's more of a guarantee that things will be there down the line. So I think Rweave is probably the biggest name in that space. They get conflated a little bit and I mean it is at a high level a data storage network that's decentralized, but they are separate in the visions that they have and the use cases they have. So yeah, I would take a look at Rweave if you're thinking about something like data permanence versus IPFS, which is like lively data that's right now being accepted and being produced. And I think that probably IPFS and Rweave have a lot of overlap and maybe they'll eventually add the features that each other have and maybe they'll be one to one compatible down the line. But right now, that's the philosophy split.
00:52:15.100 - 00:52:47.188, Speaker B: And the way that I look at this is the Flow blockchain, which is Dapper Labs, like CryptoKitties blockchain. Every blockchain can facilitate all the features of every other blockchain. Right. There's no reason that Bitcoin can't have smart contracts, but really it's up to the community behind Bitcoin. A lot of them decided, we don't want smart contracts on Bitcoin, we want it just to be a dumb rock that transfers value. And you know what? That's great because when I want a dumb rock that transfers value, I'm going to use Bitcoin. But when I want something that's specific for NFTs, then I'll go to the Flow blockchain.
00:52:47.188 - 00:53:33.770, Speaker B: I mean, really, if you look at Flow versus Ethereum, they're both smart contract language blockchains that have the facility for these different types of trades. But everyone that's developing on Flow has this idea and this philosophy of perpetuate NFTs as much as possible. That's kind of like the whole point of it. When you go to Flow, you're going to get a wallet that facilitates NFTs better. You're going to get a community that's thinking about NFTs and what can be done with NFTs and you're going to get the whole community behind ideas that make NFT trades and things on top of NFTs possible. So, yeah, the difference between Arweave and IPFS there is like one of them is focusing more on providing the service that's like lively service, and the other one's more focused on a data storage and data permanence category. So that's just like how I look at that.
00:53:33.770 - 00:54:31.906, Speaker B: A lot of people don't know about the options there, but a lot of it is just keeping up with the development updates and the specific pitches that people are giving and actually the way that the code is written. I think philosophy and code is super important. So when it comes to Bitcoin versus Ethereum, or are we versus IPFS or Flow versus Cosmos, it's really important to think about how the community of developers and the support that they get from the different people that are involved and what direction they're going in. Yeah, exactly. So if you value your NFTs, you have to be sure that doesn't go offline. Yeah, I think it would be kind of embarrassing to show someone your NFT and it's just like a four or four link, right? Like, hey, I spent ten ETH on this and it's just a broken link. That would not be good.
00:54:31.906 - 00:54:59.526, Speaker B: So, yeah, I think that these networks have to think really hard about how to actually provide data permanence. And if Rweav becomes that standard, then yeah. And yes, you can have an IPFS link, actually. You can add multiple links. Right. So then it comes down to how does the display read those links? Like, does it try one, two, three? Or does it know to try one, two, three, or does it just go to the first one? It's an interesting problem. And, yeah, you can pin an IPFS uri on Rweave.
00:54:59.526 - 00:55:18.226, Speaker B: Wow, you just blew my mind. I didn't know that. Very cool. And yeah, I figured eventually that they'd have some overlap, right? So I haven't kept up with it too closely. But when you think about how to solve that problem, there's a lot of ways to look at this guy has a link to IPFS to Rweave.com. That's hilarious. So there you go.
00:55:18.226 - 00:55:33.670, Speaker B: Yeah. As we're talking about it, it already exists. I think that's awesome. It's good to see that they've thought of this, because it is an issue that people are having today. Cool. I'm going to check that out, actually. Give it a bookmark.
00:55:33.670 - 00:56:14.450, Speaker B: Thank you for that. Yeah, I think we're coming close to the end of the session here. I just wanted to make sure that everyone is aware that we are giving away 1000 NFT protocol tokens as a prize. We've got some ideas coming up here, like different types of trades that you can do. We can also think about how the Dow should be structured and yeah. If you guys want to follow up, send me your ETH address in Discord or in the Zoom Group chat. We can have, like, a collaboration of judges to see who gets that prize.
00:56:17.290 - 00:56:31.560, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you so much for the talk and the presentation. We have, like, two minutes left. Is there any more questions? That's the last call before we wrap this up.
00:56:32.010 - 00:56:53.402, Speaker B: I see one just came in. It would be cool to use the decks as a prize pool, like multiple parties. Place an NFT into a pool and a winner of a draw or an external game, like competitive match. Win the pool. That would be kind of know, actually. Chainlink has a Verifiable random number generator, so it could be like a weekly thing that we do an NFT lottery and then people put in. Like, you can stake an NFT to win more NFTs.
00:56:53.402 - 00:57:21.660, Speaker B: That'd be kind of cool. Something that we could use Chainlink for just as, like, a decentralized sort of lottery system that could promote a certain user's art. Let's say we have a creator that wants to promote their art, and we just be like, hey, win this lottery, you get this picture of a cat or something from this creator. Then everyone would place their NFTs into the lottery, and we would choose randomly based on the chain link oracle. That'd be kind of cool. I like that idea.
00:57:23.950 - 00:58:01.998, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, thanks, everyone. And yeah, please, the chat here will be erased, so if you have anything that you well, I'm not sure if it will follow up anywhere, so if you want to keep on chatting with the NFT protocol team, please go on the Discord Channel in the event. Discord Channel. So this is pretty much it. I think unless there's something else you guys want to add. Otherwise, I'll thank you very much for this beautiful talk and for all the questions that you guys contributed.
00:58:02.174 - 00:58:14.700, Speaker B: Yeah, I just wanted to say thanks, Catherine, for setting this up with ETH Global and just giving us this time to talk to the community. And thank you, everybody, for the suggestions and the feedback. It's been really great.
00:58:15.710 - 00:58:19.000, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you.
