00:00:00.240 - 00:00:22.554, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host the Anthony Sosano. And today's the 7 July 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So Sepolia merged successfully. Ah, it's so exciting, right? Like so very happy that it all went through. Well, I'm gonna spend probably, you know, half of today's episode talking about the superlia merge and just merge related things in general.
00:00:22.554 - 00:01:11.284, Speaker A: But basically thanks to everyone for watching the stream. If you kind of like watched it live or kind of re watched it, it was a really, really fun stream, a lot more I guess like organized then the Ropston stream because of the fact that we didn't have any kind of like issues with hitting TTD, because of the fact that the hash power was there. It was right on time basically of when it wanted, of when the accordebs wanted it to happen and it happened. And also suppolier is a permissioned testnet, which means that not anyone can just, sorry, the Beacon chain is a, is a permissions testnet, so not anyone can kind of like jump on. It's kind of like whitelisted and things like that. So it was a bit smoother of a kind of like transition there as well. But yeah, I mean the chain finalized like there was initially post merge, a few kind of like issues around about 25% to 30% of the network not proposing blocks.
00:01:11.284 - 00:01:34.060, Speaker A: And that turned out due to be due to a misconfiguration error, as usual with these things. What's funny that for the past few testnets it's really just been configuration errors. It hasn't been anything kind of like merge related. And they were fixed quite quickly. And then we're back up to, we're basically back at 95% participation now. 94%. Now the reason why it's not close to 100%, I mean one, it's a test net.
00:01:34.060 - 00:02:07.766, Speaker A: So you know, if you're kind of like on a test net, even in a permission testnet, you have less of incentive, much less of an incentive to keep your nodes online because there's no money on the line, right. It's just testnet ETH, whereas on Mainnet, you know, the validator participation is at 99.7%. So there's only 0.3% of validators that are offline. So obviously a very large kind of like chunk, chunk there. But, but essentially if you kind of look at, look at this now, 94.5% and the missing validators as well, rather than kind of like just the ones that, that are offline due to this just being a testnet.
00:02:07.766 - 00:02:43.420, Speaker A: There's also a bunch of keys to validators that were lost, I think, when this was spun up, which means that those validators are basically dead validators at this point, but they'll get kicked out eventually of kind of like the validator set there and then maybe we'll see this creep up to something like 90, 99% as well. So I do want to kind of like break down a little bit kind of what happened. There are a couple of threads here, one from Terrence who, who's one of the founders of prior labs here. So his summary was basically merge. It was a success. 25 35% of our validators went offline because of this misconfiguration issue. There was no client bug.
00:02:43.420 - 00:03:22.172, Speaker A: These hiccups will obviously not delay the merge. And this is what testnets are for, to basically show these kind of like edge cases that I guess like people don't kind of like account for. Now, the kind of like issue basically was with the configuration is that I think there was like a TTD override and kind of like some, some kind of like other things got to do with that, I think. No, no, I think it's only the TTD override for this particular testnet. There have been other configuration errors, but basically the TTD override kind of like happened. Because this is a testnet, this is probably not something that will be done on main net. So when you kind of like look at that sort of stuff, look at it from that perspective, this is really just a testnet thing.
00:03:22.172 - 00:03:56.062, Speaker A: So it's kind of funny how that works where we're finding these things on Testnet that aren't really going to be an issue on mainnet. Like we want to find things on Testnet that would be an issue on main, on, on main net. But we're not finding any of that because it seems at this point like we literally just going through the motions like the merge transition. You know, I think the core devs and researchers pretty much are happy with where it is today. They know what they're doing. We know we kind of like have it, have it down to like a nice exact science at this point. And there's only one more public testnet left, right? There's girly left, which I think should be scheduled on the, not the core dev call this Friday, but the core dev call after that.
00:03:56.062 - 00:04:22.088, Speaker A: So the one on the 21 July, that's when they'll schedule the, the girly testnet merge and then it's mainnet and then we're done, guys. Like that's how close we are right now. We have one more public testnet left, then we have main net. Now shadow forks will keep happening every week. Parry confirmed that last night on the stream. So that's all going, going well as well. There doesn't seem to be any issues with those things besides the configuration issues that always seem to kind of like pop up here.
00:04:22.088 - 00:04:57.848, Speaker A: But as I said, they're not merge related. And what I mean by merge related is that we're looking for kind of like something that goes wrong during the merge transition, like a consensus breaking bug or something with the clients breaking because they just weren't talking to each other due to some other kind of like merge related thing. But it's just been these configuration things which is obviously hugely positive. Now this brings me to one other thing that I want to talk about, which is timelines. I did mention in the Daily Wear discord yesterday that I've revised my timeline a bit here due to kind of like this configuration issue. Now as I said, it's not merge related. It's not something that is going that kind of like is related to the merge transition itself.
00:04:57.848 - 00:06:02.144, Speaker A: It's not something that would break the merge. But I think that my read at least is that core developers now want to give people even more time to make sure that their configurations are correct and that everything's up to date and that everything's kind of like smoothly are going to smoothly transition over. Because on Mainnet it's very different to the testnets. And there are things you can't test for on Mainnet, Ethereum that, sorry, on the, on testnets that exist on main Ethereum, one of those things is all the infrastructure that exists for Mainnet, Ethereum, all of the exchanges, the service services, all the middleware, everything that sits around Ethereum mainnet that just simply doesn't really exist for testnets and obviously the user side as well. And users actually kind of like interacting with the chain and using the chain and putting transactions on the chain. So there are just some things you can't test for even with the shadow forks, right? Like it's just there, the shadow folks don't have that infrastructure that the mainnet has and the infrastructure needs to be updated. Like if the infrastructure providers are running their own nodes and they don't upgrade those nodes or they don't have the right configuration set, then they'll get kicked off the network and they'll need to kind of rectify that.
00:06:02.144 - 00:06:52.404, Speaker A: So I expect this to kind of like happen anyway. I don't expect. Look, look, I think even if this kind of like happened on main net, where 25% to 30% of the validators went offline, or were kind of like offline and then came back online a couple of hours later, the biggest impact that would be felt is because of the fact that there's missed blocks. The user experience would degrade for maybe two to 3 hours, where there would be long block times, essentially because there would be like say two, three missed blocks in a row, which is 36 seconds, and then you'll get confirmed on the fourth block. But then the transactions would build up and everyone will be trying to outbid each other. And it could get like, I mean, depending on how many blocks are missed, it could get like a bit nasty with MEV and things like that. But generally, people would be much quicker to get their validators back online as well because of the fact that they're losing 8th right there, it's like a monetary incentive there.
00:06:52.404 - 00:07:36.372, Speaker A: Even though they wouldn't get slashed for something like this, they definitely would have like that inactivity leak. And if they're a big staking operation, that can add up very quickly, obviously. So because of that, I think that they're going to want to give people more time for girly, to prepare for girlie, which I expect to, at this point in time, happen about early mid August. I think mid August might be more likely because if it gets announced on the core dev call on the 21 July, they may want to give people at least two weeks and probably up to play it on the safe side, three weeks. So that would bring us to around mid August. Now, in terms of main net, I would, I would imagine that they would love to give people at least a month, right? At least a month, if not six weeks. So that would bring us to late September instead of mid September.
00:07:36.372 - 00:08:08.070, Speaker A: It could still happen in mid September. Just depends how fast girly gets done. But I think that they just want to give people enough time, maybe an extra couple of weeks then that otherwise would have given people to make sure that everyone updates, because it's better to just kind of run through a transition as smoothly as possible rather than having to fix things after the fact. But again, it's not a huge deal. Like, I mean, the beacon chain has been built to be very, very resilient against these sorts of things. The chain was still finalizing, and the reason why it was still finalizing is because more than 66% of the network was still online. More than two thirds of the network was still online and proposing.
00:08:08.070 - 00:08:36.788, Speaker A: And as I mentioned, the biggest issue was that kind of like degrade, degrade, degrading of um, of block proposals, which is degrading the user experience. So that would obviously not be fun. It would be a few hours of pain. There'd be a lot of FUD as well, because from people who don't understand how the beacon chain works, they'd be like, oh my God, like 33% of the network went offline or 30% of the network went offline. Bacon chain is doomed. All these sorts of stuff, when in reality that's not how it works. And I know that you people that listen to the, and watch the refuel know that's not how it works.
00:08:36.788 - 00:09:18.678, Speaker A: But yeah, on the timeline front of things, yes, there's only girly left until Mainnet, but I just feel like they want to give people more time. And there's also the execution layer and consensus layer, forks, ballot tricks for consensus layer and Paris for execution layer, which will get those two layers ready for the merge. Basically they're going to happen to very little fanfare. It's basically the same thing as a difficulty bomb delay. Like, it's really nothing to, to write home about, but once those are in, then we can set like obviously the TTD and then the merge mainnet merge transition will happen at that TTD, like it has happened for the ten test nets now leading up to the merge. We are expecting a bit of kind of like miners to fall off. I mean, a fair bit of miners have already fallen off the network due to the fact that the ETH price went down.
00:09:18.678 - 00:09:58.208, Speaker A: So you've probably noticed a bit of hash going offline. But I feel like come August there's the smarter miners, the ones who actually think the merge is happening, are going to probably begin kind of like, I don't know, either offloading their gpu's or setting up future sales of their gpu's. Maybe they want to mine right up until, uh, right up until kind of like the merge happens, but definitely would expect to see a hash rate drop there. And this is what TTD was created for, by the way, like for these kind of, these, these things that are going to happen with miners. It was created to kind of prevent any kind of like minor shenanigans, like attacking the network or anything like that. But that's basically in my mind, very, very, very low chance of happening. I don't think it's really going to happen at all.
00:09:58.208 - 00:10:35.532, Speaker A: But the, I guess like the, the other thing is the fact that miners start going offline before the actual transition happens. And we want to make sure that the network can run through the transition. And I don't think that's going to be an issue either. I think there are definitely going to be people mining right up until the merge. And because of TTD, it kind of like lessens the blow there as well, even if kind of like miners go offline. And I think as well miners, some GPU miners are going to get kicked off the network as well because of the fact that the Dag, which is the, the basically mechanism within ethash, is what was, what kind of like ethereum uses for mining. I think it's going to kick out four or six gigabyte cards from the network.
00:10:35.532 - 00:11:08.072, Speaker A: So anyone who has a GPU with that much VRAm will be kicked off and they'll have to mine with kind of like eight gig, ten gig, twelve gigabyte cards from there. So there are, there is going to be a drop in hash rate, but don't be alarmed about it. That was expected. That's the reason TTD exists. But yeah, the main net merge transition, I'm expecting probably late September at this stage. And look, depending on like how much time the core devs feel like they want to give people and give kind of like all this infrastructure and these ecosystem kind of like people to update their nodes, it could even push into October. But I would say that's a low chance.
00:11:08.072 - 00:12:00.686, Speaker A: Like, I think people just want, they want to get it done, but it's more about kind of like getting it done as, as safely and as cautiously as possible and just being kind of like being on the, on the safe side of things. Right. Like making sure people have kind of like upgraded in time, making sure they're not left behind. But at the end of the day, the testnet recovered very, very quickly here, like within a two to 3 hours. You could imagine mainnet recovering even quicker than that because of the fact that there's real money on the line. And I would assume that most people are going to make sure that their, their nodes are up to date and that everything's up to date. But I would expect the core dares probably wanting to give at least a month's notice from, I guess like when they announce the date till the date actually happens, or when they announce TTD to when it actually happens, if not six weeks, which if girly happens early to mid August, and then we get a main net kind of merge date shortly after that, I would say it would push into.
00:12:00.686 - 00:12:20.422, Speaker A: To kind of like late September there, but we're pretty much there. Like, as I've said before, we can see the light at the end of the tunnel. We're just running through the motions. One more public test net left got the Paris and Balatrix forks to happen, which again, are nothing special. They'll happen with, with little fanfare, and then the main net merge happens. And like, I just. I was kind of like, looking at this tweet, actually.
00:12:20.422 - 00:12:42.046, Speaker A: This is, this is something that I want to talk about, this tweet from, um, Trent van EPs here. And he basically kind of like, showed all the testing, all kind of like the major testing efforts in order for the merge. So we started with rayanism, and now I spoke about this a long time ago. I'd actually forgotten about rain ism. This was born out of a hackathon. I think Proto Lambda and a few other people kind of created this. And this was a way to initially test the merge transition.
00:12:42.046 - 00:13:30.006, Speaker A: Then we had Amphora, we had Kintsugi, Kiln. We've had the Girly Shadow forks, one to four mainnet shadowforks, one to eight merge devnets, one to six Ropsten sepolia, and now I've only got two things left, girly and Mainnet. Plus, of course, the shadow forks that are going to be happening every week. But that's kind of like the regular cadence right up until the merge transition happens there. But, like, I find this just really, really amazing because we've tested the merge so much at this point. Guys, like, look how much testing has been done and not just the same testing, different types of testing and testing on new testnets, testing on existing testnets doing shadow forks, which are basically a new thing for the merge transition. We didn't do shadow Fawkes before the merge, before we started testing the merge, which is actually quite wild because they're really, really cool things to do and they gave us a lot of insight.
00:13:30.006 - 00:14:13.300, Speaker A: But, like, there's two items left on this list now, girlie and Mainnet. I know I'm kind of like, you know, repeating myself here, but, like, for me, for someone who's, like, spends his whole life in Ethereum and following this so closely for so long now, like, when I got into Ethereum in early 2017, you know, proof of stake was one of the main reasons I got into it and was so excited about it because I was like, oh, my God, like, if this works, this would be really awesome for this. This and this reason, um, and then I watched it evolve over time. I watched all the trials and tribulations in real time. I've been a part of every single major event that's happened, uh, with. With regards to proof of stake, and we are literally just a few months away from the main net merge happening from Ethereum being a full proof of stake network. And we can, uh, kind of, like, move past all of the shitty narratives that surround proof of work.
00:14:13.300 - 00:14:33.640, Speaker A: And I've mentioned before how I don't have a strong opinion on proof of work, if it's good or bad. I think that if people want to fight the proof of work, fight in kind of like, the mainstream, they're more than welcome to. I encourage them to do that. But I'm just very glad that a theorem won't have to deal with that, because Ethereum has enough things to fight. Like, I mean, come on, guys. Like, we don't need that one just hanging over us. We.
00:14:33.640 - 00:14:49.808, Speaker A: I'm just glad we're moving to proof of stake for that reason, but also for every other reason that. That you guys know by now. But, yeah, so close. I'll keep you guys updated on the timelines here. But as I said, I think girlie will be early to mid August at this point. It's definitely not going to happen in July. Like, I just don't see it.
00:14:49.808 - 00:15:21.870, Speaker A: I mean, it's already July 7. As I said, they're not actually talking about it until July 21 because the core dev call tomorrow. They'll be talking about the sepolia merge and lessons learned from that and all kind of, like, related stuff to that. I think Dang Sharding is actually getting spoken about as well. So I expect girly to get a date on the 21 July, which will put it early to mid August. In my eyes, probably closer to mid August, and then main net, probably late September or something like that, which, again, is there still very close July, August, September. It's like three months, like three and a half months or something.
00:15:21.870 - 00:15:41.462, Speaker A: It's gonna go quicker than we. Then we kind of expect. I'm looking forward to it, obviously, and I can't wait to. To kind of, like, see it there. But I think that is it for most of the stuff that I want to talk about with regards to Sepolia, there is the song that Jonathan Mann did. The song a day man on. On the sepoliam livestream that we did.
00:15:41.462 - 00:16:03.478, Speaker A: He basically uploaded it to Twitter here. It's about eight minutes and 30 seconds. All the lyrics for the song came from the daily Grey Discord channel, which was really, really cool. And he added some music to this as well. So if you want to go listen to this you can, there's also an NFT you can bid on. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so speaking of proof of stake, we now have 13 million ETH staked in the proof of stake deposit contract.
00:16:03.478 - 00:16:25.030, Speaker A: Of course, this is mainnet. This is not the test nets, and this is still worth almost $15 billion. Like I know the ETH price has come down a lot. It was worth a lot more once upon a time. But the thing is, is that, you know, we all expect the ETH price to go back up. So as the, you know, more and more ETH gets staked, it can't actually be removed for at least six to twelve months after the merge because withdrawals aren't enabled. So this number could get quite, quite wild.
00:16:25.030 - 00:17:00.566, Speaker A: We could actually get to a point where we have $100 billion worth of ETH securing the beacon chain before withdrawals are enabled. If the ETH price, you know, goes, goes crazy again, I mean you can imagine us getting to 20 million ETH staked and then the ETH price is like five k. I mean the ETH price was almost five k as its last all time high and then we would have $100 billion worth of ETH staked. Obviously. Like I got no idea what the price is going to do. But you know, you could imagine a world where that kind of happens which would be quite, quite cool to see, but just awesome to see that there's still people kind of like staking, still people going into staking. I mean if I go to the kind of like Beacon chain website here, we can actually see.
00:17:00.566 - 00:17:18.590, Speaker A: So I've got the suppolia beacon chain site up there now. I've got the mainnet up here. You can see, you know, we're at 400 and almost 406,000 validators. There's zero pending validators right now. But you know, there's 13 million ETH staked there. And as I said, like 99, you know, look, 99.6%, 99.5%
00:17:18.590 - 00:17:52.462, Speaker A: participation here, which is, which is obviously what we want to see. And that will kind of like consist after the merge transition as well. You know, even if there's configuration issues, they'll get fixed and then we'll just go straight back to this year. So that's, that's basically what main, that's going to be anyway. And speaking of kind of like, I guess, like staked Ethya. There is a great little great kind of like tweet here from, from Michael, I believe his name is, where he shows the Steth price has been recovering since mid June and the discount to ETH is now less than 3%. So you can see on the chart here what the discount got to.
00:17:52.462 - 00:18:07.050, Speaker A: I should have bought some, like, I saw it get to, like, not at 0.93 ish. And I'm like, ah, like, I should buy some here because there's so many distressed sellers right now. I don't think it's going to go much lower than here. But I didn't. I could have got like, you know, a free bit of ETH there, but I didn't. But that's okay.
00:18:07.050 - 00:18:59.394, Speaker A: I still bought ETH, you know, it's not like I'm out of the game, but yeah. And then Michael continues by saying large selling stopped entirely after Celsius and the Steth liquidations. Interestingly, no large buyers either, just smaller ones bringing up the price increment incrementally. So it's pretty cool to see that the smaller buyers, that might mean that there's just a lot of enthusiasts, a lot of retail investors who saw this trade, and they're like, well, I'm going to take this like, yes, okay, it's, it's got some risk attached to it, but it's really relatively low risk. And you know that you can redeem Ste for one ETH once the kind of, um, the withdrawals are enabled on the beacon chain, which should happen, as I said, six, six to twelve months after the merge. And if you're happy waiting, if you're already like, kind of someone who's long e, someone who's bullish on ETH for the long term, then this was a great deal. If you, if you kind of like, we're happy taking on that, that little bit extra risk and you're happy kind of like waiting it out until it matures at beacon chain withdrawal there.
00:18:59.394 - 00:19:38.634, Speaker A: So cool to see that this is recovering. Of course, obviously some users got hurt from this, especially if they panic sold it, thinking that it was going to death spiral, like Luna and UST, which is something that a lot of people were saying they thought, like, because we just had the terror collapse, everyone was speculating that everything that was quote unquote, pegged to something was going to death spiral. We had people fighting tether, we had people fighting USDC, where people going after all the other algo stables, which, to be fair, you know, most of them do go to zero. Pretty much all of them go to zero. Actually, I shouldn't say most, pretty much all of them have gone to zero. But as I've explained before, Steve is an areth and other kind of like liquid staking tokens are completely different. They're collateralized by the ETH in the beacon chain.
00:19:38.634 - 00:20:05.386, Speaker A: Like just because you can't withdraw it now doesn't mean you can't in the future. It's not under collateralized or uncollateralized like some of these or all of the algorithmic stable coins out there. So just wanted to kind of, I guess put that out there and yeah, cool to see this recovering. Hopefully the recovery continues. Alright, so I mentioned this AMA, that the Ethereum foundation research team is hosting. It's happening. I mean it's probably already live by the time you're watching this, so definitely go check it out.
00:20:05.386 - 00:20:17.162, Speaker A: If you haven't yet. I'm sure there'll be answers up there already. I'm looking forward to this. As I said yesterday, these are always great. There's always very, very informative. Pretty much. I think everyone from the Ethereum foundation research team is going to be there.
00:20:17.162 - 00:20:47.038, Speaker A: All the people that you hear me talk about a lot on the refuel so such as Justin Drake and Dankrad Feist here, of course Vitalik is going to be in there. I mean oh wow, dank Red actually has a tweet here listing them all. Danny Ryan, Shaw a Wang who's this Asn who I actually am not following. And that must be a newer research, a newer Ethereum foundation researcher and, and ans guy here as well, who I believe is a newer researcher too. But yeah, the who's who of a theorem kind of foundation researchers. It's definitely going to be a good ama. You should definitely go check it out.
00:20:47.038 - 00:21:39.238, Speaker A: I'll link it in the description again here. Alright, so this accountant dinoeggs on Twitter has put together a nice little image and he captioned it with my take on polygon security spectrum and where each solution lands from standalone chains to fully secured roll ups. Now the reason why I think this is a really good graphic is because I think people still get confused about polygons, suite of applications or suite of products I should say, and where they all fit in. So you can see on the left hand side here and my camera is covering it, but on the far left it says not secured on the horizontal axis here and it's got not secured by a theorem as you can see on the bottom secured by aetherium. They've got polygon edge with like right at the kind of like not secured side of things because polygon edge doesn't talk to a theorem at all besides kind of like, I guess the bridging. And people can post data there if they're an l two. But it is not secured by a theorems validators or miners.
00:21:39.238 - 00:22:00.322, Speaker A: Then you got the polygon pos chain, which is a bit further on the spectrum that the polygon Pos chain has its own validator set, but it also checkpoints to aetherium. So, you know, if you had to, you could reconstruct it from. From the checkpoint. So there it is. It is secured by a theorem, at least a little bit there. Then you can move further towards the right of the secured by a theorem horizontal axis here. And you can see volidiums and.
00:22:00.322 - 00:22:28.296, Speaker A: And fall into that is volitions as well. And polygon avail sits there, which is the data availability layer. So I got confused between edge and avail edges. The SDK, I believe polygon avail is a data availability layer. That's where data gets stored on avail and the proof gets stored on Ethereum. So it's like a half secured thing. I mean, don't quote me on saying half secured, because if you're going to go into like, really deep semantics into this, it gets, it gets funny and researchers are going to yell at me for saying that.
00:22:28.296 - 00:23:05.612, Speaker A: So don't quote me on that. But I think, still think this does, this paints a good picture and illustrates kind of like, how it works. So Polygon avail, obviously, data availability on Polygon avail, but proof for kind of valid ems and volitions on Ethereum, and then the volitions that kind of, like, fall into that can also choose to store their data and their proofs on Ethereum, which is a fully secured chain. Fully secured l two chain, as we know. And they're called roll ups. And this is where four of polygons products feed into polygon Hermes, polygon Maiden, Polygon Nightfall and Polygon zero. So that's the spectrum for you guys to kind of, like, look at.
00:23:05.612 - 00:23:36.442, Speaker A: And I think the reason why this is so great is because you can quickly use this to show people, hey, you know, Polygon is a polygon does have L2 products, but it's not technically the Pos chain. It's actually these things on the, on the right hand side. And then you can educate them about kind of data availability and data and proofs and things like that. But it's really cool to say that actually, most of polygons products fall on the fully secured by Ethereum side. Now, obviously not. None of them are alive in any real capacity yet. I think her maze is live on kind of like mainnet.
00:23:36.442 - 00:24:16.168, Speaker A: Same with nightfall. But they're not. Obviously they're not used nearly as much as the polygon Pos chain is. But the plan is obviously in the future for them to be, to be used as much as the PoS chain, if not more, especially as. As we add more data availability to Ethereum layer one, so that they can have cheaper transactions to be secured by Ethereum there. So, yeah, just wanted to kind of highlight this because I thought it was a really, really cool graphic. So speaking of polygons, kind of stock solutions here, or L2 solutions here, Brendan, who is working on polygon Zero, put together a great tweet thread where he starts off by saying the recursive stocks pioneered by polygon let us paralyze proof generation and reduce latency.
00:24:16.168 - 00:25:01.504, Speaker A: But what's really cool is that they allow us to exploit a spacetime trade off. This lets us do crazy things like proving 100 kc hashes per second on a laptop. Now this is getting a little bit into the weeds, well, a lot into the weeds of the cryptography side of kind of roll ups here and all things like stocks. It's a short thread if you want to kind of read it, but I think from my read, what he is saying here is that paralyzing, kind of like that proof generation and reduce, reducing latency allows us to basically do this proof generation on a laptop, on a lower power device, which is what we want to work towards. Because as I mentioned yesterday, or I think the day before, there's going to be Asics for that prove these sorts of things. So sorry. That prove stocks and snarks and all these ZK related cryptography here.
00:25:01.504 - 00:25:33.774, Speaker A: And if we can get like really, really efficient ASics, we can be proving a shit ton of these things in. And kind of like, I get ZK roll ups to be extremely cheap on the proving side of things and essentially get them to the point where we can scale like up to, I don't know, hundreds of thousands, millions of transactions per second. That's where the craziness kicks in. And I've talked about this before, how I think that we're going to get there. It's going to take a little while, probably a longer while than we would like, just because this stuff is bleeding edge. It's using new cryptography. Obviously, whenever you do that, you want to be very careful with it.
00:25:33.774 - 00:25:59.522, Speaker A: But we're there, the path is there. We know what we, where we want to get to. And there's so many teams working on this, obviously not just Polygon, there's so many teams working on Starks, Narc, ZK roll ups, all these sorts of stuff. Obviously Starkware, it's in their name. Right? And then you have like scroll and you have ZK sync and you have a bunch of others out there. I'm sure arbitrary and optimism are also looking into this sorts of stuff too. So yeah, just really, really cool to see that.
00:25:59.522 - 00:26:36.770, Speaker A: You know, we're already getting to a point where this, this kind of stuff goes beyond theory and starts kind of, kind of like going into practice, which is definitely what we want to see because that's what users care about at the end of the day. Right. All right, so I just wanted to quickly shout out again the Daily Gwei tv account here. So this Twitter account is maintained by ZK Ben, who a lot of you may have seen. If you're in the Discord channel, he's quite active in there. But for those of you who don't know, the Daily Gwei underscore tv account on Twitter basically shares short clips from the refuel, about 32nd clips and also extra information from kind of like the refuel as well. So kind of like links and things like that.
00:26:36.770 - 00:26:58.654, Speaker A: So definitely go follow this Twitter account. Maybe you kind of like missed the refuel. Maybe you want to share one of the kind of like things that I'm talking about on the refuel to your friends in a short bite size clips. Well this is what you can do with these kind of like daily great tv clips here. And this be going for I think since June now. So a couple, I guess like six weeks almost now five or six weeks. And ZK Ben has been doing an amazing job.
00:26:58.654 - 00:27:13.254, Speaker A: So obviously very big shout out to him there. But yeah, this was just put together by him. I didn't even ask him to do this or anything. I didn't ask anyone to do this. He just went, hey, I want to do this. He asked me and I'm like, yeah, sure man, like go ahead, this would be awesome. So if you're not following that account, it's linked in the YouTube description for you to go follow it.
00:27:13.254 - 00:27:35.422, Speaker A: Please do. If you, even if you just, even if you're not even interested in the clips, you just want to support the account. Obviously, if you watch the refill every day, you probably don't need to watch the clips. But if you just want to support the account, you can follow it, get that follow account up so more people find it, more people find the daily gray ecosystem and we can grow as a community as well there. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:27:35.422 - 00:27:40.734, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
