00:00:00.320 - 00:00:28.926, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of Delaware refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesano. It's the 3 July 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So, kicking off today, we have some kind of fresh Eth ETF news, but not really. This is kind of a nothing burger, but I figured I'd mention it anyway. So Nate here, who you guys know, I've been following for quite a while now with regards to the ETH ETF's, thinks that the amendments are going to be due on July 8.
00:00:28.926 - 00:01:10.164, Speaker A: So the s one amendments that we've all been waiting for, potential final s one s by July 12, which would theoretically mean a launch week of July 15. So it's seeming like it's a mid July launch at this point, but really, I think we're all guessing. I mean, this has been such an annoying thing. Like, I've mentioned this before, but this has been so annoying. It's this drag on, I guess, not the market, but just like on mind share around this, where I look at this and I wake up, you know, check the news and see this news, and I'm like, okay, more like non news for the ETH ETF. Like, it kind of feels like they were approved a lifetime ago at this point, and I just want them to start trading at this point. I think everyone does, and it's just been a little bit frustrating to see how long this process takes.
00:01:10.164 - 00:01:30.822, Speaker A: Obviously, tradfi moves a lot slower, but this, I think, is more just people. Not people, but like the SEC maybe, or I guess just general feet dragging here. I don't know, it just seems very, very slow to me. But maybe it's gonna launch this month. Maybe it'll launch next month. I don't think it's gonna be next month. It definitely seems like it's gonna be this month, but I.
00:01:30.822 - 00:02:03.792, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it's been a long time coming, guys. I just. I just can't wait for these things to finally launch so we can actually see what the inflows are going to look like. And in particular, I am, as I've mentioned before, most interested in seeing what the ETH outflows are going to look like. That is the big question right now. That is the only short term bear case I could make for ETH when it comes to, like, the ETF's, because obviously people are basically making the assumption that. Okay, well, because GBTC had 54% of their total AUm outflow once, that was converted to an ETF.
00:02:03.792 - 00:02:34.092, Speaker A: That means the ETH e product is going to be the same. And that would equate to, I think, around $5 billion of worth of outflows from ETH. Now, of course, this is a very naive assumption. This is not something that is based on anything, but, like, you know, I guess like one data point, so. And we only really have that to go off, mind you. But at the same time, I've gone through the reasons before why I think that the outflows aren't going to be that much. And also, grayscale can surprise by making the fee a lot lower than what it is now, or they can waive the fee for a period of time.
00:02:34.092 - 00:03:23.434, Speaker A: I think maybe more likely they waive the fee than lower it, like, substantially. I think it was maybe graystroke in the daily grade discord channel made a good point that the GBTC ETF fee is still quite high, and they haven't lowered that since, you know, since the outflows have been going on. So that would really. It would be really kind of silly for them to lower the ETH ETF or ethan fee, I should say, to lower than that. And obviously, they're relying on people going into their mini trusts. You know, they have the GBTC mini trust, and they're going to have the Eth mini trust rather than giving up potentially, you know, lots of money by lowering the fees here, because there is a, I guess, absolute fee math you can do here where essentially you say, okay, well, if grayscale lost 50% of its Aum, but it's making. It's making 1.5%
00:03:23.434 - 00:03:44.134, Speaker A: fees on the remaining 50%. Well, that's still a lot more than if they were to keep all of the Aum and lower their fees down to 0.2%. Right. Because they're lowering their fees substantially more than 50%, and they're giving up fees because of it. Now, it seems like the outflows have mostly stopped. So there seems to be a lot of. I guess, like, I don't know if I'd call it dumb money, but, like, money that is very.
00:03:44.134 - 00:04:18.706, Speaker A: That is insensitive to the fees in GBTC right now. But I think over time, that will probably still bleed out, and a lot of the money will go into the minitrust and other ETF's, but we'll have to see how that plays out there. And there's no updates with regards to what the fees look like for any of the other issuers right now. For the ETF's, definitely not grayscale for Ethy, just most curious to see what they do there. I could see them waving the fees for a little bit, but lowering the fees lower than their GBTC product wouldn't really make much sense to me unless there's some other kind of wider strategy there. But yeah, it doesn't seem like that would happen there. But anyway, that's it on the ETF front.
00:04:18.706 - 00:04:56.166, Speaker A: Now, I wanted to kick off discussion around a tweet that I put out. I think this was yesterday where I said, it may seem boring, boring to us crypto natives, but the main narrative that people will be fed when it comes to Ethereum is that it's a platform for tokenization. With Blackrock going all in on tokenization, people want to get exposure to this and they'll do it with the ETH ETF's. So I've talked about this before on the refuel, but essentially, as I said, like this is probably table stakes for us crypto Abes and super boring. I mean, we've known about tokens for forever. Like tokens came to Ethereum, I believe, in 2015 or 2016. Then obviously we had an explosion of them via the icos.
00:04:56.166 - 00:05:44.248, Speaker A: And since then, tokens have been the main game in town, right? Everyone loves, loves creating tokens. People love speculating on them. And there are, you know, potentially millions of these things that have been created over the years now. So obviously nothing special for us. But when it comes to outside of crypto and when it comes to what people are listening to, what people are monitoring people especially, I guess, every type of investor, I can't think of any investor that wouldn't want to get exposure to this. They're always looking for, I think, like something that is innovative, something that is, you know, tech related. Like even if you're investing in the silver or gold, for example, as precious metals, you're going to try and rationalize that investment, especially when it comes something like silver, by saying, okay, well, you know, silver's used in computer parts or silver's used in this part of manufacturing.
00:05:44.248 - 00:06:44.496, Speaker A: And okay, well, if silver gets used here, of this commodity gets used here because of some new innovation in technology, that means this commodity is going to be in more demand and the price is going to go up, so on and so forth. So I think people are always looking for ways to invest in innovation generally. And when you have the world's largest CEO of the world's largest asset manager go on to these mainstream publications and say, the future is tokenization, we're going to bring the you know, we're going to update the existing financial system for the digital age and we're going to do it properly instead of all these band aids that we have. Things are going to be much faster, settlement is going to be much faster, you know, global payments, global this, global 24/7 stock trading, so on and so forth. You're going to naturally think to yourself, all right, well, this all sounds pretty exciting, like how do I get exposure to this? And there's really going to only be two ways to get exposure to it, directly by a BTC ETF or the ETh ETF. But I don't think you're getting exposure to it with the BTC ETF because BTC and bitcoin doesn't really do what Ethereum does. There is some limited stuff going on with ordinals and runes, but it's completely different to what Ethereum does.
00:06:44.496 - 00:07:17.452, Speaker A: And the tokenization stuff is definitely going to be built on Ethereum as it has been for the past few years. So as an investor, you're definitely going in these ETF's especially, you're definitely going to be sent marketing materials related to this. Like I can imagine Blackrock and other issuers, other, sorry, other ETF issuers sending out these prospectus where they basically say, we have this ETF. Here's what a theory is, here's what ETH is, and here's what we believe. You know, the future is tokenization. Here's why Ethereum is at the forefront of this, and this is how it plays into that, so on and so forth. So I can see that happening.
00:07:17.452 - 00:07:50.328, Speaker A: But it's not going to be an overnight thing. I think that's a, that's a big thing with cryptos where there's always a timeline mismatch here, where people think that these things, you know, because we know about them today, they're going to happen tomorrow. And I've discussed this at length on the refuel, so I don't want to rehash my arguments again, but there's always a timeline mismatch. And especially when it comes to the tradfi related stuff, there is a huge mismatch here. And I think the ETF guys or the people, the issuers that have. So the companies that have issued ETF's have been trying to beat this jump for a while now. And like even the analysts have basically, they said the same thing.
00:07:50.328 - 00:08:12.104, Speaker A: Crypto has traditionally operated on a very fast day to day kind of news cycle where everything needs to happen now. It's like the tick tock generation kind of thing, right, where it's like very, very fast stuff happens. Don't mean hit right now. No delayed gratification. No. You know, a lot of short term planning versus long term planning, short term speculation versus long term speculation. But the ETF's aren't like that.
00:08:12.104 - 00:08:44.294, Speaker A: Tradfi is not like that for the most part. It is a long term thing. It is a slow burn. Right? It is. It is a very kind of, I guess, passive thing where essentially the ETF's are going to take in tens of billions, hundreds of billions, potentially trillions of dollars. But that's going to take decades to, you know, I wouldn't, I wouldn't put it past that. Taking decades to reach trillions of aum, like, even just one decade, I mean, ten years from now across just, you know, Ethan, BTC, who knows what other ETF's will be around in ten years for crypto? I'm sure we'll have a lot of them.
00:08:44.294 - 00:09:34.130, Speaker A: But, Ethan, BTC alone, right? It might take a decade for us to reach that, you know, trillions dollar mark there, or maybe, maybe shorter than that. But my point is, is that it's not a sprint, it's a marathon. It is something of a huge timeline mismatch between crypto natives and, and the tradfi world here. And that definitely bleeds into these sorts of things, like tokenization, like general adoption of things. Everyone's like, oh, we've been, you know, doing building in crypto for the better part of ten years now. In terms of building out products that, that, that smart contracts and apps like DeFi and decentralized exchanges, all that sorts of stuff, people are asking, you know, where's the use case? It's like, well, guys like, these things have been growing steadily for years now, and the biggest product market fit in crypto is stable coins. And I believe that everything flows from stable coins.
00:09:34.130 - 00:10:11.076, Speaker A: I actually mentioned this in the delegateway Discord channel today where I said that stable coins are the key to mass adoption. And, yes, okay, they're not true crypto. They're not like, decentralized. They're very centralized. They're potentially even worse than fiat in a bank account in terms of, I guess, guarantees around a security, not, maybe not so much security, but like custody or essentially getting your funds frozen, things like that. Right? Like, I get those concerns there, but they are the, I guess, a gateway drug here where essentially everyone does payments, right? Everyone sends money to people. So that's why stable coins have seen such a huge uptick.
00:10:11.076 - 00:10:40.520, Speaker A: Not to mention the utility they bring by just being a relatively stable asset in a, in an ecosystem where everything is, is relatively unstable. Right. So that is the front door there and then from there everything just, just follows off of that. And that, I think, has been growing steadily over time. Stable coin dominance has only gone up over time in terms of. Sorry, stablecoin market cap, I should say, has only gone up over time, which flows onto the rest of the ecosystem. And I think that people need to kind of zoom out a bit sometimes or a lot of the time in crypto and realize that these things are happening.
00:10:40.520 - 00:11:15.742, Speaker A: They're just not happening day to day. It's not like you're going to get, you know, 100 x adoption overnight. Just, I think the mismatch comes from the fact that you could buy a token like a meme coin, for example, and it can go like ten, 100 x in a couple of days. Whereas adoption, actual adoption of the actual tech takes a lot longer than this. You're not going to get, you know, one day have a hundred users and then the next day you're going to hundred x your user base and they're going to stay like you might 100 x your user base in terms of people farming the, you know, farming via addresses, but in terms of long term sustainable users here, you're not going to 100 x that overnight. That's a years long thing. Right.
00:11:15.742 - 00:11:48.234, Speaker A: And I think that that's a good thing because it leads to more sustainable adoption. But it is something of a mismatch within the crypto natives versus, I guess, the wider ecosystem here. All right, so moving on, a Eat staker 2024 staking survey report has been published. So they've tweeted out some highlights from this report. So 32% of the respondents were Genesis stakers, 74% do not work in crypto, which is very, very interesting to me. I didn't think it was that high. And 62% indicated that they have no plans to exit staking.
00:11:48.234 - 00:12:28.262, Speaker A: Now, of course, this is a solo staker survey here, I believe, but coupled with, I guess like general staking and what this actually looks like, you can see here, you know, do you run a validator hardware at home? Most of the respondents were home stakers, but there is a bit of liquid staking in here. You know, SAS customer, something like a coinbase or, or a binance or something else there. But this is very comprehensive. I highly recommend giving the whole kind of blog post a read here, but I read it just before and there are a couple of things I wanted to kind of point out. I should have highlighted this before I got on the refuel because I'm here like scrolling through trying to find what I wanted to point out. There was. There was something very interesting and I don't know where it was.
00:12:28.262 - 00:12:39.646, Speaker A: Maybe it was towards the end of the report here. I'm sorry, I'm just. I'm just bringing it up here. Bear with me for a sec here. Yeah. The demographic side of things, that's what I wanted to quickly shout out first. So it's not surprising.
00:12:39.646 - 00:13:06.024, Speaker A: But 95% of the respondents self reported as male. As I said, not surprising considering that if you go to any crypto event, you can kind of see the imbalance for yourself in terms of. In terms of gender imbalance. Like, it's majority males. And this is not dissimilar to, I guess, the rest of tech generally, and finance as well, is like, they're very male kind of dominated fields here. But I honestly didn't think it was that high. Like, like obviously this is self reporting.
00:13:06.024 - 00:13:28.260, Speaker A: This is not something that we've KyC. There's no like, you know, we don't know for sure if this is, this is true or not, but I can't think of any reason why someone would want to report themselves as male if they weren't like, I don't like. Unless they were trying to purposely muddy the waters here. But as far as I know, this survey was, was definitely pruned for all of that and. And checked and cross referenced. So, yeah, that's. That's quite high.
00:13:28.260 - 00:14:01.108, Speaker A: I didn't think it was that high, but as I said, it makes sense in the, in a general trend of things there. And 90% identified as somewhat or strongly technical. I guess that makes sense because you do have to be somewhat or strongly technical in order to be a solo staker. I would say that you don't have to be strongly technical, but somewhat. Definitely. I don't think that you can't have no technical skills and become a solo staker because even if you can follow the guides in order to set up your staking rig, which is relatively easy, you have to be able to troubleshoot it. And troubleshooting comes in many different flavors.
00:14:01.108 - 00:14:43.230, Speaker A: There's not really a one size fits all guide for troubleshooting. And I think that's where the somewhat technical comes into it. And as I said, 74% of respondents do not work in crypto and 88% are staking from North America, Europe or Australia. I was actually surprised to see Australia mentioned there because of the fact that obviously North America and Europe are the two biggest crypto hubs right now or kind of concentration of crypto people right now. But Australia, there's not one that I think of when I think of crypto hubs. But at the same time, I think that Australia is definitely batting above the average when it comes to the amount of people in crypto or involved in crypto projects. It's just that we don't really get that much representation outside of.
00:14:43.230 - 00:15:10.624, Speaker A: Outside of things like this or outside of people making jokes about Australia, such as like spiders killing you or you know, kangaroos, people riding kangaroos and things like that. Just the silly memes that you're all used to. But I thought that was, was quite funny there. But anyway, I want you guys to go read this report for yourself. I'll link in the YouTube description below. Huge kudos to east taker for putting this together. I was one of the respondents here, happy to always, always help with these things, and I tried to get the word out when they did this survey.
00:15:10.624 - 00:16:01.170, Speaker A: But this is going to be pretty much like the closest thing we have to a comprehensive survey of solo stakers, or of each stakers generally, with our emphasis on solo stakers obviously here, which I think that we definitely need more of because we want to know what solo staking, what the solo staking ecosystem looks like across the, across the whole Ethereum network here. And also in the face of some people trying to say that solo staking is not sustainable and we shouldn't optimize for anymore, I definitely think that that is not the case. I think solo stake is at a beating heart of Ethereum. I'm very proud to be one and I will continue to be one until the day I die, pretty much. I plan to not shut down my validators until then, even if I'm not earning any rewards or earning very little rewards, I don't care. I love being a staker on the network and I'm doing it in various different means. You guys know I'm, I've got rockable mini pools as well.
00:16:01.170 - 00:16:33.896, Speaker A: But yeah. Anyway, go give this report a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, staying on the topic of staking, oval has released Charon V one. After three years of development, testing and mainnet adoption, this transitions distributed validators from an early technology to one ready to be the standard for all Ethereum validators. Now, you guys know about all about Oval and DBT generally. I've spoken at length about this and you guys know I was part of the first mainnet cluster of Oval on, on the Ethereum mainnet.
00:16:33.896 - 00:16:56.742, Speaker A: Here I was using the chaon client software, you know, even though I was basically an alpha tester. The, the software was pretty good. I mean there were some things I had to troubleshoot, but it was pretty good even in alpha state. And now that is basically available in a 1.0 production release fashion. Anyone can get started with this today if you would like. I mean, Obel has been alive on Mainnet for a little while now, but the fact that this is a 1.0
00:16:56.742 - 00:17:40.030, Speaker A: release is obviously a huge milestone. So huge kudos to the OBL team. You know, it's funny, you guys know, I'm, most of you should know by this point that I'm an angel investor in Oval, but I invested in them quite a while ago, first angel investments actually. And I remember talking to them at the time and being like, okay, I understand what you guys are building, but we're so early in the Ethereum staking game. I don't know what this is going to look like, but I really want to, want to back you guys and I really want to see you guys bring this to, to Mainnet. And over the years they've just continued to execute on this. They've continued to bring, to bring innovative features to the staking ecosystem and they do truly understand what makes staking unique on Ethereum in that solo staking, you know, squad staking, being able to run your own validators and your own full nodes on your own hardware.
00:17:40.030 - 00:18:18.542, Speaker A: That is the beating heart of Ethereum here. So they've been really hard at work at this for quite a while now. And I'm just very, very humbled to be able to be a small part of it as investor, but also as someone who, who has basically been as part of a main net DB DVT cluster for quite a while now. But you can go give the full blog post here a read. I'll link in the YouTube description below. But just wanted to give a huge kudos out to, to Abel again for getting this out there. All right, so as you guys know, there has been a lot of discussion over the last few months around Ethereum's issuance curve and potentially, potentially lowering it for various different reasons.
00:18:18.542 - 00:19:16.582, Speaker A: Now, I'm not going to rehash the debate that it's been raging on for the last few months about this. I just wanted to bring it up today because Caspar, one of the people that has been researching this, has introduced a website called issuance WTF. Now on this website, you can go and find pretty much everything that you need in order to, in order to get familiar with what the research is looking at, what the current state of thinking is, and a bunch of supporting research over the years as well, you know, in the form of like research posts, blog posts, talks, podcasts, papers, so on and so forth. So this is your one stop shop for everything Ethereum issuance policy specific civic, specifically with regards to the things that have been spoken about over the last few months here. So definitely go check this out for yourself. This is going to take you a while to get through, if you wanted to get through all of it. But if you want to be as up to speed as possible on essentially the thinking around Ethereum's issuance policy, this is definitely something you should go check out.
00:19:16.582 - 00:20:06.226, Speaker A: So I'll link it in the subscription below for you to do so. All right, ZK sync has announced today something called the elastic chain, which is an ever expanding network of ZK roll ups secured by math and natively interoperable under a uniform intuitive UX, aka this is ZK Sync's version of a super chain. So as you guys know, pretty much every l two ecosystem is trying to do a super chain right now. Optimism has it, polygons doing it arbitrary is doing it with their orbit stuff, polygon with the CDK. And now ZK sync unveiled today the elastic chain, which is their way of doing it here. Now, as I've said in, in the past, I still strongly believe that the l two ecosystem long term is going to look like a bunch of these super chains interoperating with each other. I think that they're all eventually going to be ZK.
00:20:06.226 - 00:20:36.882, Speaker A: I don't really think optimistic roll ups are going to survive long term. I think that the, the existing optimistic rollouts will become ZK roll ups. But I mean, the actual like fraud proving architecture, it seems like. Well, at least I believe that over the long term, you know, the next few years, even a lot of these things are just going to become ZK. Because ZK just has a distinct advantage over over optimistic roll ups here, over optimistic roll up technology generally. Now you can go give this, I guess, like announcement a read for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:20:36.882 - 00:21:24.950, Speaker A: But I wanted to focus on one thing from this, from this tweet thread here, which was like a chart that got, well, I guess like a little table that got all of crypto Twitter talking today, and not for the right reasons. So I hate these tables, guys. I'm first and foremost these comparison tables between different projects that make the project that is tweeting it or the project that is talking about it look best and their competitors look worse, because usually, basically, 99% of the time, these things are not accurate at all, and this is no exception. So the reason why I wanted to call this out is because there are a few things wrong here. One, the throughput TPS measurement makes absolutely no sense. Like, I don't even know why this is even in here. Like, the AG layer, for example, is not something that gives you TPS like it is.
00:21:24.950 - 00:21:57.150, Speaker A: It is a layer for assets to live on, a unified liquidity layer. It's not trying to be a chain that does millions of TPS or whatever you, whatever else, right? It's not that at all. And I think the same is true for the optimism super chain here. Measuring any TPS just doesn't really make much sense. The other things are verifiability. I don't know why they've got no here for very verifiability on, on the super chain, where essentially you can verify optimism chains right now, and you will be able to even easier in the future. They've got fraud proofs live.
00:21:57.150 - 00:22:22.628, Speaker A: But also you can run the full node today. I mean, you've seen the ethereum on Arm Twitter account tweet about this before. So those are just like two glaring things in terms of shared interoperability. I believe the super chain has that even though they have na here, a native interoperability, I believe is not going to be one week. I believe it's going to be shorter than that on the super chain as well. So just generally, I don't like this table. And as I said, like, I don't like these tables at all because they're usually not accurate.
00:22:22.628 - 00:23:10.140, Speaker A: And it does everyone a disservice here. So I don't know what, like the, I guess the goal of this was, besides making the super chain and the AG layer look inferior to the elastic chain, but generally not, not a huge fan of that. But anyway, that's just a little thing I wanted to nitpick there. What I do think is cool is the fact that ZK sync is doing a super chain, because I think that if you want to survive long term and be one of the biggest l two s, you have to do a super chain. Like, there's, there's no other way about it because it's a network effect game. If you don't do it right, and the chains that otherwise would have built in your ecosystem go build in another ecosystem then that is you losing out on the network effect. So for example, if you, if you're a builder and you want to spin up your own roll up, but you don't want to build it yourself, you want to use the existing stacks out there.
00:23:10.140 - 00:23:57.904, Speaker A: Well now you have arbitrum orbit stack, you have polygon CDK, you have the op stack and you have the elastic chain stack from ZK sync here. So out of those four, and I believe there'll be others in the future, you make a choice of where you want to basically deploy and that will be, that will depend on a bunch of different factors. But can you imagine, for example, if Cksync didn't have this, well then they wouldn't even be in the equation. That would be, they would lose out to the other three because the project wouldn't even consider them. So that's why I think that the bigger l two s out there will go down this path for the most part here and become part of the super chain or do their own super chain just for the fact that they're trying to gather a network effect. Now will this work for all of the l two s? No, it won't. And I'm going to bring up l two beat here just to give you a list of projects that I think this is actually going to work for.
00:23:57.904 - 00:24:23.230, Speaker A: It's going to work for arbitrum, I think it's going to work for op stack. And I think, you know, polygons gotten a lot of, lot of traction here with, with chains out there. But their main chain right now, the Polygon Pos chain isn't a l two yet, it is still a side chain. So I think until they do that, it's a bit 50 50 right now. ZK sync, I don't know what it's gonna look like. They are a top five l two it with ZK sync error. They do have a lot of attention.
00:24:23.230 - 00:24:46.372, Speaker A: They do have a lot of, a lot of good marketing and bd chops. So probably they can, they can do something there. But if you look at the other standalone Altus here, like I don't know if Linnea is doing a super chain mantle scroll, I don't know if Starkware is doing one. And then I'm just going down the list here of independent ones. Taika is something different. They're doing a base roll up. So, so they're definitely filling a different niche here.
00:24:46.372 - 00:25:21.194, Speaker A: Immutable is built on polygons technology. Astar is polygons technology. Right. So if you actually go through the list, there are only a few independent l two s left that aren't doing their own super chain thing, and some of them more successful than others. But like, are they going to be forced into doing it because of the network effect game? Like, I really think so. Because if we're going to be in a live in a world where everyone wants to spin up their own roll up as like an app chain, then you're not going to get those developers deploying their app on your chain on your l two. Or if they do do that, they're not going to be paying much attention to it versus their own chain.
00:25:21.194 - 00:26:30.682, Speaker A: So I think that the natural consequence over time will be that the super chains win out over the, over the smaller ones here and there will be some, I think, niche chains that kind of get traction that aren't part of a super chain, but they may just join one because it's very similar to how countries have trade agreements with each other, right? Like, and have better trade agreements with some countries versus other ones. Like, for example, if you want to have a free trade agreement with low tariffs and really easy trade between two countries, you could consider that to be akin to a chain joining, like the op super chain, for example. Whereas if you have more restrictive trading policies between chains, it would be like two super chains trying to communicate with each other, right? So, and you know, I guess, like it's more expensive to communicate, takes longer to trade, sort of things like that as well. So there are some loose analogies at play here, but that's generally how I see it there. But anyway, you can go give ZK Sync's announcement a read for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so staying on the l two topic here, so there's been a lot of, I guess, talk over the last maybe couple of years about l two s becoming l one s once they become very successful.
00:26:30.682 - 00:27:44.416, Speaker A: Now, I understand if you're coming at this from, I guess like a noob perspective where you may not understand why an l two is an l two, and you may just look at it as another chain and be like, okay, well, why wouldn't this thing just become an l one if they're super successful? Why keep, I guess, like they call it paying rent to Ethereum l one, so on and so forth? So the answer may be obvious to people that have listened to the refill for years now, because what I'm going to say is not going to be news to you guys, but there was a tweet that was put up by Yulong today, who is one of the people building mega eth, which is a super, trying to be a super scalable evM. Roll up on ethereum here, where he was, quote, tweeting someone saying that, you know, mega mega eth could be launched as an l one instead of an l two, and they'd be better off doing that. And Yulong says, no, well, this is wrong. Many of the mega eth technologies for scaling l two s don't apply to l one. The only reason we can implement such aggressive optimizations is that we can leverage the base layers, ethereum and eigenva, for security and censorship resistance. If you're looking to build a high performance l one study, Solana, Aptos or Monad, the design space for high performance l one's and l two s are just very different. So no, mega eth is never going to be an l one.
00:27:44.416 - 00:28:15.796, Speaker A: It just doesn't make any sense. This is what I've been banging on for years, guys, is that being an l one is inferior to being an l two. If your goal is scalability, if your goal is performance, if your goal is making sure that you have reliability by settling down to something like a. Like a theory. I'm like a global sentiment layer. Very secure l one. And a lot of the innovations, as Yulong says here, especially around Zk, are being done at l two and are not possible to be done as an l one.
00:28:15.796 - 00:28:39.918, Speaker A: Like, you have to. As an l one. The number one thing, at least, I think it's the number one thing. I may be wrong here, but the number one thing you have to actually consider is the fact that you have to come to consensus on things. So you're limited by that. You're limited by the fact that you have to come to consensus with a deal, globally distributed validator set, that is economically secured not to attack. Sorry, economically incentivized, not to attack the chain.
00:28:39.918 - 00:28:59.558, Speaker A: Right. For. And also to stay online and keep the chain up. Yeah, that's extremely difficult. That is not an easy task at all. And you're also paying for that out of token rewards too, right? Like as a network, you're paying out token rewards to do this, whereas with an l two, you don't have to worry about this at all. All you're doing is posting down your data and proofs to Ethereum l one.
00:28:59.558 - 00:29:46.712, Speaker A: Or you're posting your data elsewhere and posting your proof down to l one, and suddenly you are an l two. You have your breed, you're deployed in Ethereum mainnet people can bridge in and out to your l two, and there you go, you're done. You don't have to worry about coming to consensus on things. You don't have to worry about spinning up a, you know, widely distributed validator set. You obviously do have to worry about some other things, like making sure that anyone can run a sequencer so you get better censorship resistant guarantees, resistance guarantees from there. But when you don't have to worry about coming to consensus on something, when you don't have to worry about the distributed computing problems, you can just focus on making the most performance, most scalable chain that's, that's ever been conceived, really. And that's why I think that l two, specifically roll ups are going to be the most scalable chains out there.
00:29:46.712 - 00:30:40.342, Speaker A: And they, I mean, they are not there yet, of course, but they are going to get there, definitely. So I'm glad that Yulong put this out here, because that pervasive narrative that l two s, once they get big enough, are going to become l one s is wrong on so many different reasons, but especially the technical reasons. I'm not even talking about like the, I guess some the incentive reasons of, well, why would you give up your entire network effect? Like, yeah, okay, maybe you've been able to develop your own network effect, but the thing is, is that a lot of those people came to your chain because you're an l two, not because you're an l one. Because they feel more secure on an l two versus an l one. I know for a fact I would immediately remove all of my assets from any chain that decided to migrate from becoming an l two to an l one. I would not trust that at all. And, you know, the fact that they even would do that would basically and just be a huge betrayal of, I guess, trust for the ecosystem as well, for their community as well.
00:30:40.342 - 00:31:17.940, Speaker A: So I just don't see that happening. I understand if you're coming at this from a new perspective and you don't really know what you're talking about, it can seem logical that once an l two gets big enough, it becomes an l one. It's kind of like when you say, oh, well, if a country gets big enough, it becomes independent. Like, for example, all the british colonel colonies basically saying, well, screw you, royal family, we're going to become independent. That's not, that's not the same thing as this, right? That's not the same thing as this at all. It'd be like, you know what it'd be like? It'd be like a skyscraper in a city saying to the city, hey, we want to become independent of you because we make so much money in this, you know, in this building. We.
00:31:17.940 - 00:31:34.380, Speaker A: We don't want to be part of your country anymore. We don't. We don't. Part of your city anymore. Um, and, you know, we're just going to do that. Well, okay, but how are you going to do that? You can't move the building, so you're still in the city. And now all of a sudden you have all of the other costs associated with, with running a building that you have to pay out of your own pocket.
00:31:34.380 - 00:31:56.444, Speaker A: You now don't have the protection, the guarantees of the laws of the city that you're in and the country that you're in. Like, it just all breaks apart. Right. So that would be the better analogy here, not the analogy of a country, you know, breaks apart from another country and. No, you know, no longer. Sorry, a colony breaks apart, is no longer a colony, becomes its own country, has its own rules and regulations. Sure, go and do that.
00:31:56.444 - 00:32:32.260, Speaker A: It's historically extremely difficult, but also, it's not, that's not the analogy. That is, I guess, useful here when comparing l two s and l one s. I'm moving on from that just to some news from circle. So you guys know that there has been a regulation called Mika or mica running through the EU. And I think it was put into force a few months ago. Now, a circle announced that they are the first global stablecoin issuer to achieve mika compliance here for the USDC and Euroc or EURC stable coins. So kudos to them.
00:32:32.260 - 00:33:09.512, Speaker A: Congrats on that. But I'm gonna put on my bear hat for a little bit here and say that I don't like this trend because what this is, guys, this is regulatory capture. So, yeah, okay, USDC has this, but will tether have this? Will USDT have this? Will. I mean, bust bus doesn't exist anymore, but will it have had this? Will other stable coins have this? I'm not convinced they will. Because once you have this, once you have regulatory approval, and once you are, you have that advantage over your competition. Competition. Why would you want your competition to be able to have that as well? So what you do is you start engaging in regulatory capture.
00:33:09.512 - 00:33:40.020, Speaker A: You start greasing the wheels of the right people. Right? And this is not something that circle hasn't done in the past. I'm not accusing them of doing this or anything like that, but they have been in court before arguing that, you know, tether is basically a complete fraud, is going to collapse at any moment. Like I'm paraphrasing here, they didn't say these exact things, but they were basically in court fighting tether, essentially. Right. And obviously to their own benefit here. So as much as I love USDC as a stable coin, I love the fact that it exists.
00:33:40.020 - 00:34:27.482, Speaker A: I love that people can use it and people can get value out of it. I don't love regulatory capture. I don't love winners and losers being chosen by government protection or regulatory protection. So I really hope that other stable coin issuers can get this mega compliance. I hope that USDT can, obviously, because it's the biggest one, but others as well. I hope that this, this regulation doesn't hinder these, I guess, like smaller stable coins as well, the stable coin startups from being able to compete with the bigger guys, because that is traditionally what it's been in every industry, is that bigger players capture the regulatory environment and then squeeze out smaller players by doing that, by making it essentially illegal for them to compete, which is not great. But yeah, anyway, I just wanted to bring that up because I did see people celebrating this, but.
00:34:27.482 - 00:34:54.716, Speaker A: But I thought there was a bit of a bare case to be made on that front there. All right, finishing up today's episode. I'm not going to spend too long on this, even though I could talk about this for hours. I put out another tweet today where I said crypto is a cultural social movement first and a technology movement second. This, I believe, is where the majority of disagreements arise from. In this ecosystem. I'm in it for the tech, but I wouldn't be in it at all if I didn't vibe with the cultural social movement.
00:34:54.716 - 00:35:21.584, Speaker A: I haven't been, I guess I haven't. Haven't been hiding this from you guys at all. I haven't been quiet about this, but if I didn't vibe with Ethereum's culture and what it's trying to do and what it's trying to be from a social perspective, I wouldn't be in Ethereum. And if I wasn't in Ethereum, I wouldn't be in crypto. Because every other ecosystem that I look at, I don't vibe with the culture. Every other l one ecosystem in particular, I don't vibe with the culture. I definitely do not vibe with bitcoin culture at all.
00:35:21.584 - 00:35:44.522, Speaker A: Like hardcore libertarian. Everything's a scam except bitcoin. Like, I don't vibe with that. I know there are other pockets of bitcoin culture, but they begin to look a lot like copycats of Ethereum culture just with bitcoin. So I kind of see that as redundant. And then you can go down the list of other ecosystems out there. I don't want to really call out any in particular, but I feel like it's worth calling them out just to illustrate my point.
00:35:44.522 - 00:36:02.130, Speaker A: So I'll go down on the list. Solana, obvious example. I don't vibe with that culture at all. It's a very, very different culture to Ethereum. A lot of it is. A lot of it is obviously the djing culture. But even outside of that, the culture of moving fast and breaking things, the culture of not respecting the fact that.
00:36:02.130 - 00:36:33.588, Speaker A: That the value of this industry is decentralization and we should be able to run, you know, full nodes at home on consumer hardware, stuff like that. Like, I don't want to fud salon or anything like that, but that's what I'm saying. Like, it's a different culture and I don't vibe with that. And then you can go down the list, right? You got Cardano. Definitely don't vibe with that. That culture avalanche, it's essentially a shitty copycat of a theory. I mean, in my eyes, because they have an EVM chain on there, this super nets thing, or, sorry, I should say their subnets thing is vastly inferior to L2s on Ethereum.
00:36:33.588 - 00:36:51.326, Speaker A: So from the. That's technical side, I just don't vibe with. And the cultural side, the avalanche people. From what I've noticed on Twitter, I've been incredibly toxic. Like very, very toxic, and seem to not really care about anything but like, shitting on other ecosystems, especially Ethereum. Right? And then, I mean, there's a laundry list of these l ones. Polka dot.
00:36:51.326 - 00:37:24.006, Speaker A: Polka dot. A funny one, because the most attention polka dot has gotten in the last, like, few years has been this week. Because I'm sure you saw on Twitter that there was a bunch of stuff that came out about how they're burning like $80 million every six months and essentially spending all this money on advertising and spending all this money on. On shilling via influencers and stuff like that. So, so that was funny. But I don't even know what polka dot culture is, to be honest. I think it might be closer to Ethereum culture, but at the same time, they seem to be too far on the let's wax philosophically about governance side.
00:37:24.006 - 00:37:39.082, Speaker A: Like, the last time I checked in, they were very down that rabbit hole. And I'm like, okay, that's cool and all, but the, you know, philosophers thinkers. They're not doers. Like, a lot of the time. They're just thinking about things, which is valuable. But you have to have both if you're building out an ecosystem. Right? So you have to have thinkers and doers here.
00:37:39.082 - 00:37:52.546, Speaker A: And then you can keep going down the list here. I'm not gonna. I'm not gonna call out everything else, but, yeah, generally, I don't vibe with any of the other ecosystems out there. Don't vibe with the culture at all. Don't think I'd fit in, in that culture. But in Ethereum, I'm home. And I think a lot of that.
00:37:52.546 - 00:38:07.210, Speaker A: Sorry. I think that applies to a lot of you guys as well. But on that note, at that, I'm gonna end that. This extra long episode today there. Maybe I need to bring back the daily episodes instead of Monday, Wednesday, Friday, cadence, because I'm going overtime. But. But anyway, enough of that.
00:38:07.210 - 00:38:16.290, Speaker A: That is it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all on Friday. Thanks, everyone.
