00:00:00.250 - 00:00:37.080, Speaker A: Well, the people have spoken. Uniswap's Dow governance has voted overwhelmingly in favor of deploying Uniswap's V three iteration on ZK sync. Just 120 votes in total were cast against the proposal, compared to 72.4 million votes in favor. And it only makes sense. ZKsync is changing the game right now with its pioneering zero knowledge proof technology, which handles transactions with far lower gas fees without compromising security or privacy. So now that the biggest Dex in town, uniswap, is becoming available on ZK sync, what does that mean for the wider defi world? Let's get into it.
00:00:37.080 - 00:01:29.254, Speaker A: And if you want more defi news and analysis that cuts through the noise, make sure to subscribe so you don't miss out on our regular uploads. Zero knowledge proofs roll ups, layer twos it may seem like a lot of technical jargon, and we will get into the specifics in a bit, but all you really need to understand as to why it matters is that zero knowledge proofs have been hailed by top Ethereum devs and researchers as the tech that will allow Ethereum to scale. Or in other words, devs are counting on these cryptographic developments for Ethereum to be able to withstand real mainstream adoption. Zero knowledge rollups are one of many layer two flavors. Layer two refers to the ability to take some of the computation and storage off a layer one, like Ethereum and bitcoin, into a chain that's a lot faster. That's how they're going to allow for many transactions per second and do it very cheaply. The most popular layer two s are optimistic rollups.
00:01:29.254 - 00:02:25.482, Speaker A: Optimistic rollups assume that transactions are accurate, but they also allow network participants to dispute them. So in essence, if a validator is found to be submitting inaccurate transactions, they automatically become at risk of losing a huge amount of capital. There's also another problem with the way optimistic rollups check for fraud, and that's the dispute, period. It takes seven days, which means it takes seven days for a user to withdraw their money from an optimistic rollup. Although two optimistic rollup protocols, arbitrum and optimism, control about 80% of total value locked across all the layer two networks, Vitalik still believes it's going to be zero knowledge proofs, not optimistic rollups that are the endgame solution for scalability. That's why the news that uniswap is going to be deploying on ZK sync is such big news. It means that the biggest decentralized exchange by volume will now be operating on exactly the type of roll up that Vitalik believes is going to solve Ethereum's scalability issue.
00:02:25.482 - 00:02:55.378, Speaker A: That could also trigger other players to do exactly the same. It also means that other Dapps will now be viable on ZK sync. Web three dapps require the ability to quickly and cheaply trade in and out of different tokens. So without liquidity, most of these dapps are pretty darn useless. And with Uniswap on ZK sync, a whole ecosystem can start to form around it. But before we get into ZK sync, let's hear a quick word from our sponsors who make all these videos possible. Galaxy is the leading web three credential data network in the world.
00:02:55.378 - 00:03:48.674, Speaker A: This collaborative credential infrastructure enables brands and developers to engage communities and build robust products in web three. With Galaxy, users can explore web three and learn to earn campaigns with over 700 partners. On the other hand, builders have the opportunity to create growth campaigns on a seamless plug and play dashboard. Galaxy is constantly innovating and now introducing Galaxy Passport, the one click solution to verifying web three identities. Mint yours today Zksync is a proof based rollup being built by Matterlabs on the Ethereum network. They currently have about $53 million in locked assets, and they offer smart contract execution, but most importantly, quick and inexpensive transactions through their zero knowledge proof network. The most notable benefits of zero knowledge proofs is that they allow for the validation of data without publicly revealing transaction data on a blockchain.
00:03:48.674 - 00:04:43.078, Speaker A: So as we saw earlier, they also solved the seven day withdrawal time issue. But Zksync isn't the only zero knowledge rollup. Loopring Aztec, Starknet and Polygon are all major competitors, with Polygon recently announcing it will launch their own testnet for its own ZK roll ups. And that's what makes the Uniswap news such a big deal, with Vitalik stating that he believes zero knowledge proofs is the endgame solution for ethereum's scalability. It means a whole lot that the biggest Dex by volume is choosing ZK sync over all the other competitors, something that could give ZKSync the upper hand in the bid for the zero knowledge rollup throne. Especially when you consider that Uniswap Labs announced just one day before that it had unicorn status after raising another 165,000,000 from venture capital firms. It definitely feels that ZK Sync is in a prime position to become top dog in the zero knowledge proof game.
00:04:43.078 - 00:04:49.540, Speaker A: That's it for today's quick take. Let us know in the comments if you think ZK roll ups will live up to the expectation, and we'll see you next time.
