00:00:00.120 - 00:00:20.862, Speaker A: Cross chain space is going to be a massive market, and we need to build the most efficient and most secure solution. High performance narrative will be really huge, and that comes not only to blockchain ecosystems, but cross chain infrastructures as well. And that's why high performance is one of our goals or focus areas in DBridge as well.
00:00:20.998 - 00:00:58.374, Speaker B: Before we get moving on today's episode, just a quick disclaimer. The views expressed on this podcast by either myself, my co host, or any guests are their personal views and do not represent the views of any associated organization. Nothing in the episode should be construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or any other advice. Okay, let's jump into the episode. All right, everyone, welcome back to an episode of Lightspeed. We are joined today by Alex, the co founder of DBridge, an intent centric bridge that is currently doing over 120 million in weekly volume. So, Alex, you guys are crushing it, man.
00:00:58.374 - 00:01:32.174, Speaker B: Thanks a ton for hopping on the show today. We got a really exciting question list lined up for you today covering intents, what the hell they are, and the tech behind it, and how you guys are powering this new age of interoperability throughout the ecosystem. So maybe a good jumping off point here will be. You guys have been around since the early days, in early days being a loose term here in the crypto industry, but 2021, man. So you've seen a lot, and I really want to get your take on how the interoperability space specifically has kind of like evolved or developed over the past few years.
00:01:32.254 - 00:02:02.610, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So, first of all, hello, everyone, and Heidi, and thanks a lot for hosting me today. So, yeah, I'm Alex. I'm co founder at Deepbridge. We are building the high performance cross chain infrastructure. And the reason why we started to build deep breach is because we needed to solve the cross chain problem for ourselves. Right before building Dbridge, we had a blockchain development company, and with another co founder back in like 2020, we built mev strategies.
00:02:02.610 - 00:03:02.834, Speaker A: And we were like among the first to do a cross chain arbitrage between Ethereum and BNB chain. And the only way to rebalance liquidity was using the centralized exchanges. And at some point we just struggled with the efficient rebalancing because sometimes exchanges locked withdrawals, sometimes exchanges suspended accounts, or sometimes just withdrawals were imposed because there was no sufficient liquidity in the hot wallets that really limited the way we could scale our business. And we realized, okay, that just like the cross chain space needs to have efficient infrastructure that allows to transfer information and liquidity in a very efficient and non custodial manner. And that's how the idea of, of the bridge came up. And we just needed to get a trigger to start, you know, implementation and build some POC proof of concept. And yeah, the trigger was the hackathon.
00:03:02.834 - 00:04:08.484, Speaker A: Like in April 2021, we participated in the chain on global hackathon just to have some fun, you know, and to build the concept of the idea that we had in mind. And yeah, eventually we won the hackathon, got the first place among 150 projects worldwide, got a ton of interest from different vc's and partners, and we realized that, like, cross chain space is going to be a massive market and we need to build the most efficient and most secure solution. And that's when our mission started. And yeah, like when we build dBridge, we realize that, like, the foundation of the cross chain interoperability is a messenger, right? There is a need to transfer information in a decentralized fashion, but at the same time, like, messaging itself is not enough. Like everyone, the users and defi protocols as well, they first of all need to transfer liquidity or value between chains. And you cannot build the value transfer layer without having efficient messaging. That's why, like, from the very beginning, DBridge was the cross chain messaging infrastructure.
00:04:08.484 - 00:05:20.886, Speaker A: And cross chain transfer, like value transfers, was one of the first utilities, right? One of the first apps built on top of deep breach. And like in the very first version, we used kind of classical synchronous approach where we had liquidity pool in different chains. And when user makes the transfer, he just like deposits liquidity into the pool in one chain and then receives liquidity, or like gets the transfer saddles from the pool on another chain. And we've quickly realized that this approach is not scalable. Like, liquidity pool is always going to be a massive bottleneck. And that's a bottleneck in terms of security, scalability and capital efficiency, because like, in order to have liquidity protocols or bridges, have to attract it somehow and retain, right? So that means that there should be some incentive or the interest that is continuously paid for liquidity providers. But the problem here is that like, cross chain transfers are discrete, right? Like today you can have a ton of volume due to market volatility, and tomorrow there will be like very, very low volume because no one wants to bridge in that specific direction.
00:05:20.886 - 00:05:56.686, Speaker A: But interest have to be paid continuously in time. That's why there is no way to have capital efficient or profitable infrastructure. The second problem here is the security, because whenever you have a ton of TVL, that creates massive honey pots for hackers. And that's a big incentive to exploit the protocol and infrastructure. And that's probably one of the reasons why we've seen so many hacks in the cross chain space. And bridges are like target number one for Lazarus group and all the malicious actors. So security is another big concern.
00:05:56.686 - 00:06:58.906, Speaker A: And scalability as well, because whenever you have a pool, you got to have some sort of mm model, like MM curve for the price discovery. And that basically means slippage, because if you have some intermediary asset, that asset have to be swapped into the native asset, and there is always price impact. So users never know how much of assets they will receive on the destination chain. That's why bridging is an unpredictable process in terms of the price. The best thing that users can do is just specify slippage tolerance. And the last problem is the scalability in general, because let's say if there is only $1 million of liquidity in the pool and he wants to make $2 million transfer, you simply cannot do that, right? So you're very limited. And the problem here is because, like, it arises because classical approach, like, or like most of the bridges, you know, they try to solve asset custody and bridging, like, value bridging simultaneously.
00:06:58.906 - 00:07:33.554, Speaker A: So they custodied assets across all the chains and they enabled trading through the pools. And I think that in DBridge, we're the first to team in this space that tried to differentiate cross chain asset custody from cross chain trading, because, like, the word bridge itself became, like, very confusing. Because, like, there is custody bridges, like messaging bridges or value transfer bridges, and, like, people are trying to solve everything in a single by single solution when we have, like, specific solution for every pillar. And that's, I guess, the main differentiator.
00:07:33.914 - 00:08:08.118, Speaker B: My friends, big, big news. Blockworks is hosting permissionless three in Salt Lake City this year. So we're heading west for three days starting October 9. Permissionless is our industry's premier defi event that brings together crypto natives from all over the globe. I've personally been the last few years and can honestly say that the attendees are incredible. It's people who actually care about crypto. We also have more than 200 industry titans speaking at the event, and this includes builders like Lucas Brewder from Jito Labs and Brian Pellegrino from Layer Zero, or investors like Kyle Simone and Joe McCann, and even elected officials like representative Tom Emmer, who is fighting the good fight in Washington.
00:08:08.118 - 00:08:36.444, Speaker B: And it's narrative season, so we're going to be covering the seven hottest themes in crypto, this includes things like modularity and restaking or bitcoin and l two s, and even AI and crypto. The goal is to keep you up to speed on major developments in the industry. Ticket prices will be structurally increasing over time, so get your ticket today from my lightspeed family. I got you. We're going to use code lightspeed ten in all caps. No space for 10% off your ticket. All right, everyone, I look forward to seeing you at permissionless three, and let's get back to the show.
00:08:36.444 - 00:09:24.174, Speaker B: And so as a bridge provider or messaging platform, you know, you connect to a lot of chains and you see a lot of different architectural designs of those chains, right? And maybe if you had a spectrum of, like, decentralization to performance, you'd have, like, ethereum on the decentralization end, wants to push execution off to its l two s. And for that reason, it's like prioritizing the, you know, the solo staker, the at home staker, versus pushing further out into the performance end of the spectrum. You know, you'll come across like a Solana or even further out, maybe an apdos or a swe. I'm curious where you think, like, the ideal trade off lies. And of course, like, there are trade offs here, right? Like, but I'm curious where you see the, the industry moving as we, as we go forward. Is it more towards the decentralization end or is it more towards the performance end of that spectrum?
00:09:25.084 - 00:10:25.378, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that, like, every chain will have a trade off, right? It just depends on like, what niche every single ecosystem is trying to target. Because Ethereum is obviously the most secure, the most decentralized blockchain ecosystem. But the problem here that, like, not everyone can afford using Ethereum, like, small users are not willing to pay, they cannot afford, like paying $70 in gas for one transaction. And sometimes you send transaction and then you find out that transaction is reverted, but you still got gas deducted from your wallet balance. That's why Ethereum is not suitable for the smaller retail users, but more for institutional investors or institutional players who need to have maximum security guarantees from another side. We have Solana, which is a high performance infrastructure. And Solana is very cheap, very scalable.
00:10:25.378 - 00:11:28.648, Speaker A: At the same time, it's decentralized enough to make bigger investors to be comfortable with the security model as well. In DBridge in general, we are very bullish on the high performance infrastructures because that's the type of infrastructure that we are building because so far, DBridge is the fastest breach on the market. Our motor SaaS that DeFi does not wait. Like, our users are those who don't want to wait for, like, 20 or 30 minutes for the transfer of their assets between chains. Right. And I think that this kind of thesis is applicable for Solana and high performance chains as well, because in general, the main advantage of DeFi is, like, 24 sound accessibility, transparency, and non custodial control over the funds. That's why, in my personal opinion, I think that the narrative will be shifting toward high performance chains.
00:11:28.648 - 00:12:27.820, Speaker A: And I think that in Dbrish, we did a really great job when we started to build on Solana, because we are Solana native projects. Before DBridge launched on Mainnet in 2022, we started to build smart contracts and the infrastructure for Solana ecosystem. Just after, like, secure our first round and receiving a small, like, small grant from Solana foundation, we realized, like, or we started to think, like, okay, guys, like, what should be the first non event chain that DBridge will support? And that was, like, almost three years ago. And we, and we just like the narrative, you know, and overall ecosystem that was built on Solana. And, yeah, we thought, like, okay, let's. Let's build up the whole brass team within deep breach and start building. And it took us almost two years to get from the point where we started until the point we released on production.
00:12:27.820 - 00:13:40.856, Speaker A: So, yeah, we basically released just in June 2023 and in November last year after Solana breakpoint, it's just like Solana was on fire. Everyone realized that speed, security, and finality are those qualities that retail users appreciate. And I think that what people really like the best finality to decentralization ratio that Solana has, because you have quick finality on L2s as well, like arbitrum optimism. But the problem there is that sequencer is centralized for now, right? And they still have. Have yet to become decentralized or be governed by the community. And Solana is decentralized already, right? It got, like, thousands of nodes, and the finality is very quick because, like, the transaction is getting processed within seconds or sometimes subseconds, depending on the kind of confirmation level that you expect as a user. So, yeah, and that's why Solana becomes very, you know, convenient for many broader use cases such as payments.
00:13:40.856 - 00:14:20.444, Speaker A: It's like when you pay by your credit card, you're not waiting for, like, 20 seconds, right? You just, like, want to tap and get, get the product that you're buying. Same with the on chain transactions, like, if you're paying for something or just, like, use crypto to purchase the item in the online store, you cannot wait. You just like want to process, transaction and move on. And that's why I think that high performance narrative will be really huge. And that comes not only to blockchain ecosystems, but cross chain infrastructures as well. And that's why high performance is one of our goals or focus areas in DBridge as well.
00:14:21.024 - 00:15:00.444, Speaker B: Speed kills, there's no doubt about it. And I love your motto that DeFi doesn't wait. I think that's becoming proven exceedingly true in the recent years. And I also, like in the first response, you talked about your transition away from that liquidity model, given those key problems, mostly centered around like scalability of the model and the need for liquidity into more of like this intent centric model. And intents have become like this big sexy word and they kind of mean everything. Which I want you to explain to us. What does the intent centric bridging model look like? What is happening behind the scenes? And what does it look like to the user?
00:15:01.474 - 00:15:31.140, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a good question. Like intent based model is the first that enables asynchronous paradigm, right? Because whenever liquidity pool is used, as we've discussed, there is like MM curve, and the price discovery happens through that code. So price discovery happens in the smart contract. That's why users need to specify slippage tolerance parameter. In the intent based approach, user controls execution. So user controls the price as well. It's very simple.
00:15:31.140 - 00:16:12.086, Speaker A: Like when we create the intent, we're just providing some reward for the action that we want to get done. So we can say, okay guys, I'm giving 100 USDC on polygon to anyone who will give me 99 USDC on so on. So we basically provide one USDC incentive or spread to anyone who will fulfill our intent. And in this case, basic intent is just a limit order. And we can specify any price if intent is not profitable. Let's say we are saying we are giving $100 to anyone who will give us $1,000. Obviously no one will be interested to fulfill our intent and we will have to cancel it.
00:16:12.086 - 00:17:15.483, Speaker A: But if intent is profitable, then we create MEV opportunity. We incentivize the entire market to execute this opportunity and get the action done. And the basic intent is just a limit order. But like the word itself, like the word intent assumes more sophisticated actions. So we can say, look guys, I'm giving 100 USDC to anyone who will get 95 USDC to be deployed to my Camino account on Solana, or I'm giving like 50 USDC on polygon to anyone who will open long position, like so long position on flesh trade protocol and so on. So intents can be very complicated, right? And they're fulfilled by professional market makers or solvers. And the beauty of this approach is that solvers take on all the risks, right? That comes to risks of transaction finality, risks of transaction reorgs, risks of inventory management and asset costing.
00:17:15.483 - 00:17:58.748, Speaker A: So for users, like in this case, the bridging operation just looks like a trade on centralized exchange, because it's very fast. Like when intent is created, there is no cross chain communication. So just like all the solvers or market maker, they see directly from the chain that there is a new intent created. They immediately evaluate its profitability. And if it's profitable, they compete on like who is the first to execute that action on the destination chain. So the beauty of this approach is that there is no messaging involved here directly, because messaging is slow, right? It requires like guaranteed finality. Normally it requires to pass through validation layer on the bridging side.
00:17:58.748 - 00:18:59.940, Speaker A: And in our case, there is no messaging before the intent is executed. But messaging itself is used by market makers to unlock liquidity on the source chain after intent is executed. So the model works in a way that they provide liquidity upfront, or like they execute the action intent upfront and then they can trigger a cross chain message that is sent to the source chain to unlock liquidity that user provided, right? So in this design, or in this case, like market makers elsewhere take on any risks of the cross chain messaging as well, let's say risk of collusion of validators or risk of be any problems with the messaging validation layer. So, yeah, and for user, we can achieve like the best possible user experience. It's just like any intent is getting settled in a matter of seconds. And the model is also very scalable, right? Because we are not limited in terms of liquidity. Like user can create $5 million trade from one chain to another.
00:18:59.940 - 00:19:37.674, Speaker A: And in order to get this trade file field, there should be just market makers who have decent liquidity on their balance sheet and who can fulfill that intent. So, yeah, and there is nothing to hack because like there is no liquidity that is getting continuously locked in the smart contract. Because like all the solvers or market makers, they just hold liquidity directly on their wallets, on their bounce, and they control the custody over that liquidity. And just like when there is a profitable intent, they provide that liquidity just in time. So they file, fill intent and then immediately unlock liquidity on the source chip. So yeah, that's basically how the model works.
00:19:38.574 - 00:20:13.662, Speaker B: So to me it sounds like the takeaway here is you're abstracting away all the complexity from the user. So the user gets this very seamless experience. They say, hey, here's the action that I intend to take in the take of a cross chain swaps, probably the easiest to reason through. You're like, I have eth on Ethereum mainnet, and I want Sol on Solana. That's the intent the user expresses. And then the complexity is kind of shoved onto the market makers, solvers, builders, fillers, whatever you want to call them. It's the same group of people, sophisticated actors, that fulfill the action behind the scenes.
00:20:13.662 - 00:20:41.844, Speaker B: And so those sophisticated actors play a very key role in making this happen. And to me it would seem like, you know, if I was launching a intent based protocol, onboarding them and integrating them into my system would be like p one for me, right? That like, if you can't achieve that, then you got nobody filling the orders. How hard is it to get them on board? Because like obviously there's an incentive here with them taking a cut of the transfer. But I'm just curious, like getting them on board, what is the big challenge there?
00:20:42.584 - 00:21:39.146, Speaker A: Yeah, I would say bootstrapping the intent infrastructure is like really big challenge, you know, because like when we built intent based model, you know, we reached out to different market makers. We said, look guys, we build this model, we need like liquidity providers or solvers who can like foul fill intent. And big market makers were not really interested because like they used to operate on the centralized exchanges as well. And they're interested only if there is like multimillion dollar opportunity that is easy to grab. And if that requires some sort of development or maintenance, it makes them difficult to get incentivized. So what we did, we built the first solver ourselves, right? We were the first like to start file filling intents and we just open sourced the intent script. We call it like deal and take your script.
00:21:39.146 - 00:22:40.054, Speaker A: It's on our GitHub repository. And as volume started to grow on dBridge, we started to see some addresses that started to front run us, right? Some guys took our script, optimized the code or infrastructure. They just became faster. And then we started to observe like more and more mev searchers and like on chain addresses join the competition because like when volumes are growing, they're getting more and more incentive to kind of optimize for the speed. And eventually we got the group of addresses and we even didn't know who they are, you know, like, they never reached out to us and we just saw that they're very fast and they're very sophisticated because they have very deep skills in terms of managing infrastructure, optimizing rpcs and stuff like that. And we're happy to see that, because in DBridge, our goal is very simple. We want to get user straight fulfilled as soon as possible.
00:22:40.054 - 00:23:36.806, Speaker A: And what important in the intent based approaches is to have open competition so that anyone can join it. So you don't give any specific preferences to specific parties, but you create an open market where anyone can compete. And the only problem we had left to solve is like, institutional liquidity, because if the trade is not too big, it was fulfilled by these MeV searchers. But we start to receive cases when someone was trading $2 million or $1 million. And obviously to fulfill this kind of intensity, we need to have $1 million of liquidity on the balance sheet. And we start to brainstorm how should we solve the problem of the institutional liquidity? And we had a couple of ideas. The first one was to lend or to borrow liquidity from some bigger liquidity provider.
00:23:36.806 - 00:24:34.672, Speaker A: But the problem with this approach is that to borrow liquidity you need to post collateral, but if you have collateral, you don't need liquidity. So it's sort of vicious circle. And eventually we started to talk to Rockaway, to the fund from Czech Republic, and they're also like, they have a liquid branch that is in charge of liquidity management. And they suggested an idea, they said, okay, guys, find a way where you can use liquidity without having control or custody over that liquidity. And we've realized that we can build very interesting setup where that liquidity is sitting on NPC wallet that is under control of Rockaway. But market makers or solvers of DBRIs can just propose transactions to that MPC wallet that are getting validated by Rokoway and then automatically broadcast. So, yeah, we got like, the first concept of this setup started to work together.
00:24:34.672 - 00:25:29.166, Speaker A: The MPC infrastructure was provided by Ford Defi, the NPC wallet that is built by guys from Israel. And everything, like, puzzle started to, you know, getting in place, like, all the pieces. And, yeah, like, Rockaway really helped us out on the market making or like, solving prompts. And it was quite a unique case because, like, the main, like, fund managers from Rockaway, they're coming from the classical tradfi background. And they were very excited because, like, this kind of setup would never be possible in trad five, where you can manage liquidity without having like control over that liquidity. And even without posing collateral. And that becomes possible only because of the DeFi infrastructure, because everything is on chain and one party can control the custody and other parties can propose transactions.
00:25:29.166 - 00:25:54.918, Speaker A: So it's quite interesting that allows us to enable institutional grade liquidity. So now if there is like big trade coming, we have this MPC setup, which is slower, but rock away the fund that can provide liquidity together. It's like very complex, or like very big intents to be fulfilled as well. So, yeah, that's like part of the story on how the solvers network was bootstrapped and debrief.
00:25:55.046 - 00:26:19.204, Speaker B: Do you think there'll be like an increasing DeFi flipping c five narrative there? Just because that revelation that rockaway kind of had exists only on blockchain rails? And so I'm curious just to. It sounds like you have a pretty good inside view of how this single fund sample size of one here, but how they viewed this. And if you think that there'll be a kind of a common theme as crypto becomes, the adoption of crypto increases through time.
00:26:20.104 - 00:27:10.250, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that classical markets will inevitably move on chain just because blockchain infrastructure and defi in general, provides transparency, predictability, and everyone has access to data. So let's say if you take a loan, you don't need to trust some documents. You can just look at the on chain balances and everyone has equal access to information. Right. And transparency. And like, markets, like, with the blockchain infra, markets can work 24/7 so you're not limited in terms of like, operation hours. And that's why I also believe that, like, high performance infrastructure will play a crucial role here, because in order to have efficient markets, we need to have, like, the minimal latency.
00:27:10.250 - 00:27:58.694, Speaker A: And that's why blockchain ecosystems like Solana will have big market share in terms of enabling these rails for classical tratfi world to move toward the decentralized infrastructure. And at the same time, like blockchain also provides the way to build permission systems. So let's say GP Morgan or some company will want to have their own infrastructure. They can just run the fork like SVM or EVM, and they will control the validation layer and they will control rpcs. At the same time, they can use bridges like dBridge to enable interconnection between permission blockchain ecosystems with permissionless world to enable efficient liquidity transfers between both.
00:27:59.954 - 00:28:30.018, Speaker B: Yeah, no, that makes a ton of sense. Sorry, I want to jump back to the solver side of things here. So you mentioned that they have to take balance sheet risk. And if you want to fulfill this intent, you have to have the asset to actually fill the intent. And you've built a system where you actually have to prove that the intent has indeed been fulfilled. And so the biggest point there being you'd need to take balance sheet risk. So what does this look like? Let's say I was on Ethereum main net with ETH, and I was like, with this meme going on, Sol has really got my attention.
00:28:30.018 - 00:28:41.054, Speaker B: I want to go buy some of that. How does that work in the intent based model? I think you guys did had a recent integration with Jitto that kind of plays a key role here.
00:28:41.674 - 00:29:37.510, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a good question. So whenever you create intent, you provide the reward or the asset that you use on the source chain, and you specify what asset or token address you want to receive on the destination chain. And let's say in your example, you want to receive some meme coin. And the problem here that solvers or market makers, they most likely don't have that meme coin on their balance sheet. So they need to find the most efficient route to swap from the asset that they have on the balance sheet into the asset that user wants to receive within that specific intent. And normally, market makers hold the most liquid assets, like USDC and ETH. And in case of Solana, that likely will be used to see, they see the intent and they need to swap from that USDC to the memcoin.
00:29:37.510 - 00:30:53.376, Speaker A: So the most efficient way to do that is like by aggregating on chain liquidity. So all the solvers are using Jupyter API to find the best route for the swap. So what they do, they need to, in a single transaction, they need to make a swap plus fulfillment of the intent, right? And after fulfillment, they will unlock liquidity on the ethereum site, USDC, and earn the small spread. And the problem here, like on solana, that transactions are limited in terms of the maximal transaction size, right? That's why solvers would have to, like, if the swap is complex in Jupiter, if it has like many legs, solvers would have to do swap and then fulfillment. And that's not atomic, right? And there can be a risk that they do the swap into this meme coin, then intent is already fulfilled by someone else. So we really needed to solve the challenge that would allow solvers or market makers to fit everything in a single transaction. And that's where Jitto bundles helped out, because Jitto infrastructure allowed us to bundle everything together and make that interaction to be atomic.
00:30:53.376 - 00:31:17.084, Speaker A: So if swap is failed or fulfillment of the intent is failed, the whole bundle is reverted. So thanks to g two and this integration, like with Jupiter plus Jito, we managed to provide very reliable way for market makers to stay delta neutral and avoid that volatility risks of the long tail assets.
00:31:17.904 - 00:32:06.536, Speaker B: Very interesting. That makes a lot of sense that if you have the atomicity and you can make these swaps guaranteed in the same block, then you can still hold that one single asset that you're okay with taking price risk to that is a liquid asset and still facilitate these intents. That makes a ton of sense there. One thing I'm curious about is, I don't know if this makes sense, so correct me if this is a silly take here, these solvers, fillers, builders, whatever you want to call them, it seems like the largest market of those today is probably ethereum block builders. And I'm curious to get your thought on a, if you agree with that, and b, if so, that kind of has become dominated by a very small number of parties. I haven't looked at the MEV data recently. The MEV boost data recently.
00:32:06.536 - 00:32:37.254, Speaker B: Tony has built a great dashboard. We'll put a link in the show notes to that. But last I looked, there's, let's say it's three or four builders that produce somewhere on the order of 60 to 70% to 80% of ethereum blocks. Over the long term, what do you think the solver market looks like for dBridge? Or maybe just intense more, more generally? Like, it seems that there would be kind of a power law and like a couple of firms really being able to dominate the transaction flow here. But I'm curious if you agree with that.
00:32:37.914 - 00:33:10.866, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that there is like a huge misconception and like misunderstanding of the MEV space in general. You know, many people think that these space is very monopolized or like very centralized, but it's not true. So we should think about the MEV space, you know, as about like Formula One rates. Like why there is no second Max Verstappen. And the answer is simple. Like, there is no second best, right? He's just like the best at what he does. Same for Mev's like their solvers that are doing like very good job.
00:33:10.866 - 00:34:04.514, Speaker A: You know, they have like hyper optimized infrastructure, hyper optimized code built on rust. They're just the fastest. And whenever anyone try to compete with them, they fail because like the same transaction, they always later than the best one. That's why competition is hard, especially if that competition comes to speed, like in DBridge. So based on the stats that we have in our explorer, we had around 300 different wallets that fulfill transactions. So basically 300 solvers, but only five or six are getting the biggest market share with a couple of those who are dominating because they're best, you know, and it's very difficult to become faster. So you got to have like the same level of infrastructure or experience as they have.
00:34:04.514 - 00:35:17.324, Speaker A: And this is also the reason why there is no like, you know, Jared from Subway, one of the biggest MEV searchers on Ethereum, just because he's the best, right? He's taking the biggest share of the MEV opportunities and he executes that share. So I guess like we'll still see this kind of dominance and that is fine because again, the goal is to get users trades fulfilled. If you have the accessibility or like the entry to be kind of decentralized and open for everyone, then you create a fair market, right? And if someone says, look like this guy is dominating, the space is centralized. No, it's not centralized. It's just you cannot build enough efficient solutions that are efficient enough to compete with that guy. And for us, like in Dbrich at this stage, the main kind of factor that we are solving for is the speed because we are focused on the high performance to provide some alpha, like in the second version of the intent based infrastructure, we'll have also the price discovery component. That will be the second variable added to equation in addition to the speed factor.
00:35:17.324 - 00:35:31.734, Speaker A: But still the space will be kind of dominated by those who are doing this job, like a movie job or intense taking job in the best possible way.
00:35:32.754 - 00:35:57.034, Speaker B: I love the f one comparison there. I guess I got to peg you for a Red Bull fan now. So let's talk about fees then. You mentioned that price discovery piece. You have to imagine that if I'm a user on chain a and I want to go to chain b, and I have $100, I want $100 on chain B. But there needs to be some incentive to make that transaction happen today. I think you mentioned a dollar.
00:35:57.034 - 00:36:10.154, Speaker B: How do you think about that going forward? Will there be fee compression here? People love to talk about a race to the bottom in fees, but the reality is Coinbase is still charging 3% on retail trades. I'm curious how you think about this.
00:36:10.674 - 00:36:59.760, Speaker A: Yeah. So first you got to provide incentive. That's true. So for example, in Dbridge, when you quote like the market price, like user can specify an arbitrary price, right? But if he wants to have his intent to be executed instantly. He can query our API and ask, like, what price should I specify to get instant settlement? And our API just lays in four bips, incentive for the solvers, right? Which is not, which is not too big, I would say. And plus four BPS is a fee that is taken by dbridge Infrastructure, by dbridge smart contracts for settlement. And at the end of the day, I think that there will be a way to kind of match intents directly between users and create some like network effects.
00:36:59.760 - 00:38:05.672, Speaker A: So let's say if I'm bridging like from Ethereum to Solana and you're bridging from Solana to Ethereum, then we don't need to have market maker or solver and we can preserve those four bps to be takers for each other. But again, that is already like kind of hyper optimization that is not needed at this specific moment because markets are not that efficient yet. But we are getting there step by step. I think for now, the biggest challenge is to set up the efficient liquidity rails so that market makers can rebalance liquidity very efficiently. And we had a good example, you know, like interesting use case with Solana. Like previously, the only way to get liquidity deposited to Solana was through centralized exchanges or through circle Mint platform, where you can have like institutional account, you can like deposit USD through the bank, you know, and Mint directly on the Solana chain. But that way is like very slow.
00:38:05.672 - 00:39:02.424, Speaker A: And it's assumed to because like circle Mint is asset custody solution and it's supposed to be used by like institutional players. Like the second alternative was exchanges you can deposit to, let's say binance from Ethereum and then withdraw to Solana. And that's how many solvers used to rebalance liquidity. But the problem here that like whenever there is any volatility on the market, exchanges immediately run out of the liquidity on their hot wallet and they immediately suspend withdrawals. So it's like very classical problem that whenever liquidity is needed, no one has it. And we saw it many times and it's still happening. And I think that what really helped in terms of establishing more efficient liquidity rails is like circle CCTP, because we started to have kind of non custodial way to interact with circle platform to kind of redeem USDC on one chain and mint USDC on another.
00:39:02.424 - 00:39:55.894, Speaker A: The problem here, that is still institutional because it's asset custody solution. So it's very slow. You know, it may take like up to 30 minutes to get the USDC transferred, but this is fine because like market makers need to rebalance liquidity only once in a while, right? Like a few times per day and they're okay to wait like 30 minutes. While for users the service or the settlement is still instant because like market makers or solvers provide the liquidity upfront and yeah, so as we have this like efficient liquidity rails and like decentralized infrastructure that allows to move liquidity nearly instantly and without slippage, I think that we have like more efficient markets and can enable freedom of movement for like users and this institutional players who need to move fast between different blockchains.
00:39:57.074 - 00:40:15.694, Speaker B: That makes sense to me. And what like, I guess going one step deeper on the idea of bringing global liquidity on chain. Like what, what do you think still needs to happen? Like what key elements are missing? Because it does feel like we're to your point, you know, with Cctplive, the rebalancing side gets easier for these sophisticated actors. But like, what, what pieces are still missing?
00:40:17.114 - 00:41:35.458, Speaker A: I think asset custody is the biggest challenge, right? Because like whenever you need to establish or bootstrap the new ecosystem or the new chain, you first need to have a bridge, right? You need to provide the framework or like let developers and projects to move easily toward your ecosystem or expand there, right. In order to make that happen, you need to have the custody solution that would allow to bring any asset to the ecosystem. And that comes like, if you talk about like on chain asset, that comes to canonical bridges, that allows you to lock asset in one chain and mint derivative on the other side in your, in your blockchain. So let's say arbitrum custody breach or like optimism custody breach are those who are solving this like asset custody challenge. And that is pillar number one. Like how do we enable decentralized minting of the assets for real world assets, we got to have custody as well. And circle basically uses a good example of the solution that allows you to like provide real USD to the bank account and mint the derivative, the digital like USDC asset on chain.
00:41:35.458 - 00:42:30.482, Speaker A: So as soon as custody is solved, any market makers or institutional players can bring liquidity to the blockchain. The second pillar to solve here is like trading when asset is already deployed. You want to provide ability for everyone to trade efficiently into this asset. So you need to have cross chain infrastructure to allow users to breach liquidity very quickly and seamlessly. And you need to have solvers or professional market makers who are settling those traits. And yeah, as soon as these pillars of interoperability are enabled, we already have some sort of rails that open up gateway for retail users and projects to expand. And yeah, that's what probably will be needed to bring markets on chain.
00:42:30.538 - 00:42:57.404, Speaker B: One more question here around sort of the technical side of this, which is like where do the trust assumptions lie for the user? If I say, hey, here's my intent, I want to ensure that I have x amount of dollars when the intent is completed or the limit order is fulfilled. Like where do I need to, like where's the trust in the system? And like does me as the user making this intent, have to take any risk on while this is being fulfilled.
00:42:58.224 - 00:44:02.786, Speaker A: So yeah, first group of risks is like the smart contract risk, right? And that is applicable to any defi primitive and any project, whenever you like, grant token approval or sign the permit, you kind of rely on the smart contract, right? That's why the audit practices and overall security is super important. And for example, in deep breach we treat security very seriously. That's why we are one of the only bridges that never had security problems or discovered vulnerabilities. And we've been super proud to maintain this high bar of security standards in the cross chain space. So security smart contracts risk the one, the first group, the second one is the validation. With classical bridges, when there are like liquidity pools, users are those who send a message cross chain. So they need to trust that validators of the messaging layer will not collude and forge the message.
00:44:02.786 - 00:44:54.044, Speaker A: And message transfer can be slow. Like for some chains it can take like 25 minutes, let's say, for messages initiated from Polygon. And that's why for users, bridging is some sort of black box. So you send transaction, your funds are transferred from your wallet, and now you're nervously waiting for 30 minutes until they will appear on the destination chain. And sometimes they don't appear and you have to reach out to the support in discord and ask, where is my funds? So in DBridge, we kind of shifted that paradigm, right? With the intent based approach. We moved on all these risks from users to professional market makers because like you create a trade, you create intent, and it's getting file filled in seconds. So you don't need to nervously wait because you know that like the fonts are going to appear on your wallet in a matter of seconds.
00:44:54.044 - 00:45:51.156, Speaker A: And moreover, you always know that your funds will never get stuck because in the worst case scenario, if like, there is no taker or solver that fulfilled your action or intent, you can cancel it by initiating the cross chain message that is sent from the destination chain back to source chain and you can cancel at any moment before it's fulfilled. So you control the execution flow. And that's why gbridge users are very excited, because first, trades are very fast, but even in some rare case scenario, or in case you create a limit order, if it's not fulfilled, you control it, right? You can cancel. So there is no like magic or black box. You always keep custody over your own funds. And that's why probably, like, DBridge has like zero marketing budgets, you know, because, like, our product is our marketing. Like, people get impressed by this, like, fast execution and they just like, organically spread the word.
00:45:51.156 - 00:46:34.156, Speaker A: But like, in terms of the trust assumptions, most of the risks are moved to market makers. So they bear a bunch of risks. First, that transaction may get reorged on the source chain, right? Or like, reverted for some reason. Second, they use messaging. Like, after intents are fulfilled, they trigger a cross chain message that is sent by the smart contract on the destination chain to the smart contract on the source chain that kind of relays this proof of fulfillment of the intent. And with messaging, like, with any messaging infrastructure, there is a risk that validators may collude and forge the message. But at the same time, with this intent based approach, the risk is way lower.
00:46:34.156 - 00:47:30.612, Speaker A: Because the liquidity that is locked is not a huge liquidity pool, it just the amount of transfers that are being settled at this specific moment. Instead of $100 million incentive, the whole transfer link, the whole bandwidth is way lower. That makes the system to be more secure. And, like, validators don't have any incentive, you know, to collude. And moreover, like, as a next step, it's also important to introduce financial guarantees so that validators of the bridges are not just like validating, or they're not just picked by governance, but they also post slashable financial guarantees. So they do something wrong, the governance will slash them and reimburse to those users or market makers who had a loss due to misbehavior of validators. So, yeah, that's how we see it.
00:47:30.612 - 00:48:23.544, Speaker A: And of course, like, there is also the set of long term risks, such as custody risks, right, of the blockchain ecosystem. Because, like, market makers hold assets on arbitrum, that means that they rely on the arbitrum sequencer and the arbitrum custody bridge. If they use CCTP, they kind of bear the risk. That circle may not attest or sign the transfer initiated through CCTP. Or if you hold USDC, you rely on the circle in general. So, yeah, just like the whole set of risks, but I think it's quite important to obstruct those risks or move from regular users who don't understand those risks and they have no chance to manage those to professional actors who are experienced in the risk management space.
00:48:24.004 - 00:48:53.404, Speaker B: Right? Again, there comes back up where you're just offloading the complexity away from the user and onto someone who is intentionally taking that complexity on being the sophisticated actor. I think broadly that idea makes a ton of sense, given just how complex a lot of this industry is. But I wanted to just take a second swing there. So the validator piece that you mentioned, what is the validator set look like today, specifically that you were referring to, and how do you intend that to develop going forward?
00:48:54.224 - 00:49:44.056, Speaker A: Yeah, right now we don't have token yet. In DBridge, our team governed the protocol and we bootstrapped the set of validators based on the performance of validators and people who participate in our test. Right. We just picked eleven best validators, like looking at their performance, reliability, etcetera. So validation layer in general is like one of the most important verticals in terms of like how cross chain messaging bridges should be evaluated, right? So you should look at number of validators, like their financial guarantees, and like how the validation is built. I think that we've taken quite a unique approach here. So in Dbrisch, we don't have any blockchain or intermediary network.
00:49:44.056 - 00:50:41.996, Speaker A: Our validators don't even talk or communicate with each other. Built validation in a way that like, validators just listen to events like messages that are initiated through DBRis smart contracts, and then they sign the unique hash of the message with their private key and store signature into Arviv, into the decentralized storage. And that allows anyone who has access to signatures to deliver or execute message on the destination chain. And with this kind of design, we have like three big advantages. First, security, because like validators never expose their IP addresses, they never talk to each other, so we never know where like validators host their validation node. Second is a gas efficiency, because like signing cryptographic signature is a very simple operation, right? So validators just like sign the hash and make it public through rv. And that's, and that's it.
00:50:41.996 - 00:51:58.424, Speaker A: That's why the infrastructure is also very gas efficient, because like, validators don't bear any costs, they don't broadcast any transactions, they just expose the signatures for each message. And here, like, it's important to understand like how validators are elected and what financial guarantees they will bear. So for now, we just picked eleven validators ourselves. But the idea that as soon as we have token, like pass control over the infrastructure to decentralized governance. Governance will be able to decide like how many validators infrastructure should have and at the same time like who should be validators participating in the infrastructure. And I think that what will be important is like how much collateral validators are willing to provide because you have these delegates taking and slashing modules that we will deploy after governance is getting decentralized. And that module allows anyone to stake liquidity for validators, right, and share the risk of validators misbehavior or collusion, but at the same time get rewarded for taking on that risk.
00:51:58.424 - 00:52:58.702, Speaker A: So let's say, I know that like notes, guardians are like very professional in terms of infrastructure management and are willing to stake like, I don't know, $200,000 for these validators to participate in the reward distribution mechanism and helping to secure the infrastructure. But at the same time, if not, guardians will do something wrong, they will get slashed by governance and I have a chance to lose my collateral because it will be used to reimburse those who had a loss. So with this kind of approach, we don't really need to chase the maximum number of validators, but we need to try and maximize their slashable collateral, their financial guarantees. And that's sort of the vector that we are taking DBridge, because right now we have eleven validators. We think that it's sufficient. But of course, like this number can always be increased. But what is really important is like to increase the guaranteed.
00:52:58.838 - 00:53:19.948, Speaker B: I totally agree with you that that's definitely one of the more important verticals and it'll be exciting to watch that grow as time goes on. But Alex, thank you so much for coming on the show today. It's been a fantastic, fantastic discussion. Broadly, I was like a little bit iffy on the whole world of intents, but you've pilled me, man. I'm all in. So thanks again for coming on, man. And we'll throw some links in the show notes to Dbridge and your Twitter as well.
00:53:19.948 - 00:53:22.252, Speaker B: But cheers, man, it's been fantastic.
00:53:22.428 - 00:53:33.566, Speaker A: Cheers. Yeah, I appreciate hosting me today and it's always great to talk to people who understand this space and you guys are doing great job on the research side of things. So yeah, big shout out.
00:53:33.700 - 00:53:36.394, Speaker B: Thank you. Thank you much. Appreciate that, man. Well, all the best. Cheers.
