00:00:00.600 - 00:00:24.798, Speaker A: All right, everyone, we're going to get started. So hey everyone, thanks for coming to the fifth daily Gwei Ama today. This is going to run for. It usually runs from anywhere from one to 2 hours, just depending on how many questions there are. I've got a fair few noted down in my sheet here, but definitely feel free to kind of ask questions as we go through as well. Just some ground rules. Please stay muted unless you're talking because the background noise gets annoying for everyone else.
00:00:24.798 - 00:01:00.150, Speaker A: And the way that the AMA will be run that is that I'll be reading off one question from the kind of sheet that I have here. These were the questions posted in the AMA series channel, and then I will be taking one from the audience. And if there's none from the audience, I'll just keep moving through the sheet. So this AMA will also be recorded and uploaded to YouTube. So if you have to leave partway through or, you know, you join partway through and you want to catch the whole thing, it'll be there with timestamps as well. So, yeah, without further ado, I'm going to jump into the first question I have on the sheet here. So this question comes from Yan, the faun who says, my question is about Ethereum and relational data.
00:01:00.150 - 00:01:38.204, Speaker A: I've heard of Ethereum is like the App Store, but for dapps, I'd imagine the infra needs some sort of analog to the relational databases of the app world. Eg, say I wanted to build a decentralized ride sharing app, same concept, just no middlemen taking cuts. In order to pull that off, I'd still need users with accounts, ride history, etcetera, and would need to both store query that info. Does Ethereum natively offer this functionality? And if not, how would I obtain it? So, I mean, Ethereum does offer this. It's basically what Ethereum is, right? A blockchain is essentially just a database at the end of the day, and decentralized one at that. Or it can be centralized too. I mean, not every blockchain is decentralized, but obviously Ethereum is not cheap to write to.
00:01:38.204 - 00:02:12.484, Speaker A: It's extremely expensive to use. And storing any kind of like large data on Ethereum is going to get probably expensive. And you're limited as well. Like Ethereum is limited by its gas limit and what we call the state in Ethereum, which is basically like, how much, how much kind of like data can we store on chain? So yes, Ethereum can do that on its own, and we can query Ethereum for all different things. I mean, the graph, an entire project is built around querying the chain and returning results back. And you see this on a lot of the defi front ends that you'll use, there'll be all these information displayed to you. But that is coming from the graph.
00:02:12.484 - 00:03:00.616, Speaker A: And the graph is getting that directly from the Ethereum blockchain. And they might be doing it through a service provider or an infrastructure provider like infuria or alchemy, or they might be running their own full node or archive node or whatever you want to call it there. Now, in terms of things that can kind of be additive to Ethereum and where Ethereum can get data from and tap into it, technically, it can be anywhere, right? You can kind of like point Ethereum to, or point like a smart contract to read from some source of data that's coming from off chain. So the perfect example of this is chain link, where Chainlink will publish this data to kind of Ethereum. And, you know, that's kind of like coming from, I guess, like the outside world. It's like off chain data being put on chain. Then there are dedicated projects like Filecoin and ipfs and arweave and stuff like that where the data is stored.
00:03:00.616 - 00:03:58.490, Speaker A: And, you know, those projects are trying to decentralize the storage of that data that Ethereum could also tap into. But I'm not an expert on this, but like, I have been reading some stuff about the fact that just because the data is on these other chains and it's decentralized, maybe it's decentralized on those chains. When you start reading it from Ethereum, it gets, it gets, it gets a bit mixed up or messy because of the fact that, oh, sorry, someone's not on mute. Agoras M labs, can you please go on mute? I'll just mute them there. All good? Yeah, it gets a little bit messy because you have to introduce new trust assumptions and it can lead to attack vectors and things like that. So hopefully that answers your question around the databases and how they work and can they be decentralized and stuff like that. And then to your point about using a ride sharing app as an example, like a fully decentralized ride sharing app or, or a social media app, whatever you want to do that requires lots of data.
00:03:58.490 - 00:04:25.536, Speaker A: I mean, that is definitely part of, I guess, part of Ethereum's vision, the web3 vision. It's not just Ethereum, but crypto in general. This web3 vision, where we decentralize out all layers of the stack. And so we're able to do these kind of decentralized social media and ride sharing apps, whatever you want to call it. But I think we're still very early. I think it's going to be a while before we get to that point where we have the infrastructure in place. We have enough demand for it too.
00:04:25.536 - 00:05:07.094, Speaker A: Like if you really think about it, I don't know how many people are demanding decentralized, kind of like Uber, for example. Maybe the, maybe the drivers are, maybe they're getting screwed on fees or whatever, but I think that there's a inherent kind of like demand problem there. Whereas with something like Defi, I mean, Defi is not only kind of like decentralizing finance, it's improving it by like a thousand x. Like more than that. Like it's literally restructuring the entire system, building it from the ground up. Whereas I don't think a decentralized Uber, for example, would, would necessarily be like a massive improvement over the existing kind of thing and that would lead to slower adoption. And obviously with things like ride sharing apps and social media, it's all about the network effects and you need large adoption for it to work.
00:05:07.094 - 00:05:25.750, Speaker A: It can't just, it has to, it has to be big to work. I mean, it's kind of like a chicken and egg problem, but uh, yeah, so hopefully that kind of like um, answers the question. Adds a bit more kind of color there, yan. But yeah, I'll take one from the audience. If not, I'll just keep moving through the sheet that I've got here. Anyone feel free to speak up. There's no need to raise your hand.
00:05:25.750 - 00:05:52.514, Speaker A: Just unmute and speak. Hey, Anthony, I've got a question. Hey, mate. Yeah, yeah. So you made a tweet, I think it was last week, about working for daos or finding a job working for a DaO. And I was just wondering like how I should go about doing that. So is there like a resource like a database for daos or is, should I just like join like Daz on, on discord or like.
00:05:52.514 - 00:06:30.690, Speaker A: Yeah. What would the process be for doing that? Yeah, it's a bit, I guess, like random. The process right now, there's no kind of like real structure to it, I think, from what I've noticed, because it's still so early, the, the thing that I noticed people doing is that they'll join a projects discord channel that they're, that they like or that, you know, they like the project and they start getting involved on there. They, they talk to the team, they talk to other community members, they start, you know, browsing through the governance forum, adding comments in there. You know, they might, may pick up tasks that are kind of like, just outstanding. Like, some Daos will have tasks where they'll be like, okay, well, this is like, this is part of what we want to do. And, like, anyone can pick this up and run with it.
00:06:30.690 - 00:07:22.572, Speaker A: And then you slowly kind of like, get into the groove and kind of become part of the community and people know you and you, you might become like a moderator of the discord, or you might become like a core contributor down the line or something like that. As far as like a kind of repository of daos and like a list of different daos, I'm sure there's something out there. I'm just, it's not just not coming to me right now, but there's so many of them that I guess, like, it becomes a bit harder to track. I think there's Dao House, House spelt H A U s, where they've got like a list of daos there. But generally, yeah, it's really just finding projects that you like joining their discord channels because they pretty much all have discord channels. And either kind of like just kind of easing into it, getting to know the community, kind of hanging out in there, or just straight up asking, hey, like, how can I contribute? And, you know, someone will tell you. And then you can kind of get started from there.
00:07:22.572 - 00:07:59.266, Speaker A: From what I've noticed, it's all noticed. It's all merit based. There is no, like, hey, what's your resume? Or anything like that. It's, you know, you, you get the work, you take on the work, you do it, and then you show, like, through time, as time progresses on that, you can do the work and you can add value to, to the dow. And usually, like, compensation happens through voting, where there'll be like a vote done, maybe it's once a month or something for, for contributor compensation. There's, there'll be a proposal for it, and then that proposal will get voted on by either the token holders or there'll be some kind of like, process that goes on there if there's no token for the project yet, sort of thing. So, yeah, it really is a loose process.
00:07:59.266 - 00:08:31.494, Speaker A: As I said, it's nothing, like really defined at this point in time. And I think that's actually the beauty of it, where it means that anyone can join and you don't even have to be known. You can literally stay anonymous because you're getting paid with on Ethereum, you're not getting paid with fiat, you're basically getting paid in stable coins or ETH or the project's token, it's normally the project's token. And, you know, that way it basically means you can stay completely anonymous and you literally only judge based on your merit. No one even needs to know who you are, where you're from or anything like that. So I think that's pretty cool. So hopefully that answers your question.
00:08:31.494 - 00:09:09.042, Speaker A: Yeah, it does. Great. Thank you. Awesome. All right, next one from the sheet here. So con Limoni says, ultra long term, 20 to 25 years from now, for example, when crypto is fully mature, aka reached a fully embraced level globally, what will be the role of fiat? How will governments be able to pull the levers they do today and control money supply, government debt, financing, money rules. Without control over money, how will they be able to function at the level that they want? In other words, the ultimate boss will eventually try to control, will then inevitably lead to destruction as crypto and control and control, not regulation, but control do not mix, and it defeats the overall purpose.
00:09:09.042 - 00:09:45.486, Speaker A: So eventually does the promise get realized and then crushed. So, I mean, this is a pretty big question. I'm not going to say like, I'm an expert on global geopolitics and fear and what governments are going to do and all that sort of stuff, but I think the way I kind of view this, I've been asked this a few times privately. I think Fiat's going to be around for a while in some form or another. And fiat really is just the notion of, like, money by decree by some nation state. Now, it doesn't have to be the current kind of crop of fiat that we have. It can literally be any kind of any country or any sovereignty, nation state or government, just saying we're going to issue our own currency sort of thing.
00:09:45.486 - 00:10:41.452, Speaker A: So I think that fear is going to be around for a while, even 2025 years from now. And I think that a lot of the things within crypto, I think that the term cryptocurrency is actually misleading at this point because a lot of these things aren't currencies, and a lot of them will never be currencies. And people say, okay, well, bitcoin is going to be the world's money one day, or people say eat is going to be the world's money one day or something, whatever you want to say. Or like some people say doge or whatever. But the problem is, is that, you know, depending on how you kind of look at it, you know, I mean, there's arguments for and against and everything, and there's bad things to fear and there's good things to fear. But generally you want stability when it comes to money, right? Like, for something to be good money, you want stability. And for, like, you know, for something like BTC or ETH, like, I don't see them ever being stable, especially like ETH, when if we do get that deflationary kind of nature happening post merge, post 1559, we're going to have this kind of asset that is always going to be volatile.
00:10:41.452 - 00:11:17.738, Speaker A: And, I mean, it depends what you measure it against. Obviously, if you're measuring it against fiat, then naturally, over time it should go up because assets that are restricted in supply should be going up against fiat, since the, I mean, the whole point for fiat is that it inflates and the government can print more to finance various things and to kind of like, you know, run the economy essentially. So I think that that from, from that point of view, the way I view, like, crypto assets like BTC and ethnicity are essentially like new kind of, I guess, stores of value for one. Right. That's a popular thing. I mean, maybe this is just applying to BTC. I still think ETH a story of value, but ETH has, like, much more utility beyond that.
00:11:17.738 - 00:12:21.870, Speaker A: While I don't think ETH will become like a currency or a money or, I mean, it's already money, like a good money or a good currency where people want to actually denominate in this and that, and then it runs the world sort of thing. I do believe it's kind of like serves its own very strong purpose within the ethereum economy itself. And same with, like, bitcoin, I guess, within the bitcoin economy, you know, it's very limited, of course, but you still need BTc to pay fees on, on bitcoin and stuff like that. And people hold bitcoin as like a store of value or whatever, or like a inflation hedge or whatever you want to call it. I mean, I kind of don't buy into the hardcore kind of, like, bitcoin to talk about bitcoin being the only good store of value and being the only good kind of like, inflation hedge, because I do believe that pretty much, like, everything that is non inflating that, you know, is tied to some kind of, like, value, like stocks, is the perfect example here, is going to just increase over time, especially stocks in companies that have been around for a long time and high chances they're going to be around for a long time in the future. I just think generally you can get that from other assets as well, and no one's using stocks as money. So that's kind of like how I view.
00:12:21.870 - 00:12:45.068, Speaker A: And no one's using gold as money. I mean, gold obviously backed was a collateral type for money. It was backing the US dollar for quite a while. But the thing is, is that, you know, that the reason why the US went off the gold standard was because it was restricting their ability to print money. And they wanted to, they want to print money, they like to print money. It solves a lot of issues for them. So, yeah, I mean, as I said, this is a, this is a big question.
00:12:45.068 - 00:13:20.902, Speaker A: There's a lot of different kind of winding parts you can go down. But I think that the through line, as David Hoffman loves to say, is that I think that calling these things cryptocurrencies is the wrong terminology. Now, I call them crypto assets because each of them have their own kind of way of accruing value, have their own use cases. And I don't think many of them are money. I mean, stable coins obviously are money because they're tied to the US dollar. And I'm very interested to see how things like riot progress, where it's just stable to itself and backed by a decentralized collateral type like ETH. But those are still very early experiments and things like that.
00:13:20.902 - 00:14:14.956, Speaker A: And if those things pan out, something like riot pans out, that could be the new kind of global money, right? And that could still be decentralized because it's backed up by ethics kind of other decentralized assets there. So I think that in terms of governments being able to control things, I mean, they can try, but I think that it'll get to a point where they'll, you know, I could see sometime in the future, like far into the future, maybe. Maybe not even too far into the future, but some kind of government backing up their own currency that they issue with BTC or ETH as collateral for that kind of currency. So, like going back to a gold standard, but with b two ETH, I don't know, I can see some smaller countries trialing that and seeing how that plays out. That would be quite, quite an experiment to see. But I think that there's no kind of like strong answer that I can give to this overall question because it's just, there's so many unknowns and so many different paths to go down when it comes to this. But, you know, generally, I do think that governments are going to.
00:14:14.956 - 00:15:00.248, Speaker A: Well, it's not all governments. I mean, it's not like, you know, the guy, there's like a one world government that controls everything. I mean, some people believe that, but I don't, you know, it depends which government you're talking about. But if we're talking about like the biggest ones, the US, you know, the ones in Europe, the EU, I guess in general, things like that, then I do believe that they're going to kind of, I guess they won't outright ban things, but they're going to, they're going to regulate things as much as they can, for sure. And, you know, it's going to be interesting to see how the crypto ecosystem responds to that and how decentralized that actually is. Because at the end of the day, the true test of this decentralization is when we actually have governments and nation states coming after these platforms because they have an unlimited budget, because they can just print as much money as they want, especially the US. I mean, the US is $800 billion military budget.
00:15:00.248 - 00:15:30.954, Speaker A: If they wanted to, they could kill, not kill, but they could basically severely hamper the bitcoin network because they would just attack it. And they could do the same thing for Ethereum. Even under proof of stake, they could do it. So I think that, and I mean, they wouldn't even have to go after the network. They could just choke all the other on and off ramps because they have all the regulations and things like that. So the, I think, you know, the turning point in all of this was El Salvador making BTC legal tender. And I think defi getting more and more probably, uh, prominence we've entered like the geopolitical arena.
00:15:30.954 - 00:16:14.678, Speaker A: So I don't think we're going to have to wait 20 to 25 years to see, uh, what government, how governments react here and how they're going to start kind of, I guess, doing things. I mean, we've already seen them do, uh, CBDC, central bank, digital currencies, but obviously that is tied to their own currency. Like it, a US CBDC will be tied to the US dollar, of course. Um, and maybe that is the way that they kind of, I guess, keep their control and, and basically allow things to exist while still being a big part of that is by issuing these things on networks like Ethereum. Maybe they, maybe they do that and they embrace it that way and then that's how they kind of maintain control. So, yeah, I'll leave it at that because I've, as I said, like this goes down a lot of different paths, but I hope that kind of gives you some stuff to think about. Con limanoy there.
00:16:14.678 - 00:16:33.570, Speaker A: Le Manny. I think that's how you say it anyway. Okay. One from the audience. If not, I'll keep moving through my list here. All right, all good. And feel free to ask it in the AMA series channel as well as we go through.
00:16:33.570 - 00:17:07.864, Speaker A: I'll check those at the end after I'm done through the sheet here. So this one comes from Ghostess Ave, who said, uniswap versus Sushiswap, which do you think has a great long term competitive advantage? So I think that these comparisons between Uniswap and sushi swap are actually moot at this point. I think these two projects have diverged so much that they're actually completely different things now. Yes, they both, you know, started off as an amm. You know, sushi swap started off as a fork of uniswap. But. But that ecosystem, sushi swaps ecosystem has been building out quite nicely.
00:17:07.864 - 00:17:45.177, Speaker A: I think they're doing a bunch of different things. They have different platforms on there, not just like the amm. They have. I mean, they announced the other day they're going to be doing an NFT platform. They have their money market stuff going on. They're doing a bunch of other things, like, from what I've seen, whereas Uniswap is really kind of focusing just on the amm aspect and improving that as much as they can. And obviously, with Uniswap V three, it's very different to v two, and that means it's different to Sushiswap, where I think Sushiswap is still favored by the passive liquidity providers because of the fact that they don't want to have to keep managing their positions like you do with v three and concentrated liquidity.
00:17:45.177 - 00:18:10.208, Speaker A: So I just think that definitely it's good to think about these projects as complementary, not in direct competition anymore, and judge them based on that. And, you know, at the end of the day, Uniswap still does ten times more volume than Sushiswap at the AMM level. But Uniswap isn't pursuing these other things. There's no. There's no, you know, Uniswap NFT platform. There's no money market that Uniswap is doing. I don't think they're going to go down that path.
00:18:10.208 - 00:18:37.300, Speaker A: I think that they're just going to keep trying to make the best, um, decentralized exchange ever, essentially. I don't. I just. I don't see them going down the path of. Of kind of like adding on all these other things, whereas sushiswap is like an entire ecosystem, rather than just focusing on the exchange aspect. And, you know, I think that's smart, because if I'm being honest, I don't think, uh, anyone can really catch uniswap at this point. It's good to have competition, but if you look at who's involved with Uniswap, if you look at kind of the.
00:18:37.300 - 00:19:13.554, Speaker A: The dominance that they have and the fact that they just keep growing, I mean, their network effect, their brand, they're kind of like the amount of brains working on that project, not just part of the core team, but also part of paradigm, their lead investor. I mean, a lot of you would know who paradigm is. They've got, you know, pretty much the smartest people in the ecosystem kind of working there. And on top of that, they have a pretty vibrant community as well. One thing that Uniswap, I guess, probably has at worse off than Sushiswap is maybe the governance side of things, the community governance side, where it's a bit messy. And, you know, governance is always messy. But I think Sushispop probably has a leg up there.
00:19:13.554 - 00:19:42.100, Speaker A: But as I said, like, if you're just comparing the exchanges to each other, then, yes, obviously, Uniswap is leaps and bounds ahead. But that's not to say that Sushiswap isn't improving their exchange either, or they won't appeal to kind of that those people who just want to do passive liquidity providing. But. But I think sushi swap played it smart where they said, well, we need to add more kind of products here and features here. We want to do more. We don't want to just be stuck on the decentralized exchange kind of stuff. And, yeah, that's kind of like my general view on those two.
00:19:42.100 - 00:20:14.784, Speaker A: And the funny thing is, I actually started off really hating sushiswap. I thought what they did with the vampire attack was really gross originally with Uniswap, and, you know, I kind of still think that to this day. But the thing is, I actually gained newfound respect for that whole team and that ecosystem when they started doing things that were different, and they actually, you know, kept at it. They kept innovating. They weren't just like a straight copycat fork anymore. And obviously, um, you know, the creator, chef Nomi, did the rug pull and then reverse rug pull and then, like, left. And there was so much drama around this project.
00:20:14.784 - 00:20:54.030, Speaker A: But I think looking back now, it's been almost a year, I think, what, ten months or something at this point since Sushiswap came onto the scene, you look back and see how far they've come and how much they've changed. I think it just stands on their own as a project now, and obviously uniswap does as well. So yeah, hopefully that answers your question around, I guess, my view on those two projects. But yeah, anyone in the audience, feel free to ask a question if you have one. Cool. I'll move on to the next one. So this one comes from dumb Gen or dumbgen ETH, who says, I want you to address the reason behind the price of sales ratio of ETH going up lately.
00:20:54.030 - 00:21:35.978, Speaker A: And this was asked on the 29 June, I think that, I think it's the same now. So the reason why it's going up is because gas fees came down right where it's going to go up. If, I mean, this is why I think price to sales and price to earnings ratios for something like Ethereum and bitcoin maybe don't make too much sense, but it's going to go up if the fees are going down and the ETH price is still quite high. Because basically all it's measuring is like how much fee revenue is Ethereum doing against its market cap. Now, obviously the fees came down, what, 90% from where they were. If you say that 100 way was like the norm for a while and then it dropped to like ten gwei. So it's about a 90% drop, whereas the ETH price hasn't dropped 90%.
00:21:35.978 - 00:22:03.332, Speaker A: It's dropped like 53% or something. Last time I checked, whatever the price of ETH is now 54%, I think. So that from that reason alone, the price of sales ratio is going to go up because there's less fear revenue being generated. But ETH price is still, um, you know, a lot higher than. It hasn't dropped 90%, of course. So it hasn't kind of dropped to match that. Um, so that's kind of like the reason why, uh, it'll go up and obviously on, on the other, uh, on the other way, it'll go down when, uh, the fee revenue goes up.
00:22:03.332 - 00:22:43.604, Speaker A: And uh, if, you know, depending where the price is as well, or I shouldn't say price, just their market cap of ETH as well. Um, it'll change based on those two kind of factors there. Uh, now, as I said, I don't think price to sales or price to earnings ratios are a good way to measure things like ETH or BTC, simply because, as I was explaining before, there's a lot of different kind of assets in crypto. You can do a PE or P's ratio on things like Defi tokens because they're basically equity in the protocol, I guess you could say. Whereas with Ethan BTC, their stores of value, their money, their collateral, they have a huge history behind them. They have monetary premium behind them. So there's a.
00:22:43.604 - 00:23:08.480, Speaker A: And you know, I mean, ETH is used as a staking asset and things like that. It's like a capital and collateral asset. So there's a number of other reasons why ETH has value. And even if, like, the fees on ETH was $0, uh, ETH would still have value. Now, in saying that, I mean, there's plenty of blockchains out there, layer one, blockchains that have essentially zero fees. Their price to sales ratios are absolutely massive, but they are worth a lot. I mean, take Cardano, for example, doesn't even have smart contracts.
00:23:08.480 - 00:23:34.894, Speaker A: The fee revenue is basically zero. But Cardano is still worth, what, 30, $40 billion? Um, and I don't think Cardano is a story value or has monetary premium. But if you kind of dive deep into it, you can see that most of the supply is staked through their deposit system. It's like 78% of the supply is staked, which means there's not much trading on there. And they have a massive kind of, I guess, marketing vehicle behind them. And I guess some people will call it a cult or whatever. The cult of Charles.
00:23:34.894 - 00:24:22.254, Speaker A: So you have other reasons why the token has accrued value, which is funny, because, as I said, there's so many other reasons for these assets to accrue value, not just based on a pure price of success, sales, or price to earnings ratio. But I do think that looking at this sort of stuff for Defi tokens, and not even just for DeFi tokens, but for something like the axie Infinity token, I mean, that's what everyone's kind of looking at right now. I mean, axs that token is going up in price because the platform is earning more revenue from that kind of like from, I guess, like from people playing the game, and that's going into like a treasury and stuff like that. So. And then people look at the price of sales ratio and like, oh my God, like, this is, you know, this is cheap, I'm going to buy this. And then also when you're looking at that, you take into account future growth as well. So some DeFi tokens will have like a really high price to sales ratio for a number of reasons.
00:24:22.254 - 00:24:44.360, Speaker A: You know, one might be because it has a lot of hype behind that. It's going through some sort of mania. I mean, we see that play out all the time in crypto. Or another reason might be that there's kind of a lot of promise behind it. Say they've got a major release coming up and everyone thinks it's going to be amazing, so they're bidding it up. But I guess that falls into the speculative kind of mania reason as well. Um, but yeah, so I mean, this is kind of like the price of sales.
00:24:44.360 - 00:25:25.424, Speaker A: Price to earnings comes from the, the equity stocks world. This isn't unique to crypto. Uh, but I do think there are a few different unique things in crypto that um, that you have to take into account when looking at that, especially when you're looking at it for assets like ETH and BTC, because they are stores of value and, and, you know, they have a monetary premium. It'd be like trying to do a price to sales ratio on gold, I guess as an example here. It'd be quite hard to do do that because it would, you know, I mean you could do that, but I mean, gold utility value is a very, very small part of its actual overall market cap. So yeah, hopefully that answers your question. Dumbgen or dumb gen, correct me if I, you know, in the discord chat, I don't know exactly know how to say it there, but anyway, I'll take on from the audience.
00:25:25.424 - 00:26:03.064, Speaker A: If not, I'll keep moving through the list here. Yeah, thanks for addressing this question. And I'm also curious how we can in tokenomics, how we can distinguish price to sales from price to earnings ratio. Yeah, so I guess, I guess the way you would look at it, let me use an example of like Uniswap. So with, with Uniswap there is, there's a lot of revenue going to liquidity providers and there's none going to token holders. So as a token holder of Uni, you can't stay stake that to get any share of that revenue. All of the 0.3%
00:26:03.064 - 00:27:10.656, Speaker A: of the fee on every trade that Uniswap takes, all that revenue is going to liquidity providers. So that would be kind of like the price to sales ratio, if I'm thinking of it correctly, whereas the price to earnings would be what the actual protocol is earning. And then kind of if they're distributing out that to the, to token holders or not, I mean, they don't have to because sometimes protocols like yearn for example, will accrue, I guess, like the fees to their treasury, but they won't pay it out to token holders, whereas something like Sushiswap or AavE will accrue, you know, a lot of it to the treasury, or they'll first accrue it to the treasury, then they'll pay out some of it to stakers as well to people staking like the respective token. So that's how I would distinguish between price to sales. Price to earnings is basically how much of the revenue is going to the, the supply side, essentially. So like the liquidity providers and how much is going to the kind of like stakers or the token holders or the, guess you can call them equity holders if you want to use that terminology, as the kind of price to earnings or I guess not even just going to this token holders, going to the protocol itself. So going to the treasury or something like that.
00:27:10.656 - 00:27:53.604, Speaker A: Or to the Dow. Cool, cool. All right, onto the next one from the list. So this one comes from Marco, 47, who says, what site or app do you use to track an asset's performance relative to ETH? In particular, something that displays all their performances in a summary tab and then historical graphs once you select a specific asset? So I just use trading view, to be honest. So I'll just like type in xxx and ETH and then it'll compare it against ETH. There obviously are a lot of, a lot of coins that don't have a chart against ETH, especially the newer ones. And they, they don't have a longer price history because it depends on when the exchanges listed them.
00:27:53.604 - 00:28:23.536, Speaker A: But generally that's what I do. I just use Tradingview or I use Uniswap's kind of like charts on their, I guess their website. But also Chartx is another one that I use that usually has Uniswap pairs and stuff like that. You can see it on coingecko too. I think they show it against ETH as well. And maybe Coinmarketcap does as well. But that's how I generally do it because I don't really care, like what I care more about the history than I do about the current kind of price performance against ETH.
00:28:23.536 - 00:29:54.686, Speaker A: So the way I look at it is I'll go look at like a chart, say it's like ETH BTc, for example, and then I'll look at how ETH has done against bitcoin, and then I'll be like, okay, well, do I think this is in an uptrend or do I think this is in a downtrend? And that's not me kind of like trying to trade anything, but that's me kind of looking at it and being like, okay, well, is it worth the risk of me going into this kind of asset if like it's, it's pretty much like can't perform against ETH and then I'll kind of like track things like how correlated it is. So, you know, if ETH is going up, is this thing going up at the same time or does this thing lag? So if this other token lags ETH, then I don't think it's going to outperform ETH because, or it could outperform ETH in bursts. But, you know, over the longer term, if it's a lagging kind of token against ETH, well, that just means that it's only going to go up because it's people flowing profits from ETH into other tokens and kind of speculating it's not actually going up based on fundamental value. Whereas if I see a coin that's actually leading ETH and it's actually been trending up against ETH and doesn't just follow ETH in price movements or whatever, then I'll kind of like look at that more closely and stuff like that. But that's more kind of a trader side of things. And, you know, I've said it before, like on the in, on the refuels and the Discord channel, generally, it's just so hard to outperform ETH. And I mean, it is an investment, investment advice, of course, but I just, personally, I find it very hard to hold most things against ETH because I like to hold things for a longer, longer period of time, especially because of tax reasons, like getting that kind of capital gains tax discount after a year and things like that.
00:29:54.686 - 00:31:11.540, Speaker A: And also the headache of having to manage too many different assets is just ridiculous because I mean, if, say you're holding like ten different things that you kind of keep track of and trying to decide, okay, when do I take profits on this? Know, what are the tax implications of this? All this sort of, like I have my spreadsheet and I was looking at it the other day because I was doing my taxes and it was just a nightmare. Like, because during obviously the last few months, you know, with Defi summer happening, I did a lot more kind of the trading activity than I normally would. And I was just like, you know, it's, I know that kind of like the reward is there, but the risk is also high and the overheads are high. So for me, I stick mostly to just kind of eat for that reason. But I also think that's why a lot of things trend down against ETH over the long term, because I think a lot of people have the same kind of the same line of thinking where they're like, you know, they're only using these things to stack more ETH, because they know that ETH has a much, much higher chance of being around in the future than most of the DeFi projects. I mean, besides the quote unquote blue chips like Maker Aave Uniswap and a bunch of others that you can have relative confidence that they're going to be around for a while, there are not a lot of projects out there that you can definitively say, okay, well, I'm happy holding this for like, five years, or even happy holding this for like, two years. So that's why I think a lot of people just choose to buy ETH as like, a kind of an index bet on the entire ecosystem, where it's.
00:31:11.540 - 00:32:03.784, Speaker A: It's basically giving you exposure to anything happening on Ethereum. So if the DeFi projects grow, well, then, you know ETH, the asset should grow with it. And, you know, post 1559, when we're actually burning ETH from the fee revenue, then it's definitely going to grow with it, because any kind of action that's happening on Ethereum, any DeFi app that gets traction, it's is going to be burning ETH, technically, because anyone doing transactions with that DeFi app is going to be burning ETH. So I think that that makes ETH an even more attractive asset for people to hold as an index. Cause they're like, well, you know, I, why would I hold, like, individual defi tokens and try to speculate and have to, like, do you know all these countless hours of research and have to do all these kind of overheads and deal with all the tax implications of it, when I could just kind of hold ETH? And now, don't get me wrong. Like, I don't think it's, it's, it's wrong to go and kind of, like, seek alpha elsewhere. Like, I'm not saying that you should only buy ethan, that's it.
00:32:03.784 - 00:32:52.866, Speaker A: But generally, it's just much harder to both outperform ETH and to find something that actually, that you have conviction on, because it's not just finding something that outperforms ETH, it's also holding it long enough to experience that. Because you can say you can hold an asset for, like, a year that is underperforming ETH, and then say you sell it, and then a few months later, it just, for some reason, it wakes up and it starts massively outperforming ethanol. Well, I mean, how would you have known that, right? But also, you selling it means that you didn't really have conviction in kind of like in the first place, or you're just trying to cut your losers and go back to eat sort of thing. And, you know, I've seen this countless times. I've seen many people throw away lots of eat by doing this. And I just think generally, for a lot of people that can't spend every, you know, it's not their kind of job to be an investor. Buying, like, buying ETH is kind of like the easier option for them.
00:32:52.866 - 00:33:50.812, Speaker A: And this is, I mean, this, this isn't even unique to crypto. Look at the, how people invest in the stock market. A lot of people just buy index funds because, one, they don't have the time to look at every new kind of stock coming to market or they don't have time to look at the financials or the quarterly reports, blah, blah, blah, blah, all this sort of stuff. No one has time for that unless it's the actual job to do it or unless they enjoy doing it on the side. Um, and, you know, and that kind of same principle applies to crypto, but it's actually, like, much more magnified in crypto, I believe, because there's so many scams, there's so many rug pulls, there's so many projects that'll look like they have traction because the market's hot and then a couple months later they'll be just dead completely. And there's so many people trying to convince you to buy their bags. So, you know, compounding all that together, maybe I went a little bit off topic here, but when I kind of look at things, performance against ETH, and I see most of them are down against ETH, even Defi tokens, it's because of all those reasons at the end of the day, and I think as time goes on and more and more people kind of clue into this, it's just going to get worse over time.
00:33:50.812 - 00:34:49.042, Speaker A: And that's not to say that you can't invest in Defra tokens and make an outperform ETH. You certainly can. But if we're talking about long term investing here, it just becomes very, very hard to do so. And the more kind of mature this ecosystem gets, for better or worse, a lot of these teams are just going to go the private funding route where they're not going to do any kind of public token sales or their tokens are going to open at a really high market cap or whatever um, and, you know, all the value have been sucked out of it. This is kind of like what happens with stocks where, um, you know, early stage companies get funded by VC's and hedge funds or whatever, uh, through multiple rounds. I mean, in crypto, you, it's rare to see like a series b or a series C round in crypto, but in like the traditional kind of web two world or whatever you want to call it, the, the equity world, these kind of like, uh, companies and teams will go all the way to, like, a series e and sometimes even further than that before they go public. So by the time they actually go public, pretty much most of the value has been sucked out of it.
00:34:49.042 - 00:35:26.874, Speaker A: And at the end of the day, trying to kind of, like, find the one that's going to outperform an index just becomes stupidly hard. And I think that's what's going to happen with crypto as well, unfortunately, as time goes on. But in saying that crypto has a unique position where I think a lot of, um, a lot of teams are going to start launching as Dow first, and they're going to be making sure that they get tokens into the hands of right. Of the right people. Um, and kind of like, uh, not, not kind of like taking lots of money from VC's in funds instead and kind of like taking it from the community. But that's a whole nother thing. And maybe I've gone off on a little bit of a tangent there, but just generally, um, you know, I mean, to answer the original question, I just used Tradingview and Chartx to track it against ETH.
00:35:26.874 - 00:35:59.866, Speaker A: But a lot of the time, I don't even bother looking anymore because I'm not really holding much against ETH. I'm not really holding much other assets besides ETH right now. I mean, I'm happy to kind of, like, say what I'm holding besides Ethan in terms of, like, actual kind of, I guess, substantial amounts that aren't like little things, obviously. I don't know, whoever's seen it, like the Gitcoin airdrop that I got, that was a sizable airdrop. I'm still holding 75% of that. I sold 25% of it. And other than that index, the index co op token, because I'm really close to the team, I know how much they're doing there.
00:35:59.866 - 00:36:27.054, Speaker A: Snx, Aave, and Wifi, I think, are the ones that I'm holding. But even those, like, I bought those, like, super early on in their life, and even those haven't outperformed ETH. That much. And, you know, considering how much risk I took buying into those instead of ETH, you know, you'd expect them to outperform ETH by a lot more. And if you go look at the Wi Fi ETH chart, it looks disgusting. Like, I bought. I bought wifi, like, pretty much one of the first days that was out, and I still haven't outperformed it by that much.
00:36:27.054 - 00:37:07.818, Speaker A: So, yeah, from that perspective, like, the way I'm kind of approaching it now is I just kind of like, you know, keep stacking Ethan and things like that. But at the same time, my position is unique. Everyone's position is different. I mean, I have a lot of angel investments that I've done which are, which are private, kind of like seed stage investments that, you know, that money has gone into there instead of, like, public markets, so to speak. So it just depends on your individual situation. And, you know, the funny thing is, like, I see, like, a lot of people that start off with maybe like, say that you start off with, like, just a few thousand dollars in crypto. They're the ones that are going to try, try and kind of like, gamble, I guess you could say, or kind of like, be more speculative on these other assets because they're trying to grow their pie.
00:37:07.818 - 00:37:55.754, Speaker A: Whereas once you've already got the money and you go into, like, wealth preservation mode, well, you're not going to preserve your wealth in some highly speculative defi tokens. If you want to stay in crypto and still have exposure to it, well, you're going to sit in BTC or ETH at this point, right? You're not going to sit in anything else if you want active exposure to crypto without the massive amounts of risk that comes along with that. So hopefully that answers your question. Marko. 47 and gives a bit of color there for everyone as well on how I think about assets against ETH and generally the long term, how this space will evolve long term on an investment basis. All right, if there's not one from the audience, I'll just keep moving through the list here. All right.
00:37:55.754 - 00:38:16.014, Speaker A: One here from Arthur K. Who says how to find work in the Ethereum ecosystem. I have no technical skills, and I am not a programmer. I worked for three years in a crypto company as the head of the support department. I'm interested in working as a researcher and in general any useful work for the community. I am a very big Ethereum bull and believe in a decentralized future. So I want to help the community and at the same time stack more ETH in the process.
00:38:16.014 - 00:39:01.848, Speaker A: So refer to my earlier Answer, um, from before, uh, to Apollo, about kind of working for Daos. I won't go through that again. Um, but in terms of maybe, you know, hitting on your kind of point here about wanting to kind of work as a researcher, um, specifically. I mean, it's actually, I wouldn't say it's easy to be a researcher in this space, but it's very easy to kind of, like, get involved as a researcher, because all you have to do is start Publishing Stuff. Um, for example, like, a lot of the researchers that I know within this ecosystem, they literally just started kind of like, Publishing Content on ETH, research, on Medium, on Substack, on Reddit, you know, the Different Reddit sections, and they kind of built a name for themselves over time. Uh, one of the, the top researchers in this space, Hazu, he did exactly that. That's how he started.
00:39:01.848 - 00:39:31.052, Speaker A: He was not like, uh, he came into crypto, like, with a fresh start, and just started kind of, um, writing things and putting really great, um, novel research out there that people found really interesting. And some of his pieces are some of my favorites in, in this ecosystem. Um, and, you know, it's not just him. There's a bunch of others out there. I mean, Vitalik even still does it right, where he'll just put out blog posts with fresh, fresh research, or he'll go on ETH research and do it there. He'll do it on Reddit. Uh, so if you wanted to get started as a researcher, literally all you have to do is just start publishing stuff.
00:39:31.052 - 00:40:00.344, Speaker A: And, you know, I guess, like, the hack would be to focus on things that people aren't covering too much yet. And that's why you actually see a lot of people flocking to Mev right now, because Mev is such a kind of, like, open space, and there's a lot of research still, still to be done there. So you typically see a lot of people basically going, okay, well, this is interesting. I'm going to start writing about it. I'm going to start explaining it to people. I'm going to start educating people about it and kind of like, working on it and working in this arena. Like, the flashbots team has a bunch of core researchers there.
00:40:00.344 - 00:40:24.416, Speaker A: Obviously, you have, like, paradigm, which I mentioned before, which is a big fund that has a lot of researchers there. They all pretty much started in the same way. They just started publishing stuff, getting their name out there, building a name for themselves. And that's really how, how you get involved in the research side. Of things. But if you want to do, like, any useful work for the community, it's the same kind of path. I mean, I started in the exact same way where I just started kind of, like, with a humble crypto newsletter in early 2018.
00:40:24.416 - 00:40:57.434, Speaker A: It was literally, it had, like, 200 subscribers for months until late 2018, when I started Ethub with Eric Connor. And I just kept, like, you know, grinding it out, kept doing stuff on Twitter, building a little bit of a name for myself. It was a grind. Don't get me wrong, this stuff's not going to come easy. And, you know, especially the ecosystem is even bigger now, so it is kind of hard to get your name out there. But I think that the hack to get your name out there is to just focus on things that not many people are talking about but are interesting because you'll see, like, to use the MEV example again. You see how much attention is on MeV right now and how, how many.
00:40:57.434 - 00:41:31.392, Speaker A: There's so many accounts on Twitter that I'm seeing that I haven't heard of before that that are just popping up because they're doing good Mev research. So that's a really quick way to get your name out there. And if you want to grow, like, a Twitter account, the biggest hack ever is just to do Twitter threads. Seriously, do Twitter threads. Tag a few people in them. Like, I get tagged in them all the time, but tag a few people in them for feedback, and then if they reply, it bumps up your tweet thread to everyone else's feeds. They might retweet you if they like the thread and kind of like the post, and then eventually they may even follow you, which basically starts building your legitimacy within the community.
00:41:31.392 - 00:42:05.708, Speaker A: And then what ends up happening is that the more and more threads you do, the more and more of that kind of stuff happens. And then people go to your profile and they say, oh, wow, this person's followed by such and such. And then you start building that legitimacy within the community, and that's how you kind of, like, start getting a name out there. And that's the same path that I've seen everyone follow in crypto on Twitter especially. It's just that building up that kind of legitimacy, doing it via kind of, like, education and explaining things to people that they may kind of, like, not have a really good grasp of. And Twitter threads are a really great way of doing. That's how I started.
00:42:05.708 - 00:42:33.100, Speaker A: I mean, my Twitter, I don't do many Twitter threads these days, but during 2018, 2019, I did a lot more threads and that's how I got a lot of attention of other people that I respected. And then it kind of, like, snowballed from there. And obviously, like, I did a lot of other stuff around that, too. Like, started Ethub when. I mean, Ethub was the first, I think, like one of the, one of the very first media company companies within Ethereum. There was no bank list. There was no defiant, there was a few newsletters and stuff out there.
00:42:33.100 - 00:43:13.910, Speaker A: But, like, in terms of one that was focused specifically on Ethereum, we had, like, the website going with a bunch of different educational materials at the newsletter and the podcast. We still have all that, of course, but there was kind of none of that. So that's kind of like how I did it. So if you're looking to kind of, like, work in the Ethereum ecosystem, that's really all you need to do is just like, um, you know, maybe I'm simplifying it by saying it's all you need to do. You do need to grind out. But the thing is that if you focus on the right things, you can kind of leapfrog that grinding process and kind of, like, push yourself along by just following, by just focusing on things that people are really interested in, like, the research side and kind of like education in general. So hopefully that answers your question, Arthur.
00:43:13.910 - 00:43:54.274, Speaker A: But, yeah, generally, it's unfortunately, if you. Yeah, I mean, because this ecosystem has gotten a lot bigger since those days as well. Well, it just becomes harder and harder to get your name out there and to stay relevant, too. I mean, you know, even. It's funny, like, this might be a little bit personal, but even sometimes I feel like I'm, I'm kind of, like, slipping away some days where I'm just like, God, am I even relevant anymore? Does anyone even care what I have to say anymore? Because this ecosystem is just growing at such a rapid pace, and you can get overwhelmed at times, but generally, that shouldn't stop you. I think there's still plenty of opportunity out there. I think that the ecosystem getting bigger also works in your favor, because you have more people that you can reach with your research, and you have more of that network effect that you can grow as well.
00:43:54.274 - 00:44:27.566, Speaker A: So, yeah. So, again, hopefully that answers your question, Arthur. I'll take another one from the audience. If not, I'll keep moving through the list. It's kind of technical, but do you know the advantages of using a newer version of solidity versus, like, a really old version? I don't think I could give a good answer to that. As I'm not a developer, but from what I can tell, newer version would, you know, generally fix bugs with the language or some kind of, you know, intricacies with it that would maybe annoy developers or something like that. Yeah, I'm not sure.
00:44:27.566 - 00:45:01.914, Speaker A: And it could break things too. From my knowledge where newer versions don't always fix everything, they could introduce breaking changes. But I would probably ask like a developer forum for that. There's actually a Discord channel called crypto devs that's quite active that might be able to answer that in more detail for you. Thank you. No worries. All right, onto the next one from the sheet here from Java lasers who said you mentioned on a daily wave that you stake every time you accumulate another 32 ETH, this implies that you're running your own validator rather than using some sort of pool or liquid staking protocol.
00:45:01.914 - 00:45:27.402, Speaker A: Are you running validators from your home using a hosted service or of some sort? Or using a hosted hosting service of some sort. So I'm doing it from home right here. For those of you who can see, my camera is my staking box. This is not my main pc. This is purely dedicated to Ethereum staking. All my validators are running on that bad boy and that's basically what I do, I stake on my own. It's, I mean I know this is a little bit sacrilege to say, but it's currently just running windows.
00:45:27.402 - 00:45:54.054, Speaker A: I should be running kind of like Linux or a distribution of that rather than windows. But it works fine on windows. Like I'm using the prism client and it works quite well with my kind of setup here. And it's not like a super beefy machine either. It's only like a, like an I five and I think I even went overboard with it. I mean um, you know, it kind of like with ETH two staking you don't need too powerful of hardware there. But yeah, I'm just doing it all on my own instead of staking with a service.
00:45:54.054 - 00:46:35.504, Speaker A: And that's, I mean the major reason is because I have those 32 ETH increments that I can put into staking. I know a lot of people don't because 32 e these days is a lot worth a lot more than when I bought it back at a $100 or even before then. So you know, there's plenty of people obviously that are using different service providers and stuff like that. But generally, I mean I always advise people if they have the 32 ETH and they're fine locking it up until the merge happens or whatever, then I would stake on your own, because it's just like so much better than, and so much safer than staking with a service provider. I'm sure a lot of people have seen all of the issues with these service providers lately. Some of them have lost all the. All the ETH they were staking, uh, for one reason or another.
00:46:35.504 - 00:46:56.740, Speaker A: Some of them kind of like get slashed and stuff like that. So there's a lot of that stuff going on. Um, but, uh, generally, uh, yeah, I mean, that's, that's kind of like what I do. I just stake everything that I. I mean, I'm staking most my 8th, not all of my 8th right now, but most of it is kind of sitting in there, um, in. In the 32 8th, 8th increments, um, on my own, on my own hardware. And because I can control the whole experience too.
00:46:56.740 - 00:47:10.612, Speaker A: Like, no one has control over it. I'm responsible for the whole thing, um, and uh, you know, I'm responsible for if it gets slashed, if I go offline, if it needs to be upgraded or whatever. And I actually like that. I like, I. Never mind. Or anything like that. I've never, um, mined any crypto.
00:47:10.612 - 00:47:29.026, Speaker A: Uh, this is the first time I've actually participated directly in the consensus of the protocol. Uh, and you know, I'm actually really excited about doing that. So. Yeah, that hopefully that answers your question. Uh, java lasers. And maybe I'll add that, like, if you don't have 32 ETH or you want to use a staking service provider. I mean, I've said this before on one of these ama's.
00:47:29.026 - 00:48:05.694, Speaker A: I basically said that there's a few different options you can choose from, and they have different trust assumptions. If you want to go like the totally centralized route and you don't really care, you could do it to an exchange, of course, but I wouldn't trust every exchange. I personally wouldn't put any of my funds on binance, for example. But Coinbase or Kraken would probably be fine if you wanted to stake to an exchange if you had to. Uh, but again, like, I heavily, I kind of like, heavily recommend staking on your own. Um, but then, you know, the service providers, there's something like Lido as well, which is quite popular. Um, and then there's rocket pool coming out soon.
00:48:05.694 - 00:48:23.036, Speaker A: Tm. Like, no one knows when that's coming out. It's been, it's been, uh, coming out for quite a while. But that's like aiming to do a decentralized staking pool service for people that don't have 32 ETH as well. So those are some alternatives there. But, uh, generally, as I said, my advice is always, if you can stake on your own, it's not. It doesn't take too much to set up.
00:48:23.036 - 00:48:52.704, Speaker A: You don't have to build anything fancy. You can even run it on your home pc as long as you're happy leaving it on 24/7 so that it runs in the background. You know that. I mean, it's funny because I say that like it's something that's. That's alien, I think, you know, I mean, depending on what you have, if you have a home desktop pc, you might put it to sleep at night when you're not kind of like using it. But I think a lot of people, like, are using their PCs a lot these days. So that extra little bit of electricity cost would probably be worth it for the rewards that you're earning if you're staking on your own as well.
00:48:52.704 - 00:49:08.684, Speaker A: So hopefully that answers that question there for you. Java lasers. I'll take one from the audience now. Otherwise I'll just move through the sheet. Is it a full node or do you just use inferior? I use a full node, yeah, I run an ETH. One full node as well. Yep.
00:49:08.684 - 00:49:31.756, Speaker A: Which actually, I should say, everyone should be running their own ETH. One full node if you can as well. But it's like a two terabytes now. Or. How big is it? No, I mean, I didn't. I haven't checked it lately, but it's not two terabytes for just normal full node. And if you run turbo geth or it's now known as Aragon, it's even less than that.
00:49:31.756 - 00:50:03.836, Speaker A: It depends what mode you run it in. You can run it in like fast sync or kind of like snapshot mode. There's different kind of modes where it'll kind of bring you up to speed and then continue the chain on from the tip, and then it'll get bigger over time. But no, it's not two terabytes for a full node. An archive node is definitely in the terabytes, but you don't need that to participate in. Just like staying on, kind of like consensus with the network. Cool.
00:50:03.836 - 00:50:20.952, Speaker A: Cool. All right, so there's a kind of like. I guess this is like a lot. Not a long question. There's a lot here from Lucas, who was basically talking about Cardano. I'll try and, um, summarize this to what his question is. Basically asking what my thoughts on Ada versus ETH is.
00:50:20.952 - 00:51:10.536, Speaker A: Um, and he's got like a bunch of different points that he, that he put here basically saying that he went and did some kind of like research into Cardano and kind of like wanted to get out of the ETH bubble and see what Cardano was all about. And he didn't really find anything too promising. He says here most of the sources, uh, that he found in different research reports and stuff is just Charles Hodgkinson spreading hopium and trying to grab attention. Um, secondary sources was 95% of the content, uh, maybe paid influencers with two to four month track record history and crypto, aka Cardano ambassadors. Uh, 90% of the investors fans seem to be retail investors, which only information sources is Charles and these other ambassadors and stuff like that. Um, and uh, yeah, and then he links a video that was funny. I watched this video where one of the ambassadors was stating that ETH does not have smart contracts.
00:51:10.536 - 00:51:42.358, Speaker A: Even if they do it, it isn't a big deal, blah, blah, blah, blah. And then he says, I think there is still a lot of dumb money in the market. So, yeah. What are my general thoughts of Cardano versus Ethereum? Well, first of all, yes, I mean, there's always going to be dumb money in the market. I mean, generally, I think that markets are always, I mean, they can't function without dumb money. I think, I think someone always, I mean, it's not as markets aren't a zero sum game where, you know, just because someone wins, someone else kind of loses. But you know, there's, there's always going to be losers and winners.
00:51:42.358 - 00:52:12.892, Speaker A: Right? So I do think there's always going to be dumb money in crypto or in markets in general. And you kind of like need that there for markets to function for one reason or another. And obviously a lot of these dumb money is chasing marketing. Basically, they invested within things based on memes and marketing rather than fundamentals, which, I mean, that doesn't just play it in crypto. I mean, we've seen this play out in the stock market recently with, with AMC and GME and all that sort of stuff. So that's definitely going on. But I guess to the core question here, my thoughts of Cardano versus Ethereum, really.
00:52:12.892 - 00:52:35.048, Speaker A: I actually think Cardano is a joke, if I'm being honest. I think that it's the fact that they don't have smart contracts in 2021 is a joke. But that's not the only joke. I mean, that's, that's, that's an overused meme at this point. I think even though there's truth to it. I just think generally, it doesn't really have anything interesting to that. That kind of like, would mean that it would be the theorem in any kind of way on any kind of point.
00:52:35.048 - 00:53:00.440, Speaker A: Its proof of stake consensus mechanism is deep Oz. It is kind of like not anywhere in any way comparable to aetheriums. As I said, no smart contracts, so you can't compare that. I don't think. I don't believe it's decentralized because they're using depos. I believe that, I mean, not just because of the consensus mechanism that they're using, but I believe that the entire project is centered around Charles. If Charles was to disappear, the project would pretty much fall apart, I believe.
00:53:00.440 - 00:53:26.866, Speaker A: I don't know anyone else who's working at, you know, Iohk. Um, you know, there was a couple people that were working that left that I knew of. Um, and Iohk is the main development firm behind Cardano, for those of you who don't know. Um, I think that, uh, there is some interesting kind of, like, tech that they're working on, but a lot of it is just research papers. It's not actual practical tech. They seem to be stuck in a spiral where they just love just doing peer reviewed research. I know that's another meme, but they love doing that.
00:53:26.866 - 00:53:43.556, Speaker A: They put out so much research papers at the end of the day, like, it's just research, like, it's just a paper. Like, you need something practical that people can use. 99.99% of people aren't reading these papers. They don't care what they say. They just want to use something. I don't know is competing against every other Ethereum competitor.
00:53:43.556 - 00:54:06.992, Speaker A: I don't think it's competing against Ethereum. I think it actually has to prove itself against the other competitors before it can compete with Ethereum. No developer that I've ever met in my, like, four years of being in this space, or over four years now, um, has once said to me that they're planning on building on Cardano. So that's a, that's a kind of pretty big deal as well. Um, so generally, I just, I don't know. Like, I, I don't. I'm not going to say I think Cardano is a scam or anything like that.
00:54:06.992 - 00:54:25.120, Speaker A: I don't. I don't really believe that it's a scam. I believe that it's an extremely ill thought out project. I believe that it's Charles's baby that he created because he feels like he was, um, sidelined. Uh, from Ethereum. Uh, and, uh, I believe that it's doesn't really, I don't know what's. I just believe that it's not really going to go anywhere.
00:54:25.120 - 00:54:50.688, Speaker A: I don't know how they're going to be able to catch up to the network effect of the other kind of like ethereum competitors out there, let alone Ethereum itself, because you can't come at the king without killing everyone else around you before you, you know, you kind of like, come at Ethereum. And Ethereum just keeps growing its network effect. Ethereum hasn't stagnated. Yes. Okay. ETH one is quote unquote, old technology, but it doesn't matter. ETH one is still being used more than any other chain out there.
00:54:50.688 - 00:55:28.946, Speaker A: And the hilarious thing is that any of the chains that have got an adoption have just been versions of Ethereum. BSC is just Ethereum with like, CZ at the helm. Polygon is, I guess, like, I'm not going to call it totally centralized or anything like that, the pos side chain, but it is a more centralized version of Ethereum. Right. It's just got more block space, things like that. So when you kind of look at those things as the things that have gotten kind of traction, you just see how powerful the Ethereum ecosystem is, how much network effect there is, and how it just all comes home to roost at Ethereum. And I think that Cardano is not going, like, from what I know, they're not going to be avian compatible or anything like that.
00:55:28.946 - 00:55:57.896, Speaker A: So they're going to try and bootstrap their own ecosystem. If we look at the other chains, like Polkadot and Solana doing this, they, they have a little bit of an ecosystem going on. But I mean, Solana is backed by FTX or SPF, the biggest kind of like exchange, sorry, one of the biggest crypto exchanges. They're bankrolling the whole thing. They're trying to kind of like bootstrap a kind of ecosystem there. Polka dots backed by the web, three foundation and everything like that. But from what I can see, Polkadot doesn't have much traction either right now.
00:55:57.896 - 00:56:51.610, Speaker A: So when you're kind of looking at the whole landscape like that, I just don't see a world where something like Cardano does anything kind of like special or novel, like, okay, maybe their tech ends up working really well, and all their promises weren't just promises. They deliver on them, whatever, but it's just going to be too far gone. Like there's. I just, as I said, I just don't see how any of how Cardano is going to catch up to any of the other platforms, let alone Ethereum. So hopefully that kind of gives you some color there. I try not to be too ranty about it, but I get, I kind of get frustrated about projects like Cardano because I have, you know, a lot of the fanboys come at me and they say, you know, who's going to kill Ethereum? And I just think to myself, I'm like, I don't even know what to reply with because I just think in my head, I'm like, how can you not see that the network effect that Ethereum has over Cardano? And I just think it's because they really just listen to Charles. Like, if you go to Charles's YouTube channel, he's a really good talker.
00:56:51.610 - 00:57:28.326, Speaker A: Like, he can sell, he'll sell ice to an Eskimo. Like, he's, he's like the Jordan Balfour of crypto. I believe Jordan Balfour being the Wolf of Wall street, because he's just very good at convincing people of things. And for people who are newer to the ecosystem, who have no priors, have absolutely no knowledge of what's going on in the past, they're going to believe what he says because he looks like a good actor. He sounds like a, sounds like someone who's smart and knows what he's talking about, which, to be fair, he actually does know what he's talking about when it comes to this sort of stuff. But he goes astray when he starts kind of like, I guess putting the idea into people's heads that ethereum has no network effect. That ethereum is, is very easily, it can be very easily overtaken.
00:57:28.326 - 00:57:55.634, Speaker A: That Ethereum is crappy technology. So, you know, we're going to. Kadena is going to beat them, or some other chain is going to beat them. I think that that's why you see a lot of the retail investors fall for it. It's just because Charles has a very good way of convincing them of things. And I'm sure some of you have seen his YouTube videos. I'm probably not alone in thinking that, but yeah, generally that's kind of like my whole view on that ecosystem, and I just don't think it's going to amount to anything over the long run.
00:57:55.634 - 00:58:24.026, Speaker A: All right, I'll take one from the audience if not moving through. Cool. Is there any limit? I don't think there's a limit on the channel. There shouldn't be. Right now I'm seeing people coming and going, but maybe I'll just check the general channel quickly and see if there's a limit. Yeah, there is a limit. At the moment it's 25 people.
00:58:24.026 - 00:58:39.864, Speaker A: Oh, wow. Why? I changed it. That's weird. Yeah, it should be, it should be 99. Hmm. In the, I'm looking at the settings right now and it says 99. If I said maybe I'll just set it to lower than 99.
00:58:39.864 - 00:58:53.420, Speaker A: I don't know if that's going to change anything. Nah, that's, that's super weird. Hmm. Damn it. Quality, not quantity, right? Yeah, I know. For some people, unfortunately. Yeah.
00:58:53.420 - 00:59:21.406, Speaker A: Can't get in because the channel's maxed out. Damn, I thought I fixed that. That's weak because it said 99 out of 99 before this started, but. Oh, well, it's being recorded so people can go, can go watch it when the, the recap of it on YouTube anyway. But I won't spend too much time on that. I'll move on to, to the next question here. So this one comes from Ghostis Ave again, where they ask simple question, how exactly does sharding work? So I'll just give a higher level kind of overview of sharding.
00:59:21.406 - 00:59:53.240, Speaker A: As in the Ethereum context, there are kind of different approaches to this, but in the Ethereum context, there's two different types of sharding. There's data sharding, then there's execution sharding. So I'll focus on data sharding because that's what's going to be delivered for Ethereum as part of the ETH two roadmap. Execution sharding is like a 50 50 if it's going to actually come along, if we actually need it. But essentially sharding is the notion of just breaking up the blockchain into kind of like different shards. So you can think of it like this. There's going to be 64 shards initially on ETH two.
00:59:53.240 - 01:00:29.160, Speaker A: Those 64 shards are just going to be 64 versions of Ethereum. So 64 different kind of blockchains like we have today, like on ETH one. And that's how you increase the capacity. Because you can imagine, say, for example, ETH one has like 15 transactions per second. Today on layer one, you would have 64 times 15 transactions per second. That would be the extra scalability from, from sharding for data sharding, not kind of like execution sharding here. And that's, that's in implying that the gas limit on these shards is going to be the same or the block size is going to be the same as it is on ETH one.
01:00:29.160 - 01:01:02.654, Speaker A: It could be more, because there's another thing called stateless clients or statelessness coming to ETH two as well that will allow us to raise the gas limit. And there's other improvements that are always coming and stuff like that, but that's generally how it works. And this isn't just like an Ethereum concept database. Sharding has been around for ages. It's used in massive data warehouses. And I mean, all the kind of all the big databases use this. They kind of shot out the data, and that way they can kind of like get more throughput because they're scaling horizontally instead of vertically.
01:01:02.654 - 01:01:50.430, Speaker A: You can think of like vertical scaling as layer one, L2, horizontal scaling as like, layer one, but like breaking it up into different parts, right? Like having 64 different shards, which is 64 version different versions of Ethereum. So that that's kind of like the high level of how sharding works. Now, when I say data sharding, what I mean is that you can store data on these shards, but you can't execute them, which means that there's no virtual machine that kind of like, runs and processes the code on the shard. So you know how on ETH one, we obviously have the Ethereum virtual machine that runs and processes the smart contracts and all the code that goes along with that. With the data sharding, you don't have that. You just have a data layer that L2s can tap into. So what ends up happening is that layer one becomes the chain where L2 proofs go on.
01:01:50.430 - 01:02:33.596, Speaker A: So when L2s want to secure themselves with Ethereum, they have to post proofs to layer one and as transactions, and that's what they'll do with sharding, and then they can, that's how they get the extra scalability. So the easy way to think about it is that 15 transactions per second times 64 again. So say that's 15 times 64 and then times whatever it is on L2. So it's like 64 times 10,000 transactions per second, for example, on L2, and then you get like 64,000, sorry, more than that, you see 240,000 transactions per second sort of thing. But there are a lot of other things that go into this. That's how you get to, like millions of transactions per second on Ethereum. That's how kind of like, the scaling works.
01:02:33.596 - 01:02:57.302, Speaker A: But there are a lot of other details that go into this. It depends what L2 you are. It depends how many different L2s are. Talking to Ethereum's layer one, there's a lot of different things they go into with that, but at a higher level, that's how it works, how data sharding works. And there's a post from Vitalik on this called a roll up centric roadmap for Ethereum. You can go read that. That basically does a really good job of explaining it as well.
01:02:57.302 - 01:03:25.678, Speaker A: And then the second part is execution sharding, which, I mean, as I was talking about before, we have on ETH one, an execution environment called the EVM. This would basically be putting the EVM on the shards. I mean, if you want to think about it that way. So you could execute the code and smart contracts at layer one instead of having to do it at L2, but you could do it at L2 as well. But you could do it at layer one, too. But the thing is, to do execution on shards, it's actually a lot more complex than to just do data. It's a very hard problem.
01:03:25.678 - 01:04:15.770, Speaker A: It hasn't kind of been solved yet, still in very heavy research. And it also puts more strain on the beacon chain, the proof of stake beacon chain, the consensus mechanism. So the researchers and engineers and basically tossing up, is it even worth it? Because, you know, who cares if you get like an extra 15 transactions per second, times, you know, 64 on each of these shards, when these shards are just going to be filled up with L2 proofs anyway. So why not just use the shards as data layers for the L2s and then just scale via L2? So we can preserve the decentralization of Ethereum, and we can make sure that the beacon chain doesn't have too much overhead, that it has to process to secure the network as well. So, yeah, I would just focus on data sharding. Execution sharding is, if it ever comes to a theorem, it's pretty far away. I expect data sharding could be, you know, I mean, timelines.
01:04:15.770 - 01:04:31.860, Speaker A: I'm not going to give any hard timelines here. I don't know of any hard timelines. But we could see it sometime next year. But, you know, it could be pushed to 2023. These things are kind of like hard problems. They're sharding in blockchains has been done, but not the scale of Ethereum. And as I said, there's different approaches.
01:04:31.860 - 01:04:53.460, Speaker A: I know there's another project. I think it's niar that does it. And then there's Zilliqa. I think that's how you say it, Zilliqa. I think that would do it as well, but I think they have different approaches and they're obviously nowhere near as decentralized as Ethereum and stuff like that. And they're obviously using different consensus mechanisms as well, I believe, too. And there's all these other intricacies that go into it.
01:04:53.460 - 01:05:21.204, Speaker A: So hopefully that answers your question about what sharding is from a high level. There's a lot more that goes into it, but that's essentially what it is, just splitting the kind of blockchain into different parts. And so that we get that like more scalability at layer one. But as I said, there's two different types, data and execution. Data is what Ethereum is focusing on right now. Execution we might get in the future. Anyone in the call, feel free to ask a question.
01:05:21.204 - 01:05:47.644, Speaker A: All right. If not moving through the list, I do see your questions in the AMA series channel guys, but I will be answering those at the end after I've gone through the sheet here, actually. Well, I have a fair few left to get through on the sheet here, so I'm gonna, I'm gonna just power through these. If you do want to answer. Sorry. If you do want to ask a question, you can just interrupt me and ask it. Or ask it in the AMA series channel in the discord.
01:05:47.644 - 01:06:28.872, Speaker A: But anyway, onto one from Zero X Kelvin, who says something I have been wondering is what risks are there with holding assets on the Polygon network? I've heard warnings from advocates like Chris Black on the nature of controlling five of eight multi seat. Curious what kind of events we need to happen for an entire rugging of the matic network. So, I mean, this is correct. There is the bridge that, you know, the bridge that you send your assets to, to get to Polygon from Ethereum is controlled by a five of eight multisig. So if those, if five people colluded to steal the funds, they could, right, they could basically sign the transaction, steal the funds, do whatever from there. Right. But the thing is, there's a few different kind of like, I guess, nuances here.
01:06:28.872 - 01:06:51.564, Speaker A: One, all of the multi SiG signers are known. They're all very public people within DeFi. Some of them are Defi project founders, some of them are matic. There's kind of like they're all pretty much known. There's actually a God. I don't have the resource handy now, but there is a resource out there listing them all and listing their whole process with all the addresses and things like that. So that's one aspect of it.
01:06:51.564 - 01:07:30.250, Speaker A: The second aspect is that because of that, I guess like because of them being so well known, I don't think that they would, I guess, like, attempt this themselves, but I do think that there is a risk that their keys could become compromised and someone did, like some fancy attack where they, they stole the funds out of the bridge. That could, of course, happen. I think there is a time lock on it, though, on that bridge as well. So maybe, you know, once the transaction goes through, it actually takes like 24 hours for it to execute. I'm not exactly sure if there is a time lock, but I believe there is. But, yeah, so those are like, the main concerns there. So, yeah, definitely those, those funds, I guess, could be considered, like, pretty much centralized.
01:07:30.250 - 01:08:17.850, Speaker A: I mean, a five of eight multi Sig is not decentralized, let's be honest. So any of the funds in that bridge could unfortunately be, be stolen by those, those multi SiG holders if they wanted to. Now. And on that note as well, I would say that the Polygon team has expressed that they are planning to get rid of that multi Sig eventually. The reason why it is in place is because they want to make sure that the bridge is functioning fine so that, you know, in case something does go wrong with the bridge, they have a way to fix it and have a way to kind of like, kind of alter it or upgrade it or do whatever they need to in case something goes wrong. But they also want to upgrade, upgrade the bridge as well, in case they come up with better bridging kind of architecture or a better way to do the bridge or whatever kind of like, from that point of view as well. So, yeah, that's definitely something that everyone should keep in mind about bridges in general.
01:08:17.850 - 01:08:52.226, Speaker A: Like all types of bridges, whether they be L2 bridges or side chain bridges, you need to keep in mind, like how they are secured. Are they secured by the Ethereum main chain or are they secured by a multisig? For example, on Polygon, there's actually two bridges. There's the, there's one bridge that uses the plasma chain as the bridge. Sorry, the kind of like uses plasma as a bridge from Ethereum to matic, but that's a much longer bridge. I think it's like a seven day withdrawal period or something like that. And then there's the bridge that I was just talking about, the multi sig one, which is much faster. So that's the trade off there.
01:08:52.226 - 01:09:24.416, Speaker A: If you want the full security of Ethereum, you can use the longer bridge to get your assets across. But, you know, most people don't want to wait a week for their assets and things like that. Like, I totally get that. So there's that aspect to it as well. And then there's other bridges that go to, uh, between networks, like the cross chain swap protocols that you're seeing. It's always good to see how they're kind of like handled as well. I know for a while Ren protocol or Ren, whatever they're called these days, had, uh, had a, had a multi sig on where the funds were going to through the bridge as well, so that um, I guess like the people could rug if they wanted to, whatever.
01:09:24.416 - 01:10:00.088, Speaker A: So generally just a good idea to keep an eye on the bridges and, and kind of like see who's controlling them. If it's a multi seek, if it's the ethereum main chain, you know, how much funds are at stake, how much funds could be lost and all those sorts of things. And it's not just the bridges as well, just smart contracts in general. Like a lot of smart contracts have admin keys and upgradable contracts, things like that, because they're early stage projects and the developers want to make sure that they can upgrade the contracts. But I think generally when you're kind of looking at that sort of stuff, you just unfortunately have to trust that the team's not going to rug you at the end of the day. Like, that's all I can say. I can't sugarcoat it.
01:10:00.088 - 01:10:33.978, Speaker A: You know, there could be a chance. There's always the chance. You know, it's not a high chance, but there's always a chance there. So hopefully that answers your question about the Polygon bridge, and I mean specifically around bridges in general too. So Amal asks, what is a good NFT project in order to get involved and learn more? So there are so many NFT projects and it is really hard to find ones that are actually legit, that aren't scams, that have staying power, that have a good community. I mean, I've seen so many come and go over just the last few months. It is really hard.
01:10:33.978 - 01:11:13.208, Speaker A: So I can't actually give you a good NFT project to get involved in because I don't know myself. It's actually very, very hard to, to do that. So I think from my point of view, the way I would approach it is find something you're interested in and just take a bet on it, right? Like if you find an NFT project that you're really interested in and you think has legs and, and, you know, the community seems fun, take a bet on it, get involved, see where it goes. You know, there's maybe a high chance that it just amounts to nothing. You know, it doesn't have to be a scam or a rug, but it just could be something that has a bit of hype and then the hype dies down and goes away. There's been plenty of that going on with NFT projects, but that's just a risk you take. And that's not just exclusive to NFT project.
01:11:13.208 - 01:12:03.954, Speaker A: That's, that's pretty much every project. You have to take a risk. You have to take a bet that this project is going to be around for a while and isn't going to basically either be a scam or just something that people lose interest in. So yeah, sorry I couldn't give you a better answer than that, but generally it's just, it's very hard to find, um, you know, good, good projects in this space, good lasting projects, just like it's very hard to find, uh, good lasting businesses. Right? Like nine out of ten businesses fail. It's just the, the nature of these sorts of things and just ventures in general. All right, one here from uh, Mister Hoddle who says, what are your thoughts on how fragmented liquidity might play out with so many l two solutions coming and existing and other existing solutions and chains? Do you see any concerns or risks to Ethereum or in general that may be in play due to liquidity being too thinly spread? So I mean, I've spoken about this a lot on the refuel, I think.
01:12:03.954 - 01:12:52.134, Speaker A: But basically I don't see any kind of like existential risks or like concerns or anything around this fragmented liquidity. I think there's already solutions out there like Connext and hot protocol and seller network and starkways even building some stuff around this where the, they either bridge the liquidity, they have cross chain swaps, they have ways to tap into liquidity on other chains and like, kind of like pull it into their chain. You can think of L2 as another chain just secured by Ethereum instead of secured by itself. So yeah, I don't think that there's going to be much of an issue here. I do think there's going to be a bit of a liquidity war for a little while with token incentives flying everywhere on these l two s. And people, you know, people sometimes say to me, it's like, how are these l two s going to get liquidity? I mean there's going to be token incentives from both the projects deploying on there and also from the Altus themselves. They will have tokens.
01:12:52.134 - 01:13:16.758, Speaker A: I can pretty much guarantee that. So there's going to be a lot of that going on. But long term, I just think that because liquidity can move so easily between different things and because we're going to be able to tap into all this liquidity through bridges and through other kind of means. I know starkware is doing a lot of work on this. I just think that it's just not going to be an issue. I think it's going to be something that gets abstracted away. People are not even going to know where they're getting the liquidity from.
01:13:16.758 - 01:14:05.500, Speaker A: They're just gonna know that it's there and they'll be able to do what they want to do on layer one, L2 side chain, which are layer ones technically, or anywhere, wherever you are. Basically, I think the liquidity is going to be there thanks to these tools like Connext and hot protocol and seller and all these other ones that I mentioned as well. All right, one here from Patrick who asks, what's your routine to stay up to date in the ethereum ecosystem? What specific sources do you follow? So the sources that I use the most, I mean, I guess like the one that I use the most by far is Twitter. Like, that might be obvious considering the refuel has pretty much like all Twitter links whenever I'm doing it. That is the easiest way to keep up to date with everything. From what I've discovered, I spend, no joke, like one to 2 hours every morning catching up on Twitter, following through all the links, and kind of like seeing what's happened overnight. But that's just me.
01:14:05.500 - 01:14:30.954, Speaker A: Because of where I am in Australia, everything happens while I'm sleeping, so I have to actually catch up in the morning. But Twitter is the number one source. Other than that, I follow a lot of newsletter newsletters. I'm pretty much subscribed to every single newsletter in crypto that is Ethereum or crypto based. There's a lot of other newsletters like Bitcoin newsletters or whatever. I'm not subscribed to those things. But yeah, Ethereum or kind of crypto, general crypto newsletters, I'll subscribe to.
01:14:30.954 - 01:15:03.762, Speaker A: I'll go through those on the weekend, so I'll let them pile up during the week and then I'll just kind of go through those and see what's happened. Usually I've covered a lot of it already with, by going through Twitter, or I've seen a lot of it already by going through Twitter or anything like that. But other than that, there's also podcasts. I mean, I don't, I don't listen to podcasts to keep up with things. I listen to podcasts for just interviews with, with interesting guests and stuff like that. I mean, a lot of chats, a lot of group chats with different projects, a lot of group chats with friends and just people in the ecosystem that I talk to all the time. They keep me up to date on things.
01:15:03.762 - 01:15:32.746, Speaker A: Given that I'm a prominent community member, I get people just sending me things all the time and updates on things all the time, so that it kind of just comes to me. So I'm in a unique position there. But, yeah, generally, as I said, like Twitter and newsletters is like the two main sources that kind of everyone has access to. And that's kind of like where I get most of my information from. I actually don't watch any crypto youtubers, except Benjamin Cohen sometimes, who's a trader. He's not a fundament. I mean, he knows his fundamentals, but he doesn't do like, ecosystem updates or whatever.
01:15:32.746 - 01:15:50.954, Speaker A: He does a lot of trading stuff. But yeah, I don't watch any of the other youtubers, really, sometimes. Fine, Maddox, because I have really good videos explaining things really simply. But yeah, I wouldn't know which youtubers to follow besides myself for kind of like updates. They are bankless, I guess you could say. But bankless isn't a youtuber. They're like a whole ecosystem.
01:15:50.954 - 01:16:14.438, Speaker A: But yeah, definitely watch bankless kind of interviews and stuff as well on there. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question. Um, yeah, there's, there's a lot of noise out there, unfortunately, and Twitter can get pretty noisy. But, uh, I enjoy it. I actually enjoy reading through all the, all the noise as well. Um, not the noise of people pumping coins or whatever, but just like going through all the threads and seeing everything branch off and people kind of like talking to each other. And you can find a lot of gems in there as well.
01:16:14.438 - 01:17:17.956, Speaker A: So, yeah, curating a good Twitter follow following list is pretty critical, I would think, as well. All right, one here from Shaw, man who says, how do you think Mev will play out among stakers staking pools post merge open question. I'm not gonna say I have the answer to this one, but I will say that I think that unless something fundamentally changes Mev and proof of stake is going to be similar to Mev and proof of work. And with staking pools and stuff like that. There was that whole thing about realgs that I went through on yesterday's refill episode or Friday's refuel episode where I spoke about how this guy named Edgar put out a piece of software that will basically allow miners to use it to essentially do what's called a time banded attack, which means they steal MeV from other miners. So the way this would work is that the miner would see that there's a bunch of MeV in this block, and then they'll, and they say, okay, well, I want that Mev. So they'll work to reorg the blockchain and uncle that block that was mined by the other miner so that they can extract the MEV instead of them.
01:17:17.956 - 01:17:56.648, Speaker A: And that's what's called a time banded attack. Now, why people think this would lead to instability of the chain is because you can imagine that it doesn't just stop there. What if every miner is fighting with every other miner to reorg every block? You know, every time a block is reorg, they reorgan again because they're like, well, no, that's my meV. It's kind of like this tug of war of just like constantly reorgang the chain, and that you never get to like, you never get to consensus on what's actually real. And you then the chain basically kind of, kind of essentially stops in kind of in place so you can get that playing out. That's the same thing improve of work than it is in proof of stake. But I spoke in detail on the, on Friday's refuel about why I think that this sort of stuff's not going to play out.
01:17:56.648 - 01:18:52.470, Speaker A: It's a very low chance that it's going to play out. But the other stuff with Mev, just the general Mev stuff, besides the real stuff, the front running, the sandwich attacks, all that sort of stuff, that's still going to be existing in proof of stake unless something fundamentally changes. Um, and on that note as well, the real stuff, while it will exist in proof of stake, it's actually a lot less, less worse. And there's actually a maximum limit to it, because in proof of stake, we have what's called economic finality. So after twelve to 13 minutes, the chain actually becomes economically finalized, which means that if you were to try and reorg, you would actually end up, a lot of the stake will end up getting slashed because of that. Because the entire, like, pretty much like, I think it's 66% of the stake is like, put this, they're kind of like, I guess, vote behind the chain being finalized and they stand to get slashed if they try and reorg the chain from, from that point on. So improve of stake, it's a lot better than proof of work on the reorgan side.
01:18:52.470 - 01:19:25.126, Speaker A: But the general Mev is still going to exist unless something fundamentally changes. So, which I think it might, because there's a lot of research and development going in here, but we're going to have to see how that plays out. So hopefully that answers your question. All right, one here from Ben Fellows, who asks, I work also who says, I work in cybersecurity. And it is in my experience that a lot of cyber people are skeptical of crypto because of its ties to ransomware. A quick review of topics at the Black Hat and Defcon conferences, the premier cybersecurity conferences, shows almost no attention to crypto. I find this to be kind of a big gap.
01:19:25.126 - 01:19:46.706, Speaker A: When I look at immunefi versus bug crowd, the difference in bounties is stunning. Crypto bounties are an order of magnitude larger. I have a sneaky the suspicion that new talent in cybersecurity will go towards crypto as people become more attuned to what is going on. I know I am. Any thoughts? So funny background here. I actually worked in cybersecurity for two and a half years myself as well, so I have a bit of a background here. But you're totally right.
01:19:46.706 - 01:20:21.164, Speaker A: There are a lot of people in that industry and a lot of old co workers that I know that are just not interested in following along with this ecosystem because they have a very bad view of it. Now, I think this is just a general bad view that a lot of people have of crypto, is that they only see the surface level stuff. Now, what's the surface level stuff of crypto? Well, that's what the media reports on. What does the media report on? The scams, the rug pulls, the cringy stuff that goes on the ugliness of crypto. They hardly ever. And the price rise, of course, they hardly ever report on the fundamental stuff. Like, if you look at the mainstream media coverage of ethereum, it's absolutely shocking.
01:20:21.164 - 01:20:42.790, Speaker A: Look at. Look at. For bitcoin, it's almost as shocking. It's gotten a little bit better, but it's still pretty bad. So when you have that as kind of like, the main, um, uh, I guess, like, narrative around crypto is that it's. It's still just like a thing for scams and it's a thing that's like, the government's gonna ban, and it's this, and it's that instead of, like, the fundamental value behind it, then people just inherently will ignore it. They'll think, okay, well, I don't want to get involved with this.
01:20:42.790 - 01:20:56.174, Speaker A: This is dirty. Whatever. This is scammy. I'm just gonna steer clear of that. And ransomware probably plays a big part in that as well, because a lot of people will hear about crypto because of ransomware. They'll be like, oh, this company got ransomed again. They're asking for bitcoin.
01:20:56.174 - 01:21:29.418, Speaker A: Then they'll attach bitcoin to criminal activity, which has always been hilarious to me because, like, fear is used in criminal activity more than anything. But people don't make that connection. It's just like, this weird thing that, in their head. So I totally agree with you that, you know, as more people kind of, like, dig into the ecosystem and actually understand what it's all about and understand the fundamentals behind it and understand that it's not all just scams and rug pulls and see, like, yeah, the bug bounties in this. In this kind of ecosystem. They'll definitely join on board and kind of, like, hop into it, but it takes a while. I think it takes them coming to their senses on their own.
01:21:29.418 - 01:21:59.238, Speaker A: I've had this experience with multiple people before where either a lot of them are just not interested because they think it's all got to do with money. They don't see the technical side of it, or they just have a really, really poor opinion of crypto. And it's kind of hard to change someone's mind when they've made the weighted up. Right. So, yeah, hopefully that answers kind of, like, your question gives some context around that. As I said, like, I worked in cyber security, so I have a bit of personal experience here. The people I spoke to, they didn't really think it was a scam or anything like that, but really, their only touch point with crypto was through the ransomware incidents that they were responding to.
01:21:59.238 - 01:24:42.094, Speaker A: So, yeah, generally, you know, that might just put, like, a sour taste in their mouth as well, and they don't want to have to listen about crypto, hear about crypto again or anything like that. So, yeah, anyway, I'm gonna. I hope that answers that question. I'm gonna take a 1 minute break because my dog is barking. I'll be back in a sec, guys. So just take a toilet break or something if you need to. All right.
01:24:42.094 - 01:24:58.910, Speaker A: Sorry about that, guys. I'm back. I'll continue through the list here. So next question comes from Patrick again here, who says, my goal is to launch a wifi like product one day. I have very little knowledge around vault yield, farming strategies. Strategies. Let us assume that you would have this goal.
01:24:58.910 - 01:26:05.590, Speaker A: How would you go about achieving this goal step by step? Um, well, I mean, I would start by, I guess like researching everything there is to know about vaults and strategies and yield farming in general and stuff like that. Uh, I would definitely study what yearn has done right and what they've done wrong and kind of like I guess even wirefy's token launch and not even just yearn, but like other kind of yield farming strategies and protocols out there and stuff like that. If you don't know how to code, I would, I would focus on finding a technical co founder or learning to code yourself, of course. But generally it's, it can become very hard to, to kind of, I guess, launch a product like this. If you look at the, I guess not to discourage you, but if you look at kind of like yearn as an example, they have a lot of people working on strategies all the time, working on their code and they've been around for quite a while now and they, you know, they got a lot of attention because of their big launch back in the day and stuff like that. But I would kind of like go study their forum, go study the discord, go study the development process to kind of get a feel for all the work that goes into it and how you would go about doing it yourself. So I guess like recon would be the first thing that I would do and start with.
01:26:05.590 - 01:26:59.664, Speaker A: And then from there I'd get a feel for like what I need. Obviously you need someone technical on the team to develop the thing or technical co founder or you know, even yourself if you want to teach yourself to code or something like that. But then from there you need like so many other people. You need people who are able to do like different strategies, who are able to kind of like um, keep up to date with the ecosystem and keep up to date with the competitors and, and make sure you can keep doing new strategies and getting people to stay within, I guess like your yield farming aggregator instead of going to someone else's. Um, so yeah, hopefully that's just a high level overview of kind of like what you would have to do first. Definitely recon and kind of like studying the ecosystem will be the very first thing you would have to do. All right, this one from Yoa who says, what is the potential for algorithmic and partially collateralized stable coins in the Ethereum ecosystem? What do you think about current projects in that space such as FraCs and USDN? So I don't, I haven't looked into USDN too closely.
01:26:59.664 - 01:27:51.870, Speaker A: I know a little bit about fracs, but basically I think that most algorithmic stable coins are ponzi schemes. So most of them will fail. Most of them have failed already, and a lot of them will not, and fun and do not work and will fundamentally never work. But that's not to say that there couldn't one day be one that works. But in saying that, I think that the one that does work isn't going to be called an algorithmic stablecoin, it's going to be called something else. And my thoughts on Fracs and USDN, as I said, I haven't paid too much attention to USDN fracs, last time I looked, was backed by 90% USDC or USDC derivatives. So until I see that being much, much less, until I see facts, fracks, fracks actually acting as a, if you want to call it algorithmic stablecoin, and actually being stable and working without kind of like Ponzi esque mechanisms in place, that's when I would kind of like pay more attention to it.
01:27:51.870 - 01:28:17.784, Speaker A: There's a few others out there, like, I know Olympus, Dow. I haven't looked too deeply into that, but I know that's out there, obviously, Faye protocol, stuff like that as well. So, yeah, I mean, they're interesting, but I think, as I said, a lot of them are just never going to work. A lot of them are fundamentally not, not sound. A lot of them have ideas that just don't work. You know, may seem like they work in theory, but do not work, you know, in practice sort of thing. So hopefully that, that answers your question there.
01:28:17.784 - 01:29:47.440, Speaker A: So this one from Brian Peace, who says, I'm really excited for ERP 1559, but what happens if people start bidding up the tip field for preferential block access? Could this lead to stuck transactions like we see today when someone doesn't set high enough gas price? So the way it works is that you have the base fee of VIP 1559, which is the fee, the part of the fee that gets burned, and that is the fee that everyone will pay normally, right? Whenever you do a transaction, the base fee, say it's like Tenguay, that'll be the fee that everyone kind of pays to get their transaction into the next block, like 95% of the time. Now, if people start building up the second field, which is the tip field, it reverts to the same kind of mechanism that we have today, which is the first price priority auction kind of mechanism here, where essentially if you pay more for a transaction than I do, your transaction is going to go through before mine does sort of thing. Now, the way it differs in 1559 is that this tip field and the price here actually goes up exponentially. And so what ends up happening is that it goes up so fast eventually that people stop bidding it up because it just gets prohibitively expensive. Like, I'm talking $1,000 plus, like more than that. And then it's like a self kind of amending mechanism where it comes back down after, and this happens over periods of minutes and things like that, but it comes back down after that and then the chain kind of like levels out. So it's basically a way to kind of release the pressure and to stop people from like beating up the tip field, like, you know, to stupid amounts, essentially, and keeping it there for a long time.
01:29:47.440 - 01:30:38.008, Speaker A: But people, you know, just paying the kind of like base fee would, should still get their transactions through due to that, that way of it kind of like working there because there'll be less and less transactions in the tip field. There'll be the normal transactions in the, in the base fee kind of field if you want to think about it like that, and those transactions will still go through. If you want a deeper dive on how exactly this mechanism works, there are plenty of resources out there. You can search EIP 1559 resources by Tim Bico on Google, and you'll be able to get a result there. There's plenty of research done on this. So this one comes from t one, who says, in anticipation of the upcoming l two launches, can you outline what you expect to be the biggest differentiators between optimism and arbitrum? So I think that I wouldn't do this question justice. I think that there's a blog post that came out a couple days ago called making sense of roll ups part two posted on Darabit.
01:30:38.008 - 01:31:05.134, Speaker A: If you google that, you'll find it. It has an excellent breakdown of the differences between optimism and arbitrum on a technical level and what it would feel like for the user. Now, most of these differences are technical. Ideally, the user is not going to feel the differences here. They're both built on optimistic rollouts, which means they both have a withdrawal delay of at least a week. But generally for users, it should feel rather similar. Both, both of these kind of solutions here.
01:31:05.134 - 01:31:31.914, Speaker A: So I highly suggest going and reading that post once again. It's making sense of rollups part two on the darabit.com website. And, you know, that will explain everything for you in greater detail than I can give today. So next one comes from Clemento, who says, hey, Anthony, what are your thoughts on the scale network? As far as I know, scale network is another sidechain network. I just don't hear much about it these days. I'm not sure what's happening there.
01:31:31.914 - 01:32:02.938, Speaker A: I don't know any projects running on there actually. I actually hadn't thought of scale network for a while until I saw this question. So I'm sorry, I can't answer that question in more detail. I think that maybe they lost out to polygon in terms of network effects, the polygon Pos chain in terms of like side chain ecosystem network effects. So yeah, I'm maybe, maybe they're doing stuff I'm just not sure about. If you do know more about that, about scale network, to be sure to post it in the Discord channel, I'm happy to be educated about that. Alright, so this question comes from knowledge fight.
01:32:02.938 - 01:32:37.274, Speaker A: Who says, what defi protocol do you think is undervalued and why is it sushi? So I mean, I went through sushiswap versus uniswap before and kind of like how I'm viewing those right now. I don't, I can't comment on if I think, you know, sushi is undervalued or overvalued. I mean, it's very hard to know in this space what, what's undervalued and overvalued and what, you know, what's undervalued relative to something else. All these sorts of things. And as I, as I kind of really give investment advice or anything like that, I can't really comment too much. But I think I would just generally say that. I think defi protocols, when you look at them and you're looking for like ones that are undervalued.
01:32:37.274 - 01:33:33.674, Speaker A: The way I look at it is I just look at projects that are still kind of grinding away and growing, but their token price isn't reacting to that growth. So if they're kind of like revenue is growing, if the TVL is growing, if the usage of the platform's growing, if the like the user numbers and stuff like that, integrations, if everything is growing except the token price, well then that's what we call like a bullish divergence, right? In technical terms, in trader terms, where there is bullish kind of like activity going on, but the price is not reacting to it, which means that technically you believe that the price would react to it later on once the market wisens up to it. That's how I approach what things that I believe to be undervalued versus overvalued. But that isn't like a silver bullet. There are plenty of projects out there who have amazing fundamentals, but their token distributions, the token emissions via liquidity mining, are really bad, which means that the token price can't really move anyway, even if the fundamentals are growing. So you can't just look at things in a vacuum. You have to look at things holistically, I think.
01:33:33.674 - 01:34:30.104, Speaker A: All right, one here from Ben Fellowes, who says, I read that after meeting the Coinbase CEO, the chairman of the Federal Reserve immediately started a study to look into creating us digital currency. I read today that the IMF recommended the US create a digital currency, it seems is going to happen eventually. What does that mean for the ecosystem? I think I spoke in detail about this at the very start when I answered Yan the faun's question. Sorry, not, not Yan the Faun Khan Le money's question, which is the second question that I answered. So I won't go into the details there, but essentially, I mean, we're seeing the signaling from all these kind of governments and nation states or whatever, launching their own CBDC, central bank, digital currencies, and, you know, they're all kind of like trying to, I guess, catch up to each other. China's leading the charge here and things like that. So I do think that it's going to be a kind of weird thing to look at and how it plays out in the ecosystem, I'm not sure what it means.
01:34:30.104 - 01:35:01.656, Speaker A: I think that it's going to put more attention on crypto. I do think it's going to legitimize crypto a lot more in people's eyes because they're going to just see the digital currency and they're going to thinking their head, oh, like crypto, like bitcoin, like ethereum, and then they're going to see the government giving it legitimacy. So then they're going to be like, oh, well, maybe this thing isn't a scam or it's not just for crime, whatever, blah, blah, blah. So I think that'll be the biggest kind of impact it makes, but I'm not sure exactly. Kind of like what the CBDC is going to look like, how ingrained they're going to be. I think you can look to China for an early example of this. They're pretty much putting it in everything.
01:35:01.656 - 01:36:06.268, Speaker A: And it's actually, I mean, from the reports that I'm seeing, I don't know if they're verified, it looks a little bit scary because they're going to have like total dominance over people's money and things like that. I don't know how much truth there is to that or whatever. I haven't looked too deeply into it, but definitely governments love their control, right? So it's going to be interesting to see how that plays out for sure. So another question here from Jan the faun who says, could you please explain how the entirety of Ethereum state is able to be handled by the computational resources of a single mining staking node? In particular, when processing transactions on the latest valid block, is a given node holding all of the Ethereum state in memory, or is it the case that the node only loads into memory the stored state of the relevant contracts needed to carry out the transactions, and then persists the changes back to disk or something else entirely? So this is getting like really technical here, and probably above the answer that I can give, but I think you're correct in saying that the node only loads what it needs from the state. It doesn't kind of like take all the state into memory and process all of that, because it doesn't need all of that every time it kind of like does transactions. I think that's kind of how it works. I'm not totally sure.
01:36:06.268 - 01:37:18.844, Speaker A: I'm sure there's explainers out there, but as I said, this is probably going to like the very edges of my knowledge around this, and this is getting into low level protocol stuff for sure. So definitely I would Google for a better answer at this, but I think you're right in your kind of second assumption here. So just another one here from Jan the fawn, who says NFTs are being praised in part as having the benefit of offering proof of provenance, removing real world friction of unverifiable authenticity. One application of this is supply chains, where, for example, you could now know with certainty that the bottle of wine you're drinking at a restaurant truly came from the vineyard written on the label, because the QR code pulls up the associated NFT on either scan. But couldn't the QR codes slash public addresses of the NFTs be appropriated and slapped on a cheap bottle of wine? How could this kind of attribution forgery be resolved? It definitely could. I mean, it's, this actually reminds me of a, of a video of Andreas Antonopoulos talking about this, where he basically said it was very, it's very easy to trick, I guess, like people into thinking that something's authentic when it's not. And especially if, as you said, you can just swap the labels and stuff like that.
01:37:18.844 - 01:38:07.110, Speaker A: And, you know, whenever you're trying to get real world data into onto the blockchain and kind of like have providence over it and say, okay, this is the real truth and this is actually what happened. It's going to be very, very hard. And, you know, oracles are the perfect example here where you basically have to trust that an oracle is posting the correct price. Like if you're using, say, Coinbase as an oracle, just as one oracle for your, your kind of defi project, for example, you have to trust that Coinbase is, one, not going to change the price on you because their oracle is essentially an API that they have complete control over. And two, that it's not going to be manipulated by some kind of like, I guess, person on the coinbase exchange or whatever. So those two things lead to kind of like a massive issue with oracles. And we saw this actually play it with compound where compound from memory was only using coinbase for their die oracle.
01:38:07.110 - 01:38:40.456, Speaker A: And the dire price on Coinbase went haywire and that ended up in positions on compound being liquidated when they shouldn't have been. So that's another example there. But yeah, definitely, I think that this is a very, very hard problem to solve, the attribution forgery. I think that we're still going to have to rely on meat space things to do this. And I think that there's still a lot of trust involved here. It's because it's just outside of the things that Ethereum can verify internally. Ethereum can obviously verify the balances of people's accounts, say their ETH balances, and do that all well and good.
01:38:40.456 - 01:39:13.536, Speaker A: And you can have a complete history of that because it's all digitally native. But when you start introducing things from the real world into it, well, Ethereum has absolutely no idea if that label was swapped on the bottle of wine or not. Right. It only knows what it's being told from the outside world, whereas when it's inside, Ethereum knows that it told itself that this is the, you know, account balance of this account at this block number, blah, blah, blah, blah, the kind of stuff like that. So yeah, hopefully that kind of shed some light there for you, Yan. All right, so two more questions here. But actually there's four questions from Lefi and then just one more.
01:39:13.536 - 01:39:51.648, Speaker A: So I'll go through Lefi's questions first. Basically, all these questions are centered around staking, so they ask a question around penalties. I understand that this is different to slashing, as I have zero intention of ever being a bad actor. The concept of slashing doesn't bother me as much being a relatively non technical person. Penalties give me a little more anxiety with my precious ethers online. Can you please give a breakdown on what these penalties are and how they are triggering using a real life example of one validator? So I would say that the concept of slashing should still worry you, because even if you don't want to be a bad actor, you can still get slashed. And a perfect example of this is if you double sign or double a test to a kind of like a block here.
01:39:51.648 - 01:40:33.138, Speaker A: So essentially what happens is that you run a validator on one pc and then you have a backup, and then that backup validator for some reason turns itself on. Then what ends up happening is that you end up signing from two different, I mean, from, from the same validator on two different machines. That is a slashable offense. So yes, that's, that's one way you could get slashed by not being a bad actor. But what you're talking about with regards to penalties, it's, it's things like going offline. So going offline is, is typically referred to as the inactivity leak in proof of stake Ethereum, where as you're offline, you leak out ETH. And it's not, you're not getting slashed or anything like that, but you are losing ETH very slowly, mind you.
01:40:33.138 - 01:41:16.872, Speaker A: But, you know, the thing is, is that the more people that are offline the same as you, the more ETH you'll lose. If it's just, you know, you offline, and maybe a few other people offline, whatever, from time to time, that's fine. But if, like a bunch of people go offline, then the network considers that a form of an attack and it will start bleeding you out more. Now, there is a maximum that you can lose from this. It bleeds you out to 28 ETH. So it'll go from, so if you have 32 ETH and you go offline for a long time and you get down to 22 ETH, it'll actually eject you from the validator set, which means that you'll get removed from staking and then you can withdraw your ETH. I guess once the merger goes through, you can withdraw your ETH, and then you can basically restake by adding another four ETH in so you won't lose all your ETH from being offline or anything like that.
01:41:16.872 - 01:41:39.504, Speaker A: And that's what people refer to as penalties. There's. So your second question here is, can you manage a node remotely? Yes, you can. You can manage a node remotely. Just like, you can manage any piece of software remotely. There's multiple ways to do this. This isn't just exclusive to validators, but this goes for like, as I said, any piece of software that you're running on a server or on like your pc.
01:41:39.504 - 01:42:10.624, Speaker A: You can use very retail friendly tools like Teamviewer, or you can use the command line and ssh into a box that you're kind of like setting up this validator on. So yeah, if you go away on holidays or anything like that, you definitely can access your node remotely. But again, I would be careful with this too. Make sure that you don't run two instances of the same node. Like, you don't have to run it on separate PCs. You can actually end up running two instances of the same validator on your same pc and get slashed that way too. So I would be careful there if you're managing it remotely as well.
01:42:10.624 - 01:42:52.506, Speaker A: Third question is about going offline. So I kind of half answered this, but your question is specifically around, is it possible to just take your note offline for a period of time without being penalized, eg, your Internet goes down or you're moving house. So as I said before, if you go offline, you will be in activity leaked out, so you will suffer that penalty. But the way that you would do it, if you're moving houses would, you would eject yourself. You would essentially say, okay, I want to stop being a validator, eject me from the active set. You would wait until you're ejected and then you would move house and then spin up the validator again and you'd be on your way. Now, you can't do this currently because of the fact that there's no withdrawals enables, there's no transactions enabled on ETH two.
01:42:52.506 - 01:43:43.000, Speaker A: So you can't do this as it currently stands, but you will be able to do this in the future. So that's how you would do it, moving house. But if you go offline, because your Internet goes down, as long as that's not down for like weeks and weeks and weeks, you're not really going to lose anything. I think Vitalik put out a post where he said that you could be offline for months of the year, but as long as you're online for like majority of the year, you would still either break even or be in profit, because the inactivity leak isn't that punishing if you're just going offline on your own sort of thing? All right, so your fourth question here is around selecting a client. So you say, curious on your thoughts suggestions I've heard you mention a few times on the refill that is a concentrated to a few larger clients currently. I'm all for doing my parts a decentralization, so would love to get your input here. So I guess prism is still the dominant client from prior labs.
01:43:43.000 - 01:44:03.608, Speaker A: And then Lighthouse. And then there's the two other clients and Nimbus and Tecu. If you want to run minority clients, I would run Nimbus or Tecu. They are definitely the minority clients right now, last time I checked. I think that you should if you're able to, the differences between the clients, I mean there are some of them. I think all of them actually have a windows release right now. I don't, I haven't checked for a while, but I believe they do.
01:44:03.608 - 01:44:30.350, Speaker A: So there are some differences about what platforms they support. They've written different languages, obviously they're developed by different teams and at different paces and things like that. So there might be bugs in one, there aren't another, but that applies to all of them. So. And you know, some of them perform better than others, but they're all pretty good and relative in performance. Some of them work better on lower end hardware than others, sort of stuff like that as well to consider. And then lastly you say here, could you point us in the direction of some of your favorite setup guides? Yes.
01:44:30.350 - 01:45:09.076, Speaker A: So the two that I know of that are my favorites is from bankless. So if you just search like staking bankless on Google or something, you should be able to find those. One was authored by Justin Larue and the other one, I can't remember exactly who it was authored by, but I think you'll be able to find it by simply googling it. If not, you can go into the bankless discord and then ask there as well. All right, so PJ fastpants is the last question here. Who says, what do you reckon about the idea that the vast majority of ETH may eventually be staked, including by large institutions or nations, to get exposure to the yield? It seems liquid staking products will become fundamental to the ETH ecosystem and may get built into many platforms. Every bit of spare ETH will want free yield.
01:45:09.076 - 01:45:41.578, Speaker A: Yes. Yes. With a question mark? Yeah, I think so. I think we're going to see a lot of ETH being staked and like especially post merge and especially as more people wise up to this, I think we're going to see a healthy chunk of it being staked, and especially if there's like staking derivatives and stuff like that. Where you can basically have a tokenized representation of your stake position and you, you're earning just some little yield. Even if the yields less than like 5% or whatever, even less than that way less than that. You're still better off just staking your ETH and then using the derivative ETH in DeFi or something like that.
01:45:41.578 - 01:46:16.470, Speaker A: But there are extra trust assumptions there. I've mentioned lido before. If you do this with Lido and get Steth, you're still taking on kind of risk there, because you're not staking on your own, you're staking through a service provider, and something could happen to ste for whatever reason, or lido or whatever, there's always an extra layer of risk there. But in saying that there should be trustless ways to do this, once the merge goes through and everything kind of like, kind of gets set up that way. I know element finance is working on something like this, or at least they've mentioned that in the past, I think. So stuff like that could be really cool. But yeah, I do think that a large portion of ETH will be staked eventually.
01:46:16.470 - 01:46:45.552, Speaker A: And I don't expect staking yields to be like super high. I expect them long term to be less than 5%, even with the non burn fee revenue going to stakers. But I think that's fine because it's really just swapping out the active kind of like ETH for sale and the ETH kind of like being staked, so to speak. So you have kind of like the price should go up with the mat with more and more eat staked. Right? So, yeah. When taking that into account as well, I think your most eat is going to definitely be staked there. So, yeah.
01:46:45.552 - 01:47:27.460, Speaker A: All right, I'm going to. That was the last question on my sheet, but I do think there's some other questions on the kind of discord chat here. But just give me one sec, I'll be back again, and then I'll answer these questions. Then we can wrap it up. So just one sec, guys. Sorry, it. All right, last bit of questions here.
01:47:27.460 - 01:47:53.284, Speaker A: Let me have a look in this channel, see what people are saying. There's a few questions, sorry, one from Ubic, who says, what webcam do you use? I actually use a camera, Sony ZV one. Yeah. So it's not a webcam, it's just the camera that I've connect. I've got connected through an Elgato cam link to my pc. And that's why the quality is pretty good. Next one from Mark.
01:47:53.284 - 01:48:52.074, Speaker A: Oh, who says do you think it's possible that creating algorithmic stable assets is such a difficult challenge due to limitations that exist in smart contract design space as it exists today? Else are we still in a period where we have view how to solve the problem means to mature? I don't think it's limited by the smart contract design space. I just think it's limited by the fact that a lot of these mechanisms just don't work and they just like Ponzi esque and they lead to death spirals essentially. And then Mark asked, do you think future protocol layer changes are pieces that will help us solve the toughest challenges, such as oracle related challenges? Maybe. I mean, I haven't seen the Oracles being the problems with a lot of these algorithmic stablecoins. It's more around the fact that, as I said, they use the Ponzi mechanisms where they use like coupon systems or it relies on new buyers coming in to keep the peg and things like that. So I don't know if it's related to oracles. I don't think so from what I've seen, but maybe there's something there I'd have to do kind of like more thinking there.
01:48:52.074 - 01:49:26.724, Speaker A: So I think those were the two questions. Sorry, I know we're kind of on time here, so just want to get through the other ones. One comes from grifty 88. Have you seen, have you seen any projects attempting to bypass the more ephemeral, ephemeral pegs of value to a direct correlation to units of energy? Maybe like reverse mining protocols? I'm just thinking, no, no, I don't think so. No reverse mining protocols. I didn't, I, maybe, I don't know what, what? Hmm? I don't know what you maybe I don't know. I don't totally understand the question.
01:49:26.724 - 01:50:09.708, Speaker A: I'm happy to kind of like answer that offline. Maybe I don't totally answer the question, but no, I haven't seen any of those kind of like from, from my view. Next one comes from Max eight, who says, what's the best way to prepare network skill assessment, transferable skills to get involved professionally in the crypto space, like non tech jobs, business development, marketing, sales, et cetera. Best way to prepare is just not, not to over prepare, I think just to jump into it and start getting involved. Like, that's what I did. That's what a lot of people I know did. If you are kind of like working in the hard skills fields like developers, like say you want to be the solidity developer, then obviously you need to learn solidity, but if you're doing things like business development, marketing, community management, a lot of that stuff's actually learned from the job.
01:50:09.708 - 01:50:27.944, Speaker A: I did marketing at set protocol. I had no marketing background or anything like that. I think I did a pretty good job. I mean, I consider what I did with growing myself in the ecosystem part of marketing community management, so. And I knew nothing about that. I just kind of learned that all on the job, so to speak. So those are kind of like, I guess like more of the softer skills, but the hard skills.
01:50:27.944 - 01:51:08.178, Speaker A: By hard, I mean like you need to actually learn the thing to do the thing. Definitely development. Like, you definitely need to learn solidity if you want to code smart contracts or some other language, depending on kind of like, I guess, what chain you're doing it for. But yeah, but even that sort of stuff can still be learnt on the job too. You just need to know the basics at least to kind of get started and get your foot in the door there. All right, last one from Cams, who says, Anthony, you spoke recently about the importance of the onion model to mitigate mev attack vectors, and you said that the social layer is essentially the ultimate defense we have against this if the other layer layers fail. Media bias is generally an issue in a lot of countries, particularly print media here in Oz, which has carryover effects influencing digital media.
01:51:08.178 - 01:51:44.776, Speaker A: Conversely, this concentration of media bias is a social layer failure. What important technological or economic strategies do you think we can implement to crypto media to stop us repeating the same faults we see within legacy media, eg Dao's tokenized niche media, allowing authors to extract value for their work. So I actually don't believe we need anything kind of like here to kind of encourage this. I think we already have this, so maybe, maybe I'm confusing it, confusing people a little bit by saying this. Let me take a step back. I think when you're looking for a source of truth within the real world, it's. It's kind of hard to get it right.
01:51:44.776 - 01:52:21.258, Speaker A: There is no source of truth, there is no definitive thing that you can point to that everyone's going to agree upon. But that's not the case with a blockchain. With a blockchain like Ethereum. When you're looking at the Ethereum blockchain, everyone agrees on it, right? And anyone who doesn't agree on it forks off of the chain. So if you don't agree with the current state of the ethereum network as it exists as an internal system, then what ends up happening is that you fork off the network and you continue on your own. The perfect example of this is Ethereum classic. The Ethereum classic social layer, or the community that formed around that were Ethereum community members to begin with until the fork happened.
01:52:21.258 - 01:52:58.444, Speaker A: But then they said, well, no, we don't want to reverse the hack. We don't want to take the money away from the hacker. We want to respect the properties of immutability or whatever, right? And that's fine. So what ended up happening is that they're fine to believe that, but they forked off, they went and did their own thing, and they created their Ethereum classic chain. And everyone who believed that Ethereum was still the real Ethereum and believed that the Ethereum chain, as we know today, was right in taking those funds away. That is the source of truth for those people. But the source of truth for the people who believe that taking the hackers funds away was wrong is the Ethereum classic chain.
01:52:58.444 - 01:53:46.000, Speaker A: You kind of don't really have that hard source of truth in kind of like meat space in the real world. So from that perspective, I don't think that you kind of need anything special for crypto, because whenever we're looking at the social layer in crypto and we're trying to agree on something, we only need to look at the chain itself as the ultimate source of truth. So for an example, if the chain suffered an attack, well, everyone can see that there is no ambiguity there, right there. Everyone that sees that and says, okay, well, this was a clear cut attack on the network, right? They can all agree on that, and then, and then we can fix that, or we can defend against it. But if there's. And, you know, no one can, can do any kind of, like, psyops here. Like, I know, in the real world, say, like there's some, some war going on and someone attacks someone else, and then everyone lies about and the media covers it up or whatever.
01:53:46.000 - 01:54:29.396, Speaker A: You can't do that with a blockchain like Ethereum or bitcoin, because there are thousands of people running the nodes. There are thousands of people running the source of truth, for example, because it's like, you know, 10,000 bitcoin nodes. I think it's a little bit less Ethereum nodes. So those people act as that social layer by pointing to the software that they're running, that they're in consensus with, and that is the source of truth. So hopefully that answers that. I know it's a bit of a tricky subject to get your head around because it is kind of different to what we've, I guess, like, grown up with in the, in the meat space, where we've never actually had a way to have this decentralized consensus and source of truth that just keeps chugging along, that thousands of people around the world can verify. Not even just people running nodes, but like, people who see people running nodes and read from it.
01:54:29.396 - 01:54:59.254, Speaker A: All the infrastructure, all the users and everything, you know, they are also watching the chain. So the chain. So, to summarize, the chain is the ultimate source of truth. I don't think we need to introduce anything to protect the social layer. I think the social layer is a consequence of the chain, and the social layer forms around the source of truth on the chain. So if the chain says one thing, well, the social layer say another, and if the social layer disagrees with that, then they fork off of that chain and they do their own thing, like how I gave with the ethereum, classic example. So hopefully that answers that question.
01:54:59.254 - 01:55:19.190, Speaker A: It's actually a really good question. They got my brain spinning there for a sec. But the article that Cams was talking about here for everyone else, the, on the, the onion model was run from hasu on derribit as well, calling Nicole. I don't think I have it up here anymore. You can find a link to it in Friday's refuel. It's in the YouTube description there. But that was a very good article.
01:55:19.190 - 01:55:41.044, Speaker A: The, it's kind of, I think it's called like the onion model of blockchain security or something like that. I covered it on the refuel on Friday as well, so definitely go watch that if you haven't yet. But yeah, that's everything I had on my list and in the channels, I believe. If anyone's got any last questions in the audience, I'll take them. If not, we can wrap it up for today. I got a question for you, Anthony. Yeah, go for it.
01:55:41.044 - 01:56:07.164, Speaker A: Longtime listener, big fan. I love your daily Gwei videos. You're super consistent. My first question is, you're super consistent on your intro. Are you reading some type of script when you do that? The intro? No, no, that's just from memory now. That's amazing. My real question is, po ops are starting to get a lot of traction in the crypto space.
01:56:07.164 - 01:56:28.476, Speaker A: Where do you see the future of po ops overall? That's my question. Yeah, yeah, I totally agree with you. I'm seeing it gain more and more traction. That project's been around for a while. Patricio, one of the founders, very, very well. He's a good friend of mine. So, yeah, I think that it serves a pretty big purpose within the ecosystem.
01:56:28.476 - 01:57:30.036, Speaker A: And I actually, my hope is that in the future, more projects will adopt this as kind of like a way to measure, I guess, like to do civil resistance and to also measure kind of sentiment of things. Because, for example, if you have people holding their pops and you have, like, someone have, like, all these pops, if they've gone to all these conferences, they've done all these things like they're a genesis validator, for example, blah, blah, blah, then their voice within the community should be weighted more heavily than someone who doesn't have any pops, for example, because you have a proof, or you have many proofs, that this person has been around for quite a while and they've. And that their voice should actually be listened to and that they actually know what they're talking about, sort of thing and everything else that comes with that. So that's, that's one thing that I want to see more projects do is take into account the power pollings of different people and the age of that as well. Say you have a pie up from like, the, the first conference they ever did, um, did it for, and then you have all the other ones from there. Say you have all the Devcon ones, you have all the, um, ETH Denver ones, you have, uh, the genesis validator. You have this, you have that.
01:57:30.036 - 01:58:20.966, Speaker A: I mean, there's heaps of them now, but I guess you get the gist of what I'm saying here. You know, logically, that person who's been around for a while and who's actually cares enough to get a po up should have a, have a voice that should be listened to, uh, rather than someone who doesn't have any. Not saying that someone who doesn't have any shouldn't be listened to, but I think it's a good way to filter out different people in the ecosystem, in different communities, because there's a lot of noise and you want signal in the noise. And I think pop acts is a really great way to signal in that respect. But also, on that note, as well, with governance and with voting on things, you could literally wait. People who are holding pops for your project heavier in the governance process than those who aren't. Maybe they're voting with tokens as well, but if they are voting with tokens and they have a specific pop or have a bunch of different specific ones, they're weighted just slightly higher or a little bit higher.
01:58:20.966 - 01:59:09.352, Speaker A: Whatever you want to tune it to, their votes are weighted higher than someone else because they've got that proof there and that they've done something or they've been with the project for a while, or they're like a more hardcore community member or whatever, and their voice should be. Should be louder than someone else's, so to speak. So I know that that may not seem like something that's totally democratic or whatever, but I don't think these systems necessarily should be democratic. I think a lot of these systems are experimenting with new governance mechanisms. I think that we can find something better than democracy within crypto. I already think that crypto right now is more of a liquid democracy system where people can delegate their voting governance tokens to delegates and to, like, stewards or whatever, and kind of like, as their representatives. But it's not like you have to wait a year, two years, four years, whatever it is, to vote people in and out.
01:59:09.352 - 01:59:42.074, Speaker A: It's liquid so that you can. You can pull your delegation from whoever that you don't like. If you don't like what they're doing, they don't like the decisions that they've made. You can kind of put your tokens on someone else. And, you know, it's just that, I guess, like, the pops just add legitimacy to those people as well, because I would feel more comfortable kind of, like, delegating my tokens to someone who had, like, a lot of pops and a lot of pops that actually had to do with the project than someone who didn't, so to speak. Because it's actual, real, tangible proof. And it goes back to what I was saying before about, you can look at the blockchain for real, tangible proof of the.
01:59:42.074 - 02:00:14.118, Speaker A: Of. Of what these people have done and where they've been, rather than having to rely on them telling you that, hopefully that answers your question. Yeah, I mean, just to follow up, do you see a world. Do you see a world where, you know, just normal people will be implementing co ops in their wedding or some type of club meetup or just in real life. Yeah, I guess that's the other side to it that I didn't really touch on. I think I was thinking a bit too crypto native there. No, I definitely think so.
02:00:14.118 - 02:00:35.646, Speaker A: I definitely think it's a fun little thing you can do, and it's definitely a way to keep track of, like, you know, who was it? Who was attended, where you went. Sorry, who was in attendance, where you went, sort of thing, and having, like, a collectible or, like, a memorabilia from. From that event, whether. Yeah, as you said, whether it's a wedding or something. Else, I think. Yeah, we could see that, but maybe that's a little bit further away. I think that requires a bit of bootstrapping.
02:00:35.646 - 02:00:58.502, Speaker A: I know the team's working on this as well, but, yeah, I can definitely see that happening some. Thank you. Awesome. All right, any last questions before I wrap it up? Cool. All right, well, that's it for this episode, everyone. Thank you for attending. As I mentioned at the start, this has been recorded.
02:00:58.502 - 02:01:11.294, Speaker A: I will be uploading this to YouTube so you can watch the whole thing again, listen to the whole thing again if you want. There'll be timestamps and everything like that as well. And I'll catch you all in two weeks for the next ama, and I'll also catch you all on the Discord channel. So thanks, everyone.
