00:00:01.240 - 00:00:59.254, Speaker A: Okay, so let us continue proving that existence of this stochastic bounds implies that almost surely upper Minkowski dimension is bounded by the same bound. And so we already made this observation that the probability e is bigger than alpha. Then the probability that the number of balls needed to cover said k is bigger than delta to the minus alpha one is bounded by delta to the alpha one, minus alpha two for small delta for any alpha two line between alpha one and alpha. Now I will want to use barrel can tell you. So let me discretize delta and let's just take delta n to be two to the minus n. Then it's easy to see that. Well, you see, this is obviously n of delta k is a monoton function.
00:00:59.254 - 00:02:41.944, Speaker A: So n of delta k is bounded below by n of two to the minus n k, when two to the minus n is bigger than smaller than delta. On the other hand, log delta is about n log two up to, well, one walk to. So the lean soup of this and limb soup of this are the same. And now we notice that the probability that number of k to the two to the minus m bigger than two to the minus m alpha one, this is bounded by, well, this bounds two to the n to the power alpha two minus alpha one, which is bounded so by barrel can tell as usual, this thing nk two to the minus n is bounded by two to the minus n alpha one for large enough n. So surely for large enough n, we have this bound, which means that apam and kowski dimension is bounded by alpha one. But alpha one was any number which was bigger than alpha. So we have this exciting bug.
00:02:41.944 - 00:04:48.324, Speaker A: Okay, so now with this lemma in mind, let us return to the sla and let me show what, what we are proving. So let us take a new open end, bounded a such that its closure is inside of h. So this is set with compact closure in H. And I want to show that the limit of expected number of both of disks which I needed to cover of radius delta which I need to cover intersection of this curve is a, is actually scales like exactly one plus couple way, which in turn would mean that household dimension of this intersection is bounded by one plus kappa weight from above, which on the other hand, of course, since you can exhaust your half plane by such open aids, would mean that the housed off dimension of the whole gamma is bounded by one plus couple of weight. Because hazard dimension of countable union is bounded by supreme of dimension of one of the objects. That's one of the easy processes. Okay, so, but again, strictly speaking, that's what we are proving, we are taking any compact they had, we look at it interior and we look at the number of balls which are needed to cover this.
00:04:48.324 - 00:05:17.062, Speaker A: And we want to say that it scales like one plus couple weights. So it's case like one over delta. Two one. Okay, so first of all, we can take small delta. And this is why we wanted closure to be in h. Because we'll take delta to be less than distance from our set to r. It's a positive number.
00:05:17.062 - 00:06:13.104, Speaker A: So we can only consider side surplus. And let us look at m. This would be points on grid of size delta. So we take z squared grid, we rescale to size delta such that they are close to a. So m capital is just all the points which are delta close to your set a. And little m would be the number of elements here, which is about one over delta squared. Right? So you have open set how many points in its delta neighborhood? Well, including the cycle, it's about one over delta squared.
00:06:13.104 - 00:07:24.804, Speaker A: And about, it's a constant which depends only on your set. That's why again, I talk about. Okay, so now let's look at number of such balls which are needed to cover our curve intersect position. I claim that it's just bounded by the number of points from m such that the distance to this gamma zero, infinity is less than delta. Because we simply take both of radius delta in all these points and it covers everything. And on the other hand, number of such balls is bounded by number of such points is bounded by the number of balls of radius two delta. So again, if you manage to cover by this number of balls, you have at least this number of points.
00:07:24.804 - 00:08:16.170, Speaker A: And if you need to, you need at least this number of balls of radius to delta to cover the curve. Because again, you cannot cover. And here I actually see that I made a mistake. So, this is true. And I claim that also this is. So, of course it's right. So if you look at the, so if you have this number of points, you can just take balls of radius two delta around and they cover everything.
00:08:16.170 - 00:09:31.004, Speaker A: And on the other hand, no two points from here can be inside one ball here. So this gives you a low bound. So instead of estimating x expected number of balls needed to cover the curve, you estimate expected number of points which are distance delta. So it's, you estimate expected number of integer points delta. Integer points which are at distance at most delta. And this is of course, some of the probabilities that the distance is less than delta, right? So we just expectation of the sum is the sum of the expectation, because this is again, so we get, since a is bounded and we can use scaling, then probability. The distance from z to this curve is less than Delph.
00:09:31.004 - 00:11:08.404, Speaker A: It's comparable with supremo of probabilities. That distance from x plus I to gamma is less than some constant times delta for some uniform c. And again supreme is taken only on the interval from minus m ten, because again, what we do, we just rescale all the points here. And after this we just look at the probability that we are no further than c delta. But that's exactly what we already estimated, remember? So to establish the bounds that we need, what do we need? So we know that this expected number of disk scales, like expected number of this, and this is sum of the objects about one over delta squared of them. Again, one over delta squared times constant, which depends on m multiplied by this probability, which is comparable with this probability. So we want to see that this probability, now let's disregard c because it will incorporate it here.
00:11:08.404 - 00:12:00.940, Speaker A: So we need some uniform c such that if you are less or equal than m, then probability that you are delta close to the curve is bounded. Well, we want delta to the power minus one minus couple weight. So remember that we will multiply this by one over delta squared. So one bound eventually delta to the power one minus couple. And we want it two sided. Again, this is stronger than what we need. If there would be a logarithmic correction here, it would still be acceptable, but that's not what we would get.
00:12:00.940 - 00:12:51.084, Speaker A: We would get exactly bounds with constants. Okay, so again, the logic is the following. Instead of estimating the number of balls, that's how it usually works. That's why this expected number of balls is easier to work with. You estimate the probability that given ball given box would be needed to cover your set, that your point is within delta distance from your set. And you only need to look, you know, another way to look at it would be to cut the whole half plane in the squares of size delta and look at the probabilities that your curve intersects the square. This is exactly, this would lead exactly to the same discussion.
00:12:51.084 - 00:14:11.996, Speaker A: So instead of counting many different things, you just look, concentrate on one thing and you look at the probability that this thing is here and now. Okay, so let's prove this, and we'll use what we established at the end of last lecture. So remember that this distance is comparable up to a constant to exponent of minus dx, where d of x is the limit of the logarithm of ht prime of x plus PI divided by imaginary part, the limit when it goes to infinity. And we also had this exciting formula for the moment of dx. And so basically, now it's something which is easy to believe, you know, characteristic function. And now we want to be able to derive from characteristic function the probability that this characteristic function is less or equal than delta. Then, sorry, not characteristic function.
00:14:11.996 - 00:15:20.458, Speaker A: Exponent of this is less or equal than that. So that dx bigger than log of one over delta. Okay, let's see how to do it for this. This is a standard lemma from free analysis, but I will state it in probabilistic terms. So, suppose that you have a random variable and look at its expectation of ibx. So functions and assume that for some u lambda and epsilon, you manage to write that phi of b is u, u lambda over lambda minus ib plus vb, where v is analytic in this disk of this radius lambda plus two epsilon. Then probability that this x is bigger than some x small, that can be estimated as bound.
00:15:20.458 - 00:16:15.844, Speaker A: It's essentially u times e to the minus lambda x. Okay, so this is exactly the type of bound that we want eventually. And the correction term, this is all small of e to the minus lambda plus epsilon x. Okay, so now let's prove it. That's not that complicated. So let mu be distribution of x, and let mu one would be just this exciting thing. U lambda e to the minus lambda x on the positive line and zero outside.
00:16:15.844 - 00:17:10.564, Speaker A: And fourier transform of this guy is exactly u lambda plus lambda minus I. So we are comparing. Now, our function is this. So, okay, comparing mu two is mu minus. Then the distribution of the freer transform of this mu two is exactly just v. Why did I wrote this? This is v of lambda up. Sorry.
00:17:10.564 - 00:18:12.284, Speaker A: So this is just v of lambda. So since v is analytic in this disk, we can use inverse Fourier formula to estimate that mu two even. Well, on the whole x infinity decays like e to the minus lambda plus epsilon x. So this is just inverse Fourier formula. There is nothing more exciting to simply apply inverse Fourier just here. So probabilities that x is bigger equals an x, well, it's mu one plus mu two. And, well, that's exactly what we want.
00:18:12.284 - 00:19:51.664, Speaker A: Okay, so the standard for the analysis type of estimate. And now let's look at the form of star. And they essentially, essentially what we have to estimate are gammas, because this part, this is a constant, right? So all we have to estimate are gammas. And I claim that we can use the lambda lemma with lambda equal one minus gamma power eight and epsilon actually being very specific to a kappa plus kappa over eight minus one. So for this, we use the standard formula for gamma function. So this is just polar decomposition plus the integral from y to infinity e to the minus t to z minus one dt. And then this is, well, this product, it's, again, it's standard that it's four over kappa over four over kappa squared, minus z squared plus some h of z, where h of z itself is analytic in exactly this disk, two over kappa plus one, which is exactly why we chose the sepsis.
00:19:51.664 - 00:20:53.146, Speaker A: And so after we plug everything in here, the dust settles and you would have exactly this formula for the Fourier transform with this correction term. And so again, we wanted to understand, we wanted to understand when this distance is less than delta, this is the same as to say the d of x is bigger than log of one over delta. And we just plug it here. U would be some uniform constant and which depends on the value of this. And this is bounded when you are less or equal than n. And we are left with the term e to the minus lambda x. And actually that is also a correction term, which is.
00:20:53.146 - 00:21:57.244, Speaker A: So that is even better bound just from this free analysis. Okay, so this was an upper bound in the dimension. It used technical but relatively straightforward calculations, because it only needed to essentially estimate the probabilities at your given point is within delta to the curve. Now, to estimate Hauser dimension, again, you essentially need to know what are the probabilities at two points are simultaneously close to the curve. And that requires some extra work, which again, I would not do here. Instead, let us move on and let's try to see what happens in the other domains. So, remember I told you that when this slic upper curves, they are curves.
00:21:57.244 - 00:23:06.404, Speaker A: And unfortunately, I only proved it so far for the upper half plane. Why is it not enough? Let me try to explain what could happen. Remember how we defined sla kappa in the domain? It's an image of a curve in upper half plane. We already know it's a curve under the conformal map. And when Kappa is less or equal than four, this is the end of story, because image of simple curve, which doesn't have to do anything with the boundary and the conformal map of the domain, that's a simple curve, no question here. What happens when Kappa is bigger than fossil? The curve, you can look at non trivial prime end at your domain, and the curve could enter this prime end and then exit it. And you see, look at this.
00:23:06.404 - 00:23:44.654, Speaker A: When it goes around, around here, it's not a curve anymore. Because at this point in the middle, it wasn't locally connected. And actually, when Kappa is bigger or equal than eight, that's exactly what would happen. Because the curve is space filling. It will fill all the primates, all the non trivial primates. So it will not be cure for anymore, because again, it fills everything, including non trivial primates. So it's interesting to see what happens when Kaplan is between four and eight.
00:23:44.654 - 00:24:25.434, Speaker A: And here there is a theorem of Christoph Garban, Stefan Rode and Adak Schramm, which says that if you start with a simply connected domain, you take two prime ends at the boundary of formula and let gamma be slicappa in Omega from a to b, then gamma of zero infinity. Notice that I didn't include zero. I didn't include infinity. A and B itself could be a non trivial prime. I don't care. I just want everything inside the domain to be curved. And then it's indeed the case.
00:24:25.434 - 00:25:41.684, Speaker A: So you see, again, what is it saying that there are many non trivial prime ancestors? I didn't give examples of this, but there are domains where every boundary point is non trivial primate. But the curve, somehow slick up of uncapped, is between four and a. It touches the boundary, but does it nicely, so it never enters the prime ends, which would force it to be non clustered. Okay, so that's a cool theorem of garban, rod and SRAM. And let's try to prove it. And here it relies actually on, with an estimate on the conformal map itself. So, the estimate is the following.
00:25:41.684 - 00:26:40.546, Speaker A: We want to show that outside of very small set, every conformal map is actually hungry. So remember, conformal maps can be pretty ugly, and they have to be to create a non trivial primax. For example, they don't have boundary extension. But if you remove small set, then this every conformal would be p holder for every p. And let us take p, to be very specific, eight over kappa minus one. But of course, what I discussed, what works with every p between zero and one. And let mn would be collection of all squares like this.
00:26:40.546 - 00:27:24.174, Speaker A: All dydx squares like this. So y is between zero and two to the minus n, and x is between k, two to the minus n and k plus one, two to the minus n and l. Well, that's two to the minus n. And let for each square from m of n, t of q would be the top of the square. So you let y go from two to the minus n, minus one to two to the minus n. And x is the same. So indeed, adjust top portion of my square.
00:27:24.174 - 00:28:59.414, Speaker A: Okay, and let now gamma be slicappa in from zero to infinity by the estimate that we just had here. So you see that there is this bound delta one minus couple weight, which is our p. So we see that probability that gamma intersects q is no more than length of q to the power pie. And now we will show that we can make the sum of length of q to be very small to the power p, and then which makes the probability for byte squares. Okay, so let me describe what byte squares. So let us consider our function phi, which would create the slicata in the domain, so it's conformal. And let us for now assume that only is bound.
00:28:59.414 - 00:30:07.008, Speaker A: And so let us assume that boundary extension of phi at zero is prime and a boundary extension of phi at infinity is b. So this is again the map which would create silica. And now let us define ln to be the following. So remember I told you bad squares. So these are the squares feature in this collection mn. So with the size direct squares of generation n, and we want generation to be bigger than n such that integral over the top is bigger than two to the minus np. So integral of the derivative over the top should be bigger than two to the minus np.
00:30:07.008 - 00:30:34.034, Speaker A: This would be bad squares. So, notice that I'm not even trying to integrate over the bottom of the square. I want to be away from the bottom. So I'm integrating over the top of the square. And this is light. Now I want to estimate the probability that our curve intersects the salon. Let's see.
00:30:34.034 - 00:31:56.414, Speaker A: So we want to estimate sum of l to the power p for qn ln. Okay, so this is bounded below by some of the tops integrals over the tops of phi prime squared. But this is bounded. So what is this? What is this integral? It's the area of the image of t of q undefined, right? So this whole thing is bounded by the area of the image of this strip. Imaginary part of z is less than two to the minus sign. So that's an easy trick, which is, again, goes back to estimating, comparing the areas here and there. So some of all bad squares of generation is bounded by this area of the strip.
00:31:56.414 - 00:33:28.784, Speaker A: But this area tends to zero when capital n tends to infinity. Of course, because we take the image of small and small strip into the minus bound. So we get that for every epsilon we can find then, such that this sum is less than epsilon. But the probabilities that gamma intersects s squared from this, well, it's bounded by the sum of probabilities that it intersects one of the square, so it's bounded by the same epsilon. Okay, so this is our excisement customer. Now let us fix r capital and let the first time that gamma of t is bigger equal than r. Okay, so now, hyperbolic diameter of this top of the cube, well, it's constant, because remember, hyperbolic metric in the half plane is given by one over y, one over imaginary part of z.
00:33:28.784 - 00:35:09.504, Speaker A: So just by rescaling, since it's scale environment and shift environment, you see that all of this t of q have the same length. So suppose that z is not in a bad square. Then either imaginary part of z is bigger than two to the minus n, and absolute value of z is less than r. So phi prime of z is bounded by one, well, by constant, just by distortion theorems or z is in tq for q, which is not an ln. That means that since integral over tq of phi prime squared is less than l of q to the p, by Bloch theorem we have that if we have two points in t of q, then the ratio of the derivative is about one. So we see that phi prime of z squared, l of q squared, all the size of t of q is about l of q squared. Everything is up to a constant is bounded by l to the p.
00:35:09.504 - 00:36:43.874, Speaker A: So, phi prime of z is bounded by l of q. Let's just write this in equality to the power one minus p over two, which is the same as essentially imaginary part of z one minus p over q. Remember, it belongs to the top and the top is about two to the it's from two to the minus n minus one to two to the minus n. So if we have z one and z two, which are lesser, equals an r and z one and z two belongs to the rather doesn't belong to the union of the bed squares. So we have two points less or equal than r, and we don't belong to the union of byte squares. Then I claim that we have this uniform holder bound with this constant depending on the r. And we can first check trivially for z one, z two and t of q in the same queue, because, well, we have the bound on the derivative.
00:36:43.874 - 00:38:21.714, Speaker A: So we just integrate and we get this, and then we join arbitrary, the one and the two by path outside of this bed union, outside of the union of the bad guys. And again, it's an easy exercise that this will still persist. So if gamma at least up to the time. So let me do it now, precise up to the time tr. If this gamma does not intersect union of bad guys, then phi is a curve, because it's an image of a curve on the calendar map. So what does it mean? It means that the probability that this is the curve is bigger than one minus epsilon, because we know that the probability that we did intersect is less than epsilon. And now we let first epsilon go to zero.
00:38:21.714 - 00:39:02.984, Speaker A: So it's almost surely curve, then r go to infinity and we get the probability that phi of gamma zero infinity, the curve is equal to one. And this is exactly this phi. Remember our definition, this is slick up from a to b and we are done. But in the case of bounded domains, when bounded, it's exactly the same. For unbounded domains, we do everything in spherical metric, which makes the notations slightly more awkward. But everything else stays the same. So it was a relatively easy result.
00:39:02.984 - 00:40:35.354, Speaker A: But again, the reason I wanted to show you to use this cool property of conformal maps, that it stays helder outside of small sacrifice. And again, if you saw Hausdor dimension Hausdorff content before, we are showing that this map stays p over two holder outside of set of arbitrary small p dimensional content for p between zero and one. So this is a lemma which goes back, I think to hoscal, and it was very clear before that. Okay, so we just showed that sluicappa in arbitrary domains are still nice curves. Now I want to talk about one very, very special SLA. And this is SLA six. As we discussed in the beginning of this course, SLA six is the limit of exploration process.
00:40:35.354 - 00:41:31.564, Speaker A: And at the end of the course we'll actually prove it next time or at the last lecture and how fast we go today. So what is one property of the exploration process? So remember what it is, let me remind you. So you do the percolation on hexagonal graph, hexagonal lattice, you can do it on any lattice. So you color each vertex of this hexagonal lattice, or each face, rather blue or yellow visible probability, because critical probability here is one half. And probabilities also would depend on your lighters. But let's not talk about this one. So you have percolation.
00:41:31.564 - 00:42:22.084, Speaker A: Now you want to do percolation in the domain. So what you do, you introduce this doubt boundary conditions, as we did before. So we color all guys from a to z, from a to b blue all guys from b to a yellow. And then you start sleeping coin for every other hexagon. And then there is unique interface between blue and yellow, which goes from a to b. And again, as I promised and proved that it goes, it converges to SLSx. And now suppose that instead of introducing this dousing condition, you introduce another condition to another point, and you start the exploration process.
00:42:22.084 - 00:43:29.614, Speaker A: Then until you hit this difference between b and b, where, you know, one thing is colored in blue and others colored in yellow, you would never know which exploration process you are doing. Remember how we could construct that? We could just explore the domain and flip a coin for every unexplored hexagon. So until we hit the place where the boundary conditions are different, the process would be exactly the same. The same should be true for SLA six. And this is an amazing property. So let omega now be a domain, a, b and b be three prime ends. And I would be an arc between b and b star in on the boundary, in the crossed boundary.
00:43:29.614 - 00:44:13.678, Speaker A: Okay, so this arc, again, you should just think of it as the image of corresponding arc between the prime center half plane. And so we have ethylic Kappa, chordal ethyl Kappa from a to B. And this t would be the first time we hit this boundary. Again. Valerie denser gamma star v will be chord less ls from a to b star. And t star would be the first time it hits I a priority. These are totally different things.
00:44:13.678 - 00:44:48.874, Speaker A: Think about it. You take half plane, you take run SLS exam. Then you consider two very different conformal maps. One would map zero infinity to Ab, another would map zero infinity to Ab. Two very different things. They map out one SLE six curve to two very different curves. But these are the same curves until they hit this I between them.
00:44:48.874 - 00:45:56.624, Speaker A: So this is called locality, property of sls. Again, this is quite surprising. Again, what I claim in the theorem is that gamma of t up to time, this heating time, is just a time change of gamma star of t up to time t star. Okay, so this is a very crude representation of this. So this is how sls, of course, it's supposed to hit the boundary by small from the red bar. But after it hits I, it has to become different curves, right? Because gamma should go to b and gamma star should go to b star. But amazing things that until this moment, the law is exactly the same.
00:45:56.624 - 00:46:51.884, Speaker A: Well, up to time change, of course, because again, of course, half plane capacities would be different, all this stuff would be different, but the curve itself would be the same. And it is forced to be different after this point, just by topology, because you have to release it to bld star and you into separate components of this. Okay, so that's the theorem. And now let's start a setup. So let's consider some neighborhood of zero. So what I mean by this is the following. I take n, I reflect it, and I want n together with this reflection from a neighborhood of zero.
00:46:51.884 - 00:47:32.154, Speaker A: And I map it by conformal map to some phi of n. But map Phi. I want to be conformal, but I wanted so just confirm map. But I want it to be symmetric and I wanted to preserve real line. So real line here, put the map to real line here. So this for now map Phi is just a map from defined on this neighborhood. And, well, it's reflection by reflections of the same.
00:47:32.154 - 00:47:57.584, Speaker A: And let Gamma be slicappa. We will specify that Kappa equal to six a bit later. But for now, let Gamma be sla Kappa just from zero to infinity. And t would be the first time we exit this domain n. So. Well, of course. And union with n bar.
00:47:57.584 - 00:48:51.294, Speaker A: Well, since gamma is in the upper half plane the same as. And then Gamma star of T would be defined simply as an image of gamma. And our map Phi and omega t star would be a bounded component of this. So the usual thing, this Leonard business, you look at the unbounded component of the complement of the curve, you think that it's self touching, maybe. And remember that fast couple is equal to six, so it will be self touching. And gt would be this unzipping of this. So it's a map of this to h with hydrogen line thermalization.
00:48:51.294 - 00:49:35.214, Speaker A: And here it's important for us. What would be the parameter here a star of t would be hyperbolic half plane capacitor of Gamma star. Okay, so this all just by definition. So if you look at this expansion, then what it is. Okay, now we also have maps gt which are originally silica. So this thing, we don't yet know what it is, but this thing we know very well. This is a solid kappa.
00:49:35.214 - 00:50:17.914, Speaker A: And now we look at this ft. So this is gt inverse. This maps which zp up to gamma root. So we start at the point of the plane. Then we map it to this plane. Then we map it by phi, and then we get back to h. So we get this phi t is our thing.
00:50:17.914 - 00:50:36.834, Speaker A: And then let's just remark that both gamma of zero t and Gamma star of zero t are leovner curves. And we'll now study the driving functions for gamma. It's not interesting. Adjust brownian motion. But what is it for the shifted one. And let's do it after a 1011 break.
