00:00:00.480 - 00:00:30.070, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Wave Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today is the 16 December 2020. Alright, guys, let's get into it for today. So the first thing I wanted to quickly talk about was the company I work for, Cepprotocol or Cepplabs, is hiring a smart contract engineer. So if that is something that you do or that you are, you know, proficient in, definitely check out the job description here. I'll link this in the show notes.
00:00:30.070 - 00:01:16.424, Speaker A: Of course you can check, you know, I'll just click through, click through to it here. Basically, yeah, you can check what we're all about here, you know, what we're looking for in a smart contract engineer and kind of what our values are and where we, where we want things going here. You know, obviously I'm a bit biased here, but you'd be joining a kick ass team that is really kind of driven to make a difference within Defi and to create products that actually help people, you know, within Defi, you know, outside, bring new people into Defi. And I just, I mean, I personally really love working with the team, so I know you will as well. So, you know, if you're a smart contract engineer looking for a new role, you want to work in Defi, definitely hit this up. You can dm me on Twitter if you'd like. And I'm, I'm happy to put you in contact with the other team members as well.
00:01:16.424 - 00:02:09.210, Speaker A: We have a few smart contract engineers on board right now, and they're awesome to work with. So, yeah, definitely check this one out if that's something that you're interested in. All right, we talked, I mean, I spoke about the nexus mutual kind of news yesterday about the hack that happened. For those who didn't watch yesterday's episode, basically, Nexus Mutual's founder, Hugh Karp was hacked. There was a man in the middle attack with his metamask address, accidentally signed the wrong transaction, which meant that $8 million worth of x and M was sent to the hackers address, basically. Now, obviously, Nexus mutual has been doing some kind of research here, some digging to see where these kind of addresses lead and to see if they can identify the hacker. And so they put, they put out this tweet thread, basically saying that, you know, the, the person, the hacker KYC with Nexus mutual, they didn't, you know, obviously give away their details or anything like that.
00:02:09.210 - 00:02:37.282, Speaker A: But they did say that they KyC'd. But at the same time. I mean, it doesn't really matter if they did, because you can fake the KYC pretty easily. Unfortunately, these systems are easy to get around, so that's not going to help there. But they did say that they've basically been able to track them down to Singapore. They were in contact with them apparently on Telegram, in a bunch of different chats and things like that. They will digging through the Ethereum addresses.
00:02:37.282 - 00:03:04.706, Speaker A: As I said, they were able to track back their apparently real KYC to Singapore. But as I said, this could be a fake ky. So we don't know for sure if it's actually real or not. And I doubt that Nexus mutual team is gonna, you know, put out all their details and basically doxx them. That I think that's pretty much illegal to do in the first place. I'm surprised they even put this out. But I guess this isn't really personally identif information here, identifiable information here.
00:03:04.706 - 00:03:46.730, Speaker A: And basically their last tweet here says that they found a telegram contact using the number that this kind of hacker used with their KYC, and they're not responding, obviously, to messages. They've said that they've barely scratched the surface and more information will come to light and they're asking the hacker to talk. Basically. Yesterday I mentioned how Hugh put out this tweet that said, basically, if you return all the funds, you can keep $300,000 and that'll be like a bug bounty. I don't think they've done that yet. There was actually a tweet, sorry, a transaction that contained some text on Ethereum today. So this account on Twitter ethertext, tweets out ethereum transactions with text in them.
00:03:46.730 - 00:04:21.872, Speaker A: And this one came from the hacker and said, hello, Hugh, I will not sell wrapped Nxn anymore until wrapped NxM covers his value. Or you send me four, five k in ETH. If you need any negotiations with me, send message to my ETH address. And then he lists a few of Hughes addresses here, like Ethereum addresses. But these aren't actually all of Hughes addresses that some of them belong to Nexus mutual as well. That's what the Nexus mutual team put out. But for those who don't know, you can actually embed these kind of messages into any Ethereum transaction that you want.
00:04:21.872 - 00:04:47.144, Speaker A: There is a limit, and it does cost more in gas to do this, but basically, many of you will be familiar with the transaction details. Screen on Etherscan you. If can you click here and say, click to see more? It pops up with this input data field, right? And obviously, this is not human readable. It's just a bunch of numbers. But if you go view input as, and then go original if it's going to load. Sorry, sorry. You go UTF eight, not original.
00:04:47.144 - 00:05:08.548, Speaker A: My bad. It'll show you the actual message here. So the exact same message that was posted on Twitter, basically decoded and. Yeah, I mean, at least the full addresses here, I had a look at them. You know, one of them has like a bunch of ethernet, and the nexus mutual team obviously said that they kind of own that address. It's not. Doesn't belong to Hugh.
00:05:08.548 - 00:05:41.122, Speaker A: So the hacker, I guess, was trying to dox Hughes addresses and trying to get him to pay up or something, some kind of ransom, I'm not sure, but yeah, so for those. Yeah, who didn't know, you can do this and you can put any message you want in here, basically, as long as you know, you know how to do it. I don't think metamask supports this natively. I haven't ever tried to do it through metamask. But you can do this, I'm pretty sure, like with my ether wallet and my crypto, by, you know, signing this, this custom message in the input data field. Yeah. So that's a really cool little feature of Ethereum, I think you can do this on bitcoin as well.
00:05:41.122 - 00:06:26.838, Speaker A: But it's, it's probably more complicated and it probably costs a lot more in terms of fees, since, you know, storing data on the bitcoin blockchain is more expensive. So, yeah, I mean, you could put any message you want here, and this is what the hacker decided to put. So, an evolving story still, I haven't, haven't seen other, any other updates besides this. I mean, if you click through to the, quote, tweets here, we can see that, you know, there's a few people making jokes like, hacker is a confirmed dumbass, things like that. This is unreal. Someone made a joke about, I think it was like a nurse saying, you know, I'm a nurse, give me my money back. And this is some inside joke about how, um, the hacker, I think the pickle hacker, um, got a message from one of the.
00:06:26.838 - 00:06:39.206, Speaker A: The, uh, I guess, uh, the. What's the word? I'm looking for the. The victims. That's what I'm looking for. So, got. Got a message from one of the victims that said, hey, I'm a nurse. $100,000 was my whole life savings.
00:06:39.206 - 00:06:55.992, Speaker A: And you stole it. Can I have it back? And they actually sent it back, uh, to them, uh, because of that. So it's kind of a joke now where it's like, you know, I'm a nurse, uh, please send me my money. And, you know, I don't even think that original person was a nurse either. They were just like playing around. But it seemed to have worked. So that's where that kind of joke comes from.
00:06:55.992 - 00:07:36.974, Speaker A: But, yeah, it's just, it's just funny. I mean, this is like negotiations right through the Ethereum blockchain, and we're seeing it play out in real, real time. It's obviously not great, right? This is not, not good to see it all. You know, it's interesting, but it's, it's still pretty crappy. I mean, 4500 ETH ransom is, is quite high. And then it's, you know, they say negotiable. I mean, that's laughable, right? You know, you could imagine Hughes sending a message back on the Ethereum blockchain basically saying, oh, yeah, I'll offer you, you know, 3000 ETH instead, or something, or something lower than that or whatever, and the hacker coming back and saying, well, I, you know, meet your offer at 3500 ETH.
00:07:36.974 - 00:08:20.980, Speaker A: And it's like a classic negotiation on, like, they're returning the hacked funds. I don't know if the hack is doing this because they're kind of like scared that they're going to get caught. They might, because it only takes one mistake to basically get caught, especially when law enforcement gets involved, because if you leak your ip even once and it's able to be tracked back to where you actually are, that's it. It's game over for you. If you leak other information. Like, I worked in cyber security for three years, so I'm very familiar with the information that can easily be leaked if you don't know what you're doing and you can leave breadcrumbs everywhere. And law enforcement has a lot more access to data than, you know, a regular person would investigating this.
00:08:20.980 - 00:09:04.852, Speaker A: So, you know, if you're not careful, it's pretty easy to get found. You know, it might take a little while because obviously these things tend to move slowly, but it's just not something that's worth the risk. Like, it's just, it's pretty insane. I mean, this is a lot of money, right? And this isn't just, I guess, limited to the Nexus mutual hack, but like all hacks and all these sorts of stuff, unless you hide your tracks very really well, if law enforcement gets involved and they're motivated enough to catch you, they're going to catch you. It's incredibly hard to stay hidden. And as I said, during my cyber security years, we saw a lot of very sophisticated actors get caught because of the dumbest mistakes. They left the tiniest breadcrumb that was easy for them to not leave, and they left it.
00:09:04.852 - 00:09:56.888, Speaker A: And that led the law enforcement and everyone else investigating them to find this and basically say, oh, okay, I know who this is, right? Or I know where to find them, and things like that. So very hard to hide your tracks here. I think the best thing to do for a lot of these hackers to avoid, you know, law enforcement coming after them is hack. You know, I mean, this is not advice or anything like that, but if I was, like, a smart hack or whatever, and I didn't want to be caught, you know, you just steal a bunch of funds and then return most of it and keep what, you know, a little bit of it that you stole. And that kind of, like, prevents these teams from even wanting to go after you anymore, because it's like, okay, well, they returned most of it. You know, we'll just, we'll cover our losses here, and we'll learn from next time. And even law enforcement would be like, you know, it's not even worth our time anymore, or whatever, you know, and we've seen kind of this, I guess, play out a little bit where the, some of the hackers returned half the funds.
00:09:56.888 - 00:10:23.174, Speaker A: Like the emn eminence hack. Sorry. Had, like, half the funds returned. I think the pickle hack did as well, or the farm hack, one of those two. So we've seen that play out, but I don't know if they did that for, you know, for the purposes of not getting caught or not getting pursued. I think they did that at least the second time was, like, just for the meme, so. Or maybe it was the same hacker, and they were just like, that's their signature, right, returning half the funds.
00:10:23.174 - 00:11:12.412, Speaker A: So, yeah, it's, it's, it's a wild kind of west out there within theorem and Defi, as I was kind of saying yesterday, it's very easy to fall for these things. But, yeah, I guess I'll keep you all updated on what's happening with this as we get more updates. Interesting tweet from Justin Drake today. He reposted this image basically comparing bitcoin and ether as sound money. That's what bitcoiners like to call bitcoin. And then he goes on to say that with ERP 1559, and if fee burning is greater than the inflation or the issuance of staking, then ETH becomes ultrasound money because it actually has a decreasing supply rather than a capped supply. And for those of you watching the video, you'll be able to see the picture that I'm talking about.
00:11:12.412 - 00:11:39.698, Speaker A: For those of you listening in, you can just go look at it in the tweet. It'll be linked in the, in the show notes. But basically, I mean, I like this. I think it's a cool meme, right? Ultrasound money, sound money. I mean, I believe in this kind of vision where ether will become deflationary if there's enough use on the network. And we have, obviously, we're going to have fee burning in. So it's burning more ETH than is being issued per year, which makes ETH, you know, net deflationary.
00:11:39.698 - 00:12:04.596, Speaker A: So the supply actually decreases, which is better than a capped supply. Right. So I hope we see this play out. I mean, it relies on a lot of things, right? It relies on the merger happening. So getting rid of proof of work and merging ETH one into ETH two, it relies on EIP 1559 actually burning more than it's being issued. And at the moment, at current usage, it's not. During defi summer it was.
00:12:04.596 - 00:13:08.044, Speaker A: But that was like, not sustainable, right? Only lasted for a month or so of those really high fees where we actually had, you know, if we had EIP 1559 in, people calculated that we would have had net negative issuance, even with the proof of work issuance. So with proof of stake, it's going to probably settle at around 0.5% to 1% issuance per year, or inflation per year. So we would have to burn, you know, 1% of all ETH a year from usage in order to make up for that and to make it net deflationary and to have a decreasing supply, which I think we can get to. Right. If you really believe in Ethereum becoming this global settlement layer for like, all value to settle on, you know, we, defi keeps growing, all these other apps keep growing, and we have like millions and billions of transactions on Ethereum, trillions of transactions on Ethereum each year, potentially both at, I guess, layer one with sharding and L2. I think we can get there and, you know, it's, it's just going to make ETH such a, such a great asset and improve on what's already in my mind, a really great asset in ETH.
00:13:08.044 - 00:13:40.254, Speaker A: So, yeah, I'm glad to see someone like Justin Drake pushing this out. For those who don't know if he's one of the core researchers of ETH two. He's generally focused on a lot of the advanced research within ETH two, like VDF's verifiable delay functions and things like that. And he's. He's played a big part in it. But, you know, you never really see these researchers talk too much about ETH, you know, and kind of like this kind of concept around a decreasing supply. So it's good to see them, you know, at least Justin talking about this and pushing the narrative here.
00:13:40.254 - 00:14:08.318, Speaker A: Alright, an update out of Uniswap today. So they've introduced this new website called sibyl.org. It's basically a governance tool for discovering Uniswap and compound delegates. It maps the on chain addresses to on chain ethereum addresses to digital identities while avoiding on chain transactions and user signups. So you can verify and discover delegates on here. So if I go to the website here, you can see here that Uniswap governance. Or you can.
00:14:08.318 - 00:14:41.252, Speaker A: Sorry. You can choose from Uniswap governance or compound governance. And it'll come up with basically a rank of all the, I guess, delegates that are part of each governance system, how many votes they have, how many proposals they voted on and their vote weight. And you can sort by verified. So you can see here there's a bunch of verified people or companies like Gauntlet Network, Dharma HQ, Monet Supply and a bunch of other people here. I won't breed them all out. Or you can go to all and you can see the anonymous ones as well.
00:14:41.252 - 00:15:11.970, Speaker A: Right? So same, same for Uniswap. You can see Dharma is the top delegate for Uniswap that has 17% of the voting weight, which is quite high. Second is an unknown gauntlet network, again, is in here, there at number three. And then, yeah, we just go down the list. It's kind of funny because Robert Leshnam and a supply gauntlet, dharma, they all appear in compound governance too. And, you know, even looking through these names here, just glancing across, there's a lot of overlap happening here now. You know, I wonder why that is.
00:15:11.970 - 00:15:57.060, Speaker A: Is it because these people started off being very active in compound governance and now with Uniswap governance, they're more trusted? I think so, to be honest. Because if you build up a reputation and become, you know, what's called a quote unquote protocol politician, you're more likely to be trusted than someone who's either new to the scene or basically, I guess, less well known or anonymous. Right. So I think that's why we're seeing a lot of overlap here and, you know, gauntlet network is actually doing a lot of great work in governance space. Robert Leshna is extremely active in different communities and with, within their governance. So I mean, it makes sense for these people and these companies to be at the top of the list. So, yeah, it's great to see that playing out.
00:15:57.060 - 00:16:28.720, Speaker A: You can even, you know, sort by proposals on this website and see, you know, who voted for and against, you know, the addresses tied there, things like that. So, yeah, a nice little site from, from Uniswap here. I think this, this will, this is going to go far. It's going to be great for handling all these governance related stuff. So, yeah, kudos to uniswap for building this one. Alright, a little bit of a shill here about the index co op. So for those who don't know, the index co op is, I guess, was launched by set protocol.
00:16:28.720 - 00:16:45.224, Speaker A: So the company I work for. So basically we're working on the index co op as part of the community. We're working to steward it and to grow it. So I just. A disclaimer there. I obviously hold index tokens as well. So just wanted to put that out there before I dive into this.
00:16:45.224 - 00:17:29.620, Speaker A: But I did want to give a shout out here to what we're running at the moment. So we're running what's called the index Co op creative challenge. So we're giving out $15,000 worth of prizes in index token for people that submit kind of a bunch of different creative materials like art, video, you know, music writing, like blog posts and memes and things like that. And, you know, this is a way to let the community get involved and get paid for their involvement within the index co op, especially those who, you know, aren't developers or aren't smart contract engineers, right. That are more on the creative side of things and do a lot of, you know, memes and art and creative writing and things like that. So, yeah, if that's something you're interested in, definitely go check it out. It'll be linked in the, in the show notes.
00:17:29.620 - 00:18:18.264, Speaker A: But I was also talking yesterday about the index co op as well, and because I was talking about Linda Shay's tweet about how dows can basically pay people to be full time contributors. Index co op isn't at that point yet, but we are paying people a fair bit to do, to do work. So if you're someone who has got a bit of free time, you think that you want to put your skills to the test on doing creative work, then you can go check this out. And it's not just limited to this challenge. You can do ongoing creative work and be paid for it in index tokens by the co op if you add value. And the index co op isn't the only one doing this, of course, there's a bunch of other Daos doing this as well. And I think this is just the next evolution in kind of work, right, where you basically can work for Ethereum, there's a few members in our community that actually work for work in other communities as well.
00:18:18.264 - 00:18:57.914, Speaker A: So, you know, if you work in like, you know, three or four different communities, you could probably earn a nice wage doing that, right? A livable wage. Like, not just livable, but like, you know, substantial, depending on kind of what, what quality of work you do and how much the different dows are paying. But from what I've seen, a lot of them pay quite well for the work, depending on your impact, essentially. So yeah, definitely go check this out if you're a creative. It's something that I'm really excited about. We're already getting a ton of content posted on the discord, so join the Discord channel as well because that's where all the submissions are done and you'll be able to talk with fellow members and maybe you can team up with someone and work on something together. That's another idea.
00:18:57.914 - 00:19:55.498, Speaker A: So yeah, just wanted to give a quick shout out there to what we're doing at the index cop as I think it's pretty exciting. All right, so Shane Koplan, the CEO of Polymarket, put out this tweet today that basically went through that since two months ago, since polymarket stage two launched, they've broken $40 million in volume generated amongst the highest fees of any crypto project and most importantly, become an indispensable information source for many tracking this election cycle. So for those who don't know, Polymarket is a prediction market platform that got a lot of attention during the election, of course, along with Auger and other platforms like that. The difference is with polymarket is that it already runs on a L2 solution. So it's using Matic network to process all of this. And I had a bet, like I placed a bet on the US election result and I used their system and it was extremely smooth. It was such a great process.
00:19:55.498 - 00:20:37.390, Speaker A: And the fact that I knew I was using L2 ethereum and it was so seamless got me really excited and really bullish. So yeah, it's great to see that they've grown here I mean, I've always been of the opinion that prediction markets are really great if there are markets that people actually want to participate in. There are tons of prediction markets about, like what will the price of ETH be at this date? Or what will the price of this be at this date or whatever. Right? And I don't think they're interesting markets because if you want to bet on the price of an asset, there's already a million different ways to do that. You can buy options. You know, you can sell options. You can basically, you know, play in the futures markets, you can play in the spot markets.
00:20:37.390 - 00:21:14.604, Speaker A: Just buy the coin if you think it's going to go up. Right. So those markets are always very uninteresting to me. Whereas markets like, you know, election cycles and election results, markets like will ETH to launch in 2020, all those sorts of things are very, very relevant. I think they're very exciting. They basically get the community involved with things as well. Unless the community basically tweet about it and kind of like spread the message and be like, you know, if you, if you, I mean, I saw this play out with the election, it's like, you know, if you think that I'm wrong, bet against me here.
00:21:14.604 - 00:21:58.464, Speaker A: So, you know, that is a lot more, I guess, enticing than, hey, if you think the price of ETH isn't going to, you know, this amount in this much time, then bet against me. People be like, well, I mean, what's the point? I'm just going to like short ETH or something or, or I'll just sell ETH or something. So, yeah, that's, that's why I believe that as long as we keep getting these more interesting markets, there'll be more activity on prediction markets. So curious to see how poly market grows from here. Obviously, there was a bit of an outlier in the US election, but there's a lot of other markets that still can be put out there that I think can be maybe, I don't know if as big as the US election, but, you know, at least almost as big. So, yeah. Looking forward to seeing how prediction markets, I guess, across the board grow here.
00:21:58.464 - 00:22:18.692, Speaker A: All right, finally, we reached 1.1 million ETH in the ETH two deposit contract, which is over 1% of the circulating supply of ETH. This is, this is crazy. I mean, I've said this before. I've said it on Twitter, I've said it on the ethub podcast. I've said it on daily gwei refuel. No one expected this.
00:22:18.692 - 00:22:57.244, Speaker A: Literally no one even the most permeable of perma bull ETH, like ETH maximalist, if you want to call them, right. Did not think we would get here. Some of them were doubting that we'd even get to the minimum of ETH require, the 524,000 ETH required to, to launch the chain. And we've, we've almost three times that at this point. So, I mean, I don't even know what I can say here, other than this is just an amazing show of support from the Ethereum community. It just shows how many people want to, you know, support the community, support the network, because, you know, as you all probably know, this ETH is locked for one to two years. It's, it's not available.
00:22:57.244 - 00:23:16.566, Speaker A: So, you know, and you don't even know when it's going to be available. It could be two years, could be one year. You just don't know. And your rewards are locked, too. You can't access those rewards. You know, the majority of this is in that state. Some of this is done through exchanges and third party providers that are offering kind of like liquidity on the deposits.
00:23:16.566 - 00:23:40.794, Speaker A: But I'd say that most of it, at least a million ETH worth of it is not in that state. It's like, actually locked. So that's why I'm so impressed by, by, by this number. It's just that people are just like, okay, there's opportunity cost here, but I don't mind. It's, it's fine. I'll just put my ETH in there. I'll stake, I'll support the network, and then once two years, I'll kind of, you know, take out my rewards or cash some out at that point.
00:23:40.794 - 00:24:05.484, Speaker A: But until then, I'm happy to lock my 8th. So, yeah, kudos to everyone who's done this. Obviously, I'm a big ETH staker. I'm, you know, watching my validators kind of run and run nicely every day. It's nice to wake up and check my dashboard and things like that. And it's really cool to see so many people getting on board with, with ETH staking. So, yeah, if that's you, I hope you're having as much fun as I am with it.
00:24:05.484 - 00:24:21.104, Speaker A: All right, everyone, thank you for watching listening to another episode of the refuel. Be sure to subscribe to the YouTube channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Join the discord and subscribe to the Daily Gwei newsletter, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
