00:00:00.280 - 00:00:28.942, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony so Sano. And today, 12 January 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing last night's or yesterday's refuel, everyone. As usual, I announced that in the Discord channel that I was going to miss it and it was due to some technical issues that I needed to resolve and then I couldn't get them resolved in time before I ran out of time to record a refuel. So apologies for that, but I will make up for it today with a longer than usual episode.
00:00:28.942 - 00:01:07.238, Speaker A: And let's start off with the Ethereum Foundation AMA that took place on Reddit yesterday, actually. So this was an AMA between the Ethereum foundation research team and the community. This was the 9th AMA that they've done. And you can actually go all the way back, they're all linked here in the Reddit thread, go all the way back to the first one in Jan of 2019 that they did. And I think they've been trying to do these every six months since then, or six to seven, eight months since then. But it'd probably be cool to go back and see what, what questions people were asking back in January 2019, as opposed today and where the Ethereum ecosystem was kind of back then. But anyway, you can go read the 9th AMA for yourself.
00:01:07.238 - 00:01:37.686, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. I haven't had a chance to read through it yet, so I'm not able to highlight any great questions or answers just yet. But I'm very much looking forward to going through it myself because just scrolling through you can see all the really long and detailed answers that the researchers gave. So definitely go check that out. Of course, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Terrence from the prior labs team had another EIP 4844 implementers call a notes thread on Twitter yesterday, which you can go check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:01:37.686 - 00:02:06.838, Speaker A: I won't go through the whole thing, but one thing I did want to point out is this tweet in the thread where Terrence basically said that the KZG ceremony is going live this Friday. So it's coming a lot sooner than I thought it was. Remember I, the other day I said we'll probably expect it in the next couple months. Well, I mean, we're expecting in the next couple days now, which is pretty awesome to see. So grants are open for people who want to write their own implementation or do fun crazy entropy generation things. And you can apply there. But the KZG ceremony will be a lot will be live at this website here.
00:02:06.838 - 00:02:27.894, Speaker A: Ceremony ethereal. And there are different kind of summoning guides here with different interfaces. So they have an IPFS interface, a hosted interface. You can write your own. There's an explanation about what this is, and you can see the contributions here. I think those are testnet contributions. I'm not sure if they're, they're considered main net contributions just yet, and there's an faq at the bottom as well.
00:02:27.894 - 00:02:56.534, Speaker A: So if you are interested in participating, you will get your chance. Friday is when it all starts and goes live. So I'm very much looking forward to that. As you guys know, I want to participate as much as I can, and I've explained a bunch about the KZG before, so I'm not going to rehash it here. But if you want to learn about it from the horse's mouth, so to speak, you can go check out this URL or get this website, I should say. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so the next thing to talk about is something out of the lido ecosystem.
00:02:56.534 - 00:03:42.968, Speaker A: They have a request for proposals up for an Ethereum sensor ability monitor. So basically you can submit your proposal right up until February 28 here to build a monitor for censorship on Ethereum. And you can see here what the criteria for the grants includes. And there's, this is in order, important. So they want to build something that tracks the current and historical metrics of service degradation for sensible transactions. Now, I've talked about this in the past about how depending on what transactions are being censored will lead to different service degradation, degradation for users. So for example, with tornado cash, which is the only thing being censored at scale that we know of today, the service degradation there is not that bad compared to something like Uniswap compared to something like Uniswap being censored.
00:03:42.968 - 00:04:18.310, Speaker A: So for example, with tornado cash, you can still get your transaction in around five minutes. There will still be a validator in five minutes or less. That will include your transaction on chain, and that's totally fine because there is no time sensitive things to tornado cash. Really, at the end of the day, it doesn't really matter too much if it takes, you know, one block or 100 blocks, right? But when it comes to something like a Uniswap trademark, you want that to execute as quickly as possible. You don't want to wait five minutes. Uh, because a uniswap trade, if, I mean, if you were delayed five minutes, you could be front ran and there could be a lot of bad mev happening there. Uh, or the transaction could just fail.
00:04:18.310 - 00:05:17.152, Speaker A: So, uh, when you look, look at it like that, the service degradation for users would be immense from that. And not just Uniswap users, but everything else that relies on Uniswap and relies on those transactions going through in a timely manner, you know, a block or two, so to speak, would be severely impacted by that. So, you know, light Ostool wants to be able to get a current and historical metrics for this. Secondly, they want something that tracks the impact of Lido and Lido's node operators on service degradation, which obviously makes a lot of sense because right now Lido is like pretty much all the other staking as a service providers. They do support censoring relayers such as flashbots, which is only natural for them to do because of the fact, as I've said before, like these relayers are working off profit and validators talking to them, or working off profit motives. So it's an incentives issue. Thirdly, they want an API, or preferably an open data set to work with, which I guess is just natural to want that as part of something like this or a tool like this.
00:05:17.152 - 00:06:15.342, Speaker A: They want it to be maintained long term or likely to be maintained long term. So it must be low, it must have low complexity, it must be low. Cost of maintenance and other sources of funding are a plus to keep it maintained. They wanted to track the impact of Lido and Lido's node operators to service degradation compared to the other staking pools, and operators in staking pools were applicable, and it must be open source. So this is just the criteria for the first grant, and the first grant is 20,000 dai. But then there is criteria for the second and third grants, which are 10,000 and, sorry, 10,000 dai and five times 2000 dai grants respectively, which you can check out the criteria in the post itself, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do. But the reason why I wanted to highlight this is because I think it's quite interesting that we're getting more of these tools coming up because you guys all know about Mevwatch dot in Fo, right? And there are other tools that track things like flash sorry rated.net
00:06:15.342 - 00:06:59.812, Speaker A: work, which tracks me boost relay usage as well. But it doesn't track censorship, whereas Mevwatch dot in Fo does its best to try and track censorship on the network. Mevboost Pix as well, is doing a really great job there. And I think there's one other tool that I've highlighted on the refill before that does a great job of monitoring all of this. And, you know, they're tools that I use pretty regularly to make sure or to, I guess, like get data on the fact that we actually did top out with that censoring of 80% of Ethereum blocks, which we did. I think it's still at 67%, last time I checked, of all blocks have, you know, being going through sensory relayers. And it's always good to have these tools to monitor this sort of stuff so we can actually know that the things that we're doing on the technical side are having an actual real world impact.
00:06:59.812 - 00:07:33.572, Speaker A: It's all well and good to say, hey, you know, we did this thing, it should improve censorship resistance on Ethereum, but we need the supporting data to actually know that it's helping with censorship resistance on Ethereum. We can't just say it. So that's one thing that Lido, I think, wants to, wants to do as well. And one goal of theirs is to be able to track it over time, be able to see what technical improvements are doing and how they're, how they're improving things. So if this is something you're interested, interested in, you can definitely submit a proposal for a grant here. But I'm sure they're getting lots of proposals for this already, so it's great to see light. Oh, doing this initiative.
00:07:33.572 - 00:08:04.776, Speaker A: Kudos to them for putting this out there. All right, so Aragon put out their roadmap into one picture for us to enjoy. So this looks very similar to Vitalik's, just overall, a theorem roadmap in how it's laid out. And you can see here what it looks like for the Aragon execution layer client. And there is a lot here, actually. So, I mean, I won't read out the, I guess, full moat roadmap, but basically, you can see that split up into Aragon, Aragon two, Aragon three, and Aragon four. Four, which is basically different versions of Aragon as time goes on.
00:08:04.776 - 00:08:38.063, Speaker A: So Aragon one was. Was called Turbo Geth originally. It was before it was called Aragon, it was called turbo Geth, and it was a fork of geth. And they were trying to make it be able to sync faster. They were trying to, especially when it came to archive nodes, and they had a lot of, a lot of success there. And then Aragon two, which is where they are at today, and I think they're moving more and more away from being, I guess, like a geth fork or their code base is changing a lot because they're modifying a lot of things and it looks less and less like Geth and more and more like its own clients. And then Aragon three and four are currently in development, but in parallel.
00:08:38.063 - 00:09:22.452, Speaker A: So they're not out just yet, but they're being developed in parallel. What I find really cool about Aragon two is that they've actually been able to get an archive node down to a disk footprint of under two terabytes. Now, for those of you who don't know, a normal archive node is actually in the, I think, 15 terabyte range at this point. And an archive node is used. An archive node and a full node give you the same security guarantees, but an archive node is used for getting more data out of the Ethereum chain. So, for example, a full node will not give you the balance of an Ethereum Ethereum address or the ETH balance of an Ethereum address at a block in the past. So, for example, if you wanted to know the balance of an ethereum dress at block number one, you wouldn't be able to know that.
00:09:22.452 - 00:09:51.880, Speaker A: You would only be able to know its current ETH balance. Now, obviously, Etherscan gives you that data, but either scan is using an archive node to extract that data. So if you want to do it yourself, you would need to run an archive node, because an archive node will give you every. Okay, technically, what it gives you is every state of the chain at every single block. And the state is obviously the balances in the account, such as ETH balances and token balances. So that's what an archive node gives you. And that's why the data, the data storage space it takes up is a lot more.
00:09:51.880 - 00:10:33.400, Speaker A: But Aragon has been able to actually get this disk from print down a lot. Now, I don't know if that allows for the same kind of flexibility or the same kind of data that you can extract from a normal archive node, but I believe it does. I believe it just requires a little bit more processing power, depending on which block you want to look up, right? So it's kind of, I guess maybe it could be called like an optimistic lookup, where essentially you have it all available to you, but then you pick which block you want to go to, pick which address you want to look at, and then it will compute that for you. I'm not sure. Right, I'm just speculating here, but it's still very impressive that they've been able to do that. And they've been able to get us the sync time down to 65 hours. Now, in the past, an archive note could take up to a month to sync.
00:10:33.400 - 00:10:56.896, Speaker A: It's a very long time. Right. They've able. They've been able to get it down to around 65 hours, which is incredible. And I'm really looking forward to what they're going to be doing with Aragon three and four here, because their plans are laid out here on their roadmap diagram, which I'll, of course, link in the YouTube description below. But you can see here that the goals of Aragon, four especially, are to get less than 20 hours sync at 20 million blocks. We're not at 20 million blocks yet.
00:10:56.896 - 00:11:27.786, Speaker A: We're at, I think, almost 17 million blocks and less than 1.2 terabytes of disk footprint. So, obviously very ambitious goals. But if they can achieve that, I mean, huge power to them. I'd love that. I love to see people working on different things because, as I said before, the whole point of client diversity on Ethereum, or at least one of the points, is to have different teams working on different parts of the stack, so to speak, and different kind of features, and making sure that we have something like Geth, which is the oldest, most robust, most secure, but not necessarily the fastest. Right.
00:11:27.786 - 00:11:50.700, Speaker A: Get, is not going to sync an archive node in 65 hours. It is not going to do it with a disk footprint of less than two terabytes, but Eragon will. And then, never mind, is working on a bunch of their own features. And then there's Besu as well on the execution layer side. Right? And these things are being built in different ways. And that's another reason why client diversity, or a major reason why client diversity, is so critically important. Now you can go check out this roadmap for yourself.
00:11:50.700 - 00:12:42.232, Speaker A: I'll link the tweet in the YouTube description below. But I think it's great to. To keep up to date with what Aragon and all the execution layer clients are doing, because they're all going off in their own different directions and interesting directions, which I love to see. All right, so something here that I've come across a lot on Twitter lately from, from this person in particular, M. Hokassalo Lenz on Twitter. I think I've talked about him before, but he's been talking about this notion of the ETH burn being based on, I guess, like, more organic activity or rather than Ponzi's or, you know, some spam on the chain or some other such things that are flash in the pan and he's talking about it in the terms of ETH being deflationary, so consistently deflationary. And the cool thing is, is that you can see the burn leaderboard here over the last 24 hours of when he took this screenshot.
00:12:42.232 - 00:13:14.136, Speaker A: Pretty much all of it is organic activity, is stuff that we're used to seeing, like Opensea, Uniswap, and tether. Not some random, random scam ponzi token, not some kind of thing that's just chugging gas for the sake of it. Whatever else it is, we've seen those before. But the whole point of ethereum, right, is to build, or I guess, like any crypto network, is to build sustainable applications that people are paying for because they're actually getting value out of it, right? It doesn't matter. If the value that they're getting out of it is to make money from it, that's fine. But we want it to be sustainable. That's the key.
00:13:14.136 - 00:13:43.278, Speaker A: There are tons of things that have happened over time that led to a lot of ETH being burned, but they're not sustainable at all, right? Like all these Ponzi tokens and the NFT mints, they're not sustainable. They're one time events a lot of the time. So, and obviously, events like FTX blowing up, that volatility from that, that's not necessarily sustainable. It's not like a baseline. So what we want to do is we want to get the baseline of activity to the ultrasound barrier. And I've talked about the ultrasound barrier before. It's basically the gray barrier of when ETH actually turns deflationary.
00:13:43.278 - 00:14:32.850, Speaker A: I think currently it's at around 16 way, and it goes up as more ETH is staked, obviously. But right now it's 16 way. So if we can have consistent, consistently, the gas, the average gas price at layer one be 16 way based on organic and sustainable demand from the apps that people know and use and love consistently over time, like maybe say six months or something, then we can safely say that we've moved past relying on these, I guess, Ponzi's and these flash in the pan things to make ETH deflationary. It means that ETH is deflationary based on its organic and sustainable demand, which, of course, is incredibly bullish. I already think that ETH being near deflationary since the merge is. Is stupid bullish anyway, because, I mean, on proof of work, including the burn, we would have issued 1.4 million ETH since the merge.
00:14:32.850 - 00:15:40.160, Speaker A: It's been about four months since the merge, and then on proof of stake we've issued with the burn around 2008. So 1.4 million on proof of work to 2000 ETH. And we've seen this, the effects of this play out in the ETH BTC ratio, as I've discussed before, and I think as demand keeps trickling back in, we will definitely see that play out in the ETH USD price as well. And obviously we're seeing more ETH being staked over time too, because they want to capture more of those yields, because gas prices going up on layer one doesn't, that doesn't just affect the deflationary ETH, but it also means higher, potentially higher fees for people staking, right, block proposers, the validators proposing blocks, and then potentially higher mev opportunities as well for that extra profit there. And then more ETH kind of being locked up in staking, more ETH being staked leads to more ETH being taken off the market, which should, in theory, lead to a price increase, which leads to more activity on the chain, leads to more interest in the chain. It's like a flywheel effect, right? More, more ETH being burned, more yield going to stakers, more people wanting to stake Ethan, and then we have all these other secondary things coming online, like Eigen layer, which is allowing you to restake.
00:15:40.160 - 00:16:10.260, Speaker A: It really is a beautiful snowball and flywheel effect once it gets going. And I think for Ethereum, it has got going since DeFi summer in 2020, and it really hasn't subsided that much. Yes, we've had the craziness of the bull market and yes, gas prices were consistently 100 gray for a while, then they came down, they went under ten, now they're at around 15. But if we can sustain just the ultrasound barrier, I think that's, that's great. I think that's enough. And obviously the gas fees going up on layer one isn't good for users. But this is the beauty of Ethereum.
00:16:10.260 - 00:16:51.916, Speaker A: The users of layer one are going to be L2s. So. And the end, the users of Ethereum block space, of cheap Ethereum block space, will be at L2, and all the users will sit there and get value out of it. So it's all happening at the same time. We have the ultrasound mechanism in place and we have the, the merge done on layer one ethereum, and then we have the explosion of L2s and all their relevant activity happening at the same time. So I really do think since I guess maybe the last two years, especially, Ethereum has really been executing so well on all of its goals and everything that it's been trying to do, not just at the protocol layer, but also above that, at L2s. And we have something really special for users to play around with.
00:16:51.916 - 00:17:16.738, Speaker A: Now you get to basically hold ETH if you want stake, Ethan, get exposure to it. Go on. Layer twos pay, don't have to pay, like, lots of money in fees, but the people who do and who are comfortable with paying those fees on layer one, Ethereum still will. And that will lead to ETH being burned. It will. They will probably lead to more ETH being staked, which should lead to ETH appreciating in price. So even the users don't, don't get to use layer one because they're priced out of it.
00:17:16.738 - 00:17:47.776, Speaker A: They still get exposure to that, I guess, like burn and that usage via holding ethics. And, and they can still stake that ETH and they can still use it on these L2s. It really is just a beautiful system. Every time I think about it and really work my mind through it, I think to myself, Ethereum is the only ecosystem that has this, even anything close to this. None of the other ecosystems have anything close to a theorem in terms of sustainable demand, which is how this whole thing works. Without sustainable demand, everything else that's done breaks apart. It doesn't matter if the eat supply was capped.
00:17:47.776 - 00:18:26.492, Speaker A: It doesn't matter if we were, you know, burning a lot more eat than we are today. None of that would matter, right. What matters more than anything is demand. The supply side is obviously a big deal, but if demand is zero, right, and supply is negative, that doesn't really matter, because if there's no demand, then no one wants it, right? So demand Trump's supply for in most cases, I believe. And that's what's beautiful about Ethereum, is that it still, even during the bear market, had consistent demand. And now with the prices just rising a little bit, we're not in a bull market or anything like that, but demand has started to trickle in again. Gas prices are starting to go up again, which is a really healthy way of seeing, uh, the sustainability of the demand.
00:18:26.492 - 00:19:03.484, Speaker A: As I've discussed before, it's very hard to fake, or, I mean, it's very expensive to fake, uh, I guess on chain activity, uh, via fee revenue, because it costs you money to do so. And you can't even do it in collusion with validators because most of the ETH gets burned anyway. So you're just almost of the money gets burned anyway. So when it comes down to it, demand trumps everything in most cases, the Trump supply in most cases. But in saying that as well, with too much supply, right, you need more demand. So what you want is like a Goldilocks zone of enough demand to offset the supply and then some. And that's how we get deflationary ETH, if you're talking about it from that perspective.
00:19:03.484 - 00:19:23.916, Speaker A: And that's how we get more valuable ETH over time. More valuable ETH, the better it is as a collateral asset. The more stuff can be done in deFi, the more secure the ethereum chain is. You know, the better ETH is at performing, draws in a lot more attention to it. When ETH flips bitcoin, it's going to be an absolutely massive event. This is helping ETH to flip bitcoin, right. It's going to bring more attention to Ethereum and it's that fly will effect.
00:19:23.916 - 00:19:46.708, Speaker A: It's that beautiful kind of symbiotic relationship that all the parts of Ethereum has. And yeah, as I said, every time I think about it, I get more and more bullish on Ethereum. But yeah, just wanted to rant a little bit about a bit. They're bullish on ETH, as usual. Still buying, you know, even though the price has climbed a little bit. Kind of annoyed that the price climbed a little bit because I'm like, ah, I want more time to accumulate. I don't know if it's going to go back down from here or if it's going to go up from here.
00:19:46.708 - 00:20:40.586, Speaker A: Who knows, right? I'm recording this before today's CPI numbers come in, come out. I don't even know if the market cares that much about that anymore, as you guys know. Obviously I'm a long term investor, so these numbers don't really mean anything to me for the longer term investment that I do in ETH. But yeah, I mean, it's just great to see that even with a little bit of demand coming back, ETH is just basically still close to being deflationary since the merge. And ETH is performing so well, especially against bitcoin, which I think people don't. You know, some people say, who cares about bitcoin? Why are we measuring ETH against bitcoin? Because the, everyone outside of Ethereum cares about these things, right? Cares about these rankings. And if ETH can basically prove that it can perform better than bitcoin in a bear market, which it traditionally has never done, nothing has performed well against bitcoin in a bear market, then I think that is at least one other fly will affect which I've spoken out before, but I won't go into it today.
00:20:40.586 - 00:21:07.738, Speaker A: Today. But yeah, anyway, gonna leave that one at that. Moving on to the next update here from Jasper. So Jasper from the rocker pool community put out a tweet thread tweet today saying ETH finally breaks resistance rise right? As Rockerpool announces the new OdA member being proposed. And it's none other than Coinbase through their venture arm. So this is actually pretty cool and surprising. So there are two new potential Odao members being Coinbase Ventures and unit 410.
00:21:07.738 - 00:22:02.174, Speaker A: I haven't heard of unit 410 before, but definitely heard of Coinbase ventures. Now, the reason why I find this interesting is, one, because it's really cool to see a big organization such as Coinbase getting involved with Rockapool as an ODA member. I mean, as one myself, it's great to have more of these. More of these legit players on board and on board in the rockabill community. But two, it's actually quite surprising because Coinbase runs a competing service to Rockapool. They run their own staking as a service thing, right? So the only reason I could think that they're doing this outside of goodwill, because I do think Coinbase is a good player in this ecosystem, is because they probably want to become more involved with rocket pool in order to double dip on their stake, potentially. So basically using this, their stake in different ways with Rocketpool, maybe they spent especially post lab eight or lab eight, where you could spin up more mini pools, mint that are 8th and basically double dip on the e that their customers are trying to stake with and get more yield like that.
00:22:02.174 - 00:22:29.174, Speaker A: That's the only thing that I can possibly come up with. We'll have to see what they do there. But I still think it'd be really cool to have them as an ODA member because Coinbase is infinite. Infrastructure is really great. It runs really, really well. Coinbase cloud, which, which a lot of Coinbase cloud was acquired. Sorry, was Aqua hired as part of Bison Trails, which is a staking as a service kind of infrastructure provider that was acquired by Coinbase, turn into Coinbase cloud, which runs all of this sort of stuff, runs all the staking services and everything.
00:22:29.174 - 00:22:55.820, Speaker A: They don't just do a theorem. They do pretty much like every chain that every big chain, at least that does staking. So they're very experienced here. Coinbase has the best in class for custody, right? I know that I've always said to you guys, you should custody your own assets, but if I ever had to pick a second best place to put your crypto assets. I had to be like an exchange. It'd be Coinbase above everything else, and there isn't even a close second here. Coinbase has never been hacked on the custody side of things.
00:22:55.820 - 00:23:28.052, Speaker A: They've never lost any user assets, and they have some great infrastructure for running validators already. So them running an odow node, I expect them to run something that would actually participate quite well in the rocker pool ecosystem. And there is actually a big role as part of being an ODA member where you have to generate, do something called a tree gen. So run this tree gen program every 28 days to calculate the rewards. Are the rocker pool rewards. There are an eight. I think 50% of the members have to submit the tree gen.
00:23:28.052 - 00:23:55.390, Speaker A: Sorry, submit the output of tree gen in order for the rewards to be paid out. And they're depending on the hardware that you're running, will depend on the time it takes you to generate that tree. So I get. I'm sure Coinbase is gonna throw a lot of hardware at that to get that done nice and quickly. I. My first attempt at generating tree Gen actually didn't work at all because I only had 16 gig of ram on my odao box. And I was actually gonna upgrade that to 32 gig, but I hadn't gotten around to it yet.
00:23:55.390 - 00:24:20.950, Speaker A: And then I came home and I heard my rocket pool no, like fang going crazy. I'm like, oh, okay, why is that happening? And then I went on and checked it. It's like, okay, tree gen's running. And then I looked at the logs and tree gen and what had happened is like, tree gen had taken up so much of my ram, it basically hit its limit and my beacon node fell over. It fell out of sync, which means tree gen couldn't run. And it was just all pretty much broken. But I have since upgraded to 32 gig of ram.
00:24:20.950 - 00:24:48.296, Speaker A: I've run the tree gen dry run, and it's all working fine. And I think the next, I guess, rewards period ends in like six, five or six days or something like that. So hopefully it works well there. But there are other ODA members that also fail at generating the tree. But as long as you have 50% that generate that, that output there, the community is happy. And I'm sure Coinbase Ventures is going to be a great Odao member from that perspective, but great to see this. And I guess, like, kudos to the rocker pool community.
00:24:48.296 - 00:25:28.202, Speaker A: I'm sure the Rockerpool team and community reached out to them in order to get this done or even if they were reached out by Coinbase Ventures, it's great that they're open to getting these sorts of institutions on board in the Odao. All right, moving on to an update here from Gitcoin. They have some big news where they said, we're excited to announce our Gitcoin Alpha round starting on the 17 January to the 31 January. It's a quadratic funding round that will support three rounds, 200 grantees and a $1 million total matching pool. And you can read more to find out here. So I think this is like a mini round. It only goes for two weeks here and it's called, as I said, the Gitcoin Alpha rounds here.
00:25:28.202 - 00:25:58.774, Speaker A: And the round categories consist of open source software, ethereum infrastructure and climate solutions. And the round will work. I mean, it's all described here. I'm not gonna read it out for you guys, but very cool to see another get coin grants around going live. Oh, sorry, it's called a kickoin alpha round now, not a git coin grants rounds because you guys know that Kikoin is one of my favorite platforms in the Ethereum ecosystem. I benefited a lot from other solutions like bitcoin grants or similar solutions like bitcoin grants on both Ethub and the daily way. So you can definitely go check this out.
00:25:58.774 - 00:26:53.832, Speaker A: As I said, it starts on the 17 January, so you do still have some time to learn the ins and outs, but I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out below. All right, so something that I get asked often actually is a que, oh, not, not that often, but like sometimes it depends on what's happening. Sometimes on Twitter there'll be a lot of fud about this particular topic and people ask me a question and I'll have to basically give them the explanation here. Um, but the question and the context here is basically people wondering if polygon is still committed to scaling Ethereum. Um, or are they pivoting to basically becoming their own layer one and only deploying their ZK stuff to the polygon pos chain, for example? That's not the case at all. A polygon is committed with everything they have to scaling Etherium. They have spent over half a billion dollars acquiring ZK teams to scale aetherium.
00:26:53.832 - 00:27:12.856, Speaker A: Their ZK evm is going to be deployed to Ethereum. The polygon pos chain is something that they really want to change into a zkvm that is secured by Ethereum. The founders are ETH Maxis. Like I know that for a fact. Right. At least some of them. I don't know all of them, but some of them, right, they love Ethereum.
00:27:12.856 - 00:27:39.856, Speaker A: They, they've been trying to scale Ethereum for a long time now. I mean, originally as Matic network and now as Polygon. And to defend themselves, don't just take it from me, but to defend themselves. The Polygon ZK account here put out a tweet thread where they said Polygon ZK teams are taking a moment to reflect on our core mission, scaling Ethereum. Without a theorem, there would be no polygon. All of our ZK tech is being built by and for the Ethereum community. That's where we started and where we'll end up.
00:27:39.856 - 00:28:06.790, Speaker A: And there's a thread here explaining some of that I should disclose. I mean, you guys all know this by now, I think, but I should disclose that I'm an advisor to Polygon. But I've been an advisor before. Polygon was cool, basically, right? I joined the start of 2021. 2021, yeah, start of 2021 as an advisor, or late 2020, I should say. And I've been with them ever since. And I couldn't be more bullish on the polygon ecosystem and more bullish on what they're building for Ethereum.
00:28:06.790 - 00:28:50.606, Speaker A: And as I've said before, I've defended the Polygon Pos chain that even though it's not a L2 on Ethereum, it is still work to keep people in the Ethereum ecosystem, in the Ethereum family, on the EVM. Before these optimistic roll ups came out like arbitrary and optimism, Polygon Pos was there as a, as a relief valve for Ethereum layer one. And I do think that it has prevented a lot of people from leaking out to these other layer one ecosystems and staying within the EVM family and staying within the Ethereum family. And on top of that, polygons business development efforts have, have done wonders for the Ethereum ecosystem, I believe, as well. And I've said all this before, but I just, as I said, I do get asked rather often. I mean, I wouldn't say very often, but rather often. This question of, is polygon steel ethereum aligned? Basically.
00:28:50.606 - 00:29:08.310, Speaker A: And yes, I can, I put my full weight behind that. Every, all my reputation, everything. I'll stay, get on that. Right. Like, I have no doubts about Polygon being fully aligned to a theory. And they love Ethereum, even though they cop a lot of shit from the community, which I don't like. But at the same time, I don't like to get involved with that because obviously I'm an impartial person in this.
00:29:08.310 - 00:29:37.104, Speaker A: I have a conflict of interests, but yeah, I can say that with all that I am. I'll stake my reputation on it, which I have since I joined as an advisor, that they are scaling Ethereum and that's all they want to do. Anyway. I'm going to move on from that onto the next update here. So Starkware announced the release of something called Paprius, which is a new open source full node for Stocknet. This full node will play a key role in improving performance and decentralization on the network. So I believe this is the second full node for Starknet.
00:29:37.104 - 00:30:15.442, Speaker A: So they're going for client diversity here, which is really great to see. So it's a rust implementation of a stocknet full node. They're saying here it will provide foundations for the new Stocknet sequencer, which will dramatically enhance Stocknet's throughput. Paprias will help advance performance and decentralization. Now that Stocknet has achieved excellent usability, these are its major development priorities, and you can see them in these blog posts here. So I'm guessing purpyus will be something that end users will be able to run in order to participate in the starknet ecosystem as a sequencer. If you want to maybe stake their stock tokens when they eventually come out and then earn rewards for doing that, I'm sure that's going to be part of the process as well.
00:30:15.442 - 00:30:57.002, Speaker A: But great to see this, because I know that optimism is also working on client diversity for their optimism network. I'm sure arbitrary is also working on it, and it's a theme that it's inherited from Ethereum. Ethereum is one of the only ecosystems, I believe, or the only ecosystem that has client diversity, at least to the extent that it has, where it has like four or five execution layer clients and think five or six consensus layer clients. No other ecosystem comes close to that. I think there are some others that have one or two clients, but that that are used at some kind of scale. But nothing as close to Ethereum has gotten it, and definitely not bitcoin. I mean, bitcoin core, it really is the only client 99% of the network uses.
00:30:57.002 - 00:31:21.486, Speaker A: So when it comes to client diversity, Ethereum is by and far the major leader. I mean, there's not really any close second here. But as I said, L2 seem to be inheriting this culture of client diversity from Ethereum layer one, which is extremely positive. So great to see this from Starkware today. You can check out the blog post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. All right. An announcement from Poop that came out yesterday.
00:31:21.486 - 00:31:38.770, Speaker A: So they said today we released a new website which we hope becomes the go to destination for all things pop. And you can obviously check out the website at pop XYZ. Here it is. I love this website, honestly. I love the art. I love the playfulness of it. I love the outline of it.
00:31:38.770 - 00:32:06.216, Speaker A: It just really kind of. I mean, look at that. That animation's awesome, right? It really does feel like a website that includes you in what it's trying to do, which is what pop is all about. Right? It's about inclusivity. It's about getting people together. It's about rewarding people for doing certain activities, right? Whether that be attending conferences or participating in different events, or even something with something like Gitpop that's built on popular in order to issue policy. People that do work on GitHub and for different projects.
00:32:06.216 - 00:32:32.948, Speaker A: I love it. Right? And there's a menu bar at the top here where you can look at a bunch of different pages, which obviously you can check out for yourself. And then what is pop right underneath it? How does pop work? Links to the mobile apps and. And who uses pop as well? I mean, it's a very nice landing page, very nice website overall, and I'm really happy to see them put this, this out there. I think it's, um, seems to have taken inspiration from the ethereum.org website, which is really great because I love the ethereum.org website.
00:32:32.948 - 00:33:06.416, Speaker A: But, yeah, kudos to pop for getting this new website out. I think it's great and kudos to the people who worked on it. All right, so a new money market protocol that I have come across yesterday or the day before called ajna finance, or maybe the j is silent and it's called Anna finance. I don't know. You guys know my pronunciation of everything is terrible. But they released their white paper and they've said, here, you know, what is this protocol? Well, Ana is a lending protocol with no governance permissions or external price feed, such as oracles. You can use it to borrow and lend against your entire portfolio, including nfts.
00:33:06.416 - 00:33:56.814, Speaker A: So it seems like they're going after, or at least they're competing with Euler Finance, which I've talked about before, and something like nifty apes or Astaria, which allows you to use nfts as collateral. So I only come across this two days ago. I read, I briefly looked at the white paper. It just seems like they're trying to do both of the things that other protocols have kind of split up. It remains to be seen how successful they are by doing that. There are good reasons to split these things up, but oil I has had a lot of great success with their model of, of their kind of like kind of catering to the long tail of assets, for example, and basically being able to use other third party things as oracles like Uniswap, for example, which I think they paused because of the fact that the MeV block reorg issues, but I'm not sure if they re enabled that. But that's what this protocol seems to be able to be going after.
00:33:56.814 - 00:34:51.337, Speaker A: And they're also trying to do it with no governance as well, which has kind of become a little bit of a popular theme over the last maybe twelve months, where it's become this theme of ungovernance. And it was pioneered, I believe, by reflexer finance, which is rye and liquidy, which is a fork of maker without the governance. But I should say it kind of like remains to be seen how successful that will be, because I don't think governance is bad. I think too much governance is bad. Too much governance leads to too much overhead, which leads to paralysis, which leads to the protocol not really getting anything done, people getting pissed off, too much bureaucracy and protocol not growing. But I believe not enough governance leads to the protocol ossifying, like bitcoin, for example. So there is a Goldilocks zone here, and I've used this term a lot, what Goldilocks zone basically means the zone you want to be in, like the perfect balanced zone that you want to be in.
00:34:51.337 - 00:35:22.768, Speaker A: I think Ethereum is actually in that zone, at least right now, where it doesn't have lots of governance. There's no on chain governance. It's not like we're deciding on every parameter change or anything like that. It's not like we're deciding on, on every little thing. But it has a governance process, the AIP process, and it has a social layout which is very strong and enforces that, and has obviously a network which is very strong and enforces that as well. And it's kind of like more of a soft governance rather than hard on chain governance. And I think Ethereum sits really well in that zone, but no governance at all.
00:35:22.768 - 00:35:48.790, Speaker A: I don't think that that's going to work to grow a protocol over the long term. I really do think that, that a lot of protocols shoot themselves in the foot by going after a no governance approach. But maybe I'll be proven wrong. Maybe it will be able to be done. I mean, there are certain protocols that can work really well with no governance, such as Uniswap. But then the funny thing is, as soon as Uniswap introduced governance, it turned into a little bit of a shit show, right? There was drama. Like, Uniswap was fine in v one and v two and then v three is awesome.
00:35:48.790 - 00:36:12.924, Speaker A: But they introduced some small governance into it and it immediately turned into a drama filled fest. And they're paralyzed now by it because the uniswap community wasn't used to governing ever anything. And there are other reasons as well, such as regulatory reasons. But I think that you basically have to start with some governance at the start. You can't just go from no governance to. To some governance. And then the gold diloczone.
00:36:12.924 - 00:36:37.716, Speaker A: No, I think you have to start. Maybe you should start from like, lots of governance and then slowly remove it. Like a theorem did, lots of governance and then slowly and slowly remove it more and more. And it become, I guess, like more. Not ossified, but like more of a homeostasis kind of thing. I spoke about this the other day with, with Domothy's, I guess, chat about this on Twitter, but that's how I view things there. But anyway, you can go check out this protocol for yourself.
00:36:37.716 - 00:37:25.400, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, I'm running out of time here, but there's one or two more things I need to get through. One thing here from Sebastian, who works at Maker. He put out a little tweet thread here where he said the weekly active sellers on Coinbase commerce remains low, but steadily increasing. This is economic activity using the blockchain that is organic usage. Now, for those of you who don't know and don't know, Coinbase commerce is a point of sale system that different kind of, I guess, e commerce businesses or even bricks and mortar businesses can integrate into their business to accept crypto, and that crypto is automatically converted into their local fiat currency. So you pay in ETH, it gets converted to USD or AUD or euros, and then it gets paid out to the merchant that way.
00:37:25.400 - 00:38:03.030, Speaker A: And this chart here on doing analytics tracks that. And you can see it's actually been slowly increasing over time. And this is only. I mean, most of this, if not all of it, can only be considered organic usage because you're organically buying something. You're using this as money, right? And you're most of the time using it for things like subscriptions to newsletters or buying physical objects or I guess, like buying digital objects as well, not just subscriptions, but other digital objects, not nfts, right? Different things. Because this is the reason why Coinbase commerce is set up like this is because you need a way to bridge, obviously the traditional finance system and the modern system. And also people want dollars.
00:38:03.030 - 00:38:38.010, Speaker A: If they want it for their business. They want a stable currency. They don't want to hold ETH or BTC or some other thing that's obviously way more volatile than something like a us dollar. And then Sebastian continues his Twitter thread with more dashboards, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. I don't want to go through them because I'm already way over time here. But yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to go check out. And finally here, Lyra got an upgrade yesterday, so they've built an options amm that can integrate with any perpetual exchange on any EVM compatible chain, providing lower fees for traders and better better capital efficiency for LP's.
00:38:38.010 - 00:39:00.194, Speaker A: And they've got a blog post here talking about this upgrade, which is called Newport, and this gives you a primer on exactly what this is. So if you're interested in that, you can go give this a read, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But yeah, that's going to be it for today's extra long episode. Thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give a thumbs up, subscribe out to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
