00:00:08.570 - 00:01:09.220, Speaker A: Hi, my name is Jesse Johnson. I'm the co founder of Pixelcraft Studios, which is busy building the Avagatchi protocol as well as the flagship game, the Gotchi verse. And today I'd like to talk about how the Gotchiverse has recently launched and integrated the chain link VrF random number generating Oracle, and why we're so happy with the results of what we've been able to accomplish together. The Gotchi verse is a very unique metaverse in the sense that this is built for Avagatchi avatars, which, if you're not familiar, are already very special nfts that are literally piggy banks for your various ERC 20 tokens, things like that. That's how you bring an avagatchi to life. These cute pixelated ghosts are also full of exciting lore and a backstory and character personality, and a lot of interesting on chain dynamic data. In the Gotcha verse, we're using the Chainlink tools in a very powerful and new way.
00:01:09.220 - 00:01:56.446, Speaker A: Namely, we are using the Chainlink VRF for the land parcels. Now in, I believe, August of 2022, we were able to release the farm release. This was a major upgrade for the Gotcha verse. Along with this release, they were able to, for the first time, do a survey, a one time survey of their parcel. And it's just like how it sounds in real life when you survey your land for drilling for water, or just seeing if there's oil under your property. This is what a survey is in the Gotcha verse, and it's all transparently achieved via the Chainlink VRF random number generator. And so the enthusiasm and the success with this has been overwhelming.
00:01:56.446 - 00:02:43.742, Speaker A: We had over a thousand Chainlink VRF calls in, I believe, the first hour, and since then, we've had, I think, eight or nine x that. So we're just getting started in a lot of ways. We're literally building the game together, us and the Avagatchi Dao. But the seamless integration of Chainlink VRF has been a high watermark for the entire project up to this date. Obviously, we chose Chainlink because of the long history of success we already have with Chainlink. This is not just on the technical level, where every single raffle we've done has been executed flawlessly, but also on the team level. There's a certain professionalism that is unmatched in the space, and we just absolutely are thrilled to be working with the wider Chainlink team.
00:02:43.742 - 00:03:32.522, Speaker A: The core devs, admin, everybody in between, is on the same page and working towards the same goals in terms of what the future of the Gotchaverse holds. The Gotchi verse is just getting started. We're literally building the game together with the Avagatchi dao. This is what avagatchi and the Gotchi verse is all about. We are open source and we are building together. So there are some things on the roadmap nonetheless that we're all very excited about, including PvP and combat more farming options, and I suspect we'll find and see some more ways to use Chainlink in the future. I would highly recommend any aspiring indie game development team or major label team that's coming over from Tradfi and coming into from traditional gaming, coming into web three and exploring the space.
00:03:32.522 - 00:04:15.690, Speaker A: A great starting point is the chain link docs and learning more about what is possible that just simply cannot be done in traditional gaming. When I build on blockchains, I want to build things that couldn't be built without a blockchain, without a smart contract, without that traceability. And so that is a great starting point for anyone. And Chainlink offers a way to get very creative using their oracles and deliver an experience that simply does not, that would not be possible. In another there's.
