00:00:14.010 - 00:01:19.666, Speaker A: If you're an early stage web3 founder, apply to our award winning accelerator program Basecamp. At Outliventures IO Basecamp, we write your 1st $50,000 check and give you access to 200 mentors, including many of the leading web3 founders, and a network of 1000 of the world's leading investors and exchanges. We've helped over 30 startups from 15 countries from all around the world, raise $130,000,000 in growth funding, and can help you fast track product, market fit and, where relevant, the launch of your token economy. So today I'm really happy to welcome tech lead of the human protocol, Alex Newman. Welcome to the show. So Alex, noticeable that you don't refer to yourself as a founder or a co founder, really, I guess having spoken to you off air, because you see yourself as a kind of core contributor and the leader from a technology perspective. But nevertheless, I think we're going to get into a little bit about the nuances of being a founder to a crypto project compared to being an active participant in open source generally.
00:01:19.666 - 00:02:04.382, Speaker A: I know that's something that's been throughout your career. So at a high level, human protocol is a globally distributed knowledge market. Human protocol powers distributed marketplaces multiple of almost any variety. I'm sure we're going to get into the limitless potential of that. Interestingly, for humans to contribute their reasoning skills and knowledge to help machines, which initially sounds counterintuitive, we always kind of think that actually it's the machines that are helping the people, perhaps even displacing them, that's the kind of common narrative. And I think this is a really interesting counternarrative to that. And effectively, it's a marketplace where machines can post jobs for people, for humans.
00:02:04.382 - 00:02:52.350, Speaker A: So several reasons why I'm really excited to have you on the show. So firstly, you're a very well respected engineer and founder, serial founder, with a focus on distributed systems way before human protocol. But consistently there has been this blockchain context, and I know you could be regarded as a crypto OG, and we get into that a little bit in the origin story. You founded several companies, tech companies, you've had an exit. You've been contributing to open source systems and software for over 20 years, including Apache foundation and various others, either as committer or core committer. You helped launch hcapture.com via intuition machines.
00:02:52.350 - 00:03:41.694, Speaker A: And again, we'll unpack that a little bit later, which is effectively an anti bot solution. Most listeners would have experienced, perhaps not knowingly, but would have encountered at some point in their journey about the web, and effectively, it protects their privacy and is one of the most popular recapture alternatives. And so just to give context, the scale of that success. And this is, of course, all leveraging human protocol, perhaps unwittingly to most users. But this now blocks bots for more than 14%, estimated 14% of the Internet, which is insane. So it must be a crazy thought to think that you've created something that has such impact on the Internet population. Global Internet population.
00:03:41.742 - 00:04:08.380, Speaker B: Right. Yeah, and we quote that number, but that's actually just one of our customers that gets us that number. We have tens of thousands of big companies signing up all the time. It's actually quite difficult to know what percentage of the overall Internet that it is. But, yeah, I mean, it's basically every country, every territory, places that aren't recognized by the UN. It's been quite.
00:04:09.310 - 00:04:48.850, Speaker A: And so, you know, this is important because hcapture is the flagship application for the human protocol, but really it's leveraging the human protocol, that marketplace for the labeling of data, and it completes millions of tasks every day. So human protocol itself already has over 100 million users across 249 countries and territories. I don't know how many there are globally. Surely that makes it one of the biggest DapPs on the planet. I mean, I don't think many people would realize that. Right. But that's got to be by far the most used app on the Internet.
00:04:48.850 - 00:04:49.318, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:04:49.404 - 00:05:26.562, Speaker B: And the biggest issue, of course, is getting, since we are Ethereum based, getting that transaction rate more and more reasonable means more and more bulk updates and aggregations. But, I mean, as far as transaction count, since we've been on the side chain, I think we're running two or three x what makerdao is doing. Wow. So that does help us cut the costs. We do have a modified. Well, I don't want to talk about the tokenomics, but we have a lot of things to kind of make that more efficient to run on the blockchain. But we always joke that it's by far the most popular blockchain app that crypto people didn't realize they were using.
00:05:26.562 - 00:06:12.878, Speaker B: Right. So most of the users of this protocol don't realize it's completely backed by a crypto market in terms of what jobs get launched and how it gets monetized. I think the one thing I want to point out there is that you're right, that it's a work pool and we provided those descriptions, but at an even more kind of primitive level, there's never really been a way to quantize human labor. And it actually wasn't that important until robots came around. Now that we have humans interacting with machines, this quantization, or measurement, allows for more advanced recruiting of resources, more efficient distribution of resources. So as much as quantizing human labor, at first glance, doesn't seem as cool.
00:06:13.044 - 00:06:14.742, Speaker A: Sounds dystopic, almost.
00:06:14.916 - 00:06:59.134, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. It is a bit dystopic, but it enables a level of interaction between humans and computers that primarily empowers humans. So a good example of this is we don't worry about eyeglasses taking over the world, although we are cyborgs when we wear eyeglasses. Right. That it's a machine and a human interacting in this way. And so for us, what the human protocol is being able to create the most generic interaction between those entities that assures the safety of the parties involved. So do we quantize human data, but we do it in a way that preserves your privacy.
00:06:59.134 - 00:07:27.626, Speaker B: We do it in a way that gets you paid for giving up your data. And so I think I just wanted to point that out, that there's this kind of aha. Moment once you realize, wow, human labor was never divided this way. This is the first time we've done this. That's super important for machines to be able to digest and use and sell this stuff. And it seems like such a small thing, but I think it's actually, like, a remarkably important thing and very bizarre that it's never been done before. Yeah.
00:07:27.648 - 00:08:22.314, Speaker A: And it's really interesting because we did an investment a few years ago in a company called Botanic, actually, on the west coast, founded by a guy called Mark Meadows. I think it was 2017, and they ended up open sourcing it. The project was initially called Seed, but their idea was, I guess the starting point coming back to H capture was that these botnets were out of control. People could increasingly not trust their interactions with the Internet, which was increasingly automated, which was being the interface was a bot. How can I trust the bot is what it says it is, representing who it says it is, and the exchange is equitable, or at least the terms of service are codified, like the terms of the engagement between the bot and the person are codified. And I had no idea as to the scale of the problem. I mean, intuitively you kind of do, but I guess it's one of those things you don't want to think about.
00:08:22.314 - 00:08:36.722, Speaker A: And I remember earlier you were saying you kind of started out in security, but it was one of those topics where you were basically just scaring everybody, going around, scaring everybody. I think once you start to.
00:08:36.856 - 00:08:40.194, Speaker B: I was part of an organization that did that.
00:08:40.232 - 00:09:40.966, Speaker A: But yeah, indeed, one of the interesting things that you said, which surprises me, is that, so I can understand, and I know we don't want to spend too much time on botnets and h capture, but I think given it's had such traction, given it is probably the most used app on the planet, I think it's worth trying to understand why that level of success. So you mentioned that most people in crypto, people who aren't in crypto are using this thing and they're not aware about it. And I've always argued that's exactly what crypto should be. I think people knowingly, most people don't understand some of the fundamental protocols of the Internet, and that's because they work really well at abstracting away that kind of complexity. So I think this is a great example of what most protocols should be aspiring to. And so it's going to be interesting to see how you think that's happened, whether by design or organically. But the thing that surprised me was you said that.
00:09:40.966 - 00:10:22.530, Speaker A: So I can understand institutions understanding the scale of botnets and bots and bot traffic, but consumers, average consumers, users of the Internet, because until speaking to you, at least, anyway, I've. I've not been convinced. I know it's important to me, privacy is important. I know bots are a problem. I don't know if most people in my world care about these, these things. And so I think, again, it's really interesting that you say there is demand, and that by people adopting something like this, it's kind of got the principles of decentralization baked in. It's got the principles of user centricity baked in and privacy preservation.
00:10:22.530 - 00:10:38.230, Speaker A: How are the average Internet user coming across this, aware of it? Because this is the first time I've heard a founder say people are understanding the problem and adopting it based on the problem.
00:10:38.380 - 00:11:11.230, Speaker B: Yeah. So it's interesting. Now, part of that may just be because of the Internet community I'm a part of. There was a while where I helped the guys at brave working on their browser, so I know a lot of privacy centric people, corporations. I brought up Europe, we're starting to see more regulations. They're a lot more sensitive. Know the last thing I would ever want to know, I don't even consider other captive providers necessarily competitors.
00:11:11.230 - 00:11:58.466, Speaker B: But I think what's happened online, and I actually think that it might have a good deal with Corona, is that people are starting to realize that their in person interactions are very different than the interactions they're having online and on social media. They have a different tone. People interact with each other differently. And I think a lot of it was just people kind of writing it off, that, oh, it's people online, they're bad, and stuff like that. But I think we were just kind of overwhelmed by only an Internet centric context of COVID And then people kind of went outside and they were like, wait, hold on a second. People are actually really nice. Look at this guy and the way that he relates to me.
00:11:58.466 - 00:12:56.690, Speaker B: His body is saying that he cares about how I'm moving and he's in her. I think what kind of happened is we were kind of drawn down the wall of despair that this was humanity. We all popped out to have our summers, and then we're like, wait, human beings, they're pretty good. And I actually think that zeitgeist is a huge wake up call for the whole world, that the Internet has an attitude problem. And the thing is, people are quite confused about what's causing this. But when they actually enter a realm that respects their privacy, that block bots effectively these kind of smaller communities, and I'm starting to see people pop up all online, they realize that a lot of these interactions are fake. And then when they actually bring in the caption and they're actually blocking bots and all of those types of things in those communities, they very quickly see how things change.
00:12:56.690 - 00:13:27.534, Speaker B: So I really think it's just certain things just get in the know, like the million monkey theory. And a couple years ago, I don't know what it was because I don't think Snowden was enough to do it. I don't think anything was really enough to do it. But a couple of years ago, and especially during Corona, this stuff became more and more important to people. And it's hard for me to say why it came into that zeitgeist, but it's overwhelming. When we talk to our customers, we talk to people signing know, they say, I don't want to give my data to X. You have it, and that's great.
00:13:27.534 - 00:14:00.214, Speaker B: And secretly behind those scenes, I'm like, well, we don't technically have your data. It's just the human protocol, and you can decide which data goes on there. And people have control their own data. I really do think it's that reaction and resonation that's going on right now. But there's something in the air when you say to someone, hey, there's this thing that you've got to go through all across the Internet. Do you want that tracking which website you're on nowadays? People are getting a little bit cagey, so I wish I had a better answer, but it just seems like the zeitgeist has shifted.
00:14:00.262 - 00:14:17.200, Speaker A: Well, I'm glad for you that you're riding that wave because the level of adoption is insane for any founder we've had on here. I don't think any of them could claim close to that level of uses and adoption popping up there just for a second.
00:14:18.130 - 00:15:26.370, Speaker B: What I've seen once again on the H captcha side is the adoption. The privacy thing is there that came from the usage, but literally all of the features, we have a lot of fancy features in our capture that other captures don't have. So they've known what they've wanted for a long time. The real question is, was there going to be a vendor who's incentivized to provide the consumer with what they want? Because the reality is, and I don't want to say anything meat about my competitors, but there are lots of people who use other CAPTcHA solutions who monetize based on the amount of users they have. So if they bring in a stronger captcha solution and now half their users are designated bots, that's not good for their bottom line. And we did a story about that a couple of years ago about how we compared to recaptcha. And I think this goes back to one of the stories which is like, are we going to let the incentives of kind of driving views to these big companies be what dominates the Internet, or do we want to decentralize things? Do we want to kind of say, okay, no one's going to own all the data.
00:15:26.370 - 00:15:52.950, Speaker B: You're going to have control of what data you put out there. In fact, we're going to pay you. If we're going to get any of your personal data, you should be paid for that. And that it's open source. There's a community that will stand behind its security and privacy. That story is very powerful for people. And I think that overall we're going to see not just captcha moving this space, but the entire Internet.
00:15:52.950 - 00:16:16.562, Speaker B: And I'm really hoping web3, which is something that you are excited about. I don't know what tribe I am in crypto, but I am also super excited about web3. I think that it's clear that these are some of the applications that pop out of it. And what's funny about the human protocol is it's very non intuitive monetization of human labor. There's probably 100 other things that are non intuitive like that.
00:16:16.696 - 00:16:52.314, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. And so, as you said at the beginning, h capture is just one part of it, and it's so fascinating that it's easy to focus on, but this is generalizable. So it's a generalizable distributed knowledge market. And so I just want to kind of go into. Can we explain how it functions? And you mentioned the word incentive, so it'd be good to understand how you've applied incentive design. And presumably this is the crypto piece, right. How that incentivizes different behaviors or optimizes your network versus another in the context.
00:16:52.362 - 00:17:24.650, Speaker B: Of a given use case. That's right. So what we've done is we've optimized our payout. So based on the quality and quantity of your traffic, there's more about that on the HCaptcHA website, about the details they've done that I should say, you get paid more or less. So basically, the more bots you're bringing into the system, providing inaccurate labels, that kind of harms the amount that you get paid. And so we've created this incentive system where we're driving real traffic. We'll protect you from any traffic, but what we really want to do is encourage the sites to have more and more human behavior.
00:17:24.650 - 00:18:10.842, Speaker B: And I think when you look at the human protocol more generally, we often talk about the pyramid of different types of users. So anyone can solve capture. So we design that to not stress people out, not be something that provides special training. And there's a lot of interesting things that pop out of, like, you know, you ask someone is something a short sleeve shirt, you might get a different answer in Ireland versus Saudi Arabia. Right. And that tells you something about probabilities and these subjective things. But if you imagine a pyramid when the bottom is captcha with the least trained people, and as going up the pyramid, there's more and more training.
00:18:10.842 - 00:18:49.080, Speaker B: So we had a bulk user program for a while where we were giving people much more advanced puzzles to solve VR system. We can do the same thing. What the protocol designs in the paper is that the bottom is kind of the least trained, the top. You could imagine a world, I'm excited about a world where we have radiologists in that top square. Right? And so kind of as you go up, there's less and less verification, less and less things pretending to be bots, unless someone has a trained radiologist bot, which would be pretty awesome. Yeah, well, I don't know how niche that would be. That would change the world.
00:18:49.080 - 00:19:50.086, Speaker B: I hope for that. Yeah, exactly. Start out niche, right? And they all fit together, right? So captcha has no biases, it has no training, right? Anything up here on this training proportion has got biases, which is their training, their background, their country. So it's actually like when you think about this pyramid to get good answers, you really want to sample people up across the whole pyramid to kind of construct probabilities, to hand to robots about certainties. I should also mention that in our world, when we look at a photo and there's like a picture, let's say, of a truck in there, right, from y'all's point of view, or capture user's point of view, they'll be like, oh, for sure, there's a truck in there. And then 60% of people will be like, for sure there's no car. But other people think trucks are cars, right? So it's one of those things where the answer you get from Captcha is very powerful and without bias, and it helps make everything else more accurate.
00:19:50.086 - 00:20:41.066, Speaker B: But the reality is that most of the really powerful value comes from the intermixing of experts and different levels of verification, all communicating with each other in a network. And so once you get into that world, it's not just labeling that you can support, it's actually, I don't like talking about future applications. Just when I'm excited about just because I don't want to be Mr. Vaporware, I want to be like, here's what we're really building. But when I get really excited about applications, it's kind of building stuff across that stack where they can plug into it and realistically in an open source. You know, when we talk about why you should trust these things, it's not just because of the privacy story. It's not just because of the stuff we've done for security.
00:20:41.066 - 00:21:49.626, Speaker B: It's also the fact that the Human Protocol foundation kind know I took some of the tricks from the Apache Software foundation on how to create a real independent technology community that makes decisions for the people based on technology and what's going to support them. So when you think about that infrastructure, there's no one who's kind of controlling it. There's kind of this meritocratic technological organization like you would see with bitcoin, kind of pushing those types of things forward. And then finally, just by the act of how these things get decentralized, it kind of gives this whole story where people can join the Human Protocol foundation, contribute to it at basically the same level that I do. If you look at the people who are working on the Human Protocol foundation, who we've hired, almost all of them came to us via bounties, open source bounties, like literally posting issues. People came in, we said, hey, you got a couple of good issues done, let's bring you into the. So it's very open source.
00:21:49.626 - 00:22:04.466, Speaker B: It's a lot closer to what you would see with a community like Kubernetes, the Apache Web Server foundation, where there are people all around the world that really have this shared vision for humanity that are coming together in open source to develop this tool where the network gets all the value.
00:22:04.648 - 00:22:45.018, Speaker A: And so to try to grossly simplify it down, and then I think we can come back out, because I do want to talk about some of those future use cases, perhaps towards the end, because I think it'd be a real waste to not go there with you. But in its most simple form, I think you describe it, there are some jobs that for now, anyway, humans are just better at than machines. And so that could be training a model, training an ML model. Right. Or it could be interfacing with a customer service bot, so it gets better at delivering customer service just to make it tangible for the audience.
00:22:45.114 - 00:23:33.620, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the way to think of it is we only send out the puzzles that we can't solve with ML. The images that people are seeing in HCAPTCHA weren't just like arbitrarily picked. We serve the images that a state of the art machine learning system can't label, and then we can use that to retrain our state of the art machine learning label. So the issue is just that there's a certain percentage of words that cannot handwritten, words that can't be translated. There's certain amount of images that can't be classified or pixel broken down. Jeffrey Hinton, kind of the godfather of, you know, often talks about when we get perfect at the letter A. Like, if we could just get machine learning to recognize the letter A, as well as a small child, then we're set.
00:23:33.620 - 00:24:33.250, Speaker B: That's real progress, right? So I think machine learning is so amazing, can do all these tools, all these things, and it works way better than you expect. People who work with ML, the first thing they'll tell you is it works way better than I ever expected, but it still fundamentally is not as smart as us, it's not as ingrained in the world. So what we are doing with the human protocol is we're teaching the computers about things that it knows the least about. And what's fascinating is, without getting into the details, is we know how to get the computers to tell us what questions it knows the least about. And those are the things that are being served out to human protocol. Actually, to run human protocol, not even the CAPTCHA system, but just human protocol in general, you need one of the most state of the art machine learning rigs in the world, and effectively, that's how we decide what work to give out.
00:24:33.320 - 00:25:22.830, Speaker A: So if we look at this pyramid, as you described, this knowledge pyramid, and at the bottom, you got all this low level categorization, basically. Maybe categorization is consistent throughout. It's just the level of complexity or specialist knowledge, the scarcity of knowledge that can carry out that task. So, as you say, it could be this very basic categorization for capture at the bottom. And then as you move up to the top, a radiologist, where there's maybe only a handful on the planet that could have the capability to detect particular patterns. And presumably at that point, once the human or humans have trained the ML to be able to carry out that activity, that knowledge can then be. I mean, it's quite a loaded word, but I can't think of a better one democratized.
00:25:22.830 - 00:25:29.474, Speaker A: Right? So, as you said, it could be extended to any hospital anywhere in the world, including sub Saharan Africa.
00:25:29.522 - 00:25:29.686, Speaker B: Right?
00:25:29.708 - 00:26:22.102, Speaker A: And so that's like a very powerful concept. But then some questions start trickling through, and it'd be good to understand how you solve for these, or at least how you're considering them. At the human protocol, on the one hand, you've got people. So around this knowledge economy, you have participation. People carry out tasks, they get paid for the tasks, and there's a premium placed upon the bar of participating. But what about ownership? So beyond that transaction, which could be very temporal, most of these will be temporal until the thing is trained to carry out that on its own behalf. So how do the people that participate in the system also share in the ownership of the human protocol? Success as a whole?
00:26:22.236 - 00:27:07.298, Speaker B: Yeah, I love that question. So the interesting thing about Captcha is users of it don't have a lot of choice. So their reward for captcha is access to the website. We would love reassessing how that money is paid. Once we went to, let's say, you can imagine world ethereum, two, or one of these other chains where we can put a lot more stuff on chain. You can even imagine the user being directly rewarded at that point. But for now, just because of the nature of chains on the Captcha story, it's really the websites you could think of as almost like an alternative to ads.
00:27:07.298 - 00:28:20.374, Speaker B: Are making money by putting our captcha up. The other users of our system won't have that kind of abstraction. Most of the time, you may have kind of hierarchy in your work pools, but most of the time, the more that we can kind of know exactly the user who's labeling in those work pools in a safe, privacy preserving way, then we can effectively reward that individual and get them paid and all that type of stuff. So I think kind of as you go up the pyramid as well, probably the payment becomes more direct as well, because you can imagine, like at the tippety top of that pyramid, you've got some trained expert, you know his name, probably have a contract with him. Right? And so overall, I think that we would like to see everyone in the system rewarded eventually, when that's physically possible, just because we think that's going to have the clearest, best set of incentives. But for now, it's really, as you go, kind of up that value chain that they get more directly control over how much they're getting paid, what they're faulting, when they're falling, all that type of stuff.
00:28:20.512 - 00:28:49.670, Speaker A: Yeah. So you've kind of got this unit of account for payment for the transactions that happen in the market. Now, presumably there's some scarcity in that, and so it could be considered a form of equity in the network. So if you're being paid out for a task, but you hold it rather than cashing it out for fiat, is that not having a stake in the success of the network somehow?
00:28:50.170 - 00:29:52.650, Speaker B: That's a great question. I'm not sure I should answer it, though. This goes back to what we were saying before, right? We want some interchangeable way of quantizing human labor, right? And so what are the actions we imagine people are doing with that quanta? Right? So sometimes it's, hey, I've got some of these quanta. I want to get my value out in the form of information, right? Another thing that we're actually looking at is, okay, I've got these quanta. I want to spend that just to demonstrate that I'm human, right? So basically, the quanta is just a representation between a human robotic interaction. And the question is, what is that interaction? How much does it cost? Who can solve it? And that's going to get marketed to the right number in terms of when it gets served. There's this kind of this order book, right? And you've got this unit of human work.
00:29:52.650 - 00:30:47.146, Speaker B: And so kind of the more capacity, the more interesting jobs you have, the more different types of puzzles going on. The more the type of tests that we can do increases. So we've been mostly talking about labeling, but like I said, it could be any human work, right? There are lots of kind of rituals that human beings perform for other rituals in a professional and non professional setting that could all be done this way. So as it becomes more diverse, as it becomes more broad, as it can do more things, it becomes more valuable. As it gets more work into the network, it becomes more valuable. And arguably, and this is, I think, kind of the weirdest one, as people learn to value themselves more and the time that they're spending, when they take control over this thing and directly are interacting with each other, they get a bigger cut. So there's more value.
00:30:47.146 - 00:32:05.266, Speaker B: So it's one of those things where our goal is just to make it work better, bring more value, make it cooler and all that type of stuff, because it's a network effect, right? The more people like, imagine if some of our Captcha contributors, right, not competitors, other captchas, came to us and said, we want to join the human protocol as well. Now, you got to ask yourself, would that make the network more or less valuable to have more capacity, right. Normally, when you kind of bring more on, you reduce the scarcity, but in this case, what you're bringing on is value. And so you have the same amount of value chasing the same amount of quantization of human labor. And so I don't want to talk about scarcity or prices or any of that type of stuff, but I do think in terms of value, there's a clear network effect. And in Silicon Valley, when we see these network effects, we go, oh, wait, this is an exponential up in value, right? It's not even linear, right? And so that's how I kind of think of how much it's worth, how this quantization works, because ultimately it's about monetizing or quantizing this human labor, to.
00:32:05.288 - 00:32:07.000, Speaker A: Be honest with you. So when I asked that question.
00:32:08.810 - 00:32:09.126, Speaker B: It.
00:32:09.148 - 00:33:12.380, Speaker A: Wasn'T to get into actually trying to quantify the value of the token. It was much more around the concepts of ownership. And so how people begin to participate in the ownership of the network, because there's the transaction, there's the public good outcome, and then over time, you could imagine. And the reason why I flagged it is because the project I mentioned earlier, botanic and then seed, was conceptually, anyway, they were thinking about the idea of, well, if you were one participant, that directly or indirectly, so indirectly, just by providing your data or directly by carrying out some form of task trained an AI, then wouldn't it be great if you could own it if you were the specialist? Well, what you don't want to do is make yourself redundant. And what you ideally do is you want to kind of have a stake in the digitization of your knowledge set and its future success.
00:33:14.350 - 00:33:49.046, Speaker B: Now you're getting into some of the stuff I love with the foundation, which is how we're interacting with the other people in the data ML blockchain space. So I've already told you that, hey, why am I doing this? I think decentralization of this technology is important. Privacy is the other side of it. Right. We're playing a critical role within the data and labeling ecosystem within the blockchain. But one of the amazing things that's happened is there were a lot of blockchain ML startups and a lot of them didn't make its way through the sieve. And we're actually starting to see who the real players are.
00:33:49.046 - 00:34:32.734, Speaker B: So we actually have potentially great partners also on the blockchain that can help us with exactly what you're talking about. Right. So we're the ones, we're providing basically the capacity to train the bots other people are trying to bring. Okay, what are the inputs that we want the bots to learn about? Other people may actually attempt to have this ownership bot model. I've seen a couple of people trying to do that, and so I think that it's a little interesting because I hope you don't find this too extreme, but I actually think that we could be in a world where ownership of bots is immoral in a decade.
00:34:32.862 - 00:34:36.710, Speaker A: By a corporate institution, you mean so like a single corporate entity.
00:34:38.650 - 00:35:05.358, Speaker B: There'S a small chance that bots could be as human as us in a decade. And so what does ownership of mean? They're not as smart as a pet yet. My cats are actually smarter than my AI still. But the AIs are getting smarter a lot faster than my cats and so. Or me. They're definitely getting smarter faster than me. I'm probably closer on the cat side at this late stage of my life.
00:35:05.358 - 00:36:04.160, Speaker B: I think that right now we're talking about how does it own, how is it controlled? And I think there are a lot of people who are talking about safety. How do we use AI safety, who controls the AIs, who's benefiting from it as we're putting people out of work, how do we take care of those people? And so I'm hoping that our economics in terms of, hey, you provide the training, you get the benefit. And as the value goes up, so it's your benefit. I'm hoping that works out naturally. But the reality is there's a lot of just kind of drudger work that's being done by people that imagine a world where mortgages are 1% more efficient, right? Or medical paperwork is more than one. I'm excited about all of these things, these kind of horrible jobs being automated and the person part of those jobs being expanded. Right.
00:36:04.160 - 00:36:42.554, Speaker B: We don't need to protect people from drudgery. What we need to do protect people from not having their drudgery. What we need to do is protect, is for people to have this role in the world where they can be on their prime, right? And so the example I always give is chess players. Gary Kasparov was beating the pants off a computer with deep blue. And at that point the world was like, oh, man, chess was beaten. Go. Now even go is beaten.
00:36:42.554 - 00:37:45.570, Speaker B: But the one thing that's not known or talked about is that cyborg chess players beat the pants off of any computer. So you can actually take an adequate chess player, combine them with an AI, and he will beat the pants off of that same AI fighting alone. That's the future that we're trying to provide. Just like glasses allow us to see and give us more jobs, computer AIs are modern glasses that will allow us to see and do a wider variety of jobs. And to the extent that it provides new forms of literacy, mathematical literacy, competence in complex fields, it will make these fields a lot more productive and more efficient. If in the end, there are half as many radiologists, but they're making twice as good a decisions for half the cost, it's a bummer. That's a difficulty, but in the end, the people who benefit are the patients.
00:37:45.570 - 00:38:29.114, Speaker B: So I think that from my point of view, the things you're talking about automating the world are definitely something I'm concerned about. But what I'm more concerned about is it being centralized. Yes, this stuff is coming. It's actually almost here. A lot of it's being blocked by legislation. I talk to a lot of my colleagues in other countries, and rightly so, they will have different trade offs in terms of security and how they run their society. My budies in the UK say there are cameras in every block, and if their dog takes a poop in the yard, then the town council will send them a ticket.
00:38:29.114 - 00:38:53.318, Speaker B: And apparently some old nanny's got a videotape of their lawn all the time. In the US, we just don't do that. Right. And so there are different trade offs that people can make about how civil society is. You know, I'm all for that. The reality, though, is the technology is coming. We have to figure out so that we all get a part of it.
00:38:53.318 - 00:39:00.154, Speaker B: And crypto blockchain, I think, is clearly working for that. Yeah.
00:39:00.192 - 00:39:52.410, Speaker A: And I think that's something I think we're aligned on in that. I think the idea. So as you say, there's a free market, like forming around these technologies and they're going to play out and you're providing currently a function within that. So in the same way people refer to some of the things that happening in crypto as money Lego, I think here you could refer to as AI Lego. This composable stack of technologies and markets primarily driven by this kind of concept of free market fundamentalism, ultimately that the market will drive value. Now. So to date, deliberately or accidentally, a lot of the activity that's happened on human has been directed by you guys and capture.
00:39:52.410 - 00:40:21.090, Speaker A: Earlier, you alluded to the fact that there are some things that are the same about crypto and open source and being a contributor to that, but there are a lot of things that are very different. So you've had this great start. How do you now, as a foundation, allow the human protocol to evolve for new cases to emerge in a way that doesn't require such direction?
00:40:21.990 - 00:41:02.960, Speaker B: Yeah, I have to admit I was a little naive starting a crypto startup. I think I've got my feet under me about what the investors are looking know, doing business Silicon Valley with people who you know and have a multi year relationship with, a little bit different than doing worldwide. So, you know, we've mostly got our feet under that with the foundation side. Trying to expand the foundation to be an organization which effectively plugs into the best partners in crypto is kind of what we're doing now. So there are a couple of ways that that plugs in. One, there's lots of great technology coming out in crypto that may allow us to put stuff more on chain faster. All that stuff.
00:41:02.960 - 00:41:44.442, Speaker B: Those are important partners that we have. Right. It's just improving that core substrate that we're running on top of the second bit in terms of how do we actually work with people is kind of those data providers. So people are providing data sets and all these different use cases we talked about. I don't want to name names, but there'll be more and more people coming out to do that type of stuff. And then finally, there's kind of what I really want to do and can't wait to provide is kind of the hook up to those legacy infrastructure providers, hooking into other infrastructure providers, other implementations. Human protocol.
00:41:44.442 - 00:42:50.574, Speaker B: We've talked about capture some of the human protocol things that we did in previous experiments, some of the stuff, some applications that we have going on. But realistically, there's all sorts of any interaction between a human, a computer, privacy protected and interesting where we want to save that money. I really do think that, or capture that data. And I really do think that I would love for someone to come and say, hey, we want to donate this new open source analytics stack, like an open source Google Analytics stack, to the human protocol, and we want that to join in to capture that human. Really, I think this is stuff that you and I are both passionate about, is imagining a new Internet where we really do have control about what is released about us. And by the way, this shouldn't be that controversial. Right? This is the law in Europe, right? Europe, you have the right to be forgotten.
00:42:50.574 - 00:43:39.322, Speaker B: Right. So you have some control there. And I think that we need to build that infrastructure. And once we build that infrastructure, all the other things that I was talking about, decentralization of the power of data, giving people a share of this new AI community, I think it all falls out of it. I'm not actually like a free market fundamentalist, certainly not for crypto. But on the other side, I think it's interesting to consider what a lot of those libertarian tendencies is all about, is really about volunteerism and not being compelled. And I'm not sure about libertarianism.
00:43:39.322 - 00:44:27.198, Speaker B: And I think it's got some good things. I think there's some limits. But I'm really into this idea of people being sovereign, making their own choices, making their own mistakes. I think that's the world that people want to live in. At least everything about the human protocol is really about giving people that control. Because when we are interacting with humans and robots, it's very important that people feel that they're not being taken for a ride, that they really are doing this involuntary way that they're putting on glasses. They're not becoming a slave to the machine or something horrible like that, right? They're just putting on a new shade of glasses so that way they can live their life and see more clearly.
00:44:27.198 - 00:45:10.202, Speaker B: That's really the vision that we have and why the foundation is kind of set up to be this independent organization to enable that. But it is primarily a technological organization. We do have some really good people who have a lot of experience in the data space. Lonnie who are talking about something with Ops. She was CEO of metal and kind of revolutionized that whole medical space. I think that we'll kind of have these kind of industry experts who all have the same view that are trying to pushing this network effect, so that way each quanta of human labor becomes more and more flexible and valuable.
00:45:10.346 - 00:45:46.314, Speaker A: Yeah. And look, I think for me, how I would define, or I would define the importance of what I call web3, and I know that can seem quite loaded. It's actually not just in an ethereum context. For me, it's a catch all. But really there are three Internets or three webs, right? Internet and web. Of course, there's a bit of a distinction, but you've got surveillance capitalism, that is the established norm. You have, as you say, platforms that dominate the web.
00:45:46.314 - 00:46:33.718, Speaker A: They have data monopolies. Platform monopolies have data monopolies have AI monopolies. And that is a direction that I think we can all agree from the legislature down to the citizen, is probably not going to end. And at the heart of that is shareholder supremacy. The idea that the rights of the shareholder of the company that owns AI is more important than its users. You then have something that's kind of coming from the east, which is digital statism, that ultimately everything's subordinated to the state. And that can be, of course, if benevolent, hugely valuable, because it's training this large data sets to train in AI to make society function better, but in the wrong hands, could be dystopic.
00:46:33.718 - 00:46:52.110, Speaker A: And then there is something in the middle. And as a European, it feels intuitive. But I don't think it's so obvious, which is this web3 paradigm, which is that user centricity, user citizen centricity. And so I really subscribe to your vision there.
00:46:52.180 - 00:47:49.298, Speaker B: I am friends with a lot of people at Google who work on these problems. Some of the nicest people in the world, and the last thing they want to do is surveillance capitalism, right? And you brought up all these shareholder concerns, but the reality is, and they get this as well, that their data is more valuable when it's more scarce, like them. Just having all the data means that each one of those data is worthless, right? And so it's actually scarcity that provides the value of the, you know, Google and all the capitalist functions of the world. Let's go over to the status, right? I don't want to say anything about any particular country, but these countries that people view as highly centralized are actually incredibly distributed on a provincial level and a regional know. There are now more chinese banks than american banks. There are more local chinese banks than american banks. American banks straight down, chinese banks numbers straight up.
00:47:49.298 - 00:48:34.018, Speaker B: And so it's very interesting, because I think of the west, we have almost the soviet view of these countries. When they're quite capitalist, they're quite distributed, there's a lot of power there. Once again, they're just people. And so I think what I love about the human protocol is it really is a best of world, right? We can get the people who are the data barons, we can actually get them more money for the data they have, and they can sleep better at night knowing that it's protected. And there are industry standards now. Everything's working across the world more cleanly. And even these other states that have, in my opinion, serious concerns about public safety, scalability of the government, so their economy, there is real stuff there as well.
00:48:34.018 - 00:49:35.282, Speaker B: It's not solely a power grab, those types of people, when this capability is brought onto a transparent blockchain, it changes everything. What if all of this data that people were using to keep their society safe was fundamentally controlled, accessed in a way that actually created a new digital judicial system, one that is more framed for a modern world? Maybe it's just because I'm an eternal technological optimist, but I actually think that this is the solution to what you described as surveillance hospitalism, that this is actually the solution to state control of data. And actually, you're in the UK right now. Yes, I hear you. Yeah. If you take your example, I think that's a really easy one to understand. Right? You guys have got canvas everywhere to assure public safety, right? Now, it's interesting who has access to them.
00:49:35.282 - 00:50:23.650, Speaker B: What if that access was a bit more controlled, careful, monitored, maintained? So if some person in the head of the town council, let's say, got hacked, and then all that data got out, it wouldn't be a huge data leak, there would still be some type of controls and monetization and all that stuff built into it. Right? So I think that before we go all the way to Asia, which I'm always amazed by, and so much activity going on, even just in our boring western world, that's moving so slow, these are real problems for us as well. And I actually think this is just infrastructure where people can buy in and do the right thing and make money. And when you could get those two together, do the right thing and make money, working together and making more money, the more you do the right thing, you get people doing the right thing more? That's just my optimistic view.
00:50:23.720 - 00:51:05.706, Speaker A: Yeah. And look, and I think that's a great place to end. I like to end on an optimistic note, and you're totally right, of course. This is a universal human problem, which is probably quite apt given the name of the protocol. And I'm really excited to see how this AI Lego forms around an open data economy. We were also an investor in ocean protocol, which is doing some really cool things now with the IDO, the initial data offering, they've just been testing that a little bit. Fetch AI that are doing autonomous economic agents and some AI Lego and then the secret foundation have got secret contracts, so privacy preserving, smart contracts.
00:51:05.706 - 00:51:21.570, Speaker A: And I can just see how the composability of all of these things because they're all open source, how they begin to interplay. It's difficult to feel that can't be net positive somehow. So I'm really looking forward to seeing your continued contribution to the space. Thanks for coming on, Alex.
00:51:21.650 - 00:51:22.630, Speaker B: Thanks, Ben.
00:51:24.330 - 00:51:32.660, Speaker A: If you enjoyed today's podcast, please make sure you subscribe, rate and share your feedback to help us reach as many people as possible with the important mission of web3.
