00:00:06.410 - 00:00:30.440, Speaker A: Welcome, everyone, to the latest episode of Chainlink by Chainlink Labs. For those new to the show, this is a Twitter space, a series where you can learn all about the latest developments in Chainlink and the wider smart contract ecosystem. Today we're hosting our first ever Chainlink town hall with none other than Sergei Nazarov, co founder of Link. Welcome to the show, Sergey. How's it feel, man? How's it feel to be on your first Twitter space?
00:00:32.330 - 00:01:00.240, Speaker B: Yeah, it's interesting. Thanks for including me. I haven't done one of these before. It's interesting how easy it is to get this larger group of people together in a shared room to talk about something. I know this thing kind of took off as a competitor to some other thing, but because Twitter had basically platform leadership, now more and more people use this. So it's interesting how that works as well. But, yeah, thank you for having me.
00:01:00.240 - 00:02:34.350, Speaker B: Beyond that, I think the first thing I want to say whenever I have the opportunity to express it clearly, is to thank our community for all the effort and thoughtfulness they put into explaining what we do to people and supporting us in however they can. Once again, I don't spend a huge amount of time on Twitter. You probably notice I pretty much tweet at very predictable times and on very predictable kind of schedule. So I can't say that I spend all my time on Twitter, but I think it is very important that we have a vocal and positive community that understands what we're doing and understands what a world powered by cryptographic truth means, because these things are actually kind of like self fulfilling prophecies where once enough people believe in a kind of societal shift towards something such as a world powered by cryptographic truth, it starts to happen faster. And then as it happens faster, more people believe in it, it happens even faster. So that is, I think, one of the core roles of the crypto community generally and the Chainlink community specifically for the chainlink network. It's making it clear to people that a world powered by cryptographic truth, whether it's in the form of DeFi or any number of other use cases that we uniquely enable, is really a better world that they want to be a part of, whether they're a developer, user node operator, whoever.
00:02:34.350 - 00:03:03.030, Speaker B: And so I think without the very active and vocal communities in our industry, we really wouldn't be nearly as far along as an industry. And so I think it's a critical part of the puzzle of how our industry is now rapidly rising to become the way that applications should work more and more and the world should work more and more, because as you might have noticed, the whole world is now run by applications.
00:03:04.970 - 00:03:34.050, Speaker A: 100%. That's a well said, Sergey. And so everyone's aware for today's town hall, we've basically compiled a list of larger questions and also a bunch of community questions for you to answer. Some of the questions we've even pulled directly from Twitter. And so if those are your questions, we'll actually give you guys a shout out on the Twitter space today, which is going to be awesome. And for the first question for you, Sergey, that I have, what's next for the chain league network?
00:03:35.750 - 00:04:43.190, Speaker B: Sure. So what's next is really a continual deployment, an increase of deployment of resources, and continual increase in security, a continual increase in the amount of services, the types of networks, and the release of economics 2.0. All of that is going to require the deployment of more and more resources of various kind. And that's what we're basically doing now. So I think that Chainlink has become a standard for how to do Oracle network based, decentralized Oracle network, don based computation. And now that standard needs to do more and more useful things in order to capture a greater and greater portion of applications and how the cryptographically guaranteed world works. Right? So what we see more and more is that there are applications that start using the chainlink network for one type of service, like data or randomness, but then they start using other Oracle networks alongside.
00:04:43.190 - 00:05:52.138, Speaker B: And so what that means is that all the types of oracle networks and all the types of services that applications could need, need to become available, they need to be secure, and they need to have a net positive economic impact on the total chainlink system. That is what we are actively deploying more and more resources towards over time, because you really kind of arrive at a position where you become the way the world works. So if you look how the financial system, the traditional financial system, and even the Web 2.0 world works, you have certain core building blocks that everybody uses. Those core building blocks, once they secure sufficiently large amounts of value, and once they're a critical derisked part of how systems and contracts work, they're usually not removed. This is why thousands of banks still run something called cobalt, and they run cobalt servers. It's not because they love the cobalt language.
00:05:52.138 - 00:07:00.734, Speaker B: It's because that system manages and powers billions and trillions of dollars. And so what we need to do is in this transition to a world powered by cryptographic truth to the web3 world, the smart contract world, that world is a complete reformatting. Of value. And so what we need to do now is, beyond being the standard in any one category of services, like data or random number generation, or more and more automation in the form of keepers, we actually need to make sure that all the categories get owned by the Chainlink network, so that the application that people build can just kind of be powered by Chainlink and be based on Chainlink. Oracle networks as a key building block. And it actually becomes easier and easier for people to adopt more and more oracle networks because they've already derisked themselves by adopting their first Oracle network from Chainlink or their second oracle network from Chainlink. So we need to deploy significant resources towards making sure those networks are secure.
00:07:00.734 - 00:08:49.362, Speaker B: We need to deploy resources towards launching more and more of those networks, more and more of those different services, so that a smart contract in adapt isn't just a contract with one oracle network for data, it's a contract with, like, ten Oracle networks. Each of those Oracle networks do something unique, whether that's a computation, data transfer of information or commands between networks, and to solidify the network's kind of critical nature. The good news for us is that there is no source of oracle network computation that's nowhere near as secure or reliable as the chainlink network. And there is no source of oracle network based computation that has as long a track record and that secures nearly as much value. This can be called the network effect, or in certain cases, the Lindy effect, or any number of other effects. But what it basically means is that we've arrived at a place where we are already the standard for certain types of computations, shown by enabling hundreds of billions in total value, shown by having anywhere from 50% to 90% of market share of specific verticals. And so what's next for us is to solidify our position in relation to all these different categories of DAPPs by making chainlink a computational resource that does more and more things, more and more data, more and more computation, more and more cross chain communication, so that eventually you'll have DApps that are, like, 50% Oracle network powered, 50% smart, contract powered.
00:08:49.362 - 00:09:14.480, Speaker B: And frankly, we already see that dynamic taking hold where there are multiple d five DApps that use multiple Oracle networks to get computations and to do things that they have to do in order to exist, but which a blockchain does not provide. And so that is kind of the massive opportunity that we need to actively deploy resources towards.
00:09:16.610 - 00:09:28.340, Speaker A: 100%. And then, Sergey, earlier in the convo, you mentioned this thing called Economics 2.0. Can you dive into what economics 2.0 is and how that's been evolving over time.
00:09:29.750 - 00:10:31.426, Speaker B: Sure. So economics 2.0 is really, I guess, a relaunching or an initial launching of the Chainlink economic system going into kind of more of a production state on certain dimensions. Some of those dimensions are key dimensions. They are dimensions around user fees and the dimensions around reducing costs. So generally speaking, the right way to build a large, lasting technology is to make it the standard, to make it something that everybody agrees is the right way to do something right. Once everyone agrees that it's the right way to do something, it becomes a lot easier to get people to pay for that because it becomes less of a choice and more of a necessity.
00:10:31.426 - 00:11:31.350, Speaker B: And generally speaking, you want to be involved in providing necessities and chainlink, and the chainlink network definitely provides necessities. You cannot launch Defi protocols without Chainlink Oracle networks providing you reliable data. And that's very clearly proven because the blockchains where chainlink Oracle networks go live see a huge boom in defi activity and total value locked, and the blockchains that don't have chainlink Oracle networks continue to see relatively little amounts of total value locked. And that's just the dynamic we've recurringly observed on multiple chains. There's many other examples where without Oracle networks, you really can't launch. So you ideally would want a system that creates a necessity and not a luxury, which is what Oracle networks are for, making certain types of critical, world changing smart contracts. And then ideally, that necessity that is created by the network becomes the standard, it becomes the way that the world works.
00:11:31.350 - 00:12:53.538, Speaker B: So that if you want to be secure and you want to hold people's value, and you want to convince people that their value is secure in your system, then you just have to do this. You don't want to do anything else, because frankly, anything else doesn't provide you the same guarantees, the same security. And in an industry where people are consistently getting hacked and they're having security issues that lose them huge amounts of value, you fundamentally need to have that security as a core property, which once again, there is no other form of oracle network or off chain trust minimized computation that provides the level of security, the level of reliability, and the historic history of success, or the current total value secured, or the current total count of highly intelligent users that choose infrastructure based on security. Right? So that was the initial goal, right? The initial goal was to arrive at this position of providing a necessity that is something that is a standard, and by providing something that is a standard. You get into a position where people naturally adopt what you make. You don't necessarily need to explain it to them. It's just something that they find on their own.
00:12:53.538 - 00:13:34.254, Speaker B: Right. They ask the question on a forum or on stack overflow or wherever, and they ask, how do I do X? And you're the right answer. Right. And then you grow with the growth of an industry. So once you're in a position of being a standard, you will be able to grow, or the network will be able to grow with the growth of the industries in which it is a standard. Right? So this has been the initial goal, right? So the initial goal has been making sure that Chainlink becomes the standard. It's become the standard in many cases.
00:13:34.254 - 00:14:22.222, Speaker B: And so now there's this additional goal of creating economically sustainable standard that grows in size over time based on user fees paying for greater security. And as more users pay for greater and greater security, that basically generates an economic system. And that's what economics 2.0 is. It's the, I would say, inflection point at which the Chainlink economic system begins a new period of growth. And that's what I mentioned before about deploying resources towards these various initiatives around security services and economics. So economics 2.0
00:14:22.222 - 00:15:40.154, Speaker B: is, in more detailed terms, about creating increasingly easy to use payment methods for DAPPs to pay user fees into the economic system and the staking system. So it's about increasing the amount of user fees that flow into the system, both by tying them to greater security for users and by tying them to being able to use the system and tying them to an easier way for people to use the system by paying more easily. So it's basically putting in place the mechanisms and the factors that enable people to pay, get them to pay for greater security in order for them to have a long term sustainable system that provides them a secure form of trust, minimized off chain computation. And these discussions have been happening with a number of the top users in Defi. And so far they've been going extremely well, where everyone is quite willing to pay for extending and increasing and improving their security. And that tends to increase as the amount of value they secure increases. So the goal of the Chainlink economics 2.0
00:15:40.154 - 00:17:05.462, Speaker B: system is to make chain link itself sustainable for decades or into perpetuity, and to tie that sustainability and that economic growth to the greater value secured by the industries in which Chainlink is a standard. Right? So basically, if there's more value secured in DeFi, people should be willing to pay for more security, which they are and which they're able to because as they secure more value, they make more revenue. And therefore a portion of that should flow to the systems, providing the security and providing the ability for those systems to operate. And this fundamentally benefits those systems, those DeFi applications and other types of applications, because they have a reliable source of secure trust, minimized off chain computation. It benefits the chainlink network because the chainlink network gets to continually grow both in the quality of data, the quality of its security guarantees, the amount of node operators, the amount of stake provided to guarantee that the transactions that are powered by Chainlink oracles are correct and accurate. All of those factors increase and to the benefit of DApps. As more and more Dapps and more and more smart contracts, and more and more even web two trust minimized applications pay into the Chainlink economics 2.0
00:17:05.462 - 00:17:34.720, Speaker B: system. So the first aspect is increasing user fees. Those user fees will flow to node operators, they'll flow to stakers, and they'll flow to other chain link ecosystem participants. The second aspect of economics 2.0 is reducing cost. Reducing cost has already started to happen, in many cases through technical means. There has been huge reductions in costs over the past few years.
00:17:34.720 - 00:18:43.918, Speaker B: I wouldn't say we're reaching diminishing returns on that just yet. But eventually the cost structure starts to come from other things. It stops coming from the efficiency that can be created in oracle network, and it starts coming from cloud server costs for the different node operators. Or in today's case, it comes heavily from blockchain and transaction fees. Now, oracles have become viewed as such a critical public good at this point that there are increasingly larger amounts of blockchains that are willing and are providing blockchain grants to take the costs of providing Oracle reports on their chain down to zero because they want to generate services rich, data rich environment for developers to build useful applications in their chain. And as we said earlier, you are kind of unable to build certain applications without Oracle networks. And many of these chains have a primary goal of having more and more applications built on their chain.
00:18:43.918 - 00:20:26.006, Speaker B: So if the hurdle to that is having reliable trust minimized off chain computation, then in many cases the least they can do, and they're quite happy to eliminate the impediments to that, namely their on chain cost through these blockchain grants. And what that results in for the chainlink network is that the cost basis for providing Oracle reports goes to pretty much zero. The benefits of the chains is they get progressively more data, progressively more randomness, progressively more automation, progressively more services, progressively more cross chain communication, because the cost of that becomes low, and that begins to show how much of an important public good that Oracle networks and Oracle computations are. Basically, Economics 2.0 is about taking the kind of critical position that Chainlink has as a standard and making sure that the user fees flow into the economic system in order to make it sustainable and to make it actually grow, and to make sure that the participants in the economic system get a significant portion of those user fees as a result of being part of the system. And then it is about reducing costs and reducing costs to the point where each user fee eventually becomes something that isn't covering a cost, but it's something that's going to an ecosystem participant that's providing value to the system as a staker or as a node operator or as some other participant. So this is the fundamental goal of economics 2.0.
00:20:26.006 - 00:21:42.830, Speaker B: It's very similar to how you see other standards work, is something needs to become a standard, and then people become willing to pay for it. And I think we've definitely reached that point, and I think it's shown both by people's willingness to reduce the on chain costs because the services are so critical and so valuable, and through the willingness of multiple DeFi applications and non DeFi applications to pay larger and larger amounts for larger and larger degrees of oracle network security. So that is fundamentally economic two point zero's goal, and our approach to it is to have different key ecosystem participants be a key part of Chainlink's economics 2.0 system, and for us to deploy significant resources to create the environment, to create the kind of direction for the economics 2.0 system to launch successfully. So this is one of the main things that we're working on now and which I expect there'll be more information about at the Smartcon conference.
00:21:45.330 - 00:21:54.690, Speaker A: Thanks for diving into economics 2.0 for us, Sergey. Next, can you dive into what new services are coming up from the chainlink network?
00:21:56.310 - 00:23:13.638, Speaker B: Sure. So two of the main services that we're spending significant time on are CCIP and Deco. CCIP is an extremely security sensitive service, as evidenced by, I think it's a billion or more in bridge hacks that have happened this year alone. So our goal with CCIP is not to release another bridge that can easily become manipulated and stolen from. There's more than enough of those. Our goal with CCIP is to very heavily validate its security, because as long as other bridges continue to fail, which, based on the designs we've observed there, they seem extremely likely to continue to fail as long as those bridges continue to not provide the security that people need to choose any one of them as a standard, then the bridge that does provide the security people need in a provable way will be the bridge that value inherently flows to. And that's what you see with these bridges, right? Is one bridge fails and value then flows to other bridges that have other, maybe slightly better security claims.
00:23:13.638 - 00:24:23.678, Speaker B: If they're unable to deliver on their security claims, then the value flows somewhere else. So just like we were able to build the first real oracle networks to deliver reliably usable data to secure tens of billions of dollars in value, which before our approach to securing that computation, you simply didn't have that computation. And because you didn't have that computation, people were not able to build defi that secured tens of billions of dollars. We see the bridge world as a very analogous situation, where building a secure system with the best security primitives and using the most validated approaches is what is going to make the difference? That is kind of our approach to CCip. It's a complex question where we have a lot of innovative features, and it's something that we're working on getting into a beta on testnet so we can slowly roll it out with users and that they can understand how the security dynamics of a secure bridge actually work. So that's the goal with CCIP. It's not to rush it out the door.
00:24:23.678 - 00:24:33.074, Speaker B: It's to create the secure standard for how this part of the world's off chain computation should work.
00:24:33.192 - 00:24:33.474, Speaker A: Right?
00:24:33.512 - 00:25:39.122, Speaker B: So that's the very clear goal there. Deco is, I would say the second thing we're spending a lot of time on in the new services and the new parts of the Chainlink protocol that provide usable services to developers. Deco has certain privacy preserving properties for identity. And glad to say that we already have proof of concepts that are underway and some of which I think have been completed and many of which should be coming out sometime soon. And Deco's usefulness, I think, will revolve around identity and the need for identity to create various more advanced versions of even existing applications. So things like regulated DeFi come to mind, and other types of applications that find identity data as a necessity. And if you folks have looked into identity data, you will know that putting it on a public ledger is not realistic, because identity data, generally speaking, is not meant to be public.
00:25:39.122 - 00:26:02.350, Speaker B: There's all these laws from GDPR to HIPAA to a whole bunch of different other laws. So the goal with Deco is to create the technology that is the secure standard that allows identity data to reach applications. And that's something we have significant progress on. And many things about that should also be coming out at smartcock.
00:26:03.970 - 00:26:17.560, Speaker A: Awesome. And Sergey, we actually have a community question for you at Frogchainlink asks, what use cases for Deco do you find most interesting? I know you just spoke about identity. Are there any other use cases that you are particularly excited about?
00:26:19.930 - 00:27:24.170, Speaker B: I actually think that Deco is pretty generally applicable because it's about proving things happening off chain without putting all the on chain work or all the without putting all the off chain work and off chain data on chain. So what Deco really provides is privacy preserving property and an ability to prove things without disclosing them. And there's a very large amount of things that need to be proven without being disclosed, and that extends to the world of off chain computations. It extends to a huge amount of use cases. I think the way that the Chainlink network has succeeded so far is that it has provided very concrete services. So it has provided very concrete, focused services as part of the protocol that have immediate demand. And so that allows two good things to happen.
00:27:24.170 - 00:28:49.286, Speaker B: It allows the protocol not to waste and the chainlink ecosystem and Chainlink itself not to waste resources on parts of the protocol that don't have demand or that will have demand in some number of years. And then if the initial version of a part of the protocol provides in demand services, then it is very far ahead on becoming the standard as long as it can maintain the security guarantees for which it is fundamentally used. Right. So I think what we're arriving at is that this privacy preserving form of offchain computation in the form of Deco is going to initially be in demand from an identity point of view, which is going to merge with the demand for identity information from industries like DeFi. And so that's where ideas about things like regulated Defi and other systems that require identity data to gain access to markets, right? So you really would ideally be in an intersection where the services that a network or a system is providing, they're at the intersection of a highly growing market. You're making a necessity, and that highly growing market chooses the necessity you make as a standard. Right.
00:28:49.286 - 00:30:20.302, Speaker B: And this is kind of the model once again. And then economics two point zero's goal is once again to make sure that that becoming of a necessary standard for that growing market or that growing vertical is something that flows user fees back to key ecosystem participants. That's kind of the whole model. But for deco, yeah, I think it's identity data for DeFI, other than that I've seen one or two things for civil resistance, and I've seen one or two things where people want to do distributions of tokens or NFTs in a way that they have guarantees that those distributions are not going to 50 bots owned by one person. So I would say that DFI, the ability to prove identity, to make an application usable and civil resistance. And I think civil resistance is something that our industry doesn't have enough of because you can't necessarily prove things about people as easily. But that's another thing that I think Deco could change and result in a lot of fair distributions and result in a lot of very positive economic dynamics for various applications that don't want to give all their value to one person who has 50,000 bots, but actually want to distribute value to multiple ecosystem participants in a reliable way that achieves their economic goals.
00:30:20.302 - 00:30:23.890, Speaker B: And so I would say, I guess that would be the third category.
00:30:25.670 - 00:30:40.010, Speaker A: Awesome. Thanks. Thank you so much for that. Sergey, another community question here from cosmic nihilist. He asks, will events on one blockchain be able to trigger contracts on another blockchain using Chainlink Oracles?
00:30:42.270 - 00:31:12.850, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I think that's one of the things we're working towards, CCIP. That's one of the things that makes it unique relative to other bridges. We are focusing on an ability to send messages. And if you look at messages and communication, I think you'll see that that is really the core, or one of the core building blocks of the Internet. For example, TCP Ip is a good example. So our goal is not just to make a token bridge.
00:31:12.850 - 00:32:29.020, Speaker B: Our goal is actually to make a messaging system that can convey commands both from existing backends to blockchains and between blockchains. So in a certain sense, CCIP is a kind of abstraction layer that can sit between all backend systems that want to use blockchains and want to use tens or hundreds of blockchains at the same time. And it is an abstraction layer between blockchains. And that's because it is more of a messaging and a communication system that can communicate about many things, one of which is token transfers. The other things are indeed commands. And so it doesn't really make sense to me that in the web two world, you have all these different clouds where a web two developer, a web developer can use multiple services on multiple clouds, right? They can go use a service on GCP like Bigquery. They could use s three on AWS, they could use some other service on Azure, and they can combine all of those services into their web application.
00:32:29.020 - 00:33:29.822, Speaker B: And nobody who uses that web application has any understanding or, frankly, any of an interest on whether the application is powered by Amazon web services or GCP or Azure, right? That is how people use compute cycles in web two. And realistically, I think that's how compute cycles will end up being used in the blockchain industry, is that people will simply use the best system for their compute cycles, and some of the systems out there will be the best because they provide the most security. Ethereum is a good example. Ethereum provides an immense amount of security relative to many other systems. And so there might be certain computations that you absolutely want to do on Ethereum because you value the security properties of that system. But there might be other computations that you want to do somewhere else for whatever other collection of reasons. Maybe that environment is built for that, or maybe there's a service there or something.
00:33:29.822 - 00:35:16.690, Speaker B: So the goal for us is to accelerate our industry, right? Like if you look at market data, automation keepers, and at CIP, you'll basically see computations that accelerate the creation of entire new industries. And those new industries go on to kind of define the value of a cryptographically guaranteed world and a cryptographically guaranteed society for more and more people, right? So there are people who came into the blockchain industry and into the idea of having a cryptographically guaranteed world and society from DeFi. And they came into DeFi because DeFi was a use case they found attractive. And so every additional service that we make possible network can brought to an instrument to this cryptographically guaranteed format. And that, again, has a huge net benefit economy. Chain link system. Because if we want industry to enter the blockchain guaranteed world, then chances are we are the standard for that, right? So the way to think about this is if people want to send commands to various blockchains, they could send those commands through CCIP, whether those commands come from an existing system or whether they come from another blockchain, the real question is, how do you reliably and securely create communication between blockchains and everything else, including other chains? Communication on pretty much any and every topic for any and every purpose.
00:35:16.690 - 00:35:19.140, Speaker B: So hopefully that answers the question.
00:35:20.950 - 00:35:35.720, Speaker A: Thanks, Sergey. We got a hot one from at tower code. He asks, when and where do you see major enterprises start to go from standard contracts, paper promises, to smart contracts using chain link services?
00:35:38.990 - 00:36:51.774, Speaker B: There's a pretty simple framework I have for this. I think there's about three questions. Question number one is, how much urgency does the enterprise have to do this? Are their users demanding it like they were demanding crypto custody? Is it something that allows them to differentiate themselves from other services by saying that they cryptographically guarantee things? And that's valuable because there was a recent failure in their industry, like one of their competitors was insolvent and they could prove their solvency to users and gain market share. Right? So the first question is urgency. What is the urgency of enterprises to become cryptographically guaranteed and trust minimized? The second factor is how many parties do you need to actually adopt the same technology? So how many different parties, different groups, different counterparties? An example is trade finance. Trade finance. For a trade finance transaction, you need five, six, seven parties to get involved and all get on the same system.
00:36:51.774 - 00:38:05.202, Speaker B: So that's pretty tough. For a derivatives transaction, especially peer to peer derivatives, you only need two parties, the two parties involved in using the derivative. Maybe you could argue you need a third party in the form of the technology platform, but it's a pretty minimal amount of parties relative to other options. And then the third factor is how digital is an industry already. So if an industry is once again like trade finance, and I keep coming back to trade finance because I tried for years to work with people in trade finance on blockchain adoption, and I covered that, they were actually not even trying to adopt blockchains, they were trying to adopt digitization. So they were still sending around literal paper contracts by bike messengers with little ink stamps on the contracts, and those things needed to get delivered in order for transactions to continue. So if you're trying to take an industry from being truly paper based, not like figuratively paper based, in that it's a digital agreement with the paper legal guarantee behind it, but literally paper based, that is a bit of a climb.
00:38:05.202 - 00:39:34.580, Speaker B: Right? So let's think about the industries that have these properties. The financial industry, generally speaking, has a huge amount of trust issues, which creates the urgency for them to adopt blockchains and smart contracts and oracle networks as a way to prove to the counterparties that they should transact through a system with those guarantees. Generally speaking, in many parts of finance, there are minimal amount of counterparties, and much of finance is already digitized, right? Much of it is already in digital form, functioning through swift messages, FPML, CAA messages, and various other types of digital messages and digital state machines that record financial state and financial contract settlement and outcomes. So for that reason, the finance industry, I think, is the right place for this stuff to take off and to continue to take off. There's been recent announcements by things like the DTCC, about their increasing adoption of ledgers in kind of some pre production environments. And there, I think, are going to be more and more announcements from banks, and certain banks that we're working with to utilize the Chainlink network in various meaningful ways. So I think that the finance industry is the first place.
00:39:34.580 - 00:41:11.390, Speaker B: I think that the finance industry, which, by the way, is a hundreds of trillions of dollars industry, if you count derivatives as part of the finance industry, I think the finance industry's adoption of blockchains could become rapidly, rapidly accelerated if the brands that make up finance reneg on their promises. And there is a history of global financial markets being so tied together and having so much kind of systemic risk, where when one part of the market fails, other part starts to fail, that you go into these dark periods where the collective consciousness of really the whole world begins to doubt the brand promises of financial things. And you already start to see this through inflation, and people's questioning of what fiat money really means and how fiat money really works. And I really think that's only the beginning. That could be the tipping point factor. It could be one of the exacerbating factors. But the amount of negative systemic risk issues that the financial industry has accrued since the 2008 financial crisis has actually become much greater than the amount of financial and systemic risk issues than they had before, right before the 2008 financial crisis.
00:41:11.390 - 00:42:16.520, Speaker B: And this suggests very clearly that the correction, to put it lightly, that will be coming in the global financial system will be large. And if that connection is large, it will add that key ingredient of urgency, where people will need to prove how their financial relationships and financial transactions cannot be reneged on. People will begin to demand proof that their money is safe in a bank. They will begin to demand proof that insurance companies have a forcing function making them pay. And they will begin to demand proof on any number of other topics which traditionally were guaranteed by a brand. And so I would say that enterprise adoption depends on those three factors. The finance industry is in a position to be the largest market and the fastest moving market.
00:42:16.520 - 00:42:58.310, Speaker B: But frankly, it's very difficult to say because there are always other industries where people realize the value of blockchains and kind of run towards that value. And you saw that with digital art, with NFTs, and you saw that, to a degree, with gaming. Though I think the ability for gaming companies to compete with each other by giving people true ownership and true control and certain guarantees about their gaming relationship not being changed, is a place where I see more and more gaming companies seeking to compete so it's finance and then large gaming companies, I would say, are the two main categories.
00:43:00.650 - 00:43:15.034, Speaker A: Thanks, Sergey. Another community question for you at Blitzen. Hammer asks, can Sergey expand more on Chainlink as a public good and what that looks like from a high level perspective, and then kind of a part two to that.
00:43:15.072 - 00:43:16.346, Speaker B: How do you see chain link as.
00:43:16.368 - 00:43:19.930, Speaker A: A public good for the broader web3 ecosystem?
00:43:22.450 - 00:44:57.206, Speaker B: Sure. So I think the pinnacle of creating a technology is that it becomes a public good or a globally adopted standard. So if you look at the Internet, you see a few technologies like TCP, IP, Linux, SSL, and a few others that underpin how the world works. Those technologies have not always had an economic system that allows value to make their growth sustainable or to solidify them as standards, but nonetheless, they have become world changing standards. I think the amazing thing about the crypto industry is that once you create a standard in the crypto industry, and once you create an economic system that flows a fair share of value to that system and to the participants in that system that allow it to operate properly, you create something with even more longevity, because there's a huge amount of economic support for the system to just hit a kind of escape velocity that is unapproachable by other systems. So I think that public goods are really the greatest achievement that somebody can have when working on a technology. Some people arrive at that achievement through an academic path.
00:44:57.206 - 00:45:58.138, Speaker B: Some people arrive at it through an engineering path, and some people arrive at it by organizing projects that make that technology. I would just say that the world is underpinned by public goods. I've been influenced by that from my very young youth, back when I was using a computer with two colors. The screen was, like, orange and black, and it used these really thin, big floppy disks, not even the small floppy disks. And since then, my life and everyone's life has been influenced by public standards and public goods that have made the Internet possible. And so I think that that is what Chainlink really is, is that it's a public good that changes the way that the world approaches the concept of truth and the way the world creates commercial and economic relationships between people. And so our fundamental goal is to turn it into a public good, like SSL or HTPs.
00:45:58.138 - 00:46:46.250, Speaker B: Sorry, same thing. Slhttps, Linux, tCp, IP, so on and so on. But the unique thing about our industry is that economic standards in our industry can take their fair share of the value they create, and that allows them to become even more sustainable and solidifies their position as a standard to an even greater degree, as long as the resources needed to make them a standard are properly deployed in the early days. And so our goal is to create this standard that becomes this global public good that gives rise to an entirely new, cryptographically guaranteed world, which we've already done in certain categories of activity, like Defi.
00:46:49.810 - 00:47:23.420, Speaker A: Thanks, Sergey. Right now, I also see that we have a lot of new faces in the audience. Just want to do a quick plug here. For those who don't know, on September 20, eigth through 29th, Chainlink is hosting the main event for Smartcon and NYC, where people can come and learn about the latest web. Three developments directly from researchers, developers, and founders at the forefront of the blockchain of blockchain innovation. For the first time ever, this conference is in person. And Sergey, you will be there, too, which I know the community is very excited about.
00:47:23.420 - 00:47:28.460, Speaker A: Can you tell us what are you most excited about for Smartcon this year?
00:47:31.310 - 00:48:17.130, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, there's a huge amount of things going on there. I think there's a lot around economics 2.0, things about adoption, things about blockchain grants. I mean, there's a multitude of different things going on there, which you'll have to go to the conference to find out. I think we're trying to make it an event where a lot of people will get to meet up, and I think there are a lot of events around Smartcon as well in the days before and after, where people will get to get together and talk and meet on various topics as well. So I think there's, like too many things to count that are going on there. And frankly, if you're interested in those things, I think you should go and see them at the conference and all the other events surrounding the conference.
00:48:18.590 - 00:49:00.646, Speaker A: Absolutely. And if anyone in the audience is interested in going and securing your tickets, you can go to Smartcon chain link again. That's smartcon chain link. And the last thing that I want to cover around Smartcon is we're actually holding an experimental treasure hunt for the most knowledgeable and engaging Chainlink community members. The grand prize for this is a one of a kind adventure is a lifetime ticket to smartcon with two day lodging covered in perpetuity. Official rules and conditions to come soon on smartcon chain link website for this treasure hunt. But now listen closely.
00:49:00.646 - 00:49:20.654, Speaker A: I will give you all the first clue, and that clue is the missing link. Again, the first clue is the missing link. Good luck finding the key to smartcon. And Sergey, thanks again for the time to come on the twitter space today. Really appreciate it absolutely.
00:49:20.772 - 00:49:50.120, Speaker B: Thanks for having me, and good to see or speak with all of you here. Virtually excited to meet many in person at the conference. And as always, thank you very much for your understanding of what we're doing and your continual support. I think it makes a big difference, and I think we are going in the right direction to achieve those large goals we discussed, and I think it's something we should all be proud to be a part of. So thank you all very much once again.
00:49:52.090 - 00:49:58.040, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone. Have a great rest of your day, evening, wherever you're at, and we'll see you guys next time.
