00:03:56.340 - 00:04:33.316, Speaker A: Hello, good morning, good afternoon and good evening everybody. My name is Kartik. I'm one of the co founders of Ethg Global, and I am super excited to welcome all of you to Market Make. It is super awesome to see a lot of familiar faces on our live chat and even better to see a lot of new ones. So, a happy New Year to all of you looking for a much better 2021 and I can't wait to get the show started for today. So we're still having a lot of you join in, but I'll kind of give a quick overview of what this next hour is going to look like. All of you are joining us on.
00:04:33.338 - 00:04:34.660, Speaker B: Our Live page, which is at live.
00:04:34.730 - 00:04:56.088, Speaker A: Eigthglobal co you're going to see something like this. I know we've been all joining a lot of live events and zoom calls, and for ETHGlobal, we wanted to do something that's a lot more reactive and can adapt to how we can experience the event together. So we've offered and made this custom thing for all of us that they'll be using for today.
00:04:56.174 - 00:04:57.144, Speaker B: So you'll be able to see this.
00:04:57.182 - 00:05:01.116, Speaker A: Live stream on your left side and this chat box on the right, and.
00:05:01.218 - 00:05:03.576, Speaker B: We'Ll be able to talk to each other through this chat.
00:05:03.608 - 00:05:57.310, Speaker A: So if you have any questions for our speakers or about the event, you can ask them here and we'll be able to relay them on the live stream. So play with the setting. We encourage all of you to log in so you can ask questions and say on the chat and during some downtimes, enjoy some lo fi beats. So with that, I want to kick off by telling you about ETH Global. So, for those of you who don't know, ETH Global is an organization with a very simple mission. We want to onboard thousands of developers into the Web Three ecosystem, and we do this by hosting events and technical summits online and across the world. So before we jump into what we have in for 2021 and what Market Make is going to be about, I wanted to start off by summarizing last year for us, it wasn't just an interesting year for us, it was an interesting year for all of us around the world.
00:05:57.310 - 00:07:10.150, Speaker A: We generally do a lot of in person hackathons around the world and we kicked off 2020 by hosting ETH London. We were able to successfully pull this off as a 300 person event, but we had to transition into doing online events. Nevertheless, we did a lot of interesting and online events throughout 2020, and I want to do a quick summary of how that last year turned out. So we kicked off by ETH London, and then we hosted Hack Money as our first ever DFI hackathon, which was online, and we got an amazing set of projects from this event. We had a few people even go out to raise money and build successful DeFi protocols in the Ethereum ecosystem. We then switched gears and we hosted and ran Hack FS in collaboration with Protocol Labs, where people worked on decentralized storage and mixed that with Web Three. And then we finally did ETH Online, which was our biggest event ever, where we not only did a hackathon and had over 1000 people participate, but this was also an event where we hosted five different summits focusing on what's happening in the Web Three ecosystem, from scaling to privacy to the future of Ethereum 2.0.
00:07:10.150 - 00:08:09.284, Speaker A: And I'm super excited to announce that throughout all of our efforts from 2020, we had over 1900 developers participate at our events, and close to 4000 people who attended our summits in person and online combined. And all these people joined us from 87 different countries and spanned 21 different time zones. We were absolutely thrilled by this level of audience, and we're excited to sort of continue building the same relationships and reach even more of you this year. And with that, I want to kick us off with Market Make, and I don't think Market Make will be any different. We're excited to do this as our first event for 2021, and I'm proud to announce that as of this morning, we have 450 hackers participating at this event. They'll be working on a lot of interesting D Five projects over the next three weeks. And these 450 hackers are going to be coming from 58 different countries, and they span across 17 different time zones.
00:08:09.284 - 00:08:58.136, Speaker A: So we're going to have a lot of fun on our discord, coordinating and talking to each other and seeing what everybody's doing. Twenty four, seven. So on top of just the hackers, we also have over 30 mentors who are here to help you on the technical side if you get stuck or if you need help with any specific protocols that you're choosing to build on. And we have ten companies that are participating in as sponsors. They'll be there to not only give you their time and help make it easy for you to use existing work and protocols to build on top of, but they're also there to make sure that you succeed and you can take your projects to the next level. And throughout all of that, this is also a hackathon at the end of the day, and we have over $50,000 in prizes for all the participants hacking at Market Make. I want to especially thank Ave for being our co host for this event.
00:08:58.136 - 00:09:51.640, Speaker A: This event is proudly co hosted and partnered with Aveon. And on top of that, we are super excited to be working with the whole Ave team. They've been a delight to work with, and it'll be even more fun to see everything in action as people build on top of Ave and other DeFi protocols throughout the next few weeks. I also want to thank Theorem Foundation one inch Exchange chainlink matic uma ENS the graph, avigatchi, Lummiscap, Coin, Gecko and CoinMarketCap for being our sponsors. And they'll be also hanging out and sort of helping out all of you as developers on being able to integrate and use some of their services and SDKs and APIs into your projects. So let's kind of jump right into this event. I want to give a quick overview of what the next hour is going to look like.
00:09:51.640 - 00:10:37.450, Speaker A: I'll kind of COVID the agenda for the three weeks for the hackathon which talks about anything from team formation to what a check in is, to how you can get help if you're stuck on some technical side of things, all the prizes you can win and all the talks and workshops and AMAs that we have. But before that, what I want to do is sort of have an interesting chat with two prominent speakers in our ecosystem. And I want to welcome Stani Kulachov who is the co founder and CEO of Ave, and Anthony Pompliano who is a prominent speaker in this space and an investor as well. We'll be having a chat about what's possible with DeFi and how we can actually merge this with the traditional finance system. So please welcome Stani and Anthony. So thank you so much for joining us.
00:10:39.260 - 00:10:40.170, Speaker C: Thank you.
00:10:41.020 - 00:10:42.360, Speaker D: Happy to be here.
00:10:42.510 - 00:11:12.390, Speaker A: I want to kick us off today by asking each of you, just in general, what DFI means to each of you from how you see this and kind of how your experience has been. And obviously in 2020 we've seen a massive growth in the DFI ecosystem. The total volume in USD locked in those protocols has exceeded 21 billion. Certainly not a number we can ignore. So kind of maybe with Stani, what does that mean to you and how do you see DFI as of right now?
00:11:13.560 - 00:12:36.748, Speaker C: Yeah, so I think kind of like what's decentralized finance pretty much is set of various kind of like financial, I would not say maybe like services or platforms, but basically applications where there are certain interesting properties. And one of the interesting properties is that pretty much anyone can access decentralized finance. So you could be anywhere in the world and have similar advantage. For example, a person in UK us in Asia. And one of the interesting things here is as well that that permissionless access also gives you the permissionless access to build things into the decentralized finance. So let's say Ave might build some sort of lending protocol to provide yield and some other developer, other part of the world can build on top some sort of yield aggregator that balances yields between various it's practically. I would like to quote our CEO Jordan when he says that DeFi is kind of improving what banking is in the backend system.
00:12:36.748 - 00:13:33.648, Speaker C: So if you look at traditional finance and the banking space, what's happening there, and the innovation, most of the innovation is in the front ends. The neo banks, they're improving the user experiences for the mainstream. But when you look at the back ends of the banks and what's happening there, it's pretty much lagging with the legacy system that they have. And decentralized finance is trying to improve that back end and make it practically open and available. And because it's open to everyone to build and participate, there's two functions there. One is that the innovation is constant all the time, so practically all of the developers can innovate openly and there is constant innovation. And also when something new comes up because it's so easy to switch from one protocol to another, practically the liquidity is moving all the time.
00:13:33.648 - 00:14:28.770, Speaker C: So it's kind of like a constant feedback loop of innovation that is happening. And because it's practically built on the blockchain ecosystem, all the transactions are completely transparent. You can see what kind of transactions there are and for example, all the interest rates and mathematics. And also there is not this kind of like a black boxing that you see, for example, when you compare to something that we have been used to. When it comes to traditional finance, for example, it's very difficult to quantify risks in Wall Street, but when you go DeFi, all the data is available. It's up to the developer community to practically build those tools for wider usage in DeFi. Those are kind of like main properties, at least for me.
00:14:32.120 - 00:14:33.060, Speaker B: Anthony.
00:14:35.080 - 00:15:32.648, Speaker D: Yeah, I think for me it really starts with kind of decentralization, right? And decentralization to me is two key components. One is there's no single person organization or nation state that has control or can manipulate whatever the platform or service is. And then two is it's kind of the ultimate manifestation of free markets because there is no manipulation, there's no control. And so decentralization to me is probably going to be one of the big themes of the kind of beyond, and that's true of whether it's decentralized kind of messaging applications, social media applications, finance applications, you kind of just go down the line. And I think that we're going to see a big shift towards decentralization. Along with that, what you'll get is a shift towards kind of privacy centric type applications as well. And sometimes that goes hand in hand, sometimes they can be separate things.
00:15:32.648 - 00:16:43.848, Speaker D: But ultimately what we're talking about here is a return to kind of the personal freedoms and individual liberties that people have. And I think Stani really described kind of this idea that individuals having kind of a level playing field to some degree, right? And so if you think about geography is one key advantage that some people have. Capital base is another. Literally. Education or relationships in the kind of the traditional financial world, for example, can really serve as an advantage when you're looking for something as simple as a loan to buy a home or to buy a car. But also for many, many other things, even just around getting a bank account can really be influenced by a lot of these things that frankly don't actually matter. And so I think that decentralization kind of allows us to go back to a system that has much more free choice, has much more free markets, and is ultimately liberating for literally billions of people around the world because it allows them to simply get access to financial services that aren't reliant on anything other than their ability to use those effectively.
00:16:43.848 - 00:17:37.900, Speaker D: And so, when it comes to decentralized finance, I think that what we should see here is some leveling of that playing field. We should see a pretty significant inflection in terms of human production. And I'm fond of kind of talking about that from decentralization, especially in DeFi, I think is less about any one protocol, any one application. It's just an entire movement. And frankly, we need as many people building decentralized financial applications as possible because the kind of promise or the payoff, if successful, is so massive that we have to encourage the experimentation and innovation kind of across the world. It's also important that it's not just built by people from one part of the world, it's built by people all around the world in a truly decentralized manner.
00:17:38.260 - 00:17:39.008, Speaker B: Absolutely.
00:17:39.174 - 00:18:50.100, Speaker C: Sorry, I want to build on that exactly. Because when the ecosystem grows substantially so, when there's more developers building different kinds of DeFi products and not just DeFi, but anything kind of like on chain that helps the society, the ecosystem grows substantially. So it's very difficult to create kind of like a parallel system next to decentralized finance with its core properties and kind of like name that okay, this parallel system that we have, which might be created by the legacy finance could be like the DeFi where the mainstream should be adopted. So I think this is very important why we need more developers and users and building innovation so when the ecosystem is strong enough and big enough, the only option is to join. And that's the power of kind of like building so openly. So the rate of innovation and decentralized finance is absolutely amazing how quickly people build new things. And it feels like a never ending.
00:18:50.600 - 00:18:54.310, Speaker B: Story when you get program money.
00:18:55.160 - 00:19:59.310, Speaker D: Well, one other thing I would say, and I think this is an important part to kind of address just at a high level from a structural standpoint, is decentralized finance is going to be somewhat kind of pervasive across the world from a geography standpoint, but it's also going to be pervasive across the technical landscape as well. And so while maybe unpopular to some people in this audience, I think that an important part of this is decentralized applications. So taking a decentralized exchange, for example, is really no different than, let's say, decentralized money. Something like bitcoin, right. They have the same ethos, they have the same kind of long term goal, I think in terms of how do we decentralize the entire stack of the legacy financial world. And so I think it's less about kind of the tribalism of who owns DeFi and it's more of just people seeing, look, there's a legacy system. That legacy system works for some group of people, but it doesn't work for everyone.
00:19:59.310 - 00:20:59.664, Speaker D: And in fact, there's such a mismatch in power and influence that the group that it works for can actually take advantage of the group it doesn't work for, right? And so it can almost become this weapon in some weird way. And so I think that decentralization can kind of be a great equalizer and it can be a great kind of peaceful protest to that system, but it's really going to take people from all walks of life, people with all kinds of different technical skills, because that's the part that the mainstream conversation kind of misses, is like, I'm not a technical person. I'm not going to build this right? I can help fund it. I can help kind of from an intellectual standpoint in terms of ideas, but I don't have the skill set nor, frankly, the experience to go and actually build these protocols, to build these applications. And so we need as many people with that skill set kind of working on this stuff. And I think that's a really important part. Obviously what you guys are doing here at the global and stuff like that is a big part of that.
00:20:59.664 - 00:21:36.330, Speaker D: But it's just trying to get more talented, experienced, skilled people to understand why is this important, why does the world need decentralization when it comes to finance and then really encouraging them to go and build right and try to innovate? And I think that there's one thing that we've learned from the technology sector, it's that the best ideas can come from literally anyone. It doesn't always have to be from the person that went to Stanford or Harvard. And so kind of encouraging that experimentation is really important because that's how we truly do push innovation forward and ultimately kind of reach that goal of decentralizing everything.
00:21:37.020 - 00:22:18.072, Speaker B: No, it's a really great point and thank you so much for kind of commenting on each other's answers too. Maybe then a question for both of you is just from taking in from what you just said, you kind of said that it may be a protest to the traditional system. How do you kind of see this ecosystem evolved? Do you see this as like a shadow replacement where it'll actually be a switch? Or do we see that as like a parallel world that exists and people can choose to do that because they have a lot more control and freedom or just a lack of barriers? I'll make another question wanted to ask here. Is that just kind of in comparison to all of that? Do you sort of see the Wall Street and traditional finance world take this.
00:22:18.126 - 00:23:11.876, Speaker D: Is decentralizing those assets and platforms and then the third is encouraging some level of pseudonymity in those applications as well. So kind of privacy centric type applications. And so when you get digital decentralized and pseudonymous, what that ultimately is empowering is an automated system. And so there's a lot of folks who I think kind of pit together or pit against the legacy financial world and let's just call it kind of the decentralized world. I actually think that that's probably the wrong mental framework to use. The way that I look at this is the legacy system is incapable of creating an automated financial system, right? And what I mean by that is their assets are electronic based. They're electronic Qcip based assets or physical.
00:23:11.876 - 00:24:30.064, Speaker D: And so machines have a very hard time kind of transacting or sending those types of assets because they need centralization. The business models are all centered around whether they're centralized institutions or individuals essentially kind of wedging themselves into bureaucracy so that they can take a fee, right? Like there's almost a financial incentive to actually make it more bureaucratic and that's how you get paid. And then the last one is the regulatory environment is very kind of geographic based and that geographic basis to the regulatory environment is because there are centralized organizations, servers and people. And so you can kind of do that when you all of a sudden get that digital decentralized, pseudonymous kind of world. What this now allows for is a much more efficient, a much more lower cost and a much more productive financial system. And so to me it's less about like legacy world versus this decentralized world and it's more about everyone in the world. Whether you're a Wall Street institution or a random person in a country in Africa, you are simply looking for the lowest cost, most efficient, most secure way to transfer value or to conduct and participate in financial services.
00:24:30.064 - 00:25:16.172, Speaker D: And if that means that automation is going to get us there, then of course all of the capital, all of the intellectual kind of horsepower is going to flow to that system. And so it's less about like does Wall Street participate or not? They're going to have no choice, right? If there's just better technology, they're going to have to do it. And you see this with the youngest generations. Like how many people would have gone to work at Morgan or Goldman Sachs or, you know, name your Wall Street firm and instead of saying, wait a second, I want to go participate in this new thing, I think it is much more scalable. I think it's much more important. It better aligns with my values and ethos. And I want to have a hand in actually helping to build it rather than kind of just go be a cog in the wheel, cog in the machine at one of those Wall Street firms.
00:25:16.172 - 00:25:19.904, Speaker D: So I think it's just a foregone conclusion. It's going to happen. Everyone's going to participate.
00:25:19.952 - 00:26:47.276, Speaker C: It just takes time yeah, definitely. I agree on the sense that kind of like if you have something in terms of technology that is innovative and it really helps people, it helps people to practically save cost due to efficiency and also make the society better and so forth with the transparency you get. And I think definitely it's very hard to kind of go back to other direction backwards and say that practically, okay, this doesn't work. We've been living too long, years and years, where you have a lot of skepticism on technology, which is better, and this is probably insane, and it kind of happens maybe more in finance, but it's more rare that in most of the technology that practically if you have something innovative, it's very difficult to kind of, like, pitch in finance. And there's other fields like medicine and so forth, where actually it's way different because you need results. But for example, finance where you can prove everything pretty much how it is. When it comes to, for example bitcoin and decentralized finance, it's easy to prove what's the kind of use case and how it helps.
00:26:47.276 - 00:28:20.892, Speaker C: So I think when we look at the traditional finance, I see that there at some point has to be a moment where you have to kind of plug into the system because the system and its technology it's so advanced that it's kind of like very difficult to ignore. I think we saw like a couple of years ago, there was a lot of talk about blockchain and I mean, the last kind of bull market and there was a lot of projects where there was several banks trying to create permissioned private blockchains and experiment internally somehow. And Envision, I mean, experiments are totally fine, but Envisioning kind of like a world where you have permissioned private systems between banks, and that's how you kind of use blockchain, which is kind of like very problematic because the whole idea is that you have an open ecosystem and open economy where everyone can participate. You practically abandon an old system that is legacy. And funny part about the traditional finance is that some of the technology is very old. It can be from the mainframe stuff and it's very conservative field. And the conservative field comes because at some way you have to protect the end users, consumers from bankers or from basically behavior that hasn't been very good.
00:28:20.892 - 00:29:05.012, Speaker C: So that is why we have this regulation where we protect people. But when it comes to decentralized finance, all of that protection can be actually built in smart contracts. You can build whatever you want to build and those smart contracts will self execute. You can't do anything else than the smart contracts practically is built for. I mean, unless you have a governance and you change and the community wants to change and so forth, but it's completely different approach. And when you have this kind of ecosystem and technology, it's very difficult to kind of say that. Well, you can say, but it's very difficult to ignore, especially if there is more and more utilization.
00:29:05.012 - 00:30:36.548, Speaker C: And I think the same way as Bitcoin. The cool part for me is that for bitcoin decentralized finance you can't stop people from using it so you can't say anyone that you can't actually hold bitcoin and not hold dollars or euros and say that you need to keep your wealth in dollars or euros. You actually can't do that because you can get bitcoin and the same way you can use decentralized finance even if you ban all the front ends and access points that are plugged into the DeFi ecosystem, the blockchain runs, it's very difficult to close and it's even not worth to fight it. It's just easier for institutionals and the traditional finance to actually participate and then assess on their own level how they could get involved and I think now it's happening more than ever. We've been building practically financial applications on Ethereum for a few years now, but now I think it's the moment where kind of like there is a bit of excitement and also comfort from the institutional side to actually understand more and get somehow involved. And I think main reason is that the ecosystem has grown so bigger so there's actually so much things you can do as an end user in decentralized finance and also the advantages are amazing. I mean it really democratizes many things in terms of Aave for example, it democratizes the interest rates.
00:30:36.548 - 00:31:35.048, Speaker C: So practically whatever the governance sets for the interest rates they're applied cross protocol meaning any part of the world that is consuming practically those or depositing into ave they basically are paying the same rate. So that's interesting and the same thing you can actually take and just scale in other applications and that's why DeFi is so exciting because if you call your friend who is in Australia and practically uses DeFi you are actually talking the same language. You don't have this regional barriers legislation which is very common in financial services and you can't talk about USD deposits with your friend in let's say Singapore. I love when we remove all of this regulatory burden and just let the technology lead us. That's the finest kind of perspective. I would see this thing going, a.
00:31:35.054 - 00:32:18.152, Speaker B: Lot of interesting insights from there. So what I'll do is I'll try to dig into some really quick questions and we can maybe just sort of get into that and have a handful of other bigger themes I want to cover. So kind of my summary of that is kind of from Anthony's view, it doesn't matter because the traditional finance will have to opt in and play with it. And on Sunny side, this is where programmable money is going. So it is unstoppable. And you will have so much innovation that you will have no options other than to see what could be possible. I think those are super interesting points and maybe one other way I'd like to synthesize that is it's not just that it's fair or it's globally accessible from day one.
00:32:18.152 - 00:32:49.170, Speaker B: It's that because of this architecture and the fact that it's not a 50 year old system, you have the ability to do things that are just not possible. It shouldn't be a surprise when somebody learns about what flash loans are. Maybe what I'll do is I'll have Stani just give a 22nd explanation for a flash loan is and what I want to ask both of you is what's kind of the last DeFi protocol you've used on Ethereum and kind of what was that experience like for each of you?
00:32:50.520 - 00:33:41.648, Speaker C: The flash loan. So it's pretty much kind of like I would say flash loans are practically borrowing from someone, buying something and selling something and then repaying your loan at the same kind of like eyeblink. So in traditional world it sounds a bit very narrow where this could happen. But on blockchain what's interesting is that on each block transactions are settled. So you can do all kinds of crazy transactions that just fit into the blockchain. On that particular block, it doesn't matter which order you're doing those transactions, the only important thing is that all the transactions are settled. In smart contract world, what happens is flash loans is that you could borrow without any collateral.
00:33:41.648 - 00:34:51.156, Speaker C: Traditionally DeFi has been on the borrowing side, collateralized over collateralized. So you put value, say Ethereum, Rap, Bitcoin, and then you borrow stable coins against that deposit. But with Flash loans you just take under collateralized loan you can take as much as liquidity there is in DeFi and that allows this flash loan functionality. You basically borrow and then you can buy an asset from one exchange, for example uniswap, and sell it in another exchange, for example, let's say balancer or in a dex and return the flash loan and practically keep the profit. So this is just an arbitrage, which is the use case here, but eventually if you don't return the loan, then all your transactions will fail what you tried to do, because you didn't settle the last transaction and you need to settle everything in that block. So essentially where you could use this arbitrage but also refinancing, let's say you deposited into one lending protocol assets and then you borrowed another asset. Then you see that there is a cheaper interest rate on another protocol.
00:34:51.156 - 00:35:27.088, Speaker C: So practically normally you would have to return what you borrowed, which you might have spent, and then take your collateral, go to the next place and then open the loan position again. But with flash loans you practically just click a button and what happens is that you refinance your position. So a flash loan is taking whatever the amount you borrowed, your first loan position is closed, collateral is taking to the another protocol and you get another borrow position and the flash loan is. Returned and you practically refinanced your position. This was very long explanation, but it is useful functionality.
00:35:27.184 - 00:35:46.840, Speaker B: Absolutely. I summarize being able to borrow unlimited money for 15 seconds and if it doesn't work, nothing really changes. And that's an interesting concept, it's just not possible in traditional world. So maybe I'll kind of go back to the question on some DeFi protocols you've used and you're et cetera, starting with Anthony.
00:35:47.900 - 00:36:52.690, Speaker D: Yeah, so from my perspective, I always kind of start with bitcoin as like the decentralized money and I think that one's obviously kind of everyone understands it and the value is pretty well understood while not a D Five protocol. But one of the things that I'm really excited about in this space is a company called Quicknode. Basically the ability for infrastructure to get set up super quickly, low, latency, a lot of things. Tommy, what you're talking about in terms of some of the flash loans and the ability to kind of front run and arbitrage and do all that kind of stuff, the infrastructure is really important. And so I've been pretty impressed with just the ability for folks to not only build out infrastructure that makes it possible, but also to see the feedback loop between people who want to use the protocols and kind of what they want to use something like a Quick node for and how quickly that's like iterating. Right, because I think a lot of people first start with like oh, maybe I just want to get data off of the protocol and now all of a sudden we've literally got people trying to front run trades and do all of that. So I think that's interesting.
00:36:52.690 - 00:37:54.964, Speaker D: And then the other thing that I think is probably becoming more understood by the legacy world but they don't quite yet know how to feel about it is obviously uniswap. Right? And when you kind of look and see just the market pulling and using that specific application, I think it's pretty interesting and it's hard to kind of argue against just people using something. And then the last thing that I'll mention, which is a little bit different, but it's decentralized and I think that we have not yet seen a lot of stuff built there, but will see a lot of stuff to come is the Lightning network, which I think is kind of a very interesting kind of layer too. And so those are some of the stuff that I've probably spent the most time on. But I think that there's just so much innovation. Somebody said to me the other day it's nearly impossible to keep up with every single thing that's happening because there's just so much and it seems like every day there's something new. And I think that they're probably even underestimating it because there really is.
00:37:54.964 - 00:38:04.650, Speaker D: Just every day it seems like not only somebody coming up with something new from a mechanism standpoint, but then there's like ten teams working on different versions of it. So it's kind of multiplying pretty quickly.
00:38:05.020 - 00:38:26.830, Speaker B: So maybe just kind of reading between the lines here, are you sort of optimistic that we'll kind of have a version of programmability and just the financial primitives on Bitcoin that sort of kind of COVID what's right now possible in Ethereum? Or how do you see these two ecosystems working together? Or are you just fundamentally betting everything sort of still settles on Bitcoin here at the end of the day?
00:38:27.440 - 00:38:27.804, Speaker E: Yeah.
00:38:27.842 - 00:40:02.536, Speaker D: So the first thing I would just say is I'm not religious necessarily about everything has to be built on one place or another. Again, I kind of come at this as I think we have a pretty good understanding of where we are today in terms of what everyone is working on, if you kind of pay attention. And then I think we all generally agree across all of these tribes, if you will, or different communities, where do we want to go? Right? In kind of that decentralized world that we started talking about in the beginning? I think the big question is just like, how do we get there? Right? And the best kind of investment thesis is probably just bet on it, all right, because whoever the winners are, are going to have such outsized upside that whatever the ones you're wrong on is not going to matter. But I think that the framework I used to think through, let's say Bitcoin and Ethereum has really been Bitcoin is decentralized kind of sound money and all of the infrastructure around it is fairly centralized today. So if you think of pretty much all of the applications, all of the companies, all the exchanges, almost everything in the Bitcoin world around it is centralized. And then in the Ethereum kind of community, really, there is this asset that I think is probably debated in the Ethereum community, like, is ETH money or is it not right? I tend to fall in the camp of like, ETH is it money, but it's a protocol and people are going to build stuff on top of it. But all that infrastructure is decentralized, right? So everything kind of in that world from Aave all the way down is decentralized.
00:40:02.536 - 00:40:42.984, Speaker D: And so what I think you ultimately get is like, you want decentralized sound money and you want decentralized infrastructure. Some people are betting that you can take Bitcoin with wrapped BTC and stuff like that and bring it into the Ethereum world and that will be the winning strategy. Some people say, no, you're going to build kind of decentralized infrastructure on Bitcoin. Frankly, I don't think that, one, we know yet. And two, I don't think that anybody's individual opinion really matters. The market is going to decide what the winner is. If you said to me, what is my opinion, I tend to think that a lot of it will kind of flow to the sound money and kind of be built around there.
00:40:42.984 - 00:41:27.370, Speaker D: But what I think is a nuance to the conversation that people haven't yet been really talking about is like well, what happens when there's just interoperability? What happens when it's actually just a digital dollar bitcoin or some other asset? It's all the same thing because the technology has relative feature parity and the applications are decentralized. I don't think this is such a black and white world where people are just like, hey, here's my bet and this is going to be right. There's a lot of nuance here and again the market's going to decide and so I brought up uniswap as kind of an example of it's hard for anyone to say nobody's using uniswap. Well, no, look at the data. Yeah, there's a lot of people using it and so if the market is adopting something, I think you've got to pay attention and that'll only continue.
00:41:28.060 - 00:42:14.548, Speaker C: Yeah, I have to add to basically I like the idea that basically bitcoin I call it like hard money because it's practically there, there's a certain amount and it's just like I never had this kind of perspective before. Because there was some inflation and rewards related to it. But now it actually came census. You actually have some supply there, and it will not change. And that's, like, a big thing. And I think it's quite fascinating. I kind of have an opinion that I would love not to see the bitcoin as a protocol to expand too much in features, because that kind of, like, stability gives its certainty.
00:42:14.548 - 00:42:50.036, Speaker C: And the Crypto space. We always have the Volatility. Whatnot? And when you're building open source technology, there's a lot of community actions, especially as open. It is like in DeFi things are just crazy. Incredible speed how people are just iterating new things. And it really reminds me like the Linux ecosystem where you have just the distribution versions after another after another and communities becoming closer. Many of the products are actually quite similar.
00:42:50.036 - 00:43:34.748, Speaker C: We have uniswap, we have balancer and so forth. So they have similar properties. And of course I think it's pretty amazing that you can create a product and a community around it and tweak the product. So that's pretty much part of the open source ecosystem. Of course I would like to see more innovation, but in terms of bitcoin, I definitely would like to see feature updates that allows more possibilities but not maybe like touring complete in the sense that you can build anything. You don't have the ethereum burden there where everything's open. You need a lot of diligence to build, let's say, decentralized protocols and have to be super careful.
00:43:34.748 - 00:44:59.464, Speaker C: But for example, I would definitely like to see, for example, stable coin on the bitcoin network. The protocol is expanded enough to have very interesting based stuff that you could build there something like very simple, stablecoin or for example, certain type of time based bonds. So I definitely like to see some innovation there, but not too much because that's what Bitcoin is. That's what makes it hard money because there is less kind of like a risk taking and all new technology is always additional risk. And what happens in Ethereum is very fascinating but there's also this very big problem that we're facing now is that you always have to balance between security and also balance between the innovation. And one of the things with Ave is that we try to ship very frequently and very production ready code with least issues and it's very difficult because smart contracts are public, everyone can see them. So practically when you have a team of let's say ten to 15 developers building something it's quite challenging.
00:44:59.464 - 00:45:49.500, Speaker C: And the thing is that if there is a big protocol that actually explodes into a certain buck and that already happened in ethereum back in the Dow ages, it poses a risk kind of for the whole ecosystem. Because you can explain to wider audience like what happened and what we learned and continue but it always leaves kind of like a stain and also a bit of skepticism and that also creates a bit of tribalism when something happens and people aren't very aware what was going on and so forth. But yeah, I think innovation is what drives everything. So it doesn't mean that Bitcoin has to be very complete. But I would like to see some innovative stuff there related to hard assets, hard money and so forth.
00:45:52.160 - 00:45:55.550, Speaker B: Am I hearing that eat is money? Is that what I'm hearing at the end?
00:45:58.260 - 00:46:21.830, Speaker C: I haven't decided yet. Honestly, it's a difficult battle because money is also kind of like payment money, right? So if I get eat and it's let's say like 1000 today and tomorrow it's 2000, it's pretty cool. But the fluctuation there, it makes very difficult to actually use it payment.
00:46:24.280 - 00:47:21.604, Speaker B: I was just kidding. So we got about ten or so minutes. I think it will give us enough time for maybe one or two more questions. I think one thing I kind of want to ask is how do you kind of see regulation come into play here? Obviously this has been a pretty big theme for Bitcoin where we've seen this get sort of blamed for illegal activities or just unsolicited things and probably have been very kind of vocal about what the alternative has been until then. But do we kind of fear once all financial primitives are also now accessible and global this will kind of perpetuate or just not even the bad side of it. But for this to exist and actually scale to multiple millions of people we need to actually comply with existing laws and sort of go back to a system that we already are trying to replace. How do you kind of see that on the regulatory side? I think I already kind of gave that prompt to Anthony.
00:47:21.604 - 00:47:32.270, Speaker B: But maybe for Astani, Ave also got an e banking license recently. What does it mean for a DeFi protocol to have a banking license? Let's just kind of contrast those thoughts here.
00:47:34.080 - 00:48:54.048, Speaker C: Yeah, so we don't have a banking license, we have an electronic money license in the UK that we received this year after a couple of years of work. But what's interesting there is that Aave is kind of very interesting as a project because we as a team, as a community, we contribute building into the kind of like banking backend so the decentralized protocols so we have the Abe protocol, upcoming features, new product offerings and so forth that are completely decentralized. That's a very difficult word everywhere, but practicing community governed protocols and products. And what's interesting on top of that is that we are trying to create actually business models on top of those decentralized back ends. So we are trying to actually also on the front end compete with the so called neo banks. So we kind of want to get more adoption by allowing users to mainstream to buy cryptographic, stable coins, other assets as well and then deposit into the decentralized protocol. So obviously the front ends, it's an actual business model and what's there is that there's regulation involved.
00:48:54.048 - 00:50:21.300, Speaker C: Our goal is kind of to have a end to end pipeline from a user that never actually has used DeFi or even own bitcoin at any part of the line or Ethereum and just being able to actually get all the way access to the decentralized protocols. And that's the kind of like interesting part but the actual back end is accessible by anyone and there's now like 60 different access points into the Arbor protocol. So that's the kind of like a goal. But I would say in overall data regulation stuff I would say you can't regulate things like Bitcoin or Ethereum or decentralized like real DeFi and I see from my perspective that Bitcoin is actually DeFi. So it's practically a financial platform, well financial network where you can make payment transactions. Ethereum is the same but it has this kind of like a operability that you can create many different things and Ethereum is also a financial network and it has inflation and staking and rewards and what's built the DeFi. Now on top of Ethereum it's kind of like continuation but on the second layer there on Ethereum network layer kind of like a financial network and I think those networks is very difficult to regulate and as a regulator I will not even try to regulate them.
00:50:21.300 - 00:51:20.660, Speaker C: I will be more interested in regulating the access points that are actually taking custody of user funds, converting them into, let's say stablecoins Bitcoin, Ethereum and providing access points into DeFi. So those are the points. So let's say if you have a cryptocurrency exchange you might have to have a money transmitter, electronic money license. If you are doing custody you might have to be a qualified custodian and so forth. So I think you can regulate stuff if you want, as a regulator where you take custody, but where things are already programmed, where the regulation self enforcement is already programmed, which is practically in Bitcoin, that if you send a transaction, you can't send the same transaction to five different places with the exact same amount. Or like in Aaves, for example, if you withdraw your funds, you withdraw your funds and they're in your custody. And our protocol doesn't take custody.
00:51:20.660 - 00:51:45.544, Speaker C: And the interest rates, those are all programmed there practically. So it doesn't make sense even to regulate, in my opinion, those things you can regulate the things where the kind of, like, misfortunes can happen, where people are actually taking possession of your wealth, those can be regulated as they have been, but that will be legacy finance once people are getting more onboarded to this ecosystem.
00:51:45.672 - 00:51:50.290, Speaker B: Absolutely. I'll let Anthony comment as well, and then I'll ask a final question.
00:51:50.820 - 00:52:37.340, Speaker D: Yeah. I think from a regulation standpoint, technology usually pushes regulation, right? And so it is the classic example of technologists create innovation, regulators have to catch up. Technologists create more innovation, regulators have to catch up. And so I don't know necessarily if there will be no regulations that feels like that might be a little too egregious and kind of too far out on the spectrum. The better question is, just like, what regulation will there be? And there's also a difference between regulation in terms of what are the rules and enforcement. What can we do if you break the rules? I think that there's two schools of thought here. One is that the protocols and the decentralization will prevent regulation.
00:52:37.340 - 00:53:52.820, Speaker D: There's a counterargument to that, which is actually the fact that by creating this automated finance world, regulation is actually more effective. So I'll give you a quick example. Let's take a security regulation where Stani and I let's say Stani is an accredited investor. Stani wants to sell me some stock that he has, and it is done in a reg D placement, and it would be illegal for him to sell to a non accredited investor. Well, there's an argument that says in the legacy world, if he sold me that stock and the SEC or some other regulatory body found out, they'd have to spend a lot of time, a lot of effort and a lot of money to basically figure out what we did, build the case, go to court, and then enforce that kind of law on us. Well, in a automated world, if all of a sudden the regulations are written into the code, they can quickly identify via his wallet as the transaction is kind of being sent. Okay, this is an accredited investor in this jurisdiction that holds this asset that they bought from this issuer on this date under this regulatory kind of COVID who is now trying to sell it to this investor in this jurisdiction that's not accredited, whatever.
00:53:52.820 - 00:54:31.356, Speaker D: This is a non compliant trade and therefore we are going to reject it. And so I don't think we quite yet know the answers. That promise of almost like code is law and regulators are going to be comfortable with that. That sounds great in theory, I would love that world, frankly, in terms of like, that would be a pretty efficient world and would really help everyone. It also just feels like that would take a pretty big leap for regulators from where we sit today. So it might just be further out on the timeline. But I do think that when you get into this world of kind of automated and decentralized finance, you're not going to see no rules.
00:54:31.356 - 00:55:03.096, Speaker D: It's just a question of what are the rules going to be? How global are they? Like, do we come up with one set of global rules or do we still have kind of country by country regulatory bodies and then how are they enforced? And I'm much more interested in the enforcement than kind of what the rules are because the enforcement is the part that actually matters, right. The joke I always tell people is like, Jaywalking is illegal. It doesn't really stop that many people from walking across the middle of the street in the city. Right. They still do it. Yes, it is illegal. There's just no enforcement.
00:55:03.096 - 00:55:18.556, Speaker D: And so I think that's where we've got to kind of understand is kind of how is the enforcement done, how effective is it? And what is the kind of burden going to be on the development community as they build this stuff? Because that's ultimately what matters, is enforcement not so much the rules?
00:55:18.588 - 00:55:25.696, Speaker B: Absolutely. No. This is a really good distinction between enforcement and regulation. So I want to wrap this up.
00:55:25.718 - 00:55:26.708, Speaker A: And I'll kind of put both of.
00:55:26.714 - 00:55:53.500, Speaker B: You on the spot, and we'll kind of keep it slightly open ended, but I want to kind of just wrap this talk by saying by getting a prediction about 2021 from each of you, you can kind of COVID I'll keep the theme on. What do you predict for the world of decentralized finance this year? And then you can kind of talk about anywhere from hitting certain metrics to any crazy thing you'd like to see that hasn't happened yet. But we'll just get one answer from each of you and we'll close this chat. So maybe with Stani.
00:55:55.920 - 00:56:08.530, Speaker C: I would say that one significant bank will deposit into decentralized finance. That's my prediction for 2021.
00:56:10.580 - 00:56:33.530, Speaker D: I'll go with things in motion, tend to stay in motion. So it's kind of the acceleration of most of what is already happening will just get bigger, go further, have more participants. I think that we're kind of at a momentum and a tailwind that will be very hard to reverse. So just things that are in motion will stay in motion and kind of be better in the future than they are today.
00:56:34.860 - 00:56:37.192, Speaker B: Great. So with that, I want to thank.
00:56:37.246 - 00:56:39.310, Speaker A: Both of you for giving us your time today.
00:56:40.080 - 00:56:55.040, Speaker B: We'll kind of keep you updated Anthony, on what comes out of this event and hopefully you get to try a few more decentralized apps on Ethereum. So thanks again and we'll move on to the rest of the event where I'll be covering a logistics around the hackathon.
00:56:56.420 - 00:56:57.808, Speaker D: Thanks for having me guys.
00:56:57.974 - 00:57:00.080, Speaker C: Thank you. Cheers.
00:57:00.980 - 00:57:02.224, Speaker B: So those of you who are still.
00:57:02.262 - 00:57:03.408, Speaker A: With us on the live stream, I.
00:57:03.414 - 00:58:00.832, Speaker B: Got about 15 more minutes worth of kind of quick things I want to cover and that's just going to be on how the hackathon is going to work for the next three weeks. I'll kind of go into this quickly where we'll just kind of COVID some highlights. A lot of this has been already communicated with you over email, but it doesn't hurt to write this down here as well. The most important thing is just on communication piece, everything is going to be on Discord, which means that if you are a spectacular, you get to connect your Discord and we'll give you the permissions automatically to all the private channels for this event. That's where you get to see all the 450 other people that are participating with you and you get to interact with them and the rest of the sponsors and the mentors. We also have dedicated channels for getting help, whether that's about a company and using their protocol, their SDK and kind of being unblocked on that to just general help around web3 development or front end or design. So you get to use those channels and post those questions anywhere.
00:58:00.832 - 00:58:43.520, Speaker B: Everything is going to be asynchronous and we'll be able to get back to you because somebody will be online at any given time. On top of all of that, we're also sending calendar invites to all of you for the key events, whether that's this talk today to some of the workshops that we're hosting next week. The entire event schedule is also available on our website by going over to Mm E Global Co. And we also want this thing to be asynchronous so because we have so many different time zones that all of you are participating from. You can tune into a talk if you are in that time zone and this works for you, but if not, the video will be available on YouTube almost immediately after the talk ends and you can just catch up on the content at your own pace.
00:58:44.600 - 00:58:45.828, Speaker A: All the things that we're going to.
00:58:45.834 - 00:59:47.176, Speaker B: Be using for projects and your check ins and your submissions is going to be from your dashboard and you can access your dashboard by going over to Hack Ego Co marketMake. This is going to be your destination for giving us your updates, figuring out who your team members are and assigning them to you to indicating which prizes you are going to be eligible for in all of the judging process. So going to some quick things about how the hackathon is structured and how it's going to work. Essentially, the hackathon begins now, which means starting today and for the next three weeks, you can code on your projects. And for those of you who are working on their projects with the team, you can work with up to five members on a given project. You have about three weeks to summit your project. And the way we kind of think about this thing is that in terms of keeping everything fair for all the other participants, all work that you're doing should be done over the course of the three weeks.
00:59:47.176 - 01:00:53.230, Speaker B: That means you are definitely open and it's okay to use any existing open source libraries to make your lives easier. But if you're working on a project or you're continuing to work on a project that you had started before today, you must disclose that and message us whether on Discord or either email so we can ensure that it is within the guidelines and rules for keeping this event fair to all hackers in terms of what it means to qualify, to be eligible for prizes. This is a Ethereum specific event and we would consider you as a finalist and eligible for a prize if you are building on top of Ethereum. And obviously there's obviously a lot of nuances in all of these. So if you think you have any questions that have not been answered in our Info Center or on Discord, you can always message us or email us as the global team and we'll be happy to clarify this for you. A Quick Note about Check Ins so a lot of you had questions about check ins and wanted to address them here. What is a check in? A check in is essentially an opportunity where we get to get an update on how things are going for your project.
01:00:53.230 - 01:01:35.370, Speaker B: This is a multi week event and we don't have any expectations on how many hours you should put into your project. That is up to you to determine and work on your own pace. And the way we sort of handle that and make sure that you're not blocked is by ensuring that once a week you just get to message us asynchronously on Discord and tell us what you have done since we last chatted. This lets us sort of understand kind of what you're working on. Anything from we'll be able to connect you to sponsors who are abstracting some of these things that you're doing to if you are blocked in anything technical. Or design related things. We get to help connect you and get the help you need to go back to building and getting your prototype working.
01:01:35.370 - 01:02:43.410, Speaker B: Your stake is returned if you respond to the check in and submit a project and all this happens on your dashboard. So you just get to fill out a quick form and we give you the thing to paste on discord and that's the check in as long as you do that within 24 hours every week during the check in days. This works out really well for everything and keeps the event experience really good for all participants. The general kind of guiding principle we have for all of you is that this is kind of how we think you should divide up your idea, which is the first week, which is the next seven days. You can allocate towards thinking about what you want to build and maybe collecting the team and working on what the idea will be. And the second week you get to use to build a basic MVP so you can prove that everything works, that everything is good to go, whether that's on the contract side or just a very basic version of it. And then week three is used for polishing everything that you want to do and that includes making it look nice and easy to use, to doing all the nice abstractions that you initially thought of and then also preparing for the submission which requires you to submit a video.
01:02:43.410 - 01:03:22.270, Speaker B: I want to really kind of quickly go into the prizes that are available to all of you as hackers and we'll kind of have all the access points on what you can do to get all the details on each of these prices. The first thing is ave. This is a event sponsored by Aave. So a lot of cool things for anybody who's building on Ave. And what we'll be doing is I'll be listing the prizes, but I also have a video I'd like to show that came from the Aave team. And they'll be able to cover who they are, what they would like you to see, what they'd like you to build on, and everything you can win. So I'll have our team share that video now.
01:03:25.280 - 01:04:00.804, Speaker E: Hey everyone. We're really excited to see what you build on Ave in this hackathon. So I'll just quickly go over the prizes that we're offering. So one of the prizes we're offering is the most impactful award prize. So there's two prizes of 4000 a USDC each. So what most impactful means is it's most impactful to Ave as a protocol. So that could include things like increasing the TVO of Ave as you see in this graph, but also it could be social impact or for the consumers or the users of Aave.
01:04:00.804 - 01:04:40.276, Speaker E: So whatever impacts the Aave protocol the most is what will be valid for these prizes. The next prize is best integration of flash loans. Hopefully everyone understands a bit of what flash loans are in V two. We also have batch flash loans and also debt incurring flash loans. So for this we're offering two prizes of one and a half thousand aUSDC each. We also have best integration prize for credit delegation. So credit delegation is it separates the act of depositing to borrowing and we.
01:04:40.276 - 01:05:22.710, Speaker E: Have two prizes of 1500 a USDC each. We also have a prize for best integration of V Two governance. So we're really proud of our V Two governance contracts and how it works. There's a lot of different features that you can make use of. So we're offering two prizes of 1500 a USDC, and also, finally, we have the Avengeniers Award. So this is a very special award that is 3000 aUSDC for one team or one project. And this we judged specifically by the Protocol core engineers themselves.
01:05:22.710 - 01:05:51.550, Speaker E: So that's quite a special prize. So if you're still looking for ideas, don't forget to use the notion link that the ETH Global guys have given you. But then also we have our own sort of RFPs or requests for projects ideas here on our hack documents. So jump on that link and have a look and also discuss your ideas with us in the discord as well, whenever you want. All right, have fun and good luck, everyone.
01:05:55.120 - 01:06:27.700, Speaker B: Amazing. Well, thank you so much, Ave, for that. Great summary of that video. I'll kind of put the actual prizes here on this slide as well, even though all this will be available to you on your dashboards and on our Info Center. So, quick summary, there's $20,000 in prizes directly for all of these categories, which is the most impactful project and best integrations of Flash loan, the best integration of a credit delegation and V Two governance, and then an Ave Avengineer Award. We like that. Play on words for the best hack in that category.
01:06:27.700 - 01:07:22.730, Speaker B: On top of all that, any person or any team that is building on top of Ave will be eligible for a 100 a USDC for their team. And that actually is 100 a USDC, plus the interest for one month on top of it. So can I encourage all of you to really play around and use the Ave Protocol in your hacks? This is a great win win for all teams, and the developers get to really play with what's possible, and the Avid team really gets to learn about what the interesting use cases are for their protocol. Next up, we have one inch exchange. I'm sure all of you know what 1inchh Exchange is. We're all super proud to announce that this was a project that came out of Eaton, New York in 2019. And with 1inchh, we'll have Sergey talk about what 1inchh is going to be doing for this event and the prizes on their end.
01:07:27.380 - 01:07:39.648, Speaker F: Hi, everyone. My name is Sergey. I'm co founder of Oneinch. One inch is a leading deck. Segregator nowadays of the liquidity protocol. We are a hackathon team. We are fast moving and emission driven.
01:07:39.648 - 01:09:28.340, Speaker F: Most of our guys were hackers from several hackathons, participated in multiple ETH Global hackathons, and we were born on ETH New York 2019. And from hackathon to the leading deck Segregator with huge experience from several ETH Global hackathons, we achieved around eleven billions of total volume and we are funded by famous VCs with around 14 millions of dollars. And this is a good example for you guys how you can just start with a hackathon project and achieve really great goals and build your project. So our bounties the first bounty is to create a leverage position on Ave using Flesh loan and one inch swap. We offer $3,000 in one inch tokens. Example could be create a three X leverage position on ETH or USDC long convert using user $1,000 USDC into $3,000 of ETH collateral and 2000 USDC debt. And here's a small workflow how you can build that by get two K USDC in Flash loan, convert it to ETH using one H API, put three K USDC as collateral to Ave, borrow two K USDC from Ave, repair flash loan with two K USDC.
01:09:28.340 - 01:10:16.468, Speaker F: Second price is avoid. Liquidation Protection board. Also three K in US dollars in one ish tokens. So track cost of collateral and debt using chaining when PNL reaching user defined boundaries, stop loss and take profit can be assembled in single transaction. Get Flashlon equal to DAPT, repair user DAPT, swap user collateral to depth using one H API and repair flash loan. The third and the fourth one is create long and short since for one inch token using Uma protocol, $1,000 in one inch tokens and open track. So surprise us.
01:10:16.468 - 01:11:13.370, Speaker F: We are happy to review any invention you can build in the next time you can find our channels here we are on Twitter, we are on Telegram, Discord and also take a look to our GitHub repository. So you see we offer bounties with a combination of other sponsors so we see the opportunity to build something useful, really useful by combining our Money Legos, one inch exchange, one inch API and swaps with Aave Chain, Link and Uma as well. Happy building, don't sleep, work deliver and we are happy to review your project.
01:11:17.060 - 01:12:13.090, Speaker B: Amazing. Thanks so much Sergey for all those kind prizes and the advice. So I'll kind of repeat some of the prizes again for all of our sponsors. But in summary, there's $8,000 worth of prizes being offered by one inch. And then we also have $5,000 in link tokens by chain link, $750 from ENS for best use of ENS integration in the project. We have $5,000 in USDT from Maddox, then we have $3,000 from Uma and $2,000 in Dai from the Graph for integrating the graph. We also have 4000 ghost tokens from Ave Gotchi and all these details are available on the Market Make website and you can head over there by going to MNG Co prizes and you can also access this link and see all the prizes on Discord and Your.
01:12:13.090 - 01:13:02.928, Speaker B: I mean we've talked about the team and how check ins work but there's still a lot of you who are still in the position of figuring out what they would like to work on. Or they are looking for members on their team to join or they would like to join a team. We just kicked off the event today, so there's still a lot of opportunities to make this happen. If you are on Discord, you can head over to Find a Team Channel and you get to talk to the people there who are in a similar position as you. And you can find opportunities to work with somebody if you have any complimentary skill sets or you have an idea and you would need help on specific things that you'd like somebody to fill in. On top of all that, we also encourage you to introduce yourself in the market, make intros. There's over 450 of you at the event.
01:13:02.928 - 01:13:48.450, Speaker B: And on top of that, we have all of our sponsors and mentors and our speakers and our judges. So this is a big event and we encourage all of you to talk with each other and get to know everybody throughout the next few weeks. And also, if you're still looking for an idea, you get to talk about your ideas or look at other ideas that people would like to work on by heading over to Hack Ideas Channel. We also have a list of ideas that we think you can easily pick up and build on, and that includes ideas from our sponsors, ideas from previous events, and ideas that we personally would like to see sourced from the community. And of course, if you don't have a team, it's totally okay. It's not entirely required for you to have a team. It's absolutely fine if you like to work by yourself and on your own as an individual.
01:13:48.450 - 01:14:32.670, Speaker B: It's just easier to get a lot more done if you have somebody sharing the work, so not the end of the world if you do not have a team. We also have a lot of talks and workshops. All of them can be found on the website, so there's a lot of workshops and technical talks for beginners. You can learn anywhere from how to use certain protocols to how to get started on Web three development. And we also have a lot of talks and panels and AMAs from some of our sponsors where you get to ask them questions and do office hours with them. All that information is again available on the Info Center, but you can always head over to the event website and see the entire schedule for the next few weeks on our website at mm ethglobal.com.
01:14:33.780 - 01:14:34.928, Speaker A: The last thing I want to kind.
01:14:34.934 - 01:15:19.016, Speaker B: Of touch on is submissions. Submissions are due on Sunday, February 7, at 11:59 a.m. Eastern, so around noon Eastern time on Sunday. This is three weeks from now, and we'll be reminding you about the next steps needed and how judging is going to work throughout your dashboard and on Discord in this time. But the thing I'd like to remind everybody here is submissions are going to be a four minute video that will have you submit that summarizes your hack. This is where you get to talk about who you are, what you've built and show us a demo of your project. And we'll also be sharing some examples on how to kind of structure these videos to any slides you can use to make your lives easier.
01:15:19.016 - 01:16:19.324, Speaker B: And one thing we'd like to kind of really highlight here is that do not do this thing last minute because this is the final encapsulation of all the work you've put into your projects for the last three weeks. And you really want to make sure that you get to talk about all the interesting and the cool things that one should focus on, as we will use these videos to do the judging. So make sure you give at least a day for this video and we'll be able to do a lot of feedback sessions for your hackathon project and also give you comments on how you can make it easy for everybody to understand what you're doing. And lastly, want to just remind everybody of the code of conduct. All of you have already seen and reviewed our rules for this event. This kind of talks about just the general code of conduct and you can check this out on eGlobal Co rules. We talk about what it means from you being able to fully retain the intellectual property of your projects and how we want to make sure that this is a comfortable environment for all of the participants.
01:16:19.324 - 01:17:09.404, Speaker B: So we want to remind all of you again to be respectful and harassment and abuse are never tolerated. And if you think something is not up to par, please don't hesitate to reach out to anybody on the ETH Global team and we'll be able to take action immediately. In general, even code of conduct aside, if you need any help, we're all available on Discord and over email so don't hesitate to reach out to anybody on the global team. And lastly, we want you to make sure that this is not exhausting for you. The reason this is designed to be multi week event is because we know that you have other things, whether that's work, other projects or school going on in the same time. And we want to make this as spread out as possible so that you get to focus on building something because you want to and because it's fun. So don't stress too much about it.
01:17:09.404 - 01:17:32.676, Speaker B: Don't try to choose building over sleeping, want you to have fun, want learn throughout this process and this is very much about learning as much as it is about doing and working on a project and really want this to be an opportunity for all of you to play with what's possible on web3. So with that, I want to thank all of.
