00:00:01.040 - 00:00:03.434, Speaker A: You're now plugged into the Delphi podcast.
00:00:05.494 - 00:00:33.584, Speaker B: Hey, everyone, and welcome back to the podcast. I'm your host Tommy, and I'm thrilled to be joined by Michael Rinko, who's a senior markets analyst at Delphi, and my partner, Kevin Kelly. We're going to talk at length about Mike's report called attention is all you need. It's one of the most interesting reports we've ever published. It's a. A totally different way to think about markets, valuations, attention, where things are going. Meme coins.
00:00:33.584 - 00:00:42.572, Speaker B: It's a phenomenal report, so I'm excited to chat about it. Mike, why don't we start with you about the inspiration and genesis for why you even wanted to write this.
00:00:42.668 - 00:01:26.234, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks for having me on, Tommy. The inspiration for this report was really just watching meme coins take off this cycle. Comparing that to past cycles, I guess. Last cycle, the l one trade was huge. We had the birth of Defi, and then we had nfts pop off at the top of last cycle. And so far this cycle, its really just been all memes, obviously, bitcoin, Ethereum, Solana. The majors have done pretty well, know so much of the activity, trading, and really just, like, attention has been focused on meme coins.
00:01:26.234 - 00:02:08.566, Speaker A: And from my perspective as watching and writing about markets, I've noticed that people kind of have, like, a visceral reaction to meme coins. Like, you either love them or hate them. And regardless of whether you love or hate, just the broader trend has kind of, like, provoked some pretty, like, existential, like, questions and angst within the space. So there's a lot of people asking, like, you know, is everything a meme? Is it all worthless? Does this mean that the market's topping? Because clear, you know, if everyone's trading memes, that must be very frothy. So those are kind of the questions that I had as I sat down to start to write this piece.
00:02:08.670 - 00:02:13.570, Speaker B: Kev, what about you? I have some questions for Mike, but I want to know your kind of inspiration in Genesis as well.
00:02:13.682 - 00:03:05.008, Speaker C: Yeah, I think one of the reasons why I really gravitated towards this idea and love the piece that Rinko and the team put out is, I mean, you know me, I'm more of a macro, kind of big picture type thinker. And when I take a step back and think about from a very kind of primitive level, when you think about just markets in general, right, markets and asset prices, they're really, at the end of the day, all driven by a function of supply and demand. And so this concept of attention becomes really important because, as I'm sure we'll get into, attention really does sit upstream of a lot of things. Importantly, it sits upstream of demand. We can talk about the supply side and supply side economics, get a lot of discussion, especially when it comes to crypto with token unlocks and all that. And that side is certainly important. But I think longer term, the sustainability or success of any product, whether it's a crypto product or elsewhere, it really depends on that longer term sustainable demand side.
00:03:05.008 - 00:03:58.256, Speaker C: Attention sits upstream of that because it has the power to influence behaviors, has the power to influence actions. And so we talk about these concepts like distribution, right? Which again, when you put your attention hat on distribution is really just the aggregation of attention. So the ability to actually direct, to command and capture sizable flows of attention and then direct those is really the ability to mobilize significant buyer power. And so its why you see things like roaring kitty, right, with the whole GME. I wont call it a scandal at this point, but the whole GME debacle thats going on right now, you see this, a lot of kols in crypto monetizing or pushing sizable flows of attention to whatever asset it is or whatever ecosystem is that, that they have exposure to. There's a lot of kind of avenues we go down with the tension concept, but the fact that it sits upstream of demand to me, and having markets be really just a function of supply and demand is one of the big things that stuck out to me when I first read this.
00:03:58.320 - 00:04:27.154, Speaker B: That's awesome. Mike, one of my questions for you and Kevin is that you mentioned that the l one trade used to be big, right? Brand new blockchains, innovative tech designs, different ways to approach the community. Some have been successful, some haven't, but there's generally a long term vision there. A long term sell. The attention economy with meme coins is not new, but it's a relatively new concept. Right. So I'm kind of wondering, how do you think attention fares on a long term basis? Right.
00:04:27.154 - 00:04:38.234, Speaker B: Do, do meme coins like Pepe and bonk and stuff like, is this ever lasting, or is it just greater full theory, or is there a real reason why the attention is not only short term, but is long term too?
00:04:38.314 - 00:05:17.834, Speaker A: Yeah. So great question. I think to Kevin's point, this attention framework, can you could apply it to meme coins? And I would argue that meme coins are just like the clearest, most extreme example of attention being like a fundamental or kind of being valuable in and of itself, but it applies to everything every asset, I would argue. And I think we actually saw this last cycle with the l one trade. So for many years, Ethereum was kind of the only game in town. And then last cycle, we had the emergence of all sorts of l one s. Most of them concentrated, like, within the EVM ecosystem.
00:05:17.834 - 00:05:53.808, Speaker A: But then we had the run that Solana went on. And I think Solana actually really benefited from the attention that, like, a handful of people, most notably like SBF, drove to that ecosystem. And it was able to capture that attention and convert it into developers, users and capital. And it went all the way up and then almost all the way back down. But some percentage of that attention on the developer side, on the capital side, and on the user side stayed from cycle to cycle. And that kind of now forms the core of the Solana network. So I think, to directly answer your question, I tend to agree.
00:05:53.808 - 00:06:19.994, Speaker A: I mean, attention is fickle. It's really hard to put attention into a DCF and forecast it out ten years and then discount it back. It's not as tangible as a cash flow is. But I do think that the winning protocols, the winning applications, and the winning tokens will be the ones that can capture and retain attention over long periods of time.
00:06:20.184 - 00:06:41.862, Speaker B: I mean, Mike, that's an incredible answer. And I'm curious, Kevin's thoughts, because, kev, you've spent so much time thinking about life through dcfs, through relative valuations, through, you know, the whole slew of, like, Wall street metrics you and I both know and hate. Like, how do you feel about Michael's framing there? Like, are you, like, fully shifted into this world where your evaluations are now based on attention? Like, how do you think about this?
00:06:41.918 - 00:07:15.232, Speaker C: Yeah, it's a good question. It's kind of slashing all of our prior knowledge or experience, you know, especially when it comes from the worlds that you and I both come from in terms of primarily equity investing. I think this concept of attention, and we'll give a couple of examples, too, because I think that'll be really helpful to make this a bit more concrete. I would say this concept of attention is important because it'll sit upstream from fundamentals in certain cases. What I mean by that is, I think we're getting to a point now. We're approaching a point where people are starting to understand, especially, I'll say, people within the crypto industry. But again, this is a pretty broad.
00:07:15.232 - 00:07:58.072, Speaker C: This applies to a pretty broad array of industries. I think we're going to a point where distribution arguably matters as much, if not more than the underlying product or tech. And to caveat, it's not that the underlying product and tech doesn't matter, right? You need those things, but you can have the best tech in the world if no one knows about it, and therefore no one's using it, or the best product in the world if no one knows about it, no one's using it. It doesn't really matter. Right. It's kind of like the tree falling in the woods with nobody around. Distribution is going to become a lot more important, I think, especially for crypto protocols, applications, new emerging ecosystems, because what you're really trying to do at the end of day is drive more usage, drive more capital flows, which attention all sits upstream from.
00:07:58.072 - 00:08:37.302, Speaker C: And that can wind up leading to increased on chain activity, increased fees, increased quote unquote fundamentals. But you need to be able to not only build something, but also position that in a way, or go to market with that in a way that drives a lot of eyeballs, drives a lot of attention, because that is what influences people's behaviors and action. Right. We could all sit here and name call it tier one, tier two, and maybe even tier three, l one or l two blockchains and ecosystems, right. There's some examples where some of these protocols have incredible actual novel tech, but they don't have, they struggle on the distribution side. They struggle on being able to drive enough attention to it. And attention is one of the scarcest resources out there at this point.
00:08:37.302 - 00:09:07.916, Speaker C: Right. And so again, getting to that kind of point where distribution matters, arguably as much as the product or underlying tech itself, I think we're also reaching a point where good enough can be best in class if the former wins the distribution rates. Right. There are other places eventually, or other ecosystems or chains where meme coin mania can take off, right. Its possible one of the big things. View Solana as that example that Renko mentioned. Core value prop initially was faster, cheaper chain with arguably much better UX.
00:09:07.916 - 00:09:36.560, Speaker C: It made it the ideal place for meme coin media to pop off. That serve as a huge distribution funnel that attracted a lot of attention to Solana. With that came more user, more active users, more capital inflows, more builders building more applications. And so it becomes a kind of reflexive circle, right. That distribution, the ways in which these teams can tap into or try to garner attention through different distribution channels, I think is going to be only become more and more important, especially the more and more things we can do on chain.
00:09:36.632 - 00:09:57.510, Speaker B: That's awesome. So kev, is your take that teams need to use distribution channels differently? Or is it that to when they need to build out their own distribution channels? Or like, would telegram win in this situation? Or would, like the ton blockchain win? Or is it more like Solana needs to start leveraging TikTok and Instagram reels, help me bridge the gap there?
00:09:57.582 - 00:11:06.970, Speaker C: Yeah, no, I think it's a really good question because I don't think there's one right answer. If the end goal is to drive as much attention as you can to whatever it is that you're building, there's multiple ways you can go about that. You can ideally build out your own large distribution, which at this point, a lot of what's happened on Solana, I think, has been in some ways, it's created this kind of word of mouth where if everyone's trading meme coins on Solana and trading sold back and forth, thats where a lot of this activity is happening. But you look at something like Athena with their recent airdrop and them going after and targeting a select handful of really active NFT communities that they want to do include in that airdrop. Thats a great example, I think, of finding ways to tap into the distribution of other teams or other ecosystems and communities to drive attention to whatever it is that youve built and really go where your potential customers, your active users are. This concept of meeting the customer where they are, which again, applies to crypto, but applies to other web two products, really what youre saying is go to where the attention is and where are these big pools of attention sitting? And how do you actually tap into those or get in front of those? Because I think at this point were all in this race for capturing as much of that attention as we can because it is in some respects a relatively finite resource.
00:11:07.082 - 00:11:28.824, Speaker B: How is this changing both of your views on how we should all operate? Is it that, hey, we should just be on Reddit and telegram groups and look for the, the best meme point? I mean, it's exciting, but it doesn't necessarily get me out of bed in the morning and building long term tech that matters. Am I conflating meme coins with this attention idea in the wrong way, or how do you guys view that?
00:11:28.864 - 00:12:17.304, Speaker A: I think it's a good point. And that was something that was a realization for me midway through the piece. I think part of the reason why attention is such a prominent force right now is it's indicative of where crypto is in the adoption cycle. So, like, there's only call it like 5 million people on chain right now, which is less than 1% of earth's population. And I would argue that like crypto still isn't solving everyday problems for everyday people. My mom wakes up every day and checks her email, checks the weather application, probably uses Google search, she's a normal person. Those applications are solving like normal problems every day for her.
00:12:17.304 - 00:12:46.554, Speaker A: She's not using crypto ever. You know what I mean? So I think until crypto bridges that gap and really solves a problem, a core problem for normal people, it's all going to be speculation, it's all going to be, we're all going to be trying to guess what future problem that's going to solve. And then the way that you try and value these things is going to be inherently speculative and that's kind of attention right now. That's my view at least.
00:12:46.634 - 00:14:11.304, Speaker C: Yeah, I would say also tie that back to a couple of examples you had mentioned, Tom, one of the ways it's shifted some of my thinking around this, and I think we should get into when and if fundamentals matter. We can take that maybe the second part of this because that is very relevant, right. It's not to say fundamentals don't matter, but when it comes to this concept of attention, garnering it and really distribution, one of the ways it's kind of shifted some of my thinking is one yes, to Renkos point, were trying to maybe guess or have a best guess at what the next big problems or real world problems that crypto will eventually solve. And theres a lot of exciting things for us all to be excited about, right. Crypto AI, I know its a big focus of ours right now. Theres tons of those examples, a lot of which havent really come to fruition yet, but theres potential. The other part of that is okay, when we have those types of ideas or solutions for problems that crypto is trying to solve, where does that actually wind up getting built? To your earlier, your point about the ton ecosystem, one thing that's shifted in terms of my view is they have such a huge opportunity to tap into the distribution of telegram which has at this point, what is it? Something over 900 million monthly active users you launching let's say a DeFi protocol or DeFi application on ton that gives you access to that type of distribution, gives you a huge leg up in terms of potential usage, users transaction activity because of that distribution, then going and building it on.
00:14:11.304 - 00:14:16.900, Speaker C: Sorry for using it, but going and building on Cardano, I know that's the classic example that we all like.
00:14:16.932 - 00:14:18.548, Speaker B: You don't have to apologize, but it's.
00:14:18.556 - 00:14:57.824, Speaker C: A fair negative example, but it is. It's kind of like two sides of those extreme. And so I'll give you another one, like world coin, which has been very controversial, depending on where you sit or what you think about them. But one thing I will absolutely give them is they now have verified biometric data, for example, on, I think, something like over 10 million people. They just recently launched their own l two that theyre spinning out and trying to drive builders and app developers to now build on. And arguably worldcoins distribution of all those verified users. That network of verified users, I think, has already become one of their biggest competitive modes that will attract people over.
00:14:57.824 - 00:15:32.468, Speaker C: Were seeing this again with Coinbase and basechain. Right. It's this concept of distribution and going where you have the best shot at actually not only building something that can be novel and can solve a problem, but also where those users will be, where that attention, those pools of attention are going to be that gives you kind of that leg up. And so what that means for evaluation, again, we can spitball back and forth on, but just in terms of why distribution matters and how to start thinking about that or framing it, that's one thing for me that I've, I think is been refined from doing a lot of thinking, going back and forth with these guys on this idea.
00:15:32.556 - 00:15:38.384, Speaker B: I mean, at a very basic level, it seems kind of, again, not obvious, like, go build.
00:15:40.364 - 00:15:43.756, Speaker C: It does kind of seem obvious, right? When, like, there is an element to that.
00:15:43.860 - 00:16:01.452, Speaker B: So what is non obvious about the idea of going toward the biggest distribution channel from, like, your research, Mike? And again, I'm not trying to be, like, you know, critical, but just wondering, like, you know, that's kind of what we know. But you've picked out specific things that you found that are important there. Let's dive into that a little bit.
00:16:01.628 - 00:16:39.524, Speaker A: Yeah, well, I think it's a good point. You know, like, attention being valuable isn't, like, a groundbreaking concept to people. Like, I think people are, like, aware of it. Once you point out a couple examples, everyone's like, oh, like, obviously, you know what I mean? Like, that's kind of the reaction. That was the ration that I had as I was writing the piece. I was like, so how do I make this interesting? What, like, what novel insight am I gonna write down? And I think something that I realized as I was writing the piece is the unique part about attention in crypto is there's this meme, like, number go up, makes the tech got better, some coins up 10%. Oh, the tech suddenly got better.
00:16:39.524 - 00:16:59.256, Speaker A: That's a meme. But there's a kernel of truth in there too, you know what I mean? And the example that I use in the piece is bitcoin. When bitcoin launched, it was worthless. People were sending thousands of it for a slice of pizza or whatever that was. Nobody had heard about it. You couldn't use it at any store. There's nothing to do with it.
00:16:59.256 - 00:17:34.114, Speaker A: And it certainly couldn't protect you against World War Three, you know what I mean? There were a couple of guys in their parents basement maybe running this network, but as the price started to go up, that drew developers in, that drew miners in, it literally made the value of the network go up. And now today, you know, bitcoins the most valuable crypto network in the world. Its the most decentralized. Theres tons of developers in it. Theyve got a bunch of users. You can transact with it in much more places. And that was all driven actually by the price and by the attention that this network drew.
00:17:34.114 - 00:17:47.182, Speaker A: So I think that is the kind of unique aspect to crypto, is that attention can drive price and then price can actually drive fundamental technology improvements.
00:17:47.318 - 00:18:23.208, Speaker B: I mean, I think that's a great example. I remember talking to Kevin and I's other partner Jan about this six months ago, and he always told me fundamentals are bearish. Once you can put a metric on something or you have cash flow, your ceiling is sort of capped. It sounds like from what you're saying about bitcoin is that once attention flips to fundamentals, maybe thats the investment time where the exponential ish type of returns start to diminish. I might be nitpicking a little bit, but curious how you think about it.
00:18:23.256 - 00:18:59.802, Speaker A: Yeah, I think its different in each case. One of the arguments I make in the piece is that I call bitcoin a meme coin, and some people would disagree with that, but you cant put bitcoin into a DCF. You just cant. You know what I mean? The way that most people value bitcoin is off some sort of relative value to gold. Typically you could maybe do like a remittance type thing, but nobody's really using bitcoin for remittances. So I do agree with the point that at least today, fundamentals do tend to be bearish. But I just think, again, that's just indicative of where we are in crypto.
00:18:59.802 - 00:19:26.340, Speaker A: Nobody's using this stuff still, you know what I mean? It's the same couple thousand people on twitter every day talking about it. So I think going forward, the protocols that can capture attention can actually improve their technology onboard. A bunch of developers make the network resilient like bitcoin can. They will be valued higher. Their fundamentals will be stronger than the projects that don't have attention and can't convert that to activity.
00:19:26.452 - 00:19:30.380, Speaker B: Kev, I know you have thoughts on when fundamentals matter. We got to hear them.
00:19:30.452 - 00:20:47.542, Speaker C: Yeah, I was going to say to Rinko's point, I think one important example is I dont think meme coins have been some of the best out performers simply because they have better supply side economics. Theres the whole argument around high FTV, low float tokens, the supply overhang that comes with and again, that can and will be important any moment in time. Again, markets and asset prices are simply just a function of supply and demand in that moment in time. But I think its because theyre doing a lot better job of actually capturing attention and driving demand from that attention and actually converting that attention into significant buying power, wielding significant buying power behind these things. The fundamental argument is really interesting in my view, because again, coming into crypto, when we first started writing research on this space, and Tom, youll remember these days, well, there was a lot of discussion. One of the things you could argue we cut our teeth on was trying to bring more traditional fundamental metrics to these types of networks and eventually the application layer, and trying to figure out how to actually value these things. I still think that eventually fundamentals will matter a whole lot more within this space as it gets more mature, and especially as you have a broadening out of the types of market players and investors that come into this space that make decisions on these things.
00:20:47.542 - 00:21:30.244, Speaker C: But right now, understanding through this lens of attention, understanding where the market is and what the market is telling us, which is somebody is going to, is much more likely to, the average person is much more likely to favor simple over complex. They're much more likely to favor a meme coin around a dog with a hat on than they are about arbitrum. And the two are just very, again, not saying one is better than the other. Theyre just very, very different. Now, the time in which where I think, again, this, I dont want to say its a novel a lot, but just again, a shifting of my own mindset. The question of when will fundamentals matter if you think about traditional markets? Lets take equities as the prime example. If youre a stockholder, youre a shareholder, you have certain rights that come with that.
00:21:30.244 - 00:22:17.604, Speaker C: You technically have a claim on a companys assets and profitability if and when they achieve that profitability tokens and crypto, we hope that doesnt exist. Right. There are none of those types of shareholder rights. So one of the reasons why valuation metrics or price multiples, like a price to earnings ratio became so popular and so ubiquitous was because youre measuring what the price of that company is. The valuation of that company is relative to the earnings that you as an investor technically have a claim on. Right. But I would also go so far as to argue that those types of fundamental metrics or that type of price, multiple valuation metrics, like a price to earnings, it only matters so far as enough other people are looking at it and implicitly agreeing that theyre making some type of investment decision off of it for it to really matter.
00:22:17.604 - 00:23:18.490, Speaker C: Right. Its one of the reasons why we use an example of citron research, which was a notorious short sellers that started off relatively small, eventually got pretty big and had a pretty big distribution, pretty big following. And what they realized early on was you could have the best short selling thesis on a stock, but if nobody knows about it, if nobody sees what youre seeing and you dont spread the word about it, the markets never going to price that in the markets not going to react to it, at least on the timeframe that you want it to ties full circle back to what youre talking about. If you have the best product or the best tech, but you lack or you lose on a distribution race, you could argue it doesnt really matter. And so fundamentals will eventually, I think, matter a whole lot more. But understanding what the market is telling us right now in crypto, which is really a function of more speculation and really where these flows of attention are going is really whats driving outperformance. In my view, fundamentals matter so much as they can drive attention to why you should be making some type of decision based on those fundamentals.
00:23:18.490 - 00:23:28.504, Speaker C: But you kind of have to have these standard, agreed upon metrics, which we dont have in crypto that everybody, again, implicitly agrees on for those things to actually matter.
00:23:28.544 - 00:24:09.412, Speaker B: If that makes sense, I think it definitely makes sense. Just playing this out a bit is the goal in your mind that this short form attention for tokens that may not have any potential fundamental value later on or project around it, et cetera, is it that they become like biblical or culture or like, you know, how do we think through, because, like, you know, crypto buying power is limited, right? Like, why would a, you know, why does the rest of the world, why does Michael Rinko's mom want to buy dog with hat, right? Like, again, I'm not being bearish. I'm just wondering, like, when we graduate from our short term kind of bull meme coin market into something that is sustainable or the next level, this is.
00:24:09.428 - 00:24:52.290, Speaker A: A big question for me. Basically, it's like, are we crazy? You know what I mean? Are we insane for this? And is it just our little weird community of crypto and everyone else is rational? And the way that I approach this was looking at how the traditional real world economy is set up. And if you look at the biggest companies in the world, they're all big tech companies, and they all basically have the same business model. At the end of the day, they take your eyeballs, they take your attention, they put ads in front of your eyeballs, and then they convert that into cash flows. And they do that in slightly different ways. You have Google, Facebook, Netflix, but they're all doing the same thing. It's all that very basic formula.
00:24:52.290 - 00:25:41.874, Speaker A: Eyeballs, ads, equals cash at the other side. And it's become this super well honed machine to the point where when we're on Instagram or Twitter or YouTube, we don't even really remember that our attention is feeding into the system. You know what I mean? So, from my perspective, the economy has kind of, like, reoriented itself around this concept of attention. So I think there's a couple of different big players that are maybe, like, worth pointing out here. The biggest, the most important, the most obvious are, like, the big tech companies. They're kind of like the aggregators and, like, distributors of the attention. So Facebook, Google with Google Search, YouTube, Netflix, et cetera, et cetera.
00:25:41.874 - 00:26:12.364, Speaker A: There's those guys, and then there's the long tail of companies that are trying to sell a widget and want to buy access to our eyeballs. The example that I give in the piece is Lululemon and aloe, which is athleisure competitor. They don't own a platform. They're not Google. They're not Facebook. They have to pay Google and Facebook for access to our eyeballs. They're trying to put their products in front of our eyeballs.
00:26:12.364 - 00:26:55.704, Speaker A: And then there's us. There's, like, the consumers who are scrolling on their phones every day. So it's kind of like a multi dotted, like, marketplace. And I guess just to get to the point here, when I go on Instagram and I'm scrolling, I'm paying attention to some athletes and maybe celebrities that I follow, right? The value of my attention is almost entirely captured by Mark Zuckerberg. And maybe a little bit by the athlete that I'm following, but none of it accrues to me. Zero. You know what I mean? Every time I click like on a photo or send a DM to a friend of a basketball dunk that I like, I'm not getting any value from giving them my attention.
00:26:55.704 - 00:27:57.302, Speaker A: And I think the interesting, conceptually interesting part about crypto is it has the potential to maybe re architect that value exchange. Instead of me clicking like on an Instagram photo and 100% of the value of my attention being extracted with crypto, I can buy a token that represents the thing that I'm paying attention to and I can share in the upside of whatever digital good that im buying into. So I guess to answer your question Tommy, its really hard to figure out whats going to capture attention over long periods of time. But Im bullish on the idea of crypto giving people a way to own the things that they pay attention to, whether thats layer one tokens, meme coins, nfts culture coins, as now were seeing whatever it is, you can tokenize any sort of asset and then you can buy the things that you like, the things that you pay attention to. Preston.
00:27:57.318 - 00:28:25.850, Speaker C: Yeah. And I think to Tom, to your question about does this continue or are we all crazy and what is the novel unlock here? I know there's two things. One, there's a lot of people, obviously, who are up in arms about meme coins, right? Some love them, some hate them. It's a very polarizing topic in crypto, which is already a very polarizing space for those who've been in it long enough. I think it's like wanting to have your cake and eat it too. Right? The benefits of permissionless open source technology cuts both ways. Right.
00:28:25.850 - 00:29:25.664, Speaker C: The person who launches X Defi token technically has the same ability or should have the same accessibility then the person who launches bowdoin or some other meme coin. So you kind of have to take the good with the bad if you want to think about it like that. The other, and this gets more directly to your question around, does this last is to be honest with you, I think it does. And I think it actually, this concept only becomes more important over time because when you think about one of, and Rico talks about this in the piece, one of cryptos kind of killer use cases so far has been to give a lot more people who may not have access to these types of assets or these types of markets, basically gives a lot more people more ways to make money. Right. And that sounds very kind of capitalist or a bit hand wavy or a bit greedy, but it really is, I think, one of the killer use cases that we've seen so far. Meme coins, again, are the purest expression or form of that.
00:29:25.664 - 00:30:05.422, Speaker C: A lot of people, though, when you look at the underlying secular backdrop here, most people feel like the system isn't working for them and hasn't been working for them for a long time. Crypto is very, in a sense, anti establishment, almost like the rebels who are trying to take the Ford. You have these big trends like widening in wealth inequality and trends that are favoring more political dissent. And we see it again in the US. I don't think any of us would have predicted that we'd be at this point where we are given all the political bashing and back and forth. But it is what it is and it's really a large function of these big trends that we're talking about in terms of the inequality. And again, people feel like they've been left behind.
00:30:05.422 - 00:30:38.808, Speaker C: And so this idea has also been combined with speculative risk taking activities becoming more commonplace. Gambling, online gambling continues to rise in terms of popularity. The rise of social media drives somo for new experiences. We see other things and you want those same things. You want what your neighbor has. We have these shorter attention spans. All these things meld together to, I think, provide both a framework but also a support for what we're seeing today continuing into the future.
00:30:38.808 - 00:30:55.862, Speaker C: I don't think this is a flash in the panel. I genuinely think that a lot of the ideas were talking about here and the way in which markets function and really what drives markets, which is boiling more and more down in my opinion, to attention, who can capture it? I think that is a trend thats here to stay.
00:30:55.998 - 00:31:33.810, Speaker B: Yeah, I definitely agree with you. I think its here to stay. Both of your answers bring up the idea outside of meme coins and just thinking through the web. Two examples. Do either of you have any views on how crypto, our platforms, our projects or applications can actually disintermediate the web two model of monetizing our attention is power returned to the user. Do we decide when we interact with it? Do we provide our data? All these buzz words we've heard in crypto over the past years, is there now a new renewed push to actually build something like that? What would that look like?
00:31:33.902 - 00:32:27.154, Speaker A: Yeah, its a good question. When I think from first principles about what makes crypto different than web two, what are the advantages that only we have? I think theres maybe a couple, but the most obvious one is just we have tokens and they dont, you know what I mean? And as dumb as that sounds, what that means to me is just going back to the bitcoin example. Bitcoin gave a bunch of people tokens and turned a bunch of random people all over the world into the biggest, loudest unpaid spokesman ever. You know what I mean? There's that line bitcoin never had. A marketing team still doesn't. And yet people talk about it every single day online and no one's getting paid for that, you know what I mean? And the reason that they're doing that is because they have a financial incentive to do so. They share in the upside of this network.
00:32:27.154 - 00:33:17.296, Speaker A: So when I think about how crypto is going to disintermediate web two, I think it's going to be in large part because of tokens and because you can convert a bunch of random people into your biggest supporters simply by giving them an early share in whatever you're building. So I think that's really one of the reasons why Delphi is so great, is that we help people builders be thoughtful about their tokens, because aside from the tax, the token is a core part of the product, I think, and a successful token, or to be a successful project, you really need to have a successful token. I would argue in large part because attention is tied to the price of the token.
00:33:17.400 - 00:33:40.554, Speaker B: Yeah, you give a really good example. I'm over here arguing that it's hard to see where meme coins go as a contrarian in a couple of months. And meanwhile one person created bitcoin and that will eventually threaten like monetary systems around the world, potentially like from meme to impact can get pretty wild pretty quickly. I know, Kevin, you're going to disagree with me on that impact of financial.
00:33:40.634 - 00:34:28.569, Speaker C: Markets, but no, no, I actually would agree on what I'm, what I'm excited to see. And we've started to see, I think, a couple early examples of this, but this concept of you've got something that starts off as one of the beauties of meme coins. I know were spending a lot of time talking about it, but I think one of the beauties is that theyre not trying to be something that they arent. For a lot of these, there is no argument that this thing has a product thats being built or its going to generate cash flows over time. Its quite frankly the purest form of, yes, speculation. But there is a bit of a beauty to that in my opinion, where its not like youre going out and launching a product and trying to sell some huge vision, which again, its not to downplay the ambitions of a lot of people who are building this space. Again, its why were here.
00:34:28.569 - 00:35:47.506, Speaker C: But I think you can have both sides of it. The other thing is when it comes to just web two incumbents, theres some that are certainly going to be a lot harder to disintermediate and really capture, steal value from over time, just given how, how large they are and the size of their moats and depending on what they do. But again, taking a step back because youve got this permissionless open source based infrastructure layer for the most part. Whats interesting is, as you think about the way in which web two applications were built, you take some of the big tech incumbents, which arguably the biggest part of their modes and why they have multi trillion dollar valuations is because they have this essentially monopoly on data. They have tons of information, tons of data. They direct that, they target that in different ways to serve up even more targeted ads, which then flows into the ad spend that companies pay to them, to the allo example that Rinka used earlier, that's really tough to, I think, disintermediate, at least in the short term. But when it comes to just building products in general, the web two versus web3 version, because you've got this, again, permissionless open source layer that underpins all of it, the ability to capture that data mode is much, much harder and in some cases just simply won't exist.
00:35:47.506 - 00:37:03.048, Speaker C: So what that does is it forces the competition in a sense towards the application layer, where we talk a lot about on chain identity and being able to port your assets to different applications. And that's one of the views of crypto. It's becoming more and more seamless in a world where that exists and these data modes simply don't, it shifts, I think that the importance towards the product and the application layer, where it really forces you as a builder to have the best product out there or offer the best experience, because again, a lot of the backend is becoming more and more commoditized, we'll say there isn't really necessarily the competitive advantage there. I think that's also going to be a really interesting trend to see more and more of, especially things like social fi and really at the application layer, unlocking creative new use cases because of this technology. But it also, again, has a double edged sword and it forces you to both have a better or more interesting or more unique product, the actual product that people are engaging with. But also once you have that, what does your distribution go to market strategy. So enough people, there's enough attention on that, that people come and use it and stick around it, in a sense, flips the model on its head a little bit.
00:37:03.048 - 00:37:42.822, Speaker C: Because again, when you look at those web two especially big tech incumbents, they have such a stranglehold on that proprietary data mode that they don't necessarily need to be on the forefront of, let's say, application or product innovation because the core of their business model isn't necessarily focused on Instagram providing a new feature update every single week or every single month. It's just such a sticky product already. And in part because that's where all the attention has flowed, with all the companies going to advertise on, because they know that's where the attention is, right? Where the customers are. And the data mode behind that is really the kind of engine that powers the whole thing.
00:37:42.918 - 00:38:10.058, Speaker B: Yeah, no, it, it's a hell of an answer, kev. I'm curious, both of your more specific takes though, on like how fast this can change. Right? Like, we've both all talked about how fast attention can snowball. And when you use token incentives to power that, how fast things can change. And we look at the tech incumbents like FAANG companies or, sorry, I'm dating myself, Alphabet meta and all the other ones.
00:38:10.146 - 00:38:11.362, Speaker C: Love that reference.
00:38:11.498 - 00:38:36.374, Speaker B: Yeah, it's an old one. We talk about them as having these insurmountable moats, but once you do something that's not linear and is completely different, it becomes very easy to compete with them. Right. Bitcoin versus the dollar. Netflix first blockbuster. These are just random examples. So I really dislike when people just assume web two will win forever.
00:38:36.374 - 00:38:51.162, Speaker B: So it sounds like both of you, what you're saying is that attention from a crypto disruptive project can snowball to such a degree that we can disrupt the web two attention model at some point in the near future.
00:38:51.298 - 00:39:52.238, Speaker A: Totally, yeah. My view on this, I'd be curious to hear what both of you guys think. But my thesis is, I mean, just looking at how cryptos developed up to this point, cryptos predominantly been a retail phenomenon. Bitcoin was around for 15 years before Larry Fink showed up with his ETF, you know what I mean? And there were random dudes in their parents basement buying it on day one, you know what I mean? And like every new token that comes out, it's retail. It's like average people who are like experimenting with these technologies, you know what I mean? So retail has front run institutions to every. I'm not aware of like a single trend that like, I don't know, even rwas maybe. But crypto is like a retail technology, you know what I mean? So I think when I think about like how crypto is going to compete with web two, I would think that it probably happens from a bottoms up perspective.
00:39:52.238 - 00:41:05.200, Speaker A: So just to be specific, I don't expect there to be a protocol that takes on Google Search or YouTube and tries to compete head on. I think how it happens is basically crypto gives a brand allo that is trying to capture attention, a way to align Allo's incentives with, with their buyers. It gives Iggy Azalea artist who's maybe like isn't going to make a whole lot of music going forward. It gives her a way to connect with her fans and kind of share in like the upside of her brand going forward. And I think if crypto can connect basically like creators with fans and create enough of those relationships from like a bottoms up perspective, then the platforms will naturally emerge to facilitate that. And I think over time those platforms will get significant network effects and one day maybe be able to compete with these web two giants. But I think that's how it happens.
00:41:05.200 - 00:41:06.336, Speaker A: More from bottoms up?
00:41:06.400 - 00:41:46.692, Speaker C: Yeah. I also think that a lot of the stuff we're talking about, crypto also has to, these web3 products also have to improve upon what currently exists. Which again it sounds obvious, but I think sometimes we lose sight of that where and that can mean it's a five to ten x better user experience. It solves a problem that hadn't been solved for or was difficult or impossible to solve for before this. Or it's one that lowers the cost on something that you're already doing. I think to Rinko's point about tokens being this potentially new distribution channel, especially for companies or brands just using that example. I totally agree.
00:41:46.692 - 00:43:12.166, Speaker C: And theres a world in which because right now what a lot of companies are facing is some expense pressure and in some cases some margin pressure on their marketing budgets starting to really explode because the cost to advertise on these platforms, these gatekeepers that have these big data modes, all these incumbents we just talked about are only going up. Its becoming more and more expensive to actually acquire some of these customers. If you can leverage, lets say tokens in some way that is on par with your brand, in some way that is unique and playful, to be honest and exciting and goes after your target customer, you can start to build out not only a more direct relationship with those potential customers or recurring customers, you can also lower your customer acquisition costs in certain cases, I think another interesting one is deepens. I think are really exciting. Emerging subsector of crypto I look at a project like Hivemapper where they found ways to tap into the right distribution channels to drive attention to their product from those who are most likely to use it. The concept of being able to put a dash cam right on your dashboard, and you could be an Uber driver, you could be a dad who's taking its kids to school every day and then commuting to work. You could be somebody who just travels and is on the road a lot right for your job.
00:43:12.166 - 00:44:00.486, Speaker C: Your ability to actually monetize something that you're already doing is, I think, again, a way in which you can potentially start to challenge some of these incumbent models. If you have enough people and you build up enough active users within that network and you're starting to. Again, it's still very early stages. Hivemappers nowhere near what Google Maps is, for example. But you're starting to see the point where I think they're hitting an inflection, where they're actually able to use a lot of that data they've already collected to sell different products and services from that data that then hopefully eventually goes back into compensating more of the contributors to that data itself. You can create these. This is what we talk about when we talk about flywheels and incentive loops and all that, where you can actually challenge essential incumbent models today as they exist.
00:44:00.486 - 00:45:18.644, Speaker C: Because, again, a lot of your web, two companies, your traditional companies, the way in which they operate and they maximize for things like shareholder value, theyre trying to keep as much of that value or as much of that money or profit theyre making internally within their own companies. Im also not in the camp that, and this might be contrarian or ruffle feathers. Kudos to the metas and the googles of the world for building that type of business model, because it is, again, hindsight being 2020 obviously has proved to be incredibly lucrative and was a very, very unique approach and betting on what the future of this web two world at that time would look like now. I guess the point I'm trying to make is if crypto can offer and web3 can offer a better way to actually do things or provide products and services or lower costs in certain cases, if it can provide a better thing, a better experience, that, in my opinion, is whats actually going to drive real mainstream adoption and real people to use it outside of just pure speculation, which again, still has its own slot here. And has certainly attracted, I think, a lot of people. I think youre going to have a combination of both. But its not as if this conversation might sound like Im bearish fundamentals or I dont think they matter at all.
00:45:18.644 - 00:45:40.656, Speaker C: I absolutely do, and theyll matter more in the future. But I think, again, its trying to understand both sides of this and the tension being, if you think about it as what are the demand drivers that drives people to buy or purchase assets or what is the demand side of any market? Fundamentals can be one, attention can be another. It's not an or.
00:45:40.760 - 00:46:19.790, Speaker B: No, I mean, I think everything you're saying makes sense, kev. Right. It's like that puzzle where you put the puzzle pieces together and you sort of land on the answer. But it's just that attention is mega important. Um, there's things we can do in crypto, just given the structure and tokens that we can't do in web two. And eventually, I think it's more likely than not, then we develop a new form of application or platform that is used within crypto or the real world that is just a totally different model. Um, I mean, maybe to throw an example out there, like I would love the other end of the extreme on like a crypto AI app.
00:46:19.790 - 00:46:51.644, Speaker B: Like I would love an application that, that does not show me thousands of tweets, thousands of Facebook messages, thousands of instagrams. I'd like to see the top three memes that'll make me laugh, the top two emails I have to respond to, and three tweets that are relevant to whatever I'm doing on Google Docs at the time. I'd love the opposite of the attention economy that doesn't really work in a Facebook model where they have to make money off views. I dont know. I think youre both really hit on something important here with the attention side.
00:46:51.684 - 00:47:06.956, Speaker C: Preston, I think its a really interesting Pandora's box open on what happened to this attention concept or the attention economy, as a lot of people think about it, as what happens that in a world of ubiquitous AI.
00:47:07.100 - 00:47:42.304, Speaker B: So it scares me. Right. Because on the one extreme you have the example I just gave, right. The other example is that, that you have AI that is so smart and can convince you to do things and bias you without you even knowing it. It'll act as your best friend. It'll convince you in ways that only you understand or only you can be manipulated through, and it'll get you to do things that you otherwise wouldn't want to. It'll get you to buy a token, it'll get you to grant them access to some meat space intermediary that they need access to a checking account or whatever.
00:47:42.304 - 00:47:58.440, Speaker B: And they'll provide synthetic content and fake content that caters to your beliefs and your likes to get you to do things. So it gets really scary on the dystopian AGI side, but I guess it could be interesting if it's wielded the right way.
00:47:58.512 - 00:48:43.654, Speaker A: Yeah. To riff on this a little bit, I find it really difficult to reason about how AI will change our society. I think it's a bit like Covid until it happens, until were living in it, like nobody, nobody thought that we wouldn't be able to leave our homes, you know what I mean? Or like we'd only be able to talk to each other. But 6ft apart, like, that was not even the smartest, most forward thinking people before March 2020 could have predicted that. And I feel like AI is a little bit like that. It's just kind of like a black box. One thing that I do feel like pretty confident about is that, like, AI is just going to change the way that we interact with the Internet and probably the whole world.
00:48:43.654 - 00:49:28.304, Speaker A: I think the easiest way to think about it is we're all going to have our own AI force field around us. It's going to be a filter. Every piece of digital content that I look at is going to be AI filtered. I think chat GBT is a very primitive example of this. When I sit down to research a report, I usually have up Google Docs or notion on one side and chat GBT on the other. And when I have a question, instead of like Google searching that question, I ask chat GBT that question, and chat GBT goes and gets the answer for me, retrieves it and then delivers it to me. These things are like answering machines right now.
00:49:28.304 - 00:50:44.186, Speaker A: And for now, these models are mostly just chat bots. So they're kind of like retrieving an answer and going to get it. But already we kind of see like, how AI is going to basically break, I think, the advertising business models of some of these big tech giants. The most obvious one, I think, is Google search. Now, Google's whole business model was putting a link here and an ad right below it, you know what I mean? But now when my eyeball is replaced by chat GBT, chatGbt goes and grabs the link, sends it to me, and we totally disintermediate the ad right next to that link, you know what I mean? So what does that mean? I don't really know what it means, I think Google search business starts to slowly deteriorate. But then I think from like the long tail of like the Lululemons and the aloes of the world that buy that link, that buy that search ad, how do they connect with me? You know what I mean? In a chat GBT world, they need some other way to grab my attention and retain it. I do think that there's an interesting opportunity basically for crypto to come in and connect allo and Lululemon with me and break through the chat GBT force field.
00:50:44.186 - 00:50:44.974, Speaker A: Basically.
00:50:45.394 - 00:51:03.142, Speaker B: I hate to be the bearer of bad news, and I like your take, Mike, but it may play out where we just get ads within the LLM, right? Like, hey, I want a new sweatshirt, where do I buy it? Bam. Lulu. Adam, you know, it's depressing. It's not that imaginative, but yeah, I think I agree.
00:51:03.238 - 00:52:19.416, Speaker C: And again, speculating on this stuff is at this point just speculative, right? We don't know what it'll wind up looking like. But I do think that concept of tokens being able to use as a new and it can even start off as an alternative, but eventually the preferred distribution channel in a way, for a lot of these companies or brands or causes that are trying to connect with people, especially like the target users or target customers, I do think that that is something that we will eventually see more of. I thought, and ive had this kind of thesis for a couple of years now. I thought wed start to see that a lot more, especially to be honest, last cycle around when you had nfts getting big, everybody from Starbucks to your big brands all kind of even banging on our doors asking us how they can use this technology, what ways they could do it. And again, I think its going to take time. I think a lot of that was focused around just price appreciation and some cash grabby things. But I do think fundamentally there is a good argument that in this post AI type of world, tokens can be a really strong way to break through and bridge that gap and make that direct connection with, with a customer.
00:52:19.416 - 00:53:23.660, Speaker C: Because from there, once you have that, you can get eventually a whole bunch of interesting data around that you can see who owns Lululemon and allo tokens, or if youre a new up and coming emerging brand, the first people you probably want to target. Or maybe you have a token gated site that only allo token holders and Lululemon token holders can access. It gives that kind of exclusivity to it. But also, you literally know youre going after your target market because youre an allo competitor. Theres so many things that you can build off of this. I think tokens enable that is truly can create some novel use cases and what that does to not only ad type, what that does to marketing strategies go to market how these brands, it's going to take a total rewiring of a lot of people that sit in these C suites, to be honest, having had several conversations with a lot of them. But I do think eventually this might even be a good example where the old version of this gets either so expensive or its no longer providing the type of value that these companies are looking for.
00:53:23.660 - 00:53:38.972, Speaker C: Theyre seeking that crypto and tokens wind up coming in as a really strong alternative option to allow them to do something that they know they want to do and they frankly need to do allows them to do that better. I think thats the inflection moments were still waiting on Preston.
00:53:38.988 - 00:54:43.348, Speaker A: Yeah, I would agree. Ive been thinking about this a lot recently, just with all the celebrities that have come into crypto. So we've had Iggy Azalea maybe being the most prominent, but there's been a bunch of them, it feels like over the past month or so, and I just been asking myself if one of these guys called me up and was like, hey, it's Iggy Azalea, what should I do in crypto? You know what I mean? How do I connect with my, what would I say? And I honestly don't have a great answer, you know what I mean, other than, and I think that's why these people default to launching a meme coin is it's kind of unclear what the playbook is right now to like organically connect with your friends. I think to your point, kev, the applications are still pretty immature. I do think the big difference that I noticed from last cycle is just the infrastructure is better. So a lot of this stuff is now happening on Solana as opposed to Ethereum. And Solana has its share of issues, but the network has been able to handle all of these celebrity coins.
00:54:43.348 - 00:55:34.786, Speaker A: You know what I mean? Every transaction is super cheap and relatively fast. So I think where we're at right now, the infrastructure takes a while to build out. I think we're almost there. We're certainly better than we were three or four years ago, and now everyone's just waiting on these applications to come out and really facilitate this connection. But I guess one final thing that I'll say is, why would a celebrity come to crypto? To me, it's pretty obvious just to use the Iggy Azalea example. Iggy Azalea doesn't know, can't separate her average fans from her superfans. So maybe there's a person who listens to her music once a month, and then there's another person who listens to her music every single day.
00:55:34.786 - 00:56:18.230, Speaker A: You know what I mean? The every single day person is really important for her. And it would actually maybe make sense for her to reach out to the everyday person and invite that person to a free concert or something like that because that person is driving so much value to Iggy, but she has no idea who that is, you know what I mean? In the web two world, because the relationship is intermediated by Spotify and Apple Music, in crypto, she knows exactly who her biggest fans are. She could just look on chain of who's holding the most amount of her tokens, you know what I mean? And she can directly reach out to that person and be like, yo, you want to come to a comp? You know what I mean? So I think the relationship is like, it could be way more richer in crypto, and we just need, like, applications to, like, facilitate that, I think.
00:56:18.382 - 00:56:19.350, Speaker C: Yeah, Tommy?
00:56:19.382 - 00:57:00.850, Speaker B: Yeah, no, it's. Sorry, I'm just thinking just like you are. It's exciting. I mean, I think it's probably the, the topic of another podcast, right? But I think the crypto AI melding. We'll be able to create applications that can augment this whole attention economy idea in a pretty powerful way. I mean, just thinking through one very basic example, excluding all token incentives, ownership and projects, governance, the whole nine yards for helping to build things. If you're that Lulu fan, Mike, and you want a new pair of ABC pants, you know, you go on Facebook, you get ads for it.
00:57:00.850 - 00:57:43.446, Speaker B: They know you bought it. They know which ones, right? You get ads for it. But if you're on your own, personalized LLM, like, you know, maybe the new Lulu pants, like, really aren't that good, right? So, like, you know, it scans all their Reddit reports and it gives you those negative reviews, right? And it, it scans through Amazon's, like, reviews and it tells you that, hey, these aren't that great, but, you know, people who disliked them went and bought the athletic or forgot your other aloe pants or whatever, right? So the whole idea of like, an attention economy that's not biased by marketing spend, I think, is like, a really interesting concept, and I don't know how we pay for that, but I'm excited to see what it looks like.
00:57:43.510 - 00:58:11.378, Speaker A: Yeah, I don't really? You brought up a good point earlier. Like, maybe they'll just put ads in your LLM, right? And maybe that'll happen. Like, I don't. I don't really know. I kind of. If I had to guess, though, I'd probably say that doesn't happen or it doesn't, like, look the same as, like the traditional, like, ad tech world that we're coming from. And the only reason I say that is because people just don't like ads.
00:58:11.378 - 00:58:56.776, Speaker A: You know what I mean? Like, to your point, you say you want to like, go on the Internet or talk to your chatbot and have it like, deliver you the best memes, the best content, or. And just like streamline. Cut out all the bullshit, basically. You know what I mean? I think we're going to get that someone is going to build that because enough people want it, you know what I mean? And we are going to get a chatbot or whatever AI becomes post chatbots. That will be like an oracle, it'll be like an answer machine. It'll give you whatever you want and there will be no ads because there will be a version of that that someone builds that doesn't have ads. And I think people are in that world, you're going to have to find, if you're a small business, if you're a brand, you're going to have to find a new way to connect with people other than putting your ad next to a Google link.
00:58:56.776 - 00:59:09.764, Speaker A: I don't really know what that is. All I know is if crypto has proven anything, it's that crypto really knows how to turn people into passionate unpaid marketers.
00:59:11.064 - 00:59:11.924, Speaker B: I agree.
00:59:13.064 - 00:59:16.804, Speaker C: Versus renting is a very, very big difference. And that applies to.
00:59:17.394 - 00:59:19.018, Speaker B: It's hard to own nowadays.
00:59:19.186 - 00:59:38.970, Speaker C: Yes. Yeah. So if you can own in assets in certain ways, like we're talking about, right, with your favorite brand, whatever it is, that point about you becoming an unpaid spokesperson in a sense of unpaid directly, but you have some type of ownership, right? Some type of exposure to whatever that is. That product is. It is a really, really powerful, galvanizing force.
00:59:39.042 - 00:59:41.894, Speaker B: It's like that meme, like you'll owe nothing and you'll be happy.
00:59:43.754 - 00:59:47.874, Speaker C: Like the US housing market at this point, you're not wrong.
00:59:48.214 - 01:00:14.734, Speaker B: Well, I know we're a bit at length, but the conversation is very interesting. One last topic I want to talk on real quick is just going back to the beginning of the podcast. We mentioned that attention is all you need. You go to the best distribution channel, best tech. Doesn't necessarily matter. Et cetera, et cetera. I'd love to get both of your net takes here on does this attention economy.
01:00:14.734 - 01:00:21.642, Speaker B: Maybe I'm over focusing on meme coins a bit, but just entertain this. Is that a net negative for crypto?
01:00:21.698 - 01:00:21.914, Speaker C: Right?
01:00:21.954 - 01:00:40.358, Speaker B: Are we not surfacing the builders that have revolutionary tech that really could augment it just because they're not on podcasts, they're not good at tweeting? How do we make sure that crypto net moves forward and it just doesn't become an attention flywheel for short term gains?
01:00:40.446 - 01:01:17.738, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a great question and something that I struggled with before. I wrote the piece, while I was writing the piece, and still now. So I guess just to steel, man, that argument, I do think it's demoralizing, you know what I mean? Like, the three of us are all in, you know what I mean? We're on this podcast. We've devoted our careers, our professional reputations, our personal accounts, our whole lives. We're long in this industry. We believe in it. And I think we believe in it because we think crypto can change the world, can make the world a little bit of a better place in the future.
01:01:17.738 - 01:02:23.902, Speaker A: And we all want to help in our small way to do that. I got into crypto to make a little bit of money at first, and I stayed because I bought into that idea that we can truly change the world. I think when you see all this meme coin stuff, you start to question that, you know what I mean? You're like, what are we doing here? You know what I mean? Are we just going to punt meme coins back and forth to each other for the next? Like, am I wasting my career here? Did I make the wrong bet? Should I have just joined OpenAI, you know what I mean? Like, these are all the questions that I have. So I think it's, like, very fair to ask, like, is our meme coins a net negative? They certainly are. From, like, the regulatory perspective, I think they don't make Washington or the regulators like us anymore. The only real counterpoint that I see to that take is basically, do you want users or not? You know what I mean? And I think the problem that crypto has had to this point is we've built a ton of cool tech, you know what I mean? We have ZK, we have all this crazy technology that crypto is basically financed, do you know what I mean? But nobody uses it still. You know what I mean? The users still haven't showed up.
01:02:23.902 - 01:03:05.258, Speaker A: There's only around 5 million people that are on chain month to month. So it's like, do you want users or not? And I think meme coins are a way to onboard people to crypto. And meme coins will go up and most of them will go down 99%, you know what I mean? To zero. But some small fraction of the people that are brought in from meme coins will stay just like the three of us stayed, you know what I mean? And they'll become developers, they'll become users, they'll become advocates for the space. So my core belief is more people equals good. And if meme coins deliver more people to crypto, then that will net out to being good over a long period of time.
01:03:05.386 - 01:03:10.374, Speaker B: God, that amped me up. I loved it. Thats a great answer, Mike. Kevin, what about you?
01:03:11.114 - 01:04:04.156, Speaker C: Ill take a bit of the other side on that one. I think meme coins are net net beneficial for the space, and theres a couple of reasons for that. But one, like I said earlier, I think putting too much emphasis on meme coins and them being essentially intrinsically worthless or who wants to punt around these things is bringing almost too much bias into the equation. Right. Because what meme coins have told us, like we talked about, is that right now, given where this market is, given the average active crypto user or active crypto participant, and where we are in the maturity cycle, theres a reason why these things have taken off. If everybody in this space was a true blue, fundamental, driven investor, meme coins would be dead in the water, and theyre not. So the market is telling us that there is a demand for this thing, whether thats right or wrong.
01:04:04.156 - 01:05:01.766, Speaker C: Its like the argument, do you want to be right or do you want to make money? Whether or not thats right or wrong, we can debate about. But its something the market is telling us and I think we need to pay attention to. The other thing is meme point media got so explosive so quickly that it actually did battle test Solana in a number of ways. And so that led to core developer jumping in all these chats, a lot of patches, upgrades that came. There was certainly a period there where things were not great and actually started to break down what Solanas primary benefit was of fast, cheap, better ux chain. But that, again, actually price going up did help improve the tech, I think, in a number of ways. And it also, again, gives people the ability to express and potentially make money and express a thesis on something that sits outside of the very quote, unquote, fundamentally sound but very deep, technical types of projects and tokens that also exists out there.
01:05:01.766 - 01:05:35.224, Speaker C: It's like the stock market isn't only made up of infotech companies or only made up of financials. With infra and Defi, there's a whole host of consumer applications, consumer staples, consumer discretionary, industrial. There's all these different sectors. I think crypto is going to develop in a very similar way. And the last thing ill say, which is building off of rinkos last point, whatever brings in more people, theres going to be some people will leave. But every cycle weve seen a decent chunk of those people stay. That snowballs in the user base, active user base gets bigger and bigger over time.
01:05:35.224 - 01:06:40.342, Speaker C: Crypto also sits at this really important inflection point where, because we have things like currency abasement and monetary inflation, which raises the hurdle rate on how much you have to make from an investment standpoint, what your ROI has to be in order for you to keep pace with purchasing power and to actually outpace inflation, especially when wages come down. Were now at this point where because that hurdle rate gets higher, investors are becoming increasingly hungry for these types of growth assets or these types of growth markets. I would argue that crypto is probably one of the best types of markets out there across the board that offers those types of high growth, high risk, certainly, but high growth opportunities that more and more investors are going to be looking for. And so if you think about crypto almost as its own economy of sorts, if we jumble everything together, I think we're going to continue to see more capital inflows into this space, because it's similar to an emerging market economy where you start to see rapid growth. Oftentimes in those countries, you see huge capital inflows. They build a bunch of stuff. They build way too much capacity.
01:06:40.342 - 01:07:02.728, Speaker C: There arent enough people there. Population hasnt grown enough. Kind of similar to what happened in crypto. We built a ton of early use cases, or infra. We didnt have the users yet. Eventually, these economies start to actually build other services, other businesses that then can operate within it. And thats how these lineup flourish can be coming, going from frontier to emerging, then emerging to eventually developed economies.
01:07:02.728 - 01:07:20.780, Speaker C: Crypto is like this emerging economy at this point where youll have these big booms and big bust cycles because you have tons of capital inflow. But the reason for that is because it is one of the fastest growingits, going to be one of the fastest growing economies in the world. And more and more people come, and I think more and more capital is just going to follow that.
01:07:20.852 - 01:07:21.076, Speaker A: Trey?
01:07:21.100 - 01:07:38.914, Speaker B: Yeah. Kevin. Such great examples like the Solana stress testing example, the onboarding example, just the education example, too. Buying a meme coin and and just going through the motions of the dollar is a meme as well. Like you don't get there unless you have an alternative.
01:07:39.374 - 01:07:49.910, Speaker C: Kevin well, this one runs on, it runs on memes, man. It runs on memes, memes and narratives. And that is if you can, if you can pinpoint those like you, you can do really well.
01:07:50.062 - 01:08:11.300, Speaker B: I love it. Mike, thanks so much for writing this report and giving us such a fun topic to talk about and just to have such a great impact on Delphi research and everyone who read it definitely recommend checking out if you haven't. It's incredible. It's right on Delphi's homepage if you look around. Kev, thanks so much for joining too. Your points are incredible and there's a lot of fun.
01:08:11.372 - 01:08:12.364, Speaker C: Thanks for letting me crack, fellas.
