00:00:00.280 - 00:00:22.590, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gui refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sassano, and today's the 25 October 2021. Hi, everyone. Let's get into it. So 8 million ETH staked on the beacon chain. This is a lot of ETH. I think it's over $30 billion worth of ETH, around six 7% of the current supply, which is pretty crazy right now.
00:00:22.590 - 00:01:00.350, Speaker A: I think that at time of recording, it's just almost 8 million actually staking. Because I was looking at the deposit contract when I tweeted this out. And the difference is that when you deposit, deposit to the deposit contract, you basically go into the deposit queue and then you're not staking straight away. You have to kind of like, wait, if there's a queue to get your deposit in. So technically that, that it is not being staked, but it isn't easy in the queue and it will be staked. And then there's also kind of like, um, validators that have been slashed, right? And then they get kicked out of the validator set or they've been offline for too long and they get leaked out. They will also be shown in the deposit contract, but they won't be shown as kind of like validating and staking.
00:01:00.350 - 00:01:25.390, Speaker A: So there's different ways to kind of look at this. You can look at the deposit contract itself and see how much ETH has ever actually gone into the deposit contract, which means it has been staked at some point in time. And then you can look at kind of like how much is actively staked. Right now I just look at the deposit contract on Etherscan. Like I just go, I Google, like ETH two deposit contract. Go to the, go to the contract on Etherscan and see the number in there. And then I also go to beacon chain.
00:01:25.390 - 00:02:02.686, Speaker A: So beacon cha in which tracks, which is like a block explorer, I guess, for the beacon chain, I guess a validator explorer, and it'll show you how much the active stake is there. It's one of my favorite places to look at. But the reason why I look at the deposit contract is because it's for the, for the total, you know, eave staked ever is because of one way bridge. Right now. You can't actually withdraw from that, from that contract at all. You can't withdraw from staking. The only way you can stop staking is either like stop staking as in get kicked out of the validator set and not be able to reenter is if you kind of get slashed or if you kind of get leaked out right now, if it, I mean, I don't think this has been changed.
00:02:02.686 - 00:02:39.684, Speaker A: I haven't looked at this in quite a while, but I think it remains the same if you go offline for long enough for your balance to bleed down to 28 ETH. So obviously you started 32 ETH or above, right. If you've earned some ETH, say you started 33 because you've earned some. But if you go offline for long enough and then you bleed down to 28 ETH, which takes a while, but if you get there, you, you'll be automatically ejected from the current validator set, and you won't be able to restake because of the fact that there's no withdrawals or deposits or anything like that. You can't move the funds around. So you'd have to kind of like, do a fresh new 32 ETH validator. But that's just temporary until the withdrawals are enabled after the merge and things like that.
00:02:39.684 - 00:03:00.168, Speaker A: But hopefully that gives you extra context. I had a few people ask me about this. I just wanted to provide some context there. But how cool is it that, I mean, that's a lot of ethics. You know, it's funny, sometimes people will say, oh, there's other networks that have, like, 60, 70% of their whole value, kind of like staked. And I do want to stress a couple of things here. One, all the other networks aren't running Ethereum's proof of stake.
00:03:00.168 - 00:03:54.926, Speaker A: They're either running distributed proof of, sorry, delegated proof of stake, which is depos, uh, which is very different. Um, and also they're worth a lot less, like 8%, let's just say, sorry, 8 million ETH, right. Being worth $33 billion, I think, at the current prices, is worth much more than some other network that has, like, a $10 billion total market cap. But 80% is staked, right? If 80% is staked, then it's $8 billion, whereas 80% for ETH would be much more than that. And I actually expect, I don't know if either is going to get to 80% staked or anything like that, but I do expect, you know, once the merge is done, once withdrawals are enabled and all that sort of stuff, and once the kind of, like, unburnt fee revenue is going to stakers instead of going to miners. Right now, I do expect that ETH stake to keep kind of crawling up. You know, it's probably going to settle around 20 or 30 million there are people who have this thesis that all ETH is going to be staked because you'll be able to get staking derivatives.
00:03:54.926 - 00:04:15.742, Speaker A: So something like an Steth token. And it just makes logical sense for all ETH to be staked and everyone just use the kind of stake token. But I don't think it's going to be all of, all of the ETH for various different reasons. But even if it is, the majority say it's like 70% or 80% of ethanol. It's going to take a very long time to get there, I believe. So. We're going to have to see how that shakes out.
00:04:15.742 - 00:04:50.640, Speaker A: But it's still really cool to see that 8 million has been staked, given that it's a one way bridge right now for, for most stake, I mean, there are ways around this. You can have, you can just go through Lido and you can still get Ste. Yes, it's not, you know, validating on your own, it's not fully decentralized, anything like that, but you can still do that. And there are some exchanges that will offer you instant liquidity as well. I mean, I think most exchanges do, but, but in terms of like, the ETH actually being locked in, kind of like the deposit contract, it's all locked there. Doesn't matter if they give you, if the service provider gives you early liquidity or not. So hopefully that gives you a bunch of context around this kind of like number here.
00:04:50.640 - 00:05:35.238, Speaker A: And, you know, it could only be up only right now in terms of going into the deposit contract, in terms of actually being actively staked, that can vary as I, for the reasons I mentioned, but I'm pretty sure like 99% of the ETH that has ever gone into the deposit contract is, is, um, actively staking right now or is in queue to actively stake. I, I don't think there's been that many slashings. I don't think there's been that many people kind of. I don't even know if there's actually been anyone who has been offline long enough to get down to 22 28 east to get kicked out of the active validator set. Maybe they have, I haven't checked, but I haven't heard about it, so. But might be something worth looking into for sure. All right, tweet here from Jane mentioned Wong, who leaks well, or maybe works for Twitter, but leaks a lot of new Twitter features here.
00:05:35.238 - 00:06:26.672, Speaker A: So she put out a tweet yesterday saying Twitter is working on collectibles profile, on a collectibles profile tab, NFT view and NFT details view. So this is Twitter just, I guess, embracing nfts more than what they already have. You can see here that there's a collectibles kind of like view when you go to, like, your profile and you can kind of see the different, I guess, collectibles in there. There's an ape crypto punk and you can click in and see, you know, if it was verified on Opensea, a description, the creator, the properties collection. So I guess this is their way of kind of, I guess, working around like fakes, because people were kind of debating about being able to kind of like set a fake NFT as your, as your profile picture. When Twitter rolls out, putting NFT, putting nfts as your profile pictures natively, people were saying, well, you can just fake it if there's no way to, I guess, check the authentic authenticity of it. Well, this fixes that, right? Like, you can check it.
00:06:26.672 - 00:07:01.528, Speaker A: There'll probably be a link to, like, etherscan or to Opensea directly or somewhere else or where you can actually check if that person actually owns the NFT that they have as their profile picture. So cool to see that. And it's just generally really cool to see that Twitter really is leaning into these kind of features. It's, I mean, it's funny because like, they haven't just got it with Ethereum, they've got it with bitcoin as well. I mean, they integrated bitcoin for tipping through some custodial lighting network thing. I'm sure the theorem will be, will be coming along those lines as well. And they're obviously doing nfts, which ethereum is, is pretty much a big part of as well.
00:07:01.528 - 00:07:44.334, Speaker A: So it's just cool because none of the other social medias have done anything besides Reddit. They did it like a small experiment with, with the doughnuts and with like, the, the bricks, I think it was for two different subreddits. And they've also kind of said that they're building out a kind of like, scalability solution for that using arbitram's tech. But other than that, I mean, Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, like any of these other social platforms are not integrating crypto in any way right now. I'm sure they're thinking about it. Like, it makes a lot of sense for most of them to do NFT stuff. Like, it actually makes total sense for Instagram to integrate some NFT marketplace where people can just essentially create nfts out of their work, sell them to people directly, and then Instagram will take a cut from that.
00:07:44.334 - 00:08:00.830, Speaker A: I'm sure they're looking into that. I'm sure they're going to work on that. But they're, they're lagging. They definitely are. And Twitter just seems to be embracing it at a much quicker pace. And it's not because Twitter, I guess, you know, is that much smaller than a lot of these things. Maybe smaller than Facebook, of course, but Twitter has a lot of users, right? Like hundreds of millions of monthly active users.
00:08:00.830 - 00:08:31.460, Speaker A: And it's been growing like crazy over the past couple years. Everyone use, you know, I mean, not everyone, but a lot of people use Twitter to keep up with things, especially if you're in crypto. Like, you can't be in crypto and not use Twitter. I know there's bad sides to Twitter and it gets annoying at times, but generally it's where everyone kind of congregates, for better or worse. So. So, yeah, it's cool to see Twitter leaning into the NFT stuff more here. So Justin Drake put out a chart here which he called ultrasound exponential, which is basically showing the daily Ethereum fee volume over time.
00:08:31.460 - 00:09:28.712, Speaker A: Now, actually, I'm trying to get like a bigger picture up here for you guys to see. I guess it's just the bottom left that's cut off by my camera, but you can basically see that over time, the daily Ethereum fee kind of like volume has only been increasing. Now, you know, a lot of you watching the refuel, the types of people to say, oh, isn't this bearish? Because, like, it's pricing users out because you guys know that we have the L2 ecosystem to scale Ethereum. I actually think this is incredibly bullish. And as I've said before, I expect this, this is a logarithmic chart, but I expect this to go kind of up to a billion dollars daily fee revenue at one point. It's probably not going to be consistent consistently that for quite a while, but the trend is up and I don't think there's actually a ceiling here. I think that as the kind of like, uses get more high value as there's more kind of like, as there's more people kind of like playing with the network, trying to extract value out of it, you're going to get people willing to pay almost the entirety of the economic value that they're extracting out of it as a fee.
00:09:28.712 - 00:10:00.998, Speaker A: So, for example, if you need to pay the entire, like, say you're doing an arbitrage and you need to pay 99% of the profit as a fee, you're still going to take that bet because you still get 1% profit at the end of the day. And that adds up over time. Like for arbitrage transactions, they're happening all the time. So you're more than happy to pay 99% or close to maybe not 99%, maybe somewhere between 95 and 99%. You're very happy to pay that in fees to extract that, that one to 5% worth of worth of actual profit from it. And this happens all the time. It's not just arbitrage.
00:10:00.998 - 00:10:52.094, Speaker A: It's also front running and sandwich attacks, which is part of MeV, which obviously is not great. It's kind of like toxic, but it still happens at the end of the day. And, you know, just given that and given the fact that there's a lot of actors on the network as such as L2s that are happy paying whatever fee they need to, to get their kind of proofs on chain, to get their batches of transactions on chain and their data, they're going to be happy to pay that. But at the same time, this is all just on kind of like one, one chain, one ETH. One chain or one ETH kind of like shard. Right now, when we do have sharding implemented in probably early 2023, when we have 64 x the capacity, especially for L2s, you're going to see in aggregate, the transaction fees go much higher. But it's not like these l two s are going to be having to pay like $50,000 per batch or something crazy like that.
00:10:52.094 - 00:11:33.494, Speaker A: They're going to have much more room to kind of batch on, on chain. And the fever, the fees that they pay may only be a few dollars to start with, but the thing is, there's going to be lots of these l two s. There's going to be lots of these kind of like other actors that take advantage of this extra space and that's going to, I guess, get this fee volume up even more. So I fully believe within the next five years, we can see daily fear of when you go to a billion dollars. And when you think about it, that's, that's quite crazy because that, that's, that's like what, 70% to 80% of that is going to be burned, right, as ETH. Now, of course, ETH could be $50,000 in five years, for example. Right? So the amount of ETH being burned will be less than this today if we had the same kind of like fee revenue in dollars because it's obviously denominated in ETH.
00:11:33.494 - 00:12:00.684, Speaker A: But I mean, the trend is up. And I just, given the amount of economic value that's on a theory and the amount of economic actors there are the people playing there. Especially the fact that like whales don't care about fees at all. Like, I've never met a whale that's ever complained about the fee. Sometimes you'll see. Actually, I remember some people that I know a whales have kind of like said, you know, even as a whale, the fees are annoying, but it doesn't matter if they're annoying, they're still paying them. Like, there are people out there that most people out there that aren't whales.
00:12:00.684 - 00:12:33.360, Speaker A: That is both annoying and they're both, they're actually priced out as well. They actually can't pay these fees. And as you guys know, we're all, we're scaling via layer one, sorry, L2, I should say. And layer one will just be the security and sentiment layer and that's totally fine. I think L2s are already having, I mean, I'm going to talk about L2's growth later on, but they're already having such amazing growth given how early we are. And I think that layer one, you know, all the new users coming in now, or most of them are not touching layer one ethereum anymore. They're going to these L2s, which is exactly what we want.
00:12:33.360 - 00:13:08.024, Speaker A: And I actually believe that it's good that the fees are high because of that as well. I mean, it means that users don't actually have to ever go to layer one ethereum. So they don't. Like, for example, imagine a new user today coming in and imagine if the layer one fees below, say it was like under five Gwei or something like that. And they went on layer one, they did all their stuff there, but then the fees spiked up to 50 way. Well, now that user may be stuck, right? Or maybe trapped, we don't want that for new users at all. So the fact that they get to start on L2 where everything is just like really, really cheap compared to layer one, and they're not going to get trapped because there's L2 scale a lot better.
00:13:08.024 - 00:14:05.214, Speaker A: And you know, in their final form, the current l two s in their final form, and this form is final as the tech currently stands, it's not final long term, but in their current forms, across all of them, we could have four and a half, 5000 transactions per second. We're not going to hit that anytime soon. On these, on these l two s, not, not on the generalized ones at least. The ones that need that much TPS probably going to go, um, as kind of like a single app chain, something like DoidX or something like that. Uh, but, uh, you know, from that perspective, I'm really glad that the fees, uh, I mean, it's funny cause like, if I say I'm really glad that the fees are pricing people out of layer one, it may sound like I'm really glad that people can't, um, kind of interact with ethereum layer one, but I'm really glad that it's happened now. So that the, you know, when we do have kind of like, I guess more of the, I mean, right now in the early adopter phase, when we do have the mass adoption phase happen, which hasn't happened yet, I, we will, we will know when it happens, but it's not yet, but when it does happen, I want all those users going to L2. I don't want them getting trapped on layer one.
00:14:05.214 - 00:14:20.686, Speaker A: I don't want them having to experience high fees or anything like that. And I'm sure none of you do either. So that's what I kind of like, think about from that perspective as well. But let me move on from that for now. Got a bunch of other stuff to get through. So I guess I should start with this. No, no, I should start with this tweet.
00:14:20.686 - 00:15:04.594, Speaker A: So this tweet from immutable, there's two here. And that's why I was getting confused between the two, but they announced that artists and developers can now officially start launching their own NFT drops by using the super farm platform on immutable, with zero gas fees, 100% carbon neutrality, and world class user experience, all powered by immutable x, built on stockware secured by Ethereum. The holy grail, guys. You know, I mean, I know immutable x is not a roll up, a Zk roll up, it is a validium, but it's still better than kind of like these side chains and things like that. So really, really glad to see this. Really glad to see that people can just like easily launch their own NFT drops now. Because as I've said plenty of times before, nfts are the thing that are going to bring in the most people in.
00:15:04.594 - 00:15:28.670, Speaker A: We need them on the most scalable ecosystems ASAP. We don't want to wait around and we don't want to push more people to kind of like layer ones because nfts are actually really expensive on layer one. But yeah, really cool to see this. And the second thing from immutable is that they've processed nearly 1 million gods unchained NFT trades on immutable x. 883,000 trades. Exactly. Average cost of trading is 0.01
00:15:28.670 - 00:16:07.966, Speaker A: ETH. The average gas fee of trading in NFT. In Godsland chain alone, the l two has saved users 8830 ETH or $37 million, all with east security. That's, I mean, that's insane, right? Like when you really do quantify the numbers around how much gas is being saved by batching up all these transactions on L2, it is just crazy. It's seriously crazy. And the thing is, is that you guys know that this is part of the modular architecture where we take execution and computation off chain, because that just has no real reason to be on chain. On layer one, it's incredibly inefficient to make all nodes throughout the network process these sorts of things.
00:16:07.966 - 00:16:44.088, Speaker A: And it's incredibly expensive as well, as we've seen. But just quantifying it and putting actual dollar values towards it and ETH values on it is, is crazy because I mean, $37 million, that's what right now, that's pretty much what the daily fear of new is for Ethereum. And this is just one, one app. So if all of these trades were done on layer one, it would have cost $37 million in gas fees. Now, you could argue that these trades would never have even happened. And that's what we mean by L2's unlocking new economic activity, is that there was no way that you would have these trades happen on layer one. It doesn't make sense because most of the gods unchained cards are not actually worth that much.
00:16:44.088 - 00:17:42.924, Speaker A: You know, they may be worth way less than what the gas, the gas fees are required to pay. So immutable X is actually unlocking this latent economic activity that people have quite literally been priced out of doing. Which, again, is worth, to me, it's worth even more than the, than the fees because it means that we are basically creating new value instead of just taking the existing value from layer one to L2. And that's what I'm most bullish on about the L2s, is that they're creating new value, new economic activity. They're not just taking the activity off layer one and putting it on L2. And that's another reason why I've, I've kind of said in the past before that even if most users migrate off of layer one to L2, it's not going to significantly decrease the gas fees on layer one because we're going to both be unlocking new activity and new economic activity. And we're also going to be replacing layer one user transactions with L2 roll up trends transactions such as the proofs of, and the batches and, and the call data, sorry, in the data.
00:17:42.924 - 00:18:16.520, Speaker A: And then from that point of view, you just can view L2s as users, but they're much more efficient users. They batch their transactions, they process them off chain. They, they do BLS signature aggregation on them in order to compress them. So from that point of view, the L2s are just a much better, much more efficient user of Ethereum block space than you or I are. Like, we can never be that efficient. It's just not something that we can do. We could do it if we started our own L2, but then it doesn't really make economical sense because we'd still have to be paying kind of like those, those fees, the minimum fees as call data, and it will still be too expensive for individuals.
00:18:16.520 - 00:19:12.936, Speaker A: But l two s act, as I've said before, as a user wrapper, and they're like a super user, essentially, which, which I think is a really cool way to think about it. But I'm most bullish on these l two s, unlocking new economic activity for ethereum, rather than extracting it from layer one and putting on L2. Some of that will happen, but it's more that 90 plus percent of the activity that happens on l two s will be new economic activity, I think. So speaking of L2s and what I spoke about last week about worldcoin, I did talk about what technology they're using, which is the Hubble optimistic roll up. And in this tweet thread from Bartech, he goes through how Hubble actually differs from other optimistic roll ups, such as optimism and arbitrum. Now I have said before that I think there's only going to be two generalized optimistic roll ups that actually succeed long term. And I think that those are optimism and arbitram, of course, because I mean, there are other teams out there, but they're forks.
00:19:12.936 - 00:19:55.624, Speaker A: Like there's Metis, Nami, and Boba network. I'm not 100% about Nami, but I know the other two actually just forks of optimism. And I actually believe that Nami is as well. But I'm kind of like, I mean, I'm kind of like bullish on like the non forks, right? And the ones with kind of like much more of an ecosystem, more of the apps deploying to them, which is what optimism and arbitram have right now. But in saying that the Hubble optimistic roll up is actually payments focused. So that's why again, like, as I had mentioned last week, they can have cheaper fees than the other, the other optimistic roll ups, but they also do a bunch of other things as well, which you can actually read in this thread from Bartek. I'm not going to go over this, I want to get through the rest of the stuff I have today, but definitely check out this thread.
00:19:55.624 - 00:20:33.666, Speaker A: I think it's really cool that this is happening. I think it's really, I mean, this is the only thing about world coin that I actually like. I actually hate everything else about it, as I explained last week. But like, the fact that they're using Ethereum and they're using optimistic roll up is cool, they're innovating there, but the rest of world coin leaves, leaves much to be desired, that's for sure. All right, so another banger post from Polynya, and this isn't about really modular blockchains here. This is about what Polynar is calling the transaction quality trilemma. And they on Twitter, they shared the post by saying with low transaction fees, we have a transaction quality problem with bots and spam infesting these networks.
00:20:33.666 - 00:21:04.620, Speaker A: There doesn't seem to be a solution other than increasing fees, or is there. Highly, highly recommend giving this post a read, of course. But essentially the trilemma is this kind of like triangle. And each edge of the triangle you have censorship resistance, low fees and spam, you can only have two or three. This is kind of similar to the scalability trailer. So essentially if you have low fees, you'll have and spam, you can't really have censorship resistance. And, and then, you know, I mean, you can pick any two here and then it kind of like makes sense from there.
00:21:04.620 - 00:21:42.734, Speaker A: But then in this post, Polly now basically goes on to explain like, you know, what are the networks that have kind of like experienced this before? What are the trade offs? What can we do to preserve all three? Is it solvable, all that sort of thing, all that sort of stuff. And they use the example of the polygon pos chain, which as I mentioned, I think a couple of weeks ago they increased the gas fees on the network to 30 GUI. Now this is way measured as, as the matic price, not as the ETH price. So 30 gwei for matic price is considerably less than an ETH price because obviously Matic is like under $2. ETH is over $4,000. So it doesn't make sense to compare the two. But that was still 30 times higher than before.
00:21:42.734 - 00:22:03.856, Speaker A: So if your transaction fee was like one 10th of a century. Your transaction fee is now $0.03. Right. Because it's 30 times more, more expensive. Now, the reason that they did this was because of spam. There was so much spam on the network because it was just so cheap to transact on it that they had to do something to, to kind of like alleviate this. And by increasing the gas price is up, this alleviated that.
00:22:03.856 - 00:23:08.594, Speaker A: Now, obviously, that is not the ideal solution, but it is one solution, and I actually think it's probably the best solution. I've said before that I think there's a sweet spot for fees. At the end of the day, I don't think you can have basically like transaction fees that are so low that it encourages spam and, and DOS attacks because you get what happened with Solana the other day, right. They basically suffered a DOS attack where the network went offline for 18 hours because it's just so cheap for, for bots to spam the network that they had a flood of like 400,000 transactions during one of these. I think it was an NFT drop, or maybe, I think it was like an ICO or an IDO or something like that, but had a flood of these transactions in and it basically dossed the network and kicked the, and kicked some validators off, which made the network kind of like got halt and go offline. Now, the way that they've mitigated that, from what, from my understanding, I don't know if it's currently in place, but I think it is, is that they actually do a quality of service where they drop transactions that they, that they actually suspect as being spam. Now, if you're doing that, I mean, it's, it's kind of subjective, right? Like you can use different heuristics to see what transactions are spam and which are not.
00:23:08.594 - 00:23:46.656, Speaker A: But at the same time, like you're taking, I guess, I mean, this goes, this goes beyond the technical stuff. Now you're basically choosing what transactions get to go into the network or not. Now, this is obviously not great for censorship resistance because essentially, if your transaction is being dropped because it's suspected of being spam, it may not be direct censorship because it's not someone basically saying, well, I know this transaction isn't really spam, but I'm going to drop it anyway and flag it as spam. There may be some instances of that, but most of the time it's not that. But essentially you're indirectly being censored here, and that's not what we want. What we want either. So there is a happy medium, which I think Paulina are discussed in here.
00:23:46.656 - 00:24:22.424, Speaker A: But, but still, it's, there's a trade off no matter what way you go about it. I actually don't think there's a perfect solution here. You can have ultra low fees and not have to, and still, and kind of like have spam, or you can have like higher fees, less spam, but a worse user experience because they have to pay a little bit more fees. It's just, it's very hard to get all three. Yeah, maybe we'll figure it out in the future, but it is definitely not easy to do. So now, L2s actually have a better, actually, sorry. Layer twos actually suffer from the same problem as something like a Solana, where their transactions are like really, really, really cheap.
00:24:22.424 - 00:25:03.934, Speaker A: And, you know, the L2 can fall over as well. You can dos this if there's only one sequencer, you can dose it and you can send it offline because of the fact that you're flooding the kind of like the sequencer with transactions because it's just so cheap to do it and they just kind of go offline from there. So again, you need this healthy balance. And, you know, another way to do it is to decentralize the sequences as well. I have many people running them, but again, if they're publicly known, you can just dos all of them essentially, if you want to. So, I mean, I recommend giving this piece a read, but it's another thing to think about, and it's actually very important. And this is why I've said that I think that layer one is fine being expensive because it actually mitigates this completely to dos Ethereum right now by doing like a transaction flood.
00:25:03.934 - 00:25:30.024, Speaker A: I mean, it's stupid expensive. You can't even do it. Like the cheapest transaction you can do on Ethereum is a, is an ETH transfer. And even that's expensive right now, right? I think it's like a, I mean, the last time I checked, even it's a few dollars at 50 way. Good luck dosing the network by, by, by spending with ETH transactions. It's not going to work because it's just so much, it's so expensive to do. And also the network is conservative because of that, because the gas limit's lower than what it can be.
00:25:30.024 - 00:26:10.244, Speaker A: So there's always a happy medium, a happy kind of like medium here. But the way I would prefer it is that layer one stays, I mean, I guess like expensive, right? It stays maximally decentralized and secure. And because of that it's expensive to use. But we don't, we don't, we won't suffer from DOS attacks, we won't suffer, suffer from spam bloat or kind of like really, really bad state bloat. And we make, we keep it easy for people to run their own nodes, which is critically important in my eyes. Then we can handle all these kind of like other stuff at L2, which is just a much better path to go down in my, in my kind of view here. But you guys know, I'm basically l two maximalist at this point, so I'm not going to try and convince you further there, but going, moving on.
00:26:10.244 - 00:26:59.724, Speaker A: A bit different, a bit of a different kind of like tune here. So Manifold announced a kind of new service called Royalty registry, which is basically a service to make on chain royalties. Really simple. So they say here, royalties are a big part of the NFT ecosystem, but they can be confusing and painful to manage, and that's what they aim to change with this new service. They've collaborated with OpenSea Foundation, Nifty Gateway, rarible and super rare to simplify this entire process. So what they launched on, I guess October 23 last week, a set of smart contracts that act as a registry to manage and look up on chain royalties and a contract, and on a contract and per token basis, a website that will allow everyone to configure and manage royalty info for all smart contracts and tokens. The registry provides a central lookup location along and standardizes the lookup for the myriad of different royalty specs and implementations.
00:26:59.724 - 00:27:55.792, Speaker A: Any market will be able to look up royalties and payout accordingly. This is really cool. I mean, obviously a big, I guess, portion of nfTs, or a big draw of nfTs, especially for artists or like creators, is that they're able to simplify the royalty process and get royalties for their work as well. But if there's no standard, I guess kind of like royalty process here, then what ends up happening is that this just becomes a mess, right? There's no kind of like registry, there's no kind of like central place for you to look up these royalties and things like that. So I thought this is a really cool release from Manifold here onto l two s again. So arbitrum announced that they now have the permissionless bridging is now open on their arbitrum one network. So essentially by default, any LC 20 token on l one that isn't registered to a gateway can be permissionlessly bridged to the standard ERC 20 gateway, which is the standard kind of like, I guess l one bridge for arbitrum in and you can kind of like read more about the technical details here and how this all works.
00:27:55.792 - 00:28:51.436, Speaker A: But what this really means for I guess like end users is that you don't have to worry about your token not being supported by the gateway or the bridge. Now everything can be permissionlessly supported, so you can have like any token going from anywhere, which I think is really, really cool. Another thing that was introduced last week is something called Sysmo or size mo, which describes themselves as a way to build up your Ethereum profile or your ans with anonymized attestations created from your other accounts. So essentially they're using zero knowledge proofs, as far as I know here to basically do this. And I guess like the way it works and they've got like a bunch of use cases here. But the way it works is that seismo issues badges, non transferable nfts to your public Ethereum profiles or Ans name. They are zero knowledge attestations of facts imported from your other accounts, Ethereum accounts as well as Twitter or GitHub, you can aggregate your reputation with confidentiality to your public profile.
00:28:51.436 - 00:29:32.772, Speaker A: This is really cool. I mean, this is again what I consider web3 and how I said that we're still in the early stages of web3, but there's a lot of really cool innovations here that are coming, especially around ens, around sign in with Ethereum, around nfts and zero knowledge proofs and all that sort of stuff. And you can see the use cases. One of them is accessing a token gated communities privately, another one is aggregating a Defi score. Like I'm sure, I'm sure some of you have seen like the DGEN score before. Another one is better governance as well. So in this example, taking the other community as an example, you can mint via seismo a ZK badge, an AaVE community member badge corresponding to someone that holds more than 100 aave, voted on ten plus proposals, or created a proposal.
00:29:32.772 - 00:30:14.624, Speaker A: You can use it on Twitter by displaying your Darieth name on the Aave governance forum. When proposing or in custom snapshot voting strategies, it will prove you have skin in the game and reveal no more than that. Which in layman's terms is really cool because it basically means that you can prove that you have more than 100 r there, but you don't have to have to actually show the address that that 100 r there is on which I think is, you know, is really, really cool. It means you can keep your addresses separate but still prove things, which, which is obviously, there's a lot of use cases for. So really, really cool thing here from seismo. All right, finally, TVL, it's an imperfect metric. I've talked about it before, how I don't like it to kind of, like, measure anything other than vanity, but still.
00:30:14.624 - 00:30:32.428, Speaker A: I put out a tweet today that it's nice to see L2s on ethereum. Cross the $4 billion tvl mark. Now, I got this from l two beat.com, comma, one of my favorite websites for tracking all of this growth. You can see here that arbitrum still accounts for the majority at 2.547 billion. Locked dy DX is at 955 million, so almost a billion.
00:30:32.428 - 00:30:59.224, Speaker A: Their optimism coming in third at 273 million. Loop ring with 125 million. And then the long tail here, this is going to keep exploding up in TVL. I mean, obviously in kind of like fees on the networks as well, which arbitrament optimism is still hovering around $100,000 every 24 hours. And then you've also got, like, the transactions on the networks users, they're all trending up. Like, you can go check out the stats. I'm going to go over them on the next data pump.
00:30:59.224 - 00:31:19.336, Speaker A: I'm going to try to do the data pump this weekend. I know I've promised that, like, for so often, but I'm going to try and do it, do it this weekend. But still cool to see this. I know a lot of people going to view this, even though I think TVL is an imperfect, perfect metric. People are going to view this and think that, well, okay, l two s are legit. I'm going to go use it. I'm going to put, I'm going to bridge my assets across, or I'm a developer, I'm going to deploy my project on, you know, one of these networks.
00:31:19.336 - 00:31:47.680, Speaker A: So I think that as a vanity metric, it works really well. But beyond that, eh, not really, because the tv is going to go up with the prices going up. And if you can see here, there's a lot of ETH in, in these l two s right now. I mean, I think if I'm reading this correctly, there's a million ETH in these l two s. So if ETH goes up 10%, well, the TVL is going to go up probably 10% as well, since most of the value is, is ETH. So from that perspective, and that doesn't have to do anything else. Like the networks don't have to grow in volume, in users, in transactions.
00:31:47.680 - 00:32:09.692, Speaker A: It's just purely kind of like a numbers game, which is fine, but as I said, it's an imperfect metric. That's why I don't really like using it too often. But still, cool to see l two s continuing to grow. No surprise there, of course. But on that note, I'm going to leave it there for today, so thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:32:09.692 - 00:32:10.164, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
