00:00:00.880 - 00:00:31.884, Speaker A: You're now listening to Alpha Leak, a podcast mini series highlighting the most under the radar projects and developments in crypto, and this series is brought to you by the Blockcrunch podcast. I'm your host, Jason Choi. I'm a general partner at Spartan Capital and an active defi angel investor. Nothing on this show should be construed as financial advice, and my guests, myself and my employer may hold positions and assets discussed on the show. And if you'd like for your project to be featured on this series, reach out to me on Twitter mrjasonchoi. This episode is also brought to you by Periswap. Stick around to learn more.
00:00:31.884 - 00:00:35.028, Speaker A: This episode is also sponsored by the Hbar foundation.
00:00:35.116 - 00:01:18.548, Speaker B: This episode is also brought to you by notional finance I like to use notional finance to get transparent fixed rate borrowing and lending. On Ethereum, the upgraded and easy to use V two with Token and liquidity mining is also live now at Notional Finance blockcrunch, so stick around to learn more. Hey, everybody. Now, in this week's episode, we are discussing bribe protocol, which lets people bribe different Dao token holders to vote, is a really, really interesting concept and fits into the bigger discussion around daos and governance that we've been having lately on this show. So to understand exactly how this works and what this means and what are its implications for governance in Daos, I'm really excited to have the anonymous founder of Bribe Protocol, Condor set on the show. So Condor said, welcome to the show.
00:01:18.676 - 00:01:20.884, Speaker C: Hey, Jason, thanks so much for having me.
00:01:21.004 - 00:01:26.534, Speaker B: Now, just to kind of get us started, what exactly is bribe like? How did you come up with the idea to build something like this?
00:01:26.724 - 00:02:20.614, Speaker C: Brybe is a governance tooling protocol. We create tooling for Daos, basically speaking. And, you know, my background, the way that I got into the space and got interested in building dao tooling, it really comes from my education. I'm a student of and very passionate about politics and governance strategy. And by the time I had kind of gotten involved in Defi, I looked around and saw a lot of daos that were. That were having actually, at a conceptual level, very similar challenges to what we studied kind of in textbooks. You know, classic problems that democracies have.
00:02:20.614 - 00:03:22.918, Speaker C: Things like getting people to participate in governance and to really see themselves represented. Things like kind of staving off populism and majoritarianism and ultimately, you know, trying to build a polity or a society that represents and works for everyone. So with Daos, we are conceptually facing, you know, at these very early stages, the same kind of set of fundamental problems that governments face and built bribe or put this team together so that we could start to address those questions head on with a roadmap that supersedes the problems that governments are facing today, supersedes just the problems that we're facing in Defi Daos today, and tries to kind of propose a roadmap and a tool set, if you will, for how we run a better democracy.
00:03:23.086 - 00:03:33.598, Speaker B: That's really ambitious and makes a lot of sense. And I guess, in terms of a, in practice, what does bribe protocol do to kind of fix some of these issues that you brought up?
00:03:33.726 - 00:05:28.844, Speaker C: So when we look at kind of the paradigm or the current state of, of these governance systems that we're talking about, we see kind of a few factors, a few features that are indicative of democracy or of effective governance, if you will, that are fairly well understood. Things like voting, things like delegation of votes, things like elections, and kind of the separation between what it means to be a politician or a delegate and a user or a citizen. And these ideas, I want to say that they have a very long history, they have long traditions in the ivory tower, in very traditional ways of thinking about government. They are fundamental building blocks of government, and they're very important. However, in our unique experience with Defi, I think Daos also kind of mandate a completely new way of thinking which is around governance marketplaces, an idea which is really kind of surprisingly appearing in the news cycle and appearing in conversations among DeFi protocols and the Defi community. Right now, we're really just starting to think about governance marketplaces and what it can mean when people are actually transacting in votes, if you will, when people are buying and selling votes. What does that mean? Because it's something that happens in Defi today, and it's something that's frankly inevitable, given the way that governance is being structured, the way that governance is playing out in the space.
00:05:29.014 - 00:06:04.820, Speaker B: That's really interesting because there's an accelerationist element to this where, and obviously, the concept of letting people buy votes in Defi governance, or Dao governance is, sounds pretty controversial. But at the same time, it's already kind of happening in things like the curve wars, which we can dig into later. But I'm really curious. So for a listener tuning in today, say they want to try out the bright protocol and they want to be able to kind of sell some of their votes, or say they want to buy some votes, because can you take us through the lifecycle of a user? What are the step by step that a user has to do to either sell their votes or to buy a vote on bribe protocol today.
00:06:05.012 - 00:07:37.312, Speaker C: Absolutely. So, given that bribe is a part of this bigger picture of trying to onboard more users to governance, incentivize people to vote, et cetera, we want to make bribe as straightforward and informative as possible. It is really kind of this simple portal where any token holder, be it a large institution or a DAO or a retail user, can get paid for their vote. So in systems like Aave, where we're doing our first integration, the beauty of this is that currently there is really not a use case for, you know, for everyday voters to participate on. For instance, Aave, the voter kind of needs to be part of a, part of a winning coalition, part of a sizable critical mass of votes, in order for kind of the value of their vote to be realized. So what a voter is going to do, what's happening behind the scenes on bribe, is that when a voter stakes their vote on the application, we are kind of, we're putting their vote together with a coalition of other voters to ensure that that coalition has kind of commands the voting power that can really be monetized and can bring about outcomes on the underlying protocol.
00:07:37.408 - 00:07:50.646, Speaker B: Got it. So users are basically staking whatever governance protocol, whatever protocol tokens they have in bright protocol, which then allows other people to come and borrow these tokens to do governance voting. Is that correct?
00:07:50.790 - 00:07:51.694, Speaker C: Exactly.
00:07:51.854 - 00:08:05.474, Speaker B: And how does that differ from a typical lending protocol? Because right now I can already lend out my tokens, my AAve tokens on the AaVE protocol, and someone else can come borrow those tokens. So how do those two concepts differ?
00:08:05.774 - 00:09:09.590, Speaker C: I mean, that's an extremely important question. The way that I look at the governance voting market, essentially, is that it's essentially this coagulation, if you will, of utilities that are getting us to the point where governance is working in a manner that is kind of conceptually sufficient, and that essentially is a point where a vote has a well understood value or monetization at a given time. Now, I think it'll make more sense when I start to break this down. The very first condition for a vote to have a value, a well understood value at a particular time, is for that vote to be tradable in the first place. So the foundation actually for the vote market, of course, is, is your basic defi functionalities. It's custody, it's transacting and governance tokens. It's lending and borrowing governance tokens.
00:09:09.590 - 00:10:30.004, Speaker C: And so the fact that this vote market is liquid in the first place is kind of the foundation for us to be able to build a liquid and transparent marketplace around the vote itself. But there are other conditions that are required. And so maybe it makes sense for us to look at the curve wars here on curve, we see that there are kind of nested bribery solutions that have been built on top of each other, that there are plenty of articles out that kind of break this down and dig into it. We have one out basically ourselves. So I won't rehash all of that right now, unless you want to get into it. But basically speaking, curve has arrived as an ecosystem at this point where, between curve, convex and votium, it's now possible to see on a dashboard how much incentive a curve vote, a single V curve vote commanded in a given week based on curve gauge voting. And you really need kind of to get to that point where, you know, it feels right, it feels understandable to have a vote, you know, in February 1, in the February 1 curve gauge votes, it's going to cost $1.70
00:10:30.004 - 00:10:56.202, Speaker C: for every, or let's say $0.17 for every $5 worth of VCRV that you have. It's a place that conceptually, again, is satisfying that if governance tokens are going to be tradable in the first place, we need to understand what their impact on the broader market is at any given time, compared to kind of other things that somebody can do with a token.
00:10:56.298 - 00:11:16.786, Speaker B: That makes a lot of sense. And I want to make sure that listeners are following closely. So I'd like to kind of take a step back and to explore what the curfews actually are. So in a kind of high level explanation, can you kind of help us break down what exactly is happening with the curve wars, and why is it so important in terms of its implications for governance?
00:11:16.930 - 00:12:50.516, Speaker C: Curve wars are extremely important because kind of, as I alluded to at the beginning of the call, it's the first time that there is a, to me, it feels like the first time that there is a broad conversation around monetization and governance, incentivization structures and governance. And the first time where we are actually seeing, again like a vote monetized for a particular period of time or for a particular set of proposals, if you will. To me, this comes about, this is, all of this activity has come about fundamentally because of two conditions. Condition number one is that there is a strong utility that is associated with curve governance. It's not entirely intuitive. You kind of have to get how curve works, what utilities in DeFi tend to do and what they look like. But the basic idea behind why curve governance is so beneficial to protocols is so in demand is that it controls the curve gauges which incentivize particular swap pools on curve, which can be incentivized essentially to add stability and reduce slippage for particular governance tokens or assets, DeFi assets that are traded against or that are traded in curve pools.
00:12:50.516 - 00:13:52.604, Speaker C: So the short of it is curve governance can inject liquidity and stability and reduce slippage for different governance tokens for third parties, for protocols external to curve. And that is controlled through curve governance. So condition number one of why this activity has exploded in curve is that there's this very strong utility attached to the governance token. Of course it doesn't hurt. That curve is one of the largest decentralized exchanges seen as a kingmaker. All of these highly efficient, game changing protocols built on top of curve, now, all of that doesn't hurt. But even with a massive protocol, if there is not a strong and clear utility that's attached to the token to governance, rather to the voting functionality of the token, then you won't see this market emerge fairly self evident.
00:13:52.604 - 00:15:04.284, Speaker C: The second condition, and really kind of my hypothesis around why this ecosystem emerged in curve first, is that curve's governance is actually essentially natively liquid for curve. The key condition that they solve natively with their gauge design is that there is a. Is that every vote kind of doesn't need to be part of a winning coalition in order to drive an outcome. It doesn't need to elect a politician or win an election in order to make a governance and a difference in governance. A v curve vote can simply direct the, you know, it can direct the incentive that it represents. V curve can cause kind of, you know, Vcurve can cause more, more curve to be mented for all you really need. Sorry, what I'm trying to say is all you need is one v curve vote to kind of bring about an outcome in governance.
00:15:04.284 - 00:15:51.750, Speaker C: One vote, one stakeholder can make a difference. And that, frankly, is not the case in the majority of DeFi protocols. So that's kind of condition number two. And what bribe does, which is really exciting, is bring that second condition is extend that second condition to the rest of the DeFi space. Of course, the difference with protocols like AAVE, where we're doing our first integration, is that a voter does need to be part of the winning coalition in order to enact a difference in governance. With AaVE, we're not talking about V AaVE gauges, but rather partnerships and asset listings. Facilitated by staked AAVE, which is a slightly different model.
00:15:51.750 - 00:16:44.512, Speaker C: And while I'm not trying to say here that AAVE is like anti decentralization, or that their model, or that the curve model, the v curve model, represents kind of the future state of governance, I'm not trying to say any of that. I'm simply saying that two different models have emerged that work differently for two organizations. And it's effectively our job at Brybe to ensure that there is a healthy bribing mechanism that works for both of them. So our mvp voter extractable value, the beauty in it, in it is that it solves, is that it basically extends this curve framework to AAVE by aggregating retail users of AAVE into a winning coalition that can command the voting share that's required to bring about monetizable vote outcomes.
00:16:44.648 - 00:17:34.934, Speaker B: That's really, really interesting, and there's so much to unpack there. I think one of the most pertinent points that I didn't even think of before was the point that you brought up about curve votes not being binary. Whereas in most votes, we either have a kind of full proposal approved if enough people, if enough majority vote for it, or struck down if not enough people vote for it. In curve, each vote does make a difference. And just to synthesize here to make sure our listeners understand. So curve right now is obviously the largest stablecoin decentralized exchange, and they provide these kind of inflationary rewards to different pools within the exchange for people to deposit their liquidity. So obviously, projects want more people to deposit their native assets into their respective curve pools in order to make their native assets more liquid.
00:17:34.934 - 00:18:22.792, Speaker B: So a lot of projects are paying out bribes to kind of basically buy people's curve tokens in order to vote for the amount of incentives from curf that are fed into these different pools. And I think that that's such, that's such a groundbreaking idea that I've never seen outside of crypto before. And at the same time, I'm also interested in this concept of, I guess, the sanctity of one coin, one vote, because bribing votes, obviously, is something that might happen under the table in the real kind of political world. But I guess, in the crypto world, why are you convinced that this is a kind of, I guess, good thing to do, or are you convinced that it is a good thing to do, or do you just think it's maybe an eventual thing to do and we're here to accelerate that?
00:18:22.928 - 00:19:17.758, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, it's a great question, you have to start with the binary. Is it a good thing to do? And of course, my take is that it is. I think what we're trying to solve here is essentially oligarchy and what I would call a fundamentally oligarchic market. It's funny that you say the sanctity of one vote equals one token. You know, almost what one expects to hear is the sanctity of one person equals one vote. And, you know, there's a whole train of thought, I think, in the blockchain space around how we can create daos that are built around this idea. I think it is a worthwhile exploration.
00:19:17.758 - 00:20:48.814, Speaker C: But I will, you know, I'll err back to my answer to your previous question, which is that as long as we do have governance markets that are based on votes which can be transacted, lended, and borrowed, it is at least the right of the voter, it is at least the right of the token holder to understand what the monetary value of their vote is at a given period of time. Why would I hold a governance token that can vote if I don't understand what that vote can do for me or do for others that might want to engage with my protocol every now and then? If you kind of think in this vein of, well, given what our context is, given what the market already looks like, what are the rights that we can provide to the voter? At a very minimum, it is that, you know, the value of your own vote. And frankly, you know, we'll, we'll watch the conversation around, you know, one person, one vote. This isn't, it's, it's also kind of unintuitively, it's not against the model of the business that we want to build. And I can jump into why that is. But, but, you know, my frank answer here is that we're responding to the market as it is.
00:20:48.974 - 00:21:35.312, Speaker A: Now, before I continue, I'd love to share one of my favorite products in crypto with you. Now, whenever I want to trade a token, instead of going to uniswap sushiswap Bancor one by one to see where I can find the best quote, I just go to paraswap to scan for the best price anywhere, because per swap aggregates all the popular Ethereum dexs and saves me a ton of time and headache in finding where I can trade something for the best price and lets me trade in one place. Now, the cool thing is they've also integrated with ledger live as well, meaning I can now swap at the best prices directly from my ledger wallet. So seriously, if you are a defi trader and you're worried about the security risks of centralized exchanges. But you also don't want to scour dozens of dexs just to find the best price. You have to check out Paraswap. So head on over to Paraswap IO blockcrunch.
00:21:35.312 - 00:22:05.084, Speaker A: Id also love to take a moment to talk about the Hbar foundation. Now if you approached me one to two years ago, I would tell you im really skeptical of layer one systems outside of Ethereum. But in the past twelve months, I started to notice billions of dollars and hundreds of thousands of users flocking to new blockchains left and right. And then I realized theres an actual market gap being filled. And I always love to support projects who support builders. And one of those projects is Hedera Hashgraph. Hedera is an enterprise grade public network with its own crypto asset called HBAR.
00:22:05.084 - 00:22:32.170, Speaker A: And the HbAR foundation has launched with an initial budget of over $2 billion to provide entrepreneurs with the funding and ecosystem support needed to quickly build and deploy new applications on the Hedera hashgraph network. The HbAR foundation is eager to find builders in defi nfts, gaming, sustainability, and all sectors. So if you are a builder, a developer, or creator with an idea, visit hbarfoundation.org to learn more. Now, before I continue, if you follow.
00:22:32.202 - 00:22:33.370, Speaker B: Me on Twitter, you know that I've.
00:22:33.402 - 00:23:07.782, Speaker A: Described the recent months as the most uncertain time in crypto. So this is a great time to talk a little bit about notional. Now, notional finance is the leading fixed rate borrowing and lending protocol, and with version two, you can now borrow and lend at fixed rates for up to one year. Now, you can lend a portion of your crypto assets at a fixed rate, and this brings certainty and stability to your portfolio, no matter what happens in the market, especially in a time like this. Now, stablecoin lend yields currently hover around 10% and returns come from organic yield that borrowers are actually paying on the platform. So there's complete transparency on the platform.
00:23:07.838 - 00:23:09.238, Speaker B: And zero counterparty risk.
00:23:09.366 - 00:23:22.374, Speaker A: And we've actually talked with the founder of Notional as well, Teddy, on the show recently. And as a happy investor, I've been really impressed with how the team is shipping notional v two, so you can check it out today at Notional Finance blockcrunch.
00:23:22.534 - 00:24:08.924, Speaker B: Yeah, that's actually a follow up question I had, which was so obviously the bribe model works right now because people, because votes are one coin, one vote right now in crypto, and people can liquidly borrow or lend out or sell their votes to each other pretty easily through lending markets. But there's also talks that in the future, governance might be done with one person, one vote through some sort of on chain identity. So for me, Jason, I probably have one address that I tie to one sort of identity, and I can only have one vote associated with myself. So if that type of. So I guess two parter first, do you think that type of governance is likely to be the dominant type of governance, this kind of one person, one vote? And if so, how does that affect bribe's roadmap?
00:24:09.044 - 00:24:45.392, Speaker C: Yeah, it's a great question. Again, I don't want to, I don't want to try to answer that question just because I don't know, I don't know how it'll play out. I think that's an entirely separate conversation. And honestly, it's not core to our business today. So it's not what I'm kind of studied up on. That is an interesting kind of political theory question. What I can address is why one person, one vote is not against our business model.
00:24:45.392 - 00:26:13.524, Speaker C: It's because in the history of human organization, the closest we've ever gotten to democracy is essentially political parties. If not political parties, then governing coalitions. If not governing coalitions, then out groups and groups. So at the end of the day, there will always still need to be some kind of governing or governance facilitator, if you will, who can build coalitions and organize people? Which is kind of part one of the answer, what one person, one vote does not kind of exclude is the idea that certain business decisions would not be still monetized. It doesn't exclude the idea that the collection of individuals would vote. That, for instance, in the case of AAVE, like asset listing decisions should, rather than being voted on in a kind of election process, that these kinds of decisions should actually be sold on a marketplace like bribe. To me, that is actually the more democratic outcome where voters are actually offered the option to do with governance what they choose.
00:26:13.524 - 00:26:29.204, Speaker C: And it's this level of thinking, essentially, that defines what I would say the real coordination problems in governance are. Is that making sense so far?
00:26:29.524 - 00:27:01.776, Speaker B: Yeah, that makes sense to me. And I guess a follow up to that is for the current way that governance is done, which is through tokens. So for me, as a user, for instance, say I have a bunch of governance tokens, what is the incentive for me to deposit those tokens into bribe versus a vanilla lending market like compound or AAvE? Is it that bribe can offer, can allow projects to offer additional rewards through, through the private protocol to lenders of that token.
00:27:01.960 - 00:28:01.990, Speaker C: Another super important feature of governance tokens. We don't want people to like, you know, have to choose between voting and staking a token and actually getting yield on it. You know, there are plenty of use cases for governance tokens today, and not a lot of them are like really high yield voting applications. So part of the narrative, I think part of our roadmap, is also getting more protocols to take on ideas like staked Aave. I mean, we want to set up this market so that the DeFi space can see, oh my gosh, look how cool and profitable for our communities voting marketplaces can be. And so that's exactly why we honestly, why we picked AavE and staked Aave to integrate with. That's been our plan since we, since we first brought the team together and started building the protocol mid last year.
00:28:02.142 - 00:28:28.584, Speaker B: And I guess zooming out in the long term, do you foresee, I guess, vote buying protocols like bribe to actually subsume existing lending protocols? Because my understanding is it's almost a superset of lending protocols where bribe not just allows people to borrow and lend tokens, but it also adds this kind of additional governance layer on top where people can, you know, create incentive for specific pools and whatnot. So is bribe actually a superset of something like AavE?
00:28:29.164 - 00:30:41.544, Speaker C: When I hear that, what comes to mind, and kind of just honestly spitballing here, but what comes to mind is the idea that, like, in theory, in a democracy, voters can control like, what it means to be a competitive business based on regulations and like taxation schemes and this kind of thing in a very indirect way, but in a way that in the super long term could probably be, you know, modeled and understood. It's in the same way that I think about kind of the bribery governance question in this space, I think by the time that we get there, the actual solution that's able to, to kind of connect all of the different outcomes of governance and hold those outcomes in a single bribery mechanism. Something like, should aave use bureaucracy, a based on maker with these four subdaos, a bribe pool for two of them, fee sharing to LP's? Or should aave use governance bureaucracy be based on compound which uses elections and what have you? By the time we get to this level of question, and then holding the AaVE token is simply a matter of picking up the fee sharing and making these high level strategic decisions on governance. By the time we get to this level of question, I do actually expect that a governance aggregator, governance tooling like bribe will play a considerable role, specifically, again, like modeling and accounting for all of the implications of the governance decisions that are being made. To the extent that we can drill down and really understand what governance outcomes are on a systematic basis, on a modeled basis, we get closer to this world where governance is simplified and super intuitive for any kind of protocol.
00:30:41.924 - 00:30:55.904, Speaker B: We've referred to this AAvE integration a few times now, so I want to make sure we visit this. So can you explain to us what exactly is this integration that you did with AavE and stake AAVE, and what can users do with it? Today?
00:30:56.604 - 00:32:16.950, Speaker C: We will probably be in the midst of rolling out mainnet by the time this goes live. So super like, great timing for the, you know, for the question for the discussion at large. The Aave bribe pool is this coalition of AAVE voters. So our MVP, which you'll be able to find at Bribe XYZ, is the application where this coalition is formed. If I am an AAvE holder, I can stake my Aave on the app. And as bribe submits and sponsors proposals, integrations, partnerships, new assets on the Aave Dao, the excess value from that activity will accrue primarily to stakers of Aave, who, of course, are helping us to get proposals through to the DAO, but also to stakers of bribe, who do get a cut of the protocol, sorry, of the bid revenue as well, from people who are, again, borrowing, essentially the votes on our platform.
00:32:17.142 - 00:32:37.906, Speaker B: Got it. So essentially, there is a pool that's set up by bribe. You're giving that pool, first of all, like bribe, inflationary rewards, and people can then vote to direct that pool of AAVE tokens to vote for certain governance proposals. Is that a correct kind of synthesis?
00:32:38.050 - 00:33:47.274, Speaker C: That's exactly right. And with the MVP, the proposals that we are supporting are those that are sponsored by a highest bidder. So we like to call this an auction mechanism. The governance market is essentially an auction over control of the bribe pool for any given AavE decision. So the way that you'd expect this to play out is that for kind of mundane risk parameter updates everyday, kind of like protocol maintenance upgrades, these kinds of things, you would expect those to not be controversial, to not really attract a bid for adverse proposals, which, of course, we don't shy away from the potential existence of this or these, something like in the vein of shut down aave or send a million dollars from the treasury to my wallet. You'd expect this kind of activity, even if it did get bid on to either lose or of course, get vetoed. Aave does have a veto mechanism called the Guardian multisig.
00:33:47.274 - 00:34:09.034, Speaker C: The third type is really vibes, bread and butter, though, and that is competitive proposals. These tend to involve, of course, like I've been kind of mentioning throughout the conversation, they tend to involve third parties that are highly incentivized to either do a partnership or an integration or what have you with the underlying dao.
00:34:09.774 - 00:35:01.894, Speaker B: Got it. And I guess in terms of how people decide to stay tuned to this bribe pool, I guess for someone who's trying to maximize their own profit and loss, at least for myself, I'll probably look at the yield that I can earn by lending out my aave on just kind of the AavE protocol itself versus staking my aave versus staking my aave into bribe. So I guess, do you think most users will kind of approach the decision whether to stake their aave into bribe pools through that lens? Whether purely just looking at the yield they can earn through different staking opportunities and the opportunity cost? Or will people generally have a more political motivation that, hey, I want to stake into bribe this bridepool? Because I generally have agreed with how this bridepool has folded in the past.
00:35:02.834 - 00:36:22.034, Speaker C: This is super important. And really, again, the crux of why we chose to integrate with Aave. With staked Aave, you can do both. Staked AavE represents Aave that has been staked with the platform, staked on the Aave protocol on the web app, which is receiving essentially liquidity mining rewards and probably some fee sharing in the background. It equates to right now around 7% annual return, which is to me, pretty solid for a very safe, well established protocol. In addition to getting that 7% which you're getting by staking Aave on Aave, you are then getting a receipt token with which you can vote, which is staked Aave. And by staking your staked Aave, which is getting rewards in the background, this 7% currently, and also staking your staked aave into bribe, you can get double exposure and not be taking any downside risk whatsoever to your underlying aave position.
00:36:22.034 - 00:37:20.468, Speaker C: Nothing kind of unsafe is being done with your Aave position. Obviously, you're contributing it to the kind of ave risk engine. However, you know, on the side of bribe and on the side of kind of your ave staked, this isn't a number that's going to go up and down. You know, if you buy five aave, you're going to have five aave, and you're simply making rewards on it. So as far as kind of defi applications go where we're living in a world where apys are fluctuating from negative 10% to 100,000% on a weekly basis. We're kind of in a bear market right now. We should be, as an industry, trying to attract more users, make our applications more understandable.
00:37:20.468 - 00:37:37.184, Speaker C: And for Brybe, it's a really important part of our mission as we're trying to grow participation in governance that people have stable apys and not a bunch of kind of defi risk from, you know, but still be getting a lot of compounded yield.
00:37:37.344 - 00:37:52.884, Speaker B: And do you expect kind of multiple third party projects to come in and offer incentives to the bride pools? Is it possible for me to kind of stake my aave in a bribe pool and then have like five different projects paying me rewards because they all have their own voting agenda? Is that kind of the expectation?
00:37:53.344 - 00:39:03.434, Speaker C: What I want to say is that the next paradigm to watch, or really always kind of always that. I'll drop a bit of alpha here. I feel like the paradigm in DeFi to watch that people need to always focus on. Maybe your audience always knows this is slippage. The key to everything in DeFi is slippage, because if you. If you want to grow quickly, if you want to grow big, if you want to be big, you need to have some kind of sustainability. And if you're caught, if you find yourself caught, you find your governance token caught in this pattern of a massive downturn that can be incredibly demoralizing, not to say that daos can't recover from this or protocols can't recover from this, but kind of slippage is incredibly important in establishing a convincing and sustainable market for a governance token, which, of course, is, you know, let's just be honest, it's like the heart and soul of a protocol, at least in my opinion, right now.
00:39:03.434 - 00:40:37.910, Speaker C: So, crucially, what the, the products that we are building right now. In the same vein, that kind of curve revolutionized what a decentralized exchange was with tricrypto, with minimum fees, minimum slippage, in that same way, we are building a set of products around. How do you minimize slippage in governance decisions, exactly? What do I mean? Well, in Aave, if I want to kind of host and execute a proposal today, meeting quorum takes around. Obviously, the price fluctuates, but meeting quorum on Aave, getting a proposal passed takes anywhere between like 50 million aave and 100 million aave. Something in this vein, if I'm a third party protocol who wants to get access to a governance vote, let's say I care a lot. Not only do I need to buy $50 to $100 million worth of AAVE, but with slippage, I would need to use every decentralized exchange that exists, take up probably a meaningful fraction of the supply there. And if the price is going to shoot up some meaningful percentage on all of the protocols that I'm engaging in, I just won't be able to help it.
00:40:37.910 - 00:41:46.150, Speaker C: If I want to buy 2% of the AavE market cap tomorrow. That's just what's going to happen. And the fees and price changes which are going to kind of occur as I'm doing this, are just going to make it not only just prohibitively expensive, but also difficult, really risky, really annoying. There is just no way to do it today. And so part of building this coalition is dealing with the issue of slippage or another way of essentially framing building this coalition is dealing with the issue of slippage. Bribe is the only protocol which deals kind of explicitly with this issue in particular. And while you're going to see additional protocols probably every month throughout 2022, rising up, doing some kind of creating some kind of governance market, the reality is that it's kind of unintuitive what the actual problems are.
00:41:46.150 - 00:42:01.182, Speaker C: And I think we go through this process in defi time and time again. Like you build something novel, you realize that there's a slippage problem, and you build it for the reality of bootstrapping massive protocols, massive communities and large treasuries.
00:42:01.318 - 00:43:01.614, Speaker B: And this is really interesting because if you kind of follow it to its logical conclusion from a kind of risk reward perspective, it almost makes no sense if you're holding aave token to not stake it, if you're okay with the smart contract risk, and if you're staking it, it almost makes no sense not to put it in a bribe pool just because it's almost as if a bunch of whales are out there and telling you that, hey, one day we might give an airdrop to anyone who stakes their aave into a bribe pool, it might happen, might not happen, but the expectation that there can be third parties trying to incentivize kind of these votes makes a lot of sense for basically everyone who holds aave to stake into the pool. So I guess the conclusion is, is that a scary thought that we're going to create maybe a huge monopoly across all of these protocols where there's just kind of one pool of tokens voting in a specific way for different proposals?
00:43:02.034 - 00:43:40.152, Speaker C: It is. I mean, I think that this is exactly why we take a high level approach and make sure that every product we build is going to be conducive to a market that actually works. This is not a not intuitive problems that we're dealing with here. 42 minutes and a recording, or however many minutes we are. My answer to this is, truthfully, like, again, the problem we're trying to solve is we're trying to get a price tag on a vote at a given time. And you can imagine that this actually, you know, this isn't the conclusion of a market whatsoever. We thought we were done with curve, you know, when they released the gauges, like, oh, this is, you know, this is the future.
00:43:40.152 - 00:44:03.544, Speaker C: No, then there's comic like, this isn't a conclusion, it's just another stepping stone. So I don't know what utilities, what functionalities or whatever are going to be built on top of vev. However, what we do know is that there will be a price tag for the underlying vote when those apps are built. So let's say I'm delegating, or let's say I'm staking my staked Aave.
00:44:05.764 - 00:44:06.196, Speaker B: With.
00:44:06.260 - 00:44:47.744, Speaker C: Some kind of provider like mim. Let's just say I'm able to put my staked Aave and get stablecoin loans based off of it. That's another utility. Maybe I need to put this staked Aave there. So it's a competing use case with bribe. Well, what I know as a user, my right as a user, is that I know that there's a competing use case. So my expectation becomes that mem should not be, or, you know, whoever's giving me this kind of stablecoin loan shouldn't be holding my, my aave at the same value for the same rates, effectively fixed over time.
00:44:47.744 - 00:45:41.652, Speaker C: I know because I looked at the bribe dashboard that my vote is worth $5 in month x and $10 in month y, and that I should be compensated appropriately. And so making this market transparent. And so sorry to take that to its logical conclusion. My stablecoin loan provider, or whatever my utility is, which is now taking my staked aave. The expectation is that they are bribing, if they have nothing better to do with my vote, because they hold my vote. So they should be monetizing it to whatever extent possible. So you essentially like, to me, the logical conclusion with this is not that there's kind of a big scary bribe pool that is, that is making all of governance kind of open access open for sale because utilities will be built on top of bribe.
00:45:41.652 - 00:46:42.732, Speaker C: That will essentially obscure. That will essentially obscure the opportunity or essentially the more perverse use cases. We want to empower delegates, we want to empower utilities on top of Vev that encourage the responsible usage of Vev and yet continue to compensate users. And as a backstop, I mean, goodness, we have the veto, Abe has a veto. Most of the protocols, the integrations that we're going to announce over the next few weeks, they have vetoes. So we know that there's this backstop against adverse behavior. You're not going to see any headlines that are, trust me, I think about it more than anyone else, but you're not going to see any headlines that are like, bribe proposal, does X, Y, and Z bad thing on a major protocol? There's just we work too well together basically, to let that happen.
00:46:42.828 - 00:47:15.604, Speaker B: Got it? Got it. Yeah. And this is all super interesting, and I'm really excited for when bright finally goes live on Mainnet because there's a lot of, I guess, nuance here that I think will be much easier to untangle once we get to kind of try our hands at the actual. In terms of the implications of this. This is one of the most exciting discussions in crypto today because the core question of what happens when you can buy votes, I think that really changes the landscape. And what's happening on curve wars right now is just a hint of things to come. But for the interest of time, I'd like to wrap it up here.
00:47:15.604 - 00:47:23.500, Speaker B: But for people who want to keep up with what bribe is up to or want to test out the product on Mainnet, what are the best channels for them to do this?
00:47:23.692 - 00:47:51.944, Speaker C: Absolutely. Stay plugged in. Our Twitter ribeprotocol website, Brybe xyz app, will be on Mainnet soon. Definitely check it out as soon as you hear this, put your governance tokens in there. If you have Aave or the tokens of one of the protocols that we're integrating with and start bribing, you'll wonder why you weren't doing it in the first place.
00:47:52.064 - 00:47:57.896, Speaker B: Absolutely. Well, thank you so much once again, Cordesev, for coming onto the show, and I'm really excited to test the product out.
00:47:58.000 - 00:47:59.744, Speaker C: Awesome. Thank you so much.
