00:00:04.570 - 00:00:04.846, Speaker A: What up?
00:00:04.868 - 00:00:49.686, Speaker B: Coordination on the pod today? We have a priori zero X who is an anon or semi anon who is working on mev and mev redistribution. They wrote this post called Random Half baked Thoughts on mev. Redistribution. About a month ago. And so this podcast is all about mev redistribution. So if you're just tuning in, or if you're not, technical mev is basically a category of opportunities where people can earn revenue by capturing value from the mem pool. So if you're not deep on blockchain architecture, these words might not mean anything to you, but basically mev is maximum extractable value when a transaction gets submitted to the mem pool.
00:00:49.686 - 00:01:36.394, Speaker B: If you're a miner or someone who has access to the mem pool, you can insert a type of transaction that will capture value for yourself into the mempool and then execute it in order to extract value. An example of that would be that you, the listener, submits a transaction where you're going to buy some uni for X price. And I have a transaction in which I'm selling uni at X plus one price. And an mev transaction would be in between those two things, buying the tokens at a smaller price and then selling them at a higher price. And just it all executes in the same block. But the mev person is able to extract value by monitoring the mem pool and looking for those arbitrage opportunities. Not all mev is arbitrage, but that's just a simple example.
00:01:36.394 - 00:02:11.638, Speaker B: So mev is really interesting. It's just this rabbit hole. And April X has been thinking about this a lot. Why am I covering this? Why am I taking you down the rabbit hole? There's an opportunity to do redistribution with mev, aka redistributing profits to anyone other than the person who's doing the arbitrage. So what if we could fund public goods with mev? Is sort of the idea of this episode. Is that even a good idea? Is it even ethical to do that? Is another thing that comes up in this episode. So one of the most deeply technical episodes that we've done.
00:02:11.638 - 00:03:10.534, Speaker B: But I see a lot of upside in mev redistribution in funding public goods in the future. There's also a lot of thorny governance and technical problems in it, which makes for good podcast content. But yeah, so I think that you're going to see over the next quarter, I'm hoping to do three to five episodes on mev redistribution. I put it up there with civil defense and digital identity as one of the most important things to understand in this nascent blockchain ecosystem to figure out and to develop into something that could be more regenerative for the world. So TLDR Apriori is an mev researcher who cares about redistribution, who cares about public goods. And in this episode we go full circle on the technical applications here into how it could be applied to fund public goods and create a more regenerative crypto economic economy. And we wrap it all up by talking about the most interesting techniques in what's hot and where are things going to land on various L two s and layer ones in the future.
00:03:10.534 - 00:03:26.266, Speaker B: So this is a field to watch. If you're interested in going deep on mev, this episode is for you. If you're not, maybe it's one to skip, but I think it's a really good one and I learned a lot from talking to Priory Zero X. So without further ado, let's go deep down the mev redistribution rabbit hole. I hope you enjoy coordination.
00:03:26.378 - 00:04:09.946, Speaker C: Working in web3 is awesome, but working outside of the typical W two employee structure is a deal breaker for so many. Opolis is helping the self sovereign worker focus on what they do best. Their work tax time is coming up. Opolis helps professionalize your business by helping you form an entity, generate proof of employment through Pay subs and receive a W Two at the end of the tax year. Are you self employed and forced to spend money on expensive healthcare insurance with limited coverage? Opolis leverages group buying power through a community employment coop, helping you save 20% to 50% on high quality, affordable healthcare options through Cigna. And finally, Opelis's member owners share in Opelis's success and profits based on their work token holdings. You must be authorized to work inside the United States in select Canadian provinces to receive Opelis's benefits.
00:04:09.946 - 00:04:48.534, Speaker C: Book a 30 minutes free consultation with Opelis's experts and join Opelus by March 31, 2023 to get 1000 work and a thousand bank tokens. Go to connect Opelis co bankless to get started. And if you're going to East Denver, make sure to stop by the Opelis booth or attend their Future of Work summit hosted by Opolis. The Glow Dollar is a new stablecoin with a very special property. As the market cap of Glow goes up, extreme poverty goes down. Glow is a dollar backed non profit stablecoin that creates basic income for people living in extreme poverty. Glow is basically the same business model as USDC, with yield generating treasuries on one side and a stablecoin on ethereum on the other.
00:04:48.534 - 00:05:18.750, Speaker C: But instead of being a for profit company, glow is a nonprofit that donates 100% of all yields from the Glow reserve to Give Directly's basic Income program. Give Directly is a charity that gives people money, no strings attached, to people living in poverty, and is a charity that Vitalik has previously donated to and supported in the past. With Glow, you can reduce poverty just by holding a stablecoin. Glow is launching in early 2023 and you can join the waitlist@glowdollar.org greenpill. That's glodollar.org greenpill.
00:05:21.010 - 00:05:23.074, Speaker B: What's up, Apary? How you doing?
00:05:23.272 - 00:05:25.586, Speaker A: I'm doing great. How's it going today, Kevin?
00:05:25.698 - 00:05:34.902, Speaker B: Things are pretty good. I really like your anon name a priori. That means knowledge deduced from theory. Is that right?
00:05:35.036 - 00:05:36.150, Speaker A: Yeah, that's right.
00:05:36.300 - 00:05:52.998, Speaker B: Nice. So we're going to go deep on mev today. I'll be curious how much of the knowledge that we have is a priori versus empirical which is deduced from observation. So maybe we'll just start with the basics. What is mev and what's your background in working on it?
00:05:53.184 - 00:07:12.790, Speaker A: Sure, so I would say that the deeper I go or the more that I learn, the more that I don't know the answer to that question. But I believe the term was coined in the Flash Boys 2.0 White paper which was released in 2020 with Phil Diane and a bunch of other esteemed authors from Cornell. And they coined the term maximal or minor extractable value, which meant that a miner could basically position themselves as being in the privileged position in producing a block to reorder insert their own transactions or censor transactions, to basically create the most profitably packed block and extract some value from those behaviors. And as we have shifted to proof of stake world with not just ethereum but most blockchains in general, the term maximal extractable value has come to represent that. Another way to think about it is overlapping user preferences kind of create this value in the system that can be captured and sophisticated actors within the supply chain are able to go ahead and capture that value if they know what they're doing. If you want me to go a little bit deeper, I would say that generally the most well understood types of mev are sandwiches, arbitrage and liquidations.
00:07:12.790 - 00:08:03.334, Speaker A: Those are broad categories. There are certainly more in depth sandwiches refer to when a bot would front run you. Let's say they find a user trade that has maybe 5% slippage or something on uniswap V two. They'll go ahead and place a front running order, jack up the price, and then you will go ahead and get filled at that max slippage tolerance. And then they'll go ahead and turn around and back run you and capture that arbitrage opportunity there. That's not great for users because you got filled at a worse price and then also you're already down on your markout PNL from like 60 seconds after the trade, which also isn't great in terms of arbitrage. Obviously like AMMS require some amount of arbitrage to keep prices in line with off chain order books or centralized exchanges wherever the liquidity is.
00:08:03.334 - 00:08:40.798, Speaker A: So it's kind of a necessary function. One of the most popular types is back running and then you also have liquidations which play a key role in all of the lending protocols with respect to being able to capture some collateral at a discount and then go ahead and sell it and make that operation profitable. Actually, liquidation sometimes can be the most profitable form of mev and maybe one liquidation opportunity will capture more mev than in the entire month based off of different on chain activity, like when we have high volatility and those are kind of generally the different three types of mev.
00:08:40.974 - 00:09:58.902, Speaker B: Cool, let me just play some of that back just for the audience to hear it again. So mev is basically the category of incentives that miners or whoever's executing transactions have to profit from the transactions in the mem pool. So when you sign a transaction in MetaMask, it goes into a mem pool with a bunch of other transactions and there is a setup where the people who are executing those blocks are getting a block reward and transaction fees for executing those transactions. But there's another way that people can profit from those transactions, which is by sandwiching transactions or inserting their own transactions. So basically you're buying Token X or you're selling Token X at price at one die per token and I'm buying it at 115 per token. And so someone inserts a transaction in between there because they have access to the mem pool and makes it a little bit of extra profit on top of that. So it's the category of opportunities for people who have access to the mem pool to get their own transactions in for more profit.
00:09:58.902 - 00:10:08.080, Speaker B: And that's how I think about mev in sort of as layman's terms as I can get. Is that close at all? Is there any corrections that you want to make?
00:10:08.610 - 00:11:20.822, Speaker A: No, I think that's a good framework. And then the only other two things that I would add, which I think listeners should be aware of, long tail mev. So these are opportunities that don't come up very often on chain. It could be something like a more recent one was there was a board, Apes Yuga Labs land Mint for their other side deed land tokens or NFT rather. And somebody came up with the idea of, well, if I do a flash loan, borrow an ape from this lending protocol, I can go ahead and then mint the token, return the ape back to the lending protocol, repay the flash loan, and then capture that value of whatever the NFT was worth, minus the expense to put on that position. So there are opportunities like that where there's some people that are incredibly skilled in writing solidity or even in lower level Yule assembly language and can really make gas efficient contracts and then are just very creative in identifying some of these opportunities. The other thing is that sometimes protocols that might not necessarily be very popular might have mev that can be leaked from them, but because nobody is paying attention, there are opportunities that are there for the taking.
00:11:20.822 - 00:12:08.098, Speaker A: Like it could be like a lending protocol that most people aren't aware of, but there are still liquidations that need to be processed. So a searcher might say hey, this is profitable for me. And then the other piece is this newer one for Uniswap V three, which is just in time liquidity, which some people might have heard about, where basically a bot will go ahead and they'll sense an opportunity, where a large trade is in the Mempool. And it's going to be executed. And they'll go ahead and front run that trade and add liquidity just in time and go ahead and capture that fee from that trade. So it actually comes at the cost of uniswap passive liquidity providers, unfortunately for them, but actually for the trader, it leads to a better fill and then they can turn around and have a back run transaction right after that as well and capture that profit. So just two others to be aware of.
00:12:08.264 - 00:12:32.910, Speaker B: Nice. Yeah, it feels like this whole category of profit opportunities with mev and I'd love to just put a pin on mev now that we've established that there's an opportunity for tokens to be made here and pivot to talking about mev redistribution. So you've written a post about this and I'm curious if we could just start with what's the definition of mev redistribution?
00:12:33.490 - 00:13:23.470, Speaker A: Sure. So the idea would be that either a protocol at the application or maybe easier to think about, like an application specific blockchain is able to capture some mev and then redistribute that either back to users who are using the protocol. Or maybe if it's a dex, like liquidity providers. Or they might just decide that the best thing to do is to burn the token, which how you help the token holders of the protocol. Or they might use it to subsidize new users in the future. To my knowledge, there is nothing live in production yet with this type of model. But the high level idea behind it is that you're able to capture some of this profit and redistribute either to the protocol or use it for some greater good, like maybe funding public goods.
00:13:25.010 - 00:13:40.206, Speaker B: So it feels like mev redistribution is just the opportunity to take mev and instead of putting in the miners pockets, maybe there's some reason that they want to distribute it to another actor in the system of which a subset of that could be public goods funding.
00:13:40.398 - 00:13:42.260, Speaker A: That's right. Yeah.
00:13:44.630 - 00:14:02.490, Speaker B: We'Ll have a link to your post in the show notes here, but I'm curious if you can kind of give us the high level of the post. So the post title is Random half baked thoughts on Mev Redistribution and you published it about a month ago. So I'm curious to hear some of those random half baked thoughts on mev redistribution.
00:14:03.070 - 00:15:23.998, Speaker A: For sure. So the post came from I got the idea from Shin at Sexy Sun One on Twitter. He's a flashbots collaborator researcher and he put forth this idea and I kind of riffed on it. And my idea is that if the product market fit or the ultimate use case of blockchains is to disintermediate financial institutions because we can basically unbundle an investment bank with DeFi and put all the primitives on chain themselves. Then blockchains are uniquely positioned to actually capture this mev that takes place in the legacy financial world, which is very instrumental to the revenue models of all these banks and different firms there. And so as we have more fiat dollars that are converted to crypto coins via things like USDC or Tether, more volume and liquidity comes on chain, there's going to be more opportunities to capture mev. And so having that model thinking through, well, what is the best way then to maximize this opportunity for the ecosystem and optimism? Put out a post a couple of years ago on e three search called Miva with this notion of mev auctions and selling block space in advance and basically selling the rights to sequence transactions for a given amount of blocks.
00:15:23.998 - 00:16:32.502, Speaker A: I'm not sure if they've settled on the specification implementation details on how to go about that, but high level, the idea is like you could auction off maybe like ten blocks and say, okay, you have the right Alice, to sequence the transactions in these ten blocks. There might be some other rules associated with the sequencing, but you're willing to pay in advance. And then the protocol is able to capture a profit minus the expenses that they're also incurring. And then they can use some of those profits and either maybe like go to a community pool or do something like retroactive public goods funding. Recently, the Cosmos ecosystem put out a white paper for Atom 2.0, which was a revamp of the Cosmos Hub's tokenomics. And one of the ideas within there was to have this notion of a scheduler who could schedule block space in advance and then use some of that revenue to feed a different contract called the Allocator, which would then go and do things like provide liquidity to help bootstrap token liquidity or to fund venture startup project public goods, which, actually, the cosmos hub does have a very good track record of doing those things within their ecosystem.
00:16:32.502 - 00:17:19.100, Speaker A: So those are kind of like the two that we've seen so far. Ideas that have been elevated, I would say. Another thing to consider is that a lot of times this is going to get pushed to layer two because it's not feasible to capture mev on layer one and fund public goods. And I think the reason being is that there has historically been an EIP, I don't remember what it is, offhand, which proposed this very early on, which was swiftly rejected. And then in addition to that, ethereum at the base layer aims to be credibly neutral. So it's very difficult to coordinate and say we want to fund these public goods because you're going to have a whole group of people that disagrees with that notion as well and you also lose some of your credible neutrality in that way. So at the base layer, there's actually been some great research.
00:17:19.100 - 00:18:27.546, Speaker A: Tarun Chitra wrote a paper about mev smoothing, basically redistributing the mev to the validators in the network, but doing it on a smooth basis so everybody is able to capture some of that rather than it just going to either large staking pools. And then there's also a great ETH research post by Francesco. I think his handle is Fradmat, who wrote a couple of years ago about committee based mev smoothing on how to implement this. And then there's also a more nuanced recent post by Domathy at the EF who wrote about proposer auctions and burning mev. So that's kind of the layer one combo, but at layer two you have this ability because of the way that the sequencer is so integral in the operation of the roll up where they are your builder and you can auction off that right to potentially sequence transactions. Now, there is an opposing view to this and the opposing view is kind of the religious divide within the mev community and that is auctions versus fair ordering. And some people believe that mev is bad and it's theft and it's stealing.
00:18:27.546 - 00:19:23.882, Speaker A: And therefore you should just have these fair ordering protocols that order transactions as they come in with network latency, first come, first serve, and then you have some kind of agreement on those transactions before they go through consensus and maybe you have some kind of like ZK snark as well attached to them. Great work that's being done. There is a protocol called themis, it's being researched by Cornell Mahimna Kalkar, actually Sriram Khan, also an author of that paper as well. I believe Ari Jules is involved in that work too. Arbitrum is more so looking to implement that approach. However, recently, actually, Shin from the Flashbotch team put forth a proposal to actually have this notion of auctions prior to fair suite sequencing. So maybe like you take 2 seconds, you do an auction and then after that auction you're locking your order of transactions and then you're going ahead and going through the block production pipeline.
00:19:23.882 - 00:20:30.274, Speaker A: And so that could be a way to kind of get the best of both worlds. And so the post was kind of riffing on that, well, mev exists and it's only going to get bigger, so we might as well think about what are the ways to capture it and redistribute it, to refuel and refund the ecosystem. And to me that's very important because a lot of times venture funding within crypto, I've noticed, will dictate whatever the next meta is and where people are interested in terms of building. And sometimes people won't build a public good because they don't think that they can get funding for it. So they'll go and they'll build maybe like some ZK application that they know that they can get funding for. Not saying that's a bad idea, but you're unable then to say as an ecosystem, well, we need this BLS signature wallet, let's say, and really get a lot of good funding behind it. And if you're able to capture mev and redistribute it, you actually allow some of these ecosystems to be self sustaining and you allow the community of the ecosystem then to dictate where the funding goes and you're less reliant on venture funding.
00:20:30.274 - 00:20:52.640, Speaker A: And with retro public goods funding, as I understand it, it's kind of this symbiosis now between venture and the community where you're able to then still get an exit at the end of the term and still be profitable as a venture. So you have this other carrot as well. And if we work together on this, then we can kind of mushroom this out.
00:20:53.090 - 00:21:45.374, Speaker B: Amazing. I'm just going to play back what I heard and feel free to interject any corrections. So at the layer one, there's mev auctions, mev smoothing, and I'm doing very high level for the audience here to give them the topology. But mev auctions, mev smoothing at the layer one, proposer auctions and burning mev. And then there's also, since Ethereum's got this modular architecture, you have all these different L two S who have their own mev roadmap. So it's almost like in the United States, how we have 50 states that can craft legislation that could be adopted at the layer one, which is the federal government. You almost have this kind of like, experimentation in these sovereign layer twos that is also happening that is kind of a fractal or reflection of the layer one.
00:21:45.374 - 00:22:46.606, Speaker B: And then across the breadth of this topology of people who are exploring this, there's basically a debate of like, okay, well, should we be trying to capture and decentralize mev or should we be trying to get rid of it because it's theft and it's stealing and we should have fair ordering protocols. So auctions sorry, capture versus fair ordering is kind of like maybe capture and equal access to mev, democratizing access to mev versus fair ordering, which is eliminating it. And your take and I don't want to put words in your mouth, but this is what I heard is that Meav exists. We might as well figure out how to deal with it. And the opportunity that you see is that venture funding in web3 often dictates the next meta. Meta just stands for most efficient tactic available. And if venture funding dictates the next meta, is that a good thing? What if we could do funding for ecosystems with Mev and displace the VCs with that opportunity? Okay, so that's my rundown of everything I heard from you.
00:22:46.606 - 00:22:48.980, Speaker B: What did I miss? Where would you want to correct the record?
00:22:49.510 - 00:23:32.106, Speaker A: I think you nailed it. I think the only thing that I didn't include would be to say there's a lot of data that shows that auctions actually have increased the overall welfare of users in the system with respect to fills on prices. There's even been research. Tarun wrote a paper going into this. He did a talk at Bogota, I think it was called The Cost of Feudalism, where he talked about actually sandwiches can potentially even improve order routing for dex aggregators, so maybe some sandwich, but overall, everybody else gets a better fill. And so there's a lot of data that supports some of these ideas and there's not necessarily that much yet to support fair ordering. And then there's also some questions about information theory.
00:23:32.106 - 00:23:42.818, Speaker A: Is there a lower bound on mev anyway? But yeah, I think you totally nailed it. I think you got what I was trying to say. You did a great job.
00:23:42.984 - 00:24:30.402, Speaker B: I think you nailed it. I'm just trying to keep up and summarize for the audience. So I guess I'm curious how you see this ecosystem developing in the next couple of years. Which projects are you excited about? If I'm a regen, which mechanisms and projects should I pay attention to? And the real for me, the cherry on top was like, okay, so there's going to be all this experimentation at the layer two. What's going to end up happening on the L one? Like the beacon chain? That to me feels like the end game of all of this mev research, because the L two S are kind of their own little sovereign place for experimentation. But where does the ethereum l One end up on this? Is it just status quo or is there going to be an EIP that changes the status quo? So anyway, I asked you a lot of questions wrapped up in one. It's my sandwich attack of a question.
00:24:30.402 - 00:24:34.578, Speaker B: Back to you. But what are you excited about and where does the ethereum l one end up?
00:24:34.744 - 00:25:04.106, Speaker A: Sure, I'll start with what I'm excited about. Definitely a bit of a roll up. Maxi very excited about, well, obviously optimism. I love their community. I think a lot of people are very bought into the vision and just from what I've seen with various different movements in crypto, you need this type of spiritual or vibe component to actually build something sustainable. So I'm very excited about optimism. Also.
00:25:04.106 - 00:25:36.614, Speaker A: The architecture of Bedrock is highly modular. And so far, optimism, I believe, has had the most forked code base out of any roll up. So the you know, I know they're still working on Canon and getting fraud proofs live, but the Op stack in general might be a way for Ethereum roll ups to just kind of fork and spin up, kind of like the Cosmos SDK in this way. So I'm very excited about that project. And then also they've done some great work on 4844 contributing there as well. Obviously, ZK roll ups are very exciting. I think Tyco is super interesting.
00:25:36.614 - 00:25:50.490, Speaker A: There's a trade off space between these type one roll ups and these type four roll ups where you are being exactly ethereum equivalent. But your proving time is very slow.
00:25:51.470 - 00:26:03.638, Speaker B: Sorry, I don't mean to interject. I just want to make sure the audience is clear on this. Is that the difference between a type one and a type four is ethereum equivalents versus some other trade off? Or I'm just looking for the definition of the two types of roll ups.
00:26:03.674 - 00:26:46.750, Speaker A: Yeah, that's right. So ethereum equivalents in the ZK roll up means that nothing is modified. There is no modification of the gas op codes. It's just another instantiation of Ethereum that's being put through a ZK circuit and proven versus a type four. Like, let's say a StarkNet runs a different type of virtual machine. And so while they do have some Ethereum compatibility because you can take solidity and put it through this warp transpiler and get it down into this Cairo bytecode, it's not quite Ethereum equivalent in this way because you're not matching the EVM. And so there's this trade off space basically where potentially you could get more performance as a type four.
00:26:46.750 - 00:26:52.798, Speaker A: Faster proving times, maybe cheaper verification, but you lose your Ethereum equivalents basically.
00:26:52.884 - 00:27:22.890, Speaker B: Cool. So I just want to connect this back for the listener. Optimism is famous for bragging about how little they've changed geth in their code base. So they're type one exactly the same as the Ethereum main. I think I've actually heard them say like, we want to be Ethereum, whereas something like a StarkNet or a ZK roll up might have a different type of virtual machine underneath of it which presents new opportunities but also challenges underneath of it. Is that on target?
00:27:23.230 - 00:28:15.222, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a good framing. I would just say that there hasn't really actually been anything written in terms of optimistic roll ups and how equivalents. I'm just basically framing it off of Vitalik's article that he wrote about what types of ZK roll? Yeah, I mean, I know optimism is very much trying to go down that path of Ethereum equivalence and they have this potentially really cool MIPS machine fraud proof scheme when Canon launches. So looking forward to that as well. But not to dive too much into the roll up stuff in terms of layer one, justin Drake's done some great research on this, alex Obadia as well, and others. There's a lot of solutions to various different problems that could come up with respect to mev. So one that a lot of people know about is this idea of proposer builder separation.
00:28:15.222 - 00:29:03.638, Speaker A: Right now we have Mevboost, which is kind of this out of protocol proposer builder separation and we're actually getting to learn about the actors and kind of what are the needs of the system and what are the trust assumptions and where do things break down. So I think that's great that we could test that. So PBS is something that long term should be implemented in protocol. Another one that I'm very excited about is single slot finality. So this is similar to what you would see in Tendermint where basically you can achieve finality on every block today in Ethereum you don't, you achieve finality over two epochs, which is 64 slots. So it's maybe about 13 minutes, give or take. And in a Tendermint based system you're achieving finality after one block.
00:29:03.638 - 00:29:35.006, Speaker A: And so the overhead in terms of a challenge right now in implementing. That with Ethereum, as I understand, is the aggregation of signatures to get every single validator to be able to vote on that one block. But I believe it is pretty much solved as a research problem. From reading Vitalik's post on it. I think it's called the road to single soft finality. But that is something that can stop any kinds of short term multi block reorgs and that gives users a lot more assurances about their transaction finality. So I'm very excited about that one.
00:29:35.006 - 00:30:30.070, Speaker A: Opens up a number of possibilities also too with different types of cross chain communication. Another one is single secret leader election. So right now, today, you know in advance who's going to be the leader for each slot in an epoch. But in the future you will be able to only know if you are the leader and nobody else will be able to know. So there's some cool cryptography, some great research that's being done on that front as well. And then mev smoothing, which we talked about, that's really great for redistribution and also creates a different set of incentives for the participants in the block production supply chain there as well. Recently there's been ideas put forth about threshold encrypted mem pools, the idea of maybe you can even get to fully homomorphic encryption.
00:30:30.070 - 00:31:10.290, Speaker A: These are topics that I'm not quite as familiar with, but there's some great research and the recent, what's it called, the Recent Mev Roast with Justin Drake and Flashbots, he gave a whole presentation about the different types of encryption and how feasible that they would be going forward in the future. So I would definitely recommend listeners check that out. So Ethereum at the base layer will be robust and will be, I would say, as mev resistant as possible in the future. I think in terms of like if most of DeFi and NFT Minting moves to layer two then they're going to have to figure out probably what they want to do in terms of value capture mechanism.
00:31:12.550 - 00:31:28.198, Speaker B: Let me play that back. So you're excited about optimism because of the sort of vibe you didn't say retroactive public goods funding but when you said vibe and spiritual component, then that's at least what I hear. And also the modular architecture. Is that fair?
00:31:28.364 - 00:31:29.290, Speaker A: That's fair.
00:31:29.440 - 00:32:04.450, Speaker B: Cool. And then the ZK ecosystem. There's some projects you're excited about. Vitalik wrote a post about the Road to Single Finality that you're excited about. Single Secret Leader Election is also something that could help here and you think that Ethereum at the base layer will kind of be more robust and mev resistant. So the design choice at the base layer is minimizing mev, but at the L two layer, well, it kind of depends on whether DFI and NFT moves to L two S and if so, which L two S. But it's kind of anyone's game to figure out what to do at the L two layer.
00:32:04.450 - 00:32:07.390, Speaker B: Is that a good summary for the audience.
00:32:07.550 - 00:32:43.194, Speaker A: That's a great summary. The only thing that I would add is that I think Ethereum is going to be able to achieve this kind of robustness but also still have this open and free auction marketplace. I know Flashbots is working on this proposal of suave where it's kind of this idea that Vitalik put forward of having a distributed builder, almost a return back to mevgeth in a way where you're building portions of the block off chain and then kind of like mev boost you're delivering them to the slot leader at that time that they can.
00:32:43.332 - 00:32:46.850, Speaker B: What'S called proposer builder separation. Is this the same concept?
00:32:48.150 - 00:33:44.066, Speaker A: Yeah, it's similar. This would be an off chain again version of it, but it's a similar idea. They still have to release implementation details on this. So I would say check out their post, it's like about a 20 minutes read on their website but I know that they have more details coming soon. But basically the idea would be to have kind of these executors in the system, act as searchers and find profitable bundles and then aggregate those bundles and then this chain would aggregate them together and then send that portion of the block to the Ethereum proposer to include. And one method that I didn't talk about, that got talked about quite a bit at SBC was this notion of proposer agency where basically locally, a block builder could say, I want these set of transactions included in my block builder. You go build the block for me, but I need proof that you're going to include these ten transactions as well.
00:33:44.066 - 00:34:59.980, Speaker A: So it's a way that you could potentially get some kind of censorship, resistance, and then there are some complications there with respect to proposers needing potentially a view of the mempool. And the idea being that you want validators to kind of be as dumb and pipey as possible so anybody can spin one up and not have to run some complex searching algorithm or building algorithm. But that being said, there's also this idea that did ship called Min Bid where basically you can run Map Boost as a proposer but you can say hey, I only want the Mev Boost built block if the fee that I receive is one ETH, or if it's 0.5 E, whatever your threshold is, but it allows you to participate in the censorship resistance of the network generally, but then also say, okay, I want to get some long tail exposure because there have been blocks where it's an eight ETH payout or a seven ETH payout. And if you're that single proposer that's going to be much more than you're making in a year's worth of staking rewards. So you want that opportunity. But the idea of proposer agency and protocol commitments, there's some cool stuff research I would say Barnabay Monet and the robust incentive group are doing some great research there.
00:34:59.980 - 00:35:09.390, Speaker A: The Eigen layer team have put out a proposal called Mevboost Plus Plus which talks about some of this stuff as well. So I would say check those out for more details.
00:35:12.290 - 00:35:56.126, Speaker B: So talked about distributed builder and how that's similar to Mebgeth proposer agency and a couple other mechanisms. It seems to me that you said at the top of the episode that Mev is just this deep, deep rabbit hole and the more you learn about it, the more you realize you don't know. And I'm getting that feeling. It feels like that scene in Alice in Wonderland where you're kind of falling down the rabbit hole and there's like a rabbit or like a glass of milk that you could grab. I think she actually has a rocking chair on the way down. And I get that feeling of just being going down this deep rabbit hole and I'm wondering what's the a prior dirty reason for that is. It just that this is a place where there's a lot of upside and it's so novel and there's a blue ocean here.
00:35:56.126 - 00:36:06.180, Speaker B: But what's the reason why there's such a deep rabbit hole here and how far does the rabbit hole go? If you had to guess?
00:36:10.230 - 00:37:11.714, Speaker A: Some people would say they think that all these type of solutions would prove that you can solve Mev. And within five years, once we see some improvement in different versions of cryptography, then we'll get to a point where Mev is mostly solved. Other people think that it's going to continue to be an ongoing issue. It's hard to say. I mean, I think some of it is a coordination problem. Like we talked about, you have people that are building stuff kind of in parallel to each other but it might be symbiotic, it might be conflicting, which is great, but at the same time wasted efforts maybe. I think that it probably started because when this Flashbots team or these early members of kind of looking at mev and searching back in like 2018, 2019, when you had Ether Delta, they were looking at, wow, maybe you can make some money by reordering transactions.
00:37:11.714 - 00:38:27.726, Speaker A: And are there actually bots that are doing this and then experimenting and seeing that there are and then seeing that, hey, this is kind of a problem. And this led to DFI summer, where you had this notion of priority gas auctions where bots were just kind of spamming the mempool with tons of transactions, and it was jacking up the gas price for your average user, and transactions were failing on chain, and it was just creating an environment that was not great overall for the welfare of the system. So Flashbots came and shipped Mevgeth and then moved that PGA game off chain into an auction mechanism and then kind of cleared up the Mempool for every other general user. But the idea was know there's this negative externality because there's this value that can be captured which is making the experience of using Ethereum poor so like, let's ship this product to improve that and help the overall welfare of the system. And I think it's just kind of continued from there to build. Because now designers of applications, designers of any systems have to be mev aware, because there's these incentives that exist. And when you have an incentive that says, like, if you do X, you get paid x amount of money, people will probably gravitate towards that and do it.
00:38:27.726 - 00:39:05.980, Speaker A: So it's a way of designing the incentives that keeps the integrity of the system as intended, but also allows these incentives to potentially benefit the users of the system. So I don't know if that's a good answer, but I think it started from this notion of how do we solve the problem of PGAs to now mev is everywhere on every chain. How do we coordinate this and make it most efficient to be captured and then figure out these kind of redistribution mechanisms because otherwise you might have more anarchy and then it just kind of becomes an existential threat to blockchains in general. Amazing.
00:39:07.230 - 00:39:41.080, Speaker B: In a world in which you're maximally successful in your agenda with MEB redistribution, what does the world look like? So take me forward to 2033, ten years from now, and let's say that where you want to see mev redistribution go. If that's maximally successful, how does that change the world? Let's just give it ten years, which is a total arbitrary time. Maybe you could answer for five or 20 years. But in your world in which you're maximally successful, what does that look like?
00:39:41.450 - 00:40:28.850, Speaker A: A great question. So I would say the end state. I would hope that people aren't researching mev too much anymore, and I would hope that people are now studying how to redistribute mev for things like universal basic income. Maybe I see UBI as kind of an inevitability with AGI. There's going to have to be some kind of distribution because not everybody is going to be able to keep up. And I think Mev is like one of those vehicles that could actually fund this. So that's one thing I would say more so, less of a focus on how to capture and how to design protocols and maybe more on governance.
00:40:28.850 - 00:41:29.020, Speaker A: I think Mev is going to force governance to have a lot of battles and issues over time and I would hope that maybe in ten years time we're beyond that. And there's like a couple of standard models that people can just say, okay, this is how we want to set up our governance around this issue, or at least have our governance be aware of this issue and then move forward and be able to redistribute and fund public goods. And then we have less ultimately of these ecosystem free riders that just come in and spray and pray with different investments and then dump tokens on people, which ultimately doesn't benefit anybody. And if we can just have more investment in things because they're good ideas and because they can benefit the overall welfare of the ecosystem rather than what's going to ten x in a year or two years time, I think that we can get to a better place. And then you can start seeing the removal of some of these ponzi games from the ecosystem. So I would hope in ten years there's no more ponzi games because Mev has solved a lot of these problems.
00:41:30.030 - 00:42:11.894, Speaker B: So what I heard there was that there's an opportunity to do public goods funding here. There's governance problems with Mev and those battles will be fought probably at L Ones and L two S across the ecosystem. I really want to double click on the idea that UBI could be funded with Mev. So basically the chain of thoughts there is that AI could cause a bunch of worker displacement or displacement. I mean, not just AI, but all automation could cause worker displacement. And we need a way if we want to keep democracies or we want to keep the working class able to stay afloat, then they need to have some way of paying their bills. And UBI is one way that could be happening.
00:42:11.894 - 00:42:37.520, Speaker B: I mean, maybe there's other public goods I don't want to say welfare, but distribution mechanisms to the working class and they could be funded with Mev, which is to me is like a big ascertain of Mev redistribution's ultimate place in the world. Like holding together democracies and keeping the working class afloat feels like a pretty big deal to me. And it felt almost understated the way you said it.
00:42:38.930 - 00:43:34.210, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess maybe it's not as well formed of thought. I would just say that what I'm seeing with roll ups and app chains in general is that the idea being that they're their own communities, their own nation states in a certain way. And if you believe that there's going to be a lot of these roll ups and maybe for ethereum that's more at the layer three than at the layer two. And maybe for some of these app chains, it's just a dispersion of them, but there's going to be these coordination mechanisms where people form these communities around Blockchains in the future, perhaps, and assuming those things are true, then participants in those ecosystems probably are going to have to think long and hard about different funding mechanisms to keep their community afloat. And I think that this could be one where if you're part of this community and there's a UBI for this roll up community based off of the mev that's captured.
00:43:37.670 - 00:44:23.290, Speaker B: Yeah. I want to play forward sort of one of my ideas about how blockchains could fund public goods, and I just want to get your feedback on it and how mev fits into it. So I have this sort of like holonic perspective on the world. Holons are just basically this idea that each whole is also a part of other holes and it's kind of like fractal up and down different sizes. Like for example, I'm a person, I'm a holon that's composed of cells in my body. And you and me recording this podcast are a whole on because we're two people that compose this green pill show. And then the Ethereum community is a holon in Boulder, Colorado, where I live is a holon and the whole world is a so within each of these holons.
00:44:23.290 - 00:45:07.082, Speaker B: If we were to fund public goods at that holon, let's just say like take the Ethereum community, you basically need a way of raising funds for public goods. But that's only half the battle. You also need a mechanism to legitimately, incredibly neutrally distribute that public goods funding within that hold on. Or maybe if you're an extremely positive externality based hold on, you're shipping positive externalities one level. Imagine Ethereum creating funding not just for Ethereum open source, but all open source software. Okay? So it's holons all the way up and down and you can kind of have this modularity where you can match different funding mechanisms. Like Gitcoin raises money from just people who want to support Gitcoin.
00:45:07.082 - 00:45:58.942, Speaker B: Optimism has retro public goods funding. Maybe Mev redistribution is another funding source. And then on the other side you have retroactive public goods funding and UBI and quadratic voting and give backs. It's like this holonic architecture and this modular way of pairing up funding mechanisms with distribution sources. This to me is the way I see us building a modular stack for funding public goods worldwide is having forkable software and doing this modular way of doing it. And so I guess I'm just wondering if you have any feedback on that vision. Does that make sense to you? And then I guess I'm wondering how do we connect the people who are working on the mechanisms to the ones that are working on the funding sources? Is like the question that comes after that for me.
00:45:58.942 - 00:46:01.870, Speaker B: So I don't know, what's your reaction to that whole ball of wax?
00:46:02.610 - 00:46:45.100, Speaker A: I think that's really cool. I think that makes a lot of sense. It reminds me of something that David Deutsche wrote in one of his books. I don't remember if it was Fabric of Reality or Beginning of Infinity, but where he talked about this notion that on planet Earth, if we're able to leave Earth, then we can impact the universe. And so you're basically able to grow the tree out. And so we're not, as Stephen Hawking said, these insignificant specks of dust that are just random. We actually have ability to make great impact and change and sometimes all it takes is small impact first which can grow out in.
00:46:45.100 - 00:47:38.750, Speaker A: So I'm totally aligned with that thinking in terms of what do how to coordinate. I think that's really the issue right now. Mev is very much in this phase of you have people that don't want to accept that it could be a good funding mechanism versus people that say, well, it could be a good funding mechanism. I think once we figure out the distribution mechanisms in the next couple of years and what works and what doesn't work, I think it will be a lot easier for people to come to a shelling point and say this is what I think about this mechanism. These are the trade offs, this is the data associated with it and I think people will have less bipolar opinions about mev. At least I hope so. And I think once you get to that point, then you're able to have some conversations about these other things in terms of how do you coordinate this, I think the awareness piece is really key.
00:47:38.750 - 00:48:43.170, Speaker A: I think what you're doing right now for your listeners, I think what a lot of people are doing is just helping educate and raise awareness. I know for me, when I first learned about mev, I was like, oh my God, this is terrible, how could this possibly happen? This is just like high frequency trading in TradFi. And it took me a little while to get past that. And then once I started digging in a little bit deeper into the research, I started to understand it a little bit better. And then as I learned more, asked more questions, talked to people at Flashbots, I got to a point where I saw it more as kind of this financial energy that just kind of exists and it's going to keep growing as the total addressable market of blockchains keep growing. And so for me personally, I'm not at that bipolar place anymore with it, but I can see the perspective of the people that are and I think we just need to settle and get more data on some of these things and have continued awareness. I think once we move past that, then we can get to this point where we are funding all open source software with mev redistribution.
00:48:43.170 - 00:48:45.650, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:48:45.720 - 00:48:50.840, Speaker B: Amen well, I think that's a great place to end, unless there's any questions that I didn't ask you that you want to say.
00:48:52.490 - 00:48:57.400, Speaker A: No, I would just say that it's a very complex topic, so.
00:49:00.430 - 00:49:00.906, Speaker B: I might.
00:49:00.928 - 00:49:29.140, Speaker A: Have said something that's loosely true or not as precise as somebody more technical might have expected. But I would say that I'm just very thankful for the ethereum research community, flashbots research community in general, great public goods and just having this research available for people like me to consume it and to think about it, for us to talk about it. And so it's just been a great give back by that whole community. So very thankful there.
00:49:29.990 - 00:49:49.320, Speaker B: Yeah same well, I think that the work that's being done here is going to be foundational as the ethereum ecosystem continues to grow. And yeah, hopefully this can be routed into doing good for the world, which is what regenerative crypto is all about. So thank you for your work on this April and excited to see where it all goes.
00:49:50.410 - 00:49:53.010, Speaker A: Absolutely. Thank you. Kevin. Peace.
