00:00:07.430 - 00:00:36.894, Speaker A: Let's go. Hey everyone. So this is Adrian from Cismo and today we're going to talk about Attestations and what we call web Three cookies. It will enable a lot of things in web3. So we're going to talk about that how to leverage your data. So first let's give it the definition of Attestations. So it is a user data that is related to a user that is certified by an issuer and we will see different kind of issuers and that is provable to a third party.
00:00:36.894 - 00:01:13.934, Speaker A: The third party can read the Attestation and know that it is legit. So there are a lot of examples you can think about like national IDs, your age, more crypto native stuff, big delegate of a Dow, participate in governance and generally like any user data. So it can be web Two data, also your Twitter followers. It can be national data or web Three data. So I think it's interesting to think about the two main ways to create Attestations. The first one is centralized issuance. So I'm a third party, I'm the nation state.
00:01:13.934 - 00:01:38.994, Speaker A: I give you your passport. Your passport is an attestation. So this could be the digitalized and that will create an Attestation. It's interesting. Other stuff is web two companies, for instance Twitter, they have their private database and they can certify something about their data. So your number of Twitter followers or things like that. The way it works is that the issuer.
00:01:38.994 - 00:02:43.260, Speaker A: In this case the Attester signs a message I certify that this data is valid and I'm the central authority that gives it its validity. The other way to create Attications, and I think it's even more interesting is user generated. So as a user I have public data on my did on my address and I'm able myself to prove to a third party something about me. So in that case the assessor is actually a smart contract that verifies user proof and the issuance is trustless. In a way the mechanism is just a smart contract that verifies a user proof about its own data. So you can think about again, governance, participation, asset ownership, and it's based on the public available data and there is more and more publicly available data. So what are they used for? They are very great to be used as reputation inside your app.
00:02:43.260 - 00:03:49.678, Speaker A: Okay, you did this, you are big delegates, you have a big, I don't know, GitHub contributions on big projects and also as access control. It's the beginning of the notion of web3 cookie is, okay, I want to get part of my app to some specific users. I require them to bring me an Attestation that proves something about them and identity creation. So now application will use Attestations as a technical tool. But how Attestation that I told you about that was theoretical. How are they available to applications? You have the two main standards that you must have heard about verifiable credentials in this case, it's an off chain API where applications can fetch Attestations and third parties that rely on them verify that the Attestation was well signed by the issuer of the Attestation. So it's really an improvement from Web Two because currently APIs, they just give you data, they don't certify anything.
00:03:49.678 - 00:04:42.526, Speaker A: But it's still in the Web Two language in the way that there is communication with a central party that sign things. So it's still centralized, but it's big improvement from Web Two. The other way to make Attestation available to applications is using tokens. So you can call them badge, non transferable tokens, solvent token in any way. It's using a very common standard, the token standard, to use as a store of data. So by doing a badge, let's say a badge that proves that I'm a big delegate in ENS, in ENS Dao, by making it available as an NFT. What's great is that on chain apps can use it airdrops Governance and anything that any smart contract can access it, but also off chain applications.
00:04:42.526 - 00:05:18.350, Speaker A: And sometimes we forget about that. But the EVM is read by tons of Web Two apps. So that makes it very well accessible. It's a standard API. The token API. So the way it works that you receive on the wallet a non transferable NFT SBT, and behind that there is an Attestation. And so by proving you own the accounts, like with signing with Ethereum or yeah, with a signing with Ethereum, you can prove you have the badge or the solvent token and thus prove the underlying Attestation.
00:05:18.350 - 00:06:11.838, Speaker A: So now, I think this is the most important part of this is why Attestations, there are three main things that are interesting is the data liquidity, granularity and aggregation. So data liquidity, it's really giving you power on your data. You have data here, I don't know. You have reputation on DeFi reputation as a contributor in projects, you have a lot of data spread a bit all over and with that estimation you're able to move them from a place your DeFi wallet to maybe your social wallet. And so basically the idea is that I have reputation somewhere, I want to import it somewhere else, or I want to prove something about myself to third parties. And generally Web Two companies are not built in this way. They don't give you power on your data.
00:06:11.838 - 00:07:04.238, Speaker A: And so Attication can give you really disability to have your data liquid, your reputation, your history. The other part is granularity. I think this one has more to do with consent, is that on my national ID there is so much information and I should be able to just give the exact information that is required by the application. If I need to prove that I'm older than 18 year old, I should just prove that. Or similarly in Web Three native case, if I just want to prove that I have an NFT, I shouldn't share my wallet address with tons of information in it. The other part is the aggregation is okay, I have ID of it everywhere, maybe on different wallets, maybe on different chains. And I should as the user, it's my accounts, I should be able to have an aggregated view of all of that.
00:07:04.238 - 00:07:33.286, Speaker A: And if you add the granularity part, it gives you really sovereignty of your ID. I can have the aggregated view I need to access an application. I give them just what they need. So you need ZK for granularity. If you want to extract some part of that of your wallet, you need to find a way to prove that you have, let's say NFT without giving your address. We're doing this at CSMO with ZK snacks. Aggregation is the same way.
00:07:33.286 - 00:08:13.166, Speaker A: How do I prove that I have, let's say, ten NFTs from several wallets without giving you my wallets? We do that in snacks too, and liquidity. Actually you don't necessarily need ZK. So Attestations are more than just ZK tools or privacy tools. It's really a way to control your data and make it readable in a way by applications so that you can really leverage your data that is yours. So for instance, you have on your code wallet all your assets, like all your networks is there. But you just need to use your data. You just need to use that, hey, I have a good credit score and maybe you want to use that from a hot wallet.
00:08:13.166 - 00:09:15.830, Speaker A: So just generated a notification from a cold wallet to a hot wallet that I have a good credit score can be useful because it increase the liquidity of your data. So now Web Three cookie what it is, it's this concept of Attestations delivered under the form of SBTS. If I'm able to, I don't know, have a big follow account on Lens and have a good credit score on Ave, if I'm able to generate just, hey, I'm a good lender and have a great reputation and put it this on a non own address just to access a service that is gated for these people. I'm kind of created web. Three cookies. So I generated from my data the Attestation needed and just them that can be consumed by any applications. And we did it in a very interoperable trustless and reusable way because in the end these are tokens.
00:09:15.830 - 00:09:53.394, Speaker A: I still control the addresses on which it is. And you have the power of smart contracts. You can do so many things, you can get your AirDrop to this Attestation. You can do governance instead of judging, doing just token voting, you can do token voted weighted by reputation or stuff like that. So again, it's liquidity. It gives you the ability to leverage your full data. So yeah, just want to say one thing, is that often like granular, granularity is understood, aggregation is understood.
00:09:53.394 - 00:10:49.590, Speaker A: But the liquidity part I'm talking a lot about that today is that we've been raised with web Two accounts and we never felt the fact that we never shared our data between Twitter, Facebook, Airbnb, Uber and it kind of constrained our imagination, I think. And by being able to transfer your data and control all your reputation, there will be crazy applications. Even in web3, we are still Wallet centered, address centric, and we still think one account, one usage, one human, one account. But this is the vestige from web two. If you think about it, like Wallets should have like hundreds of addresses that are just technicalities anyway. And DeFi showed us this. If you think about centralized finance, you have many accounts in many different financial services.
00:10:49.590 - 00:11:26.382, Speaker A: And what DeFi proves that with one account you have tens of protocols integrated. And if you think about it, I'm short on time, but the ERC 20 is what they are actually. They are attestations. Of fact, like I told you, some Attestations are centralized, issued by central authorities. That is what is USD. And USDT USDC is a notization that there is some USD somewhere in the bank account. And so this is a notation that you have a USD value die it's user generated proof of USD value ownership.
00:11:26.382 - 00:12:08.880, Speaker A: Adai it's an attitude that you deposited in Ave, like a three curve. It's a notification that you deposited value in Ave and curve. And that's what made DeFi so interesting is that this liquidity, but not just liquidity of financial capital, it's this liquidity of information. Like I did this and then I can reuse what I did. And in DeFi it's easy because everything is financial and it's native. I don't know how to say it, but now imagine you can do that between financial data and social data and professional data and web Two data and rational data. And that's what we aim at.
00:12:08.880 - 00:12:56.654, Speaker A: We want with Attestations to really release this, like be a bridge between all your data. There is more and more data available on chain and available on your DIDs. And let's break the data series. We are so used to data series from Maltu, but I think that you should be able to have a group chat with your Twitter and Facebook friends. You should be able to have a better rating loan, a better interest rate on your loan because you're a good Uber driver or Airbnb host. And I think that with Attestations, if we do it well, if you think about Lens protocol, for instance, they are a source of social reputation. With DeFi, with governance, I think that we will be able to have really innovative applications that are amazing.
00:12:56.654 - 00:13:40.350, Speaker A: So that's what we aim at. We built Asismo, but generally I think the whole ecosystem is thinking like that a bit. We're trying to create this new primitive that lets anyone control its identity and make it more liquid. So, sysmo, we are an attestation protocol. We're the home for many diverse Attestations. We are basically a registry of many Attestations and we make them available through our products to all applications. So around Cismo, it's easy to use this attication to get your service or as reputation.
00:13:40.350 - 00:14:42.180, Speaker A: So yeah, that's it. I don't know if you have time for one question or yes. If I'm someone with a very good credit score, what prevents me from generating yeah, so the question was, let's say that I'm able to generate an attitude that vet for my good credit score. What makes me what prevents me from selling it? Right? Yeah, actually everything is programmable. So if you think about it, it's on smart contract. Maybe at the same time that you generate your Attestation, maybe you have to lock some capital or even better, you have to lock some of your reputation or you use some civil resistance attestation tool that proves that you are human. So you can do it, but only once.
00:14:42.180 - 00:15:19.962, Speaker A: Or you must also prove that you own the destination account. Like in the end, attication will be owned by an address. So you prove ownership of this address. Again, we're trying to open the design space and I think there are so many solutions to this kind of provisions, but that's hard to run. Yeah, for us, for system, what we did is that you prove ownership of the private key of the destination. So if you have an Attestation there yet, that means that you own the private key. So you can sell this private key, but it remains.
00:15:19.962 - 00:15:36.660, Speaker A: We are then generate a proof and then they get the assessment. Yeah. I cannot reply in precedent for this one, but.
00:15:38.950 - 00:15:48.840, Speaker B: If you attest that you have a good credit score and then later your credit score hits bad, does the attestation somehow update or is it like once it's there?
00:15:49.370 - 00:16:19.594, Speaker A: Yeah, to be honest, the credit score one is good for the vision, but I think it's pretty far down the road because it has these kind of complexities but there are ways to solve it by looking some reputation or by using civil resistance. You have an attitude with your credit score, then you can have an attitude that you did well with your credit score, that you can think about systems that are greater.
00:16:19.642 - 00:16:26.500, Speaker B: But an attitude is just a snapshot, right? It's not continually updating. At one point in time you had.
00:16:27.030 - 00:16:52.728, Speaker A: Depends on which ones. Actually, some of them, yes. But there are some dynamics. Yes. Excuse me. Yes. Some are delivered as verifiable credentials and hours are deliverable as delivered as Solborn tokens.
00:16:52.728 - 00:17:04.660, Speaker A: So badges, non transferable token, so you have a badge and behind there is an attestation. Thank you guys. I think that's it.
