00:00:01.000 - 00:00:38.724, Speaker A: So I'll be talking about the non algebraic semi direct product rigidity. Sayan actually has set the stage really nice for me. And also I'd like to thank Dreambake because I mean, he literally gave all the definitions, basic definitions, so that I don't have to go over them again. And I'll be talking a joint walk with the eunuch and Payan Das we did last year. So I think by now all of you have seen the definition of group on women algebras. So that's basically. And we have seen 18 JC stock in this form.
00:00:38.724 - 00:01:11.654, Speaker A: Take the left regular representation and then look at the double commitment. Or you can take the weak apartheid topology closure of this unitary operators and this is the weak topology. I think dream baguette definition of this one. So we'll be talking about two one factors. Vulnerable is called a factor if it has trivial center and an infinite dimensional ratio factor is called it one factor. So this group one of algebra, they do have a trace. I think you have all seen that in Jesse's talk.
00:01:11.654 - 00:02:04.484, Speaker A: So now when it comes to examples, so this theorem is due to Murray and van Nehman from 1936. So they showed that l gamma is drone factor if and only every non trivial element has infinite conjugacy class. So for example, you have free group with ten generators and you have this psln z, and then you have this pre product. And you can also consider distortion groups, the permutation group with infinite generator. And then you can also take the product. So the major theme of study environment algebras are developing rigidity theory in a setting. So what do you mean by rigidity theory? By rigidity theory, you mean that? Well, so you have your object gamma countermeasure group and you associate the corresponding group Vernon algebra to it.
00:02:04.484 - 00:02:43.794, Speaker A: So it's quite natural to ask, so what sort of property of your group actually are remembered by the group fundamental algebra? So what I mean by properties, we are a bit specific. It's algebraic or geometric properties. So let's look at a bit of history. What sort of rigidity result that we know of? Or I mean, why do we want to study rigidity theory? So let's look at the non rigidity theory first. It was a remarkable result of con. If you take two ICC amenable group and then their corresponding group one ML algebras are all equal to hyperlink to one factor. So there's no rigidity here.
00:02:43.794 - 00:03:32.864, Speaker A: And if you want concrete example, you can take the read product of z with z. You can take product of z two with z, and then you can take the symmetry, the permutation group with infinite generation. And you can notice that in the first group it does not have any torsion element. In the second group you have torsion and you have infinite order element. And in the third group you have only torsion element. So you can see that the group one algebra does not remember sort of classical invariants like torsion or rank, even for the generators or anything. And then not only that, this result of dichema show that you can take any sequence of infinite amenable group, any infinite amenable groups, and you can take their free product, and if you look at their corresponding group of algebra, they'll all will be isomorphic.
00:03:32.864 - 00:04:35.694, Speaker A: So in general, as I said, I mean, this van algebra does not remember torsion, rank and generators relations or any classical sort of invariants. So to develop a rigidity theory in von Neumann algebra is a bit challenging, as you can see. I mean, so far there is no sort of rigidity that you can see. But still, I mean, most of the driving force actually comes from this conc conjecture from 1980. By looking at this property t groups, by proving that its outermorphism group is countable, and the result of Marclis Khan made this conjecture that I think Sain mentioned this one, that if gamma is an ICC property, t group and lambda be any group, if you have the group one rum and algebra isomorphism, then the groups are isomer. That's a bold conjecture, and maybe it has to do something with property t. So far there is, there's no example known for which this is true.
00:04:35.694 - 00:05:33.224, Speaker A: Okay, so, but there's always hope. So let's look at some rigidity result that would, I mean, that literally inspired us to look into some sort of specific construction to hope, I mean, that we can get some sort of positive result in that direction. The first one is, I mean, goes back all the way to Marian vonamen. So the group varname and algebra free group with two generator is not isomorphic to the group phenomenon algebra of s infinity times f two. And then Magda came and Macduff show that there are uncomfortably many, in fact, non isomorphic group factor. Before Macduff, there were only three known classes of non isomorphic roof factors. Lf two l f two times s infinity and ls infinity, and then the result of Colleen and Hagrid, they show that if you take uniform lattices in SPN one and M, one with different n and M, and you get different group algebras.
00:05:33.224 - 00:06:32.174, Speaker A: And one thing that you can notice that in this two result result of Marianne Vanaman and Colleen Hager, there's something to do with hyperbolicity, because those uniform lattices in sp one, they're hyperbolic, even they have property t. So somehow, underlying fact is that they have something to do with the fact that those are hyperbolic and they had property t. Even the next result, Ozawa discovered the solidity for hyperbolic group. And so you can see that in some sense the generalization of this result of Maria and van, that f two is hyperbolic. So, and that hyperbolicity has been defined like in pretty late 19, around 1989 or something, and then this strong solidity result of the fn are strongly solid. And then the generalization of this result was due to Leonard Kiefan and Thomas. This is for ICC hyperbolic groups.
00:06:32.174 - 00:07:18.572, Speaker A: And well, in Kant's conjecture we saw that, I mean, he conjectured for every property t ISISC group. Now, if you take any random group and you impose the property that the const conjecture property, and I mean, if any group satisfy that property, call that group as a double declarative group. So let's look at some of the result that mentioned. So the first result in this direction was due to yellow, copa and vas. They show that if you take this iterative product and this group is wisdom. So if any mystery group, the corresponding group for novel algebras, are isomorphic, then the group will have to be the same one. And there are some other example, other reproductive by Berber can Vaas.
00:07:18.572 - 00:08:14.064, Speaker A: And then there is this example by Yona and Adrian. So in this example, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that, well, in spite of having all these algebraic conditions that we had in the group, note that this group has some sort of algebraic feature. It is an amalgamated pre product or product groups. So somehow, first you have to recover the algebraic feature, and then you somehow conclude that those two groups cannot be any different. And that's somehow the same thing has happened for the first group. So you show that 1st, 1st, you show that the group lambda will have to be iterated product, and then ensure that this group cannot be anything other than that. So what kind of result that you can get that if you have any isomorphism theta, it will have to be implemented by group isomorphism.
00:08:14.064 - 00:09:00.350, Speaker A: And of course there will be one unitary. You can always have to conjugate with the unitary, and then it comes with the cost of character. So from these two examples, we can see that it is really necessary to recover the algebraic feature first, and then we can expect some sort of rigidity if there is at all. And then we would like to call this product rigidity, even though this is just unique prime decomposition result. So you know that if you have different products of hyperbolic groups, then you, I mean, this result of Ozapopa shows that you have to have some number of products. It somehow recovers this algebraic feature, that this is unique prime factorization. So there is hope that you can recover something.
00:09:00.350 - 00:10:11.504, Speaker A: And then, I mean, this result holds for ICC by exact group hyperbolic, hyperbolic groups and this rate product groups. And also you can see that this holds for z two, some z, even though it does not have, uh, probability t, but it has relative probability. So, and this is sort of the most intriguing result, uh, that, I mean, this is quite different from the previous one, from the ozop of one, because if you know that this product group is isomorphic to group one of an algebra of any mystery group lambda, that you don't know anything about. And then it says that, well, Lambda will have to split with the exactly same number of groups, but you cannot say anything about this particular group except for the fact that they're l, gamma I, power t isomorphic to l, and I. All this group one m and algebras are isomorphic. Okay, so now I'd like to state my result briefly here, and then we'll get into more details. So, I mean, we observed that property t has something to do with from Kong's conjecture.
00:10:11.504 - 00:10:46.904, Speaker A: And by all this product rigidity and all sorts of double super rigidity, we thought that there might be some nice place to look into where you have property t. I mean, probability comes quite naturally, and you also have this hyperbolicity structure. And somehow then we try to look for those algebraic properties for this mobility groups. And we came up with this result. Suppose you have a gamma, which is of this form n one times n two semi direct q. I'll discuss what these groups are. I think Cyan already discussed a little bit about this groups that rips tq.
00:10:46.904 - 00:11:35.768, Speaker A: This nice q belongs to this class. And if you know that this group, phenomenal, give us isomorphic, then you get this lambda isomorphic two m one times m two tensor h. So you somehow recover the semi direct product feature. And this is not a trivial simulate product, so you even recover the acting group q isomorphic to h. I'll state the theorem precisely in couple of minutes. So, property t, I think we don't need to get into the definition of property t, just a couple of facts that will be really useful. An example is Slnz for n greater equal three, and property t is preserved under quotient that's a crucial factor that is like most useful property t.
00:11:35.768 - 00:12:29.994, Speaker A: And the short exact sequence, if you have this kernel and quotient property t, then your original group G has property t. So these are basically the property that we will be using later. And rich construction, I think sign actually explained this construction quite a bit. So what I will do, I'll just explain it pictorially here. So here q is your arbitrary finitely generated group. For simplicity you can assume that q to be hyperbolic and you have h, those two groups in this black color, those are your input and then everything else exists. That's what this construction says, that then there exists a sort exact sequence where you know that n is a quotient of h and this sort exactly conspirates and it is hyperbolic relative to q.
00:12:29.994 - 00:13:10.444, Speaker A: So you can see that it is not unique. I mean you can have lots of different ends. Even so, I mean this whole thing, this is not unique. And well, I mean, so if you start with the property t group q and you start with property hyperbolic group h, then automatically the group g has property t. So I mean that. So here sigma is the outer action of q onto the outer n. Under all these assumptions we denote this class of groups that ends the q to be rifty q.
00:13:10.444 - 00:14:17.476, Speaker A: And here is the precise statement of ok yeah, it looks quite long, but I mean here you start with the product group q one and q two, where each ui is ICc by exact weekly amenable property t torsion ratio definite. If you forget about all this property, you can take uniform lattices in spn one. So spn one, those are hyperbolic group probability and it satisfies all these properties. And then if you take, if you assume this condition, this ni. So in this class ribs tq and then you consider this product group with the diagonal action, and you know that its group one m and algebra is isomorphic to group h and algebra of any mystery group lambda. By this isomorphism theta, then lambda will have to split as a semi direct product. And not only that, you know that this action of h onto this product will have to be this product action and there will be a character and a group isomorphism from Q to H.
00:14:17.476 - 00:15:13.264, Speaker A: So it recovers the acting group from Q to H. But this red color, that's why I put this red color in this core group. We cannot recover this core what we get that there are star isomorphism theta I from lni to lki, but we cannot recover literally, I mean if you want honest to God rigidity result here you probably would expect theta I goes from ni to ki. But I mean, so that, that's sort of the personal reconstruction that we have. But it was enough to get this result. So we cannot get technically double super rigid group here, but we answer other questions. So, in a follow up work, as I mentioned, that would unit Cyan and serial, the fundamental group of those groups are trivial.
00:15:13.264 - 00:16:31.782, Speaker A: And for the second next examples, I would like to define this class. This is the class of all ICc torsion free residual finite property groups. And now you consider, you just consider this group, this class St prime that consists of group g times q, where your g is in this class, and q, you can take uniform lattices in SPN one, then, I mean, these are all non isomorphic groups. Now, if you do the pelagic torsion ribs construction with this group that we defined before in here, and then this will be the acting groups and the corresponding group fundamental algebras will form an infinite family of pairwise non isomorphic two one factors with property t. In fact, if you take all set up all finite index subgroups, this qi of a fixed property t hyperbolic group, you can take lattices in SPN one, and then this whole family becomes pairwise finite index to each other. I mean, if you take any gamma I, that will be finite index to the group gamma. And so, since they're finite index, so those are major equivalent, but their corresponding group ordinariment algebra is a non isomorphic.
00:16:31.782 - 00:17:26.253, Speaker A: So that gives, that provides basically new example to a question of Demetrius. I think that Jessie mentioned in today's talk in the morning that, I mean, those groups are measure equivalent, but their corresponding group one algebra are non isomorphic. And I mean, this is, these are different from the examples that were obtained in this, in, by Kiefon and Jonah and Kiefon, Cynthia one Sinclair and these are the definition, this is the definition of major equivalence. Already get the definition in his talk. Well, so what we really wanted, as Shan mentioned, that we really wanted to get a family of uncountably many property t non isomorphic group factors, but we only get countably many here. I mean, this would have been uncountable only if this class is uncountable, but it's not known in the literature. But at least we don't know.
00:17:26.253 - 00:18:10.950, Speaker A: So we put that as an open problem. The first open problem that we're going to post is the converse. To denote the stack tank was question that w star equivalence implies major equivalent. That question was in the paper of Tifaan and Yona in where they solved this when they gave counterexample to the Dimitri sector. And then the next question is that this class s t is uncountable. And then, I mean, it would be really nice to find a property twice group, which we are working on right now, and then prove or disprove construction. Well, here the term disprove it, because, I mean, we could not recover the core in our main theorem.
00:18:10.950 - 00:19:18.360, Speaker A: As you can see, that's why we wrote this proof. But it might be a feature, not a bug, because even in group theory language, you cannot recover the middle group because the construction is not unique. So as a group, even we don't know whether those groups will be isomorphic with different core or not. So that, so that, I mean, from rips construction perspective, we thought that, I mean, if there is a contrable that should be from this side of rips construction, and then since I have 1 minute left. So there are other applications. So there was a question by Jang and Skulsky where they asked to construct maximal vulnerable subalgebras without property t inside a property t one of languages. So basically you can take this last theorem that for every rank one group, by rank one, I mean subgroup of rational numbers with addition, there exists a property t torsion free group such that every maximal subgroup of q is isomorphic to qn.
00:19:18.360 - 00:20:01.122, Speaker A: And if you start with such group and look at the corresponding inclusion, and then this is maximum for maximum sub algebra, and it does not have property t since it subjects to z. And. Well, the comments on proof, I think Shine said quite a lot about this. It uses basically deformation rigidity theory and some then filling of relative hyperbolic groups and hyperbolic embedding, some small cancellation techniques that you can split this relative hyperbolic group as a free product of finite index of group of hyperbolic groups and then show that. And you use Maliki. That's. I think that's it.
00:20:01.122 - 00:20:01.714, Speaker A: Thank you.
