00:00:09.120 - 00:00:47.764, Speaker A: I'm Austin, and this is validated today. I'm speaking with Cindy Liao, co founder of Drift, a decentralized derivatives exchange on Solana. Somehow it's taken us 18 episodes to do a foundational episode on DeFi, but finally, here we are. DeFi is, in a word, complicated. I think most of us in crypto can give a high level definition of DeFi, something like smart contracts that can execute financial transactions in a trustless way. But beyond that, understanding what's actually going on under the hood of DeFi protocols and how to use them is still a very narrow area of expertise. Part of what makes DeFi complicated is by design.
00:00:47.764 - 00:01:24.294, Speaker A: It's not vertically integrated. If you've got all your money in chase, bank of America isn't going to give you a loan unless you move your money to one of their accounts. But in DeFi, you trade on one DeFi protocol with funds collateralized on another, and lend tokens out to users on a third. Its permissionless, integrated but also messy wrapped assets, bridges, automatic market makers. All these are new financial tools foreign to the world of traditional finance. Cindy walks us through how these things work on both a technical and practical level. Its common to frame DeFi as a utopian solution to many of the problems of centralized finance.
00:01:24.294 - 00:02:13.870, Speaker A: But, and I dont think im bursting anyones bubble by saying this, DeFi is not without problems of its own. We discuss why information transparency, the hallmark of DeFi, hasnt made it more resilient to hacks and frauds while weighing other security trade offs between DeFi and CFI, particularly around counterparty risk. Of course, were pro DeFi around here, but if were trying to build a future of finance for a decentralized world, its important to talk about the challenges the industry needs to overcome, from cross chain DeFi to increased onboarding through better wallet infrastructure and account abstraction. There's a lot to look forward to in the next twelve months of DeFi. Let's get into it. Cindy, welcome to validated hey Austin, thanks.
00:02:13.902 - 00:02:15.030, Speaker B: So much for having me.
00:02:15.182 - 00:02:31.704, Speaker A: Yeah, so I want to jump right into things. How would you define DeFi and what is its role? We all kind of get the idea of there are smart contracts and you can do financial things with them, but the story of where DeFi comes from and where it's headed is something we haven't explored on the podcast yet.
00:02:32.164 - 00:03:45.826, Speaker B: I always thought that DeFi was a bit of a misnomer, and a better name for DeFi would be open finance. One analogy that always fits with DeFi is it's finance without forms, without applications. So where a typical bank has APIs that you can call on to make transactions and build applications on top, all of those are typically permissioned or require somebody to approve your entry into the financial system. Whereas with DeFi, I think the most powerful thing that even developers in DeFi don't necessarily appreciate to the fullest is that anybody with Internet access is able to access DeFi. And this is pretty powerful fundamentally because it means that developers, including ourselves, are not able to police who actually gets to use the platform. So I guess when we talk about DeFi as a broad range of financial applications that can range from anywhere between swapping assets from one to another, trading derivatives, borrowing your assets, leveraging the assets that you have to borrow more, the applications are pretty infinite. But at the core of it, I like to think of DeFi as open and accessible to everyone.
00:03:45.970 - 00:04:37.814, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's interesting to dwell on that for a second, because I want to get into how DeFi and C five are different, but one of the main interesting components is most systems that are open and permissionless that we think about don't have the same profitability that DeFi does. Not that running a DeFi protocol is super profitable. But if we think about most open access, no control protocols on the Internet, it's things like email, or it's things like hosting a website, or it's stuff like Bittorrent. And no one makes any money on BitTorrent. Right. But it's just like a very interesting thing because with DeFi, like all the things we're talking about, about open permissionless systems, it was the first piece of the open source blockchain world that I think had any real actual value attached to it back in the early days. So I want to get into some of the differences there.
00:04:37.814 - 00:04:49.958, Speaker A: But how do you think about those two things working together in DeFi? I think, as I said, there's very few things in this world that are open and permissionless and also have money attached to them.
00:04:50.046 - 00:06:06.822, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a very interesting question that very few have really talked about before, because it's something that's been taken for granted. A DeFi project launches, it collect fees, and then it, it also launches a token on top of it, which is by itself a revenue generating activity. But at the core of it, you're right, how can open source protocols make money? And DeFi is probably one of the only places in the world besides probably open source advertising that actually drives value back to the protocol application layer. But the interesting thing is to look at, I think, where the fees are actually going. Is it going to the hands of the developers or going back to the users? And when you peel back what decentralization really looks like, the most robust protocols for DeFi actually rely on this ecosystem of fees generated being paid back to users. And I think this is also part of the financial freedom thesis that DeFi has, which is if you use a DeFi application, the reason to use it over essentialized exchange is that you can actually be part of an ecosystem that is fee generating to the point that it constitutes almost an economy of itself. You know, you trade on uniswap, you, you're a liquidity provider in a pool.
00:06:06.822 - 00:06:13.910, Speaker B: You can actually earn fees from being a liquidity provider based on the trading activity generated by the people trading within the pool.
00:06:14.062 - 00:06:52.112, Speaker A: You know, from a, from a conceptual standpoint, I think someone could say like, well, I go to DeFi, I deposit some USDC somewhere, I generate some yield on it. I go to a bank, I deposit some money into a bank, I generate interest on that deposit. Maybe not much interest, but there's things like certified deposits and treasury notes, and there's ways to generate reasonable amounts of yield nowadays in the centralized financial ecosystem. So from a user perspective, what's different between defI and CFI? And then from a philosophy and architecture perspective, you touched on it a little bit. But how should people be thinking about CFI deFi, and then sort of where we cross over on that spectrum?
00:06:52.208 - 00:07:51.542, Speaker B: Yep, I can talk quickly about the user interface and the user experience, how that's different from a typical CFI experience. And maybe we can talk more generally about how fintech apps work versus defi apps work just because they're a more direct comparison. I guess from a user perspective, typically the way you would interact with a fintech or c five type app is downloading on your phone, loading it with some funds, and then being able to make payments with that directly as you go. Or in the case of trading via something like Robinhood, you would make an account with an email and a password, you would probably secure it with two fa somehow, and off you go. You load some funds from your bank account, which sits in bank of America's ledgers internally, and it's sort of a black box as to how the funds actually move. But they're there, they're reflected on the UI of the screen, and it's a pretty seamless experience from the point of a user. DeFi is not quite there yet today.
00:07:51.542 - 00:08:34.302, Speaker B: You, to be frank, you, you know, I think there's about 10 million people using Metamask, 2 million using Phantom. Today these people are installing a chrome extension where their funds live. On this little tab on their screen, they're going to a defi app that they're familiar with. This might be anything on Solana, anything on Ethereum. They're swapping funds on a screen. And all this time they are fully aware, sort of where their funds sit. When I mentioned that it's sort of a black box, when you look at Zefi, where the funds are actually sitting here, you can run a full note to understand the full balances across the blockchain and see where exactly your address is.
00:08:34.302 - 00:08:55.114, Speaker B: Everything is open and known to you. So it's sort of this entirely open landscape where you can check exactly how much your balances are at any point. And yeah, when you swap, it looks like you have to approve a transaction that gets confirmed. The balances update on your wallet and on the blockchain and VLA. That's how a typical defi transaction looks today.
00:08:55.414 - 00:09:40.496, Speaker A: Let's hang on this transparency piece for a sec, because information availability is not the same thing as information digestion. Transparency is one of the hallmarks of DeFi. But just because someone technically has the ability to look at a wallet address and see the amount of funds that are there, doesn't mean they will. Just because someone can run a full node, which is pretty straightforward, doesn't mean they will. Most people don't run their own full node. So if we look at real world examples of why this matters, there have been a few DeFi protocols or bridges where funds have been drained from treasuries or insurance funds and no one's really noticed, even though that information is publicly available in real time on the chain. There was the Terra Luna crash, where a whole bunch of tokens that were supposed to be locked got moved, or the axie bridge that got drained.
00:09:40.496 - 00:09:56.618, Speaker A: Some people noticed. Most people ignored them for days. The point I'm trying to get at is this information should be available to the public. No one's gonna disagree with that. But from a practical standpoint, why hasn't transparency made defi more resilient against fraud and collapses?
00:09:56.776 - 00:10:45.790, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a great question. I think a lot of it comes back to why should I care? And to what extent do I trust a counterparty or somebody to tell me that the funds are safe versus actually checking it myself? Initially, when crypto kind of started, many people were interfacing with bitcoin directly through exchanges such as mountain gox. And this wasn't necessarily something that people looked into and thought to check, hey, let's look at the reserves of this thing, or let's try to audit this exchange and see where the funds are actually going. So none of that was actually happening at the early stage. But then as more and more people started using cold wallets throughout the years, the sophistication with which people were custodying their assets became more clear. I think today I would see centralized exchanges and sort of CFI as also a way to custody your assets. Right.
00:10:45.790 - 00:12:10.908, Speaker B: Even DeFi, when you look at a smart contract, you're actually custodying your funds with the contract rather than completely self custodying yourself. So there's an evolution from how much people actually cared about who or what was custodying these assets. And this is very prominent when you look at bridge attacks and bridge incidents, because when you actually cross a bridge, who is custodying these assets? And one of the key questions when you talk about the feasibility of multi chain, and I know we're going very deep into the weeds here, that's what the show's for, is that you're actually, when you look at wrapped assets or bridges, it's typically, you know, three or four counterparties on the other side who are holding the keys that eventually release the funds of the bridge right there that are actually holding the bridge funds. So how decentralized is that, really? I think in a bull market type situation and in a situation where people are sort of moving funds from one another, it's all fun and games. Security isn't really in the narrative. The auditability is there, but no one really thinks to do that in the mania of things. But then as we get into this type of market where things are stagnant and funds are getting lost more often, I think you're starting to see the level of sophistication increase and the desire to check these contracts and the willingness also to be able to audit what you're putting your money into increase.
00:12:10.908 - 00:12:15.024, Speaker B: So, yeah, I think the trend is definitely shifting in that direction.
00:12:15.664 - 00:12:44.308, Speaker A: Yeah. So I want to go back a little bit and just sort of focus on, you mentioned bridged assets, and the most commonly used collateral in DeFi is both bitcoin and ethereum. But obviously, there's no smart contracts in the bitcoin network. You can't do defi in bitcoin. So how are people actually taking these assets and using them? Like, walk us through a little bit of how wrapping of an asset works, how bridge works to a certain extent, and why these types of collateral are most often used in DeFi.
00:12:44.456 - 00:13:43.968, Speaker B: So in the example of wrapped bitcoin, I think this is actually a very important point where wrapped bitcoin came from. Launched in around the 2019, it was pre DeFi summer, and it was, I think, the first bitcoin type asset to hit Ethereum. And ever since then, it has been the basis of collateral for a lot of loans in ETH. It's also one of the most highly traded assets as a denominated pair. A lot of people like to denominate their wealth in bitcoin, and I think this does show one of the many powers of multi chain and the ability to consolidate liquidity on one chain. So how it works is, I think, quite similar to how you would actually look at how funds are custody within a bank, except the players that are holding the keys to these wrapped assets are known and largely audited. So essentially what exists is this wrapped bitcoin contract that a couple of the larger defi players hold the custody and the keys of.
00:13:43.968 - 00:14:54.122, Speaker B: So this is between, I believe this has changed recently, but Kyber Ren and Bitgo were the original custodians of wrapped bitcoin. You would put your bitcoin native bitcoin in a contract that is custody by these institutions, and they would issue a wrapped bitcoin to represent your holding of bitcoin on Ethereum itself. And this wrapped bitcoin would essentially be able to be unlocked on the Ethereum network. And what this means is you can now use this wrapped bitcoin as collateral for your defi loans, your swaps. What really matters is, first of all, how much value does it hold? Will it always trade at the price of bitcoin? And this depends on the integrity of that bridge itself, the integrity of the custodians that you're replacing your funds with, as well as whether there are available oracles within the ecosystem to actually tell you what the price of this wrapped asset is. When you look at the sort of failures of FTX, there were a couple of wrapped assets that FTX had custody to which were relatively small within the Solana ecosystem. SOA, BDC, and so ETH, they were called one of the original wrapped assets on Solana.
00:14:54.122 - 00:15:14.234, Speaker B: They have been more sophisticated ones since then. But when FTX fell out, there was serious questioning around what value these assets actually had on Solana. So there's a bit of a crisis of confidence around that time. But that's an example of, I guess, trusting a custodian to hold on to your native assets.
00:15:14.614 - 00:15:53.518, Speaker A: I think it's important to take a step back. We've gone deep pretty quickly. It's very easy for someone listening to say, like, wow, Defi sounds scary. I think one of the things we've actually seen over the last, let's call it 15 years or so, so since 2008, 2009, is that the centralized financial system is actually much less secure than we thought it was, and there's much more fraud that exists in it than we thought. And so this kind of goes back from the sort of like, you can say, oh, bridged assets. Wow, these things sound risky. It's like they're actually probably significantly less risky than mortgage backed securities as like, an investment class, and that the collateral for a lot of this stuff in DeFi.
00:15:53.518 - 00:16:45.544, Speaker A: There are certainly problems with some of the ways DeFi is built, but it is transparent in its issues, for lack of a better term. You can look and you can say, okay, I can see exactly how many entities control this program. I can see if this program could be upgraded. I know where this bitcoin that's been wrapped is custodied. Maybe I trust FTX, maybe I don't trust FTX, but at least that thing is transparent. That is not the case in these centralized finance worlds. We have issues of, if you look at the 2008 2009 situations, you had banks spinning up warehouses in Alabama to literally print fake copies of mortgage paperwork that they'd lost the records of and then present that in court as if it's a real original documentation.
00:16:45.544 - 00:17:22.893, Speaker A: These sorts of things that exist in the centralized financial world also have intense counterparty risk, also have all these issues of a lack of traceability and transparency. And so I think one of the things that's just worth calling out here is that both centralized finance and decentralized finance have problem sets associated with them. And I think from my perspective, the set of trade offs you have to deal with in centralized finance are potentially actually much worse and much harder to assess than those trade offs that you have in DeFi. Do you think that's kind of a fair characterization of how folks should view DeFi?
00:17:23.193 - 00:18:29.110, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I think one of the most attractive things about DeFi is that you can choose your counterparty, and, you know, once one counterparty fails, you can see very quickly, for instance, many of the blow ups that happened last year could not have happened if they happened within DeFi context and if you knew who your counterparty was at that moment. So I think DeFi actually does shield you from a lot of mishaps and things that people could do to lose integrity of the capital that you're placing. But that also means that the average user of DeFi tends to be a lot more sophisticated because you do have to be willing and able to understand these differences and choose your counterparties. But that doesn't mean that this can't become more accessible over time as there become more tools to allow retail users to sort of audit contracts more easily to see through what mechanisms they're actually putting their funds through. Yeah, I think this is actually a big mission of ours, which is to make Defi tooling and audit tooling generally more available to users.
00:18:29.222 - 00:19:11.520, Speaker A: Yeah, it kind of feels like in the early days of using a credit card online, it was like a little bit of a weird, scary thing. And Defi is, I think, a little bit past that. But we're still in the stage where like, you know, you can be tenuous of certain types of activities and, you know, you have to do more research and you think you need to. Whereas I don't know, for me, I'll just yolo my credit card into anything online at this point because, like, it's probably fine, and if it's not, there's like an insurance fund to, to, to cover that. On the credit card company side, I want to talk a little bit about the state of DeFi on Solana and kind of what types of defi you're seeing built out on different applications. But one of the pieces I actually wanted to hit on first was this very weird thing that exists in centralized finance called the FDIC. Right.
00:19:11.520 - 00:20:02.814, Speaker A: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which basically backstops retail deposits. There's been a lot of talk about if something like a true Defi insurance fund would be possible. Mango markets had one, and that actually ended up becoming a source of attack for them when someone was able to manipulate some price oracles and be able to extract funds from that insurance pool. How are you thinking about the concepts of self custody? It's sort of like it's the Spider man thing, right. With great power comes great responsibility, but like, there is a world where we start to see a little bit more insurance or a little bit more backstopping of user funds. Do you think that's possible in DeFi? Because at the same time, when it is permissionless and open, you can't control who has access to that insurance fund in the same way that bank of America might be able to?
00:20:02.934 - 00:20:55.844, Speaker B: Yeah, I definitely think that it is a vector that helps retails. And even going a step beyond retail, more sophisticated traders, fund managers view DeFi as something a bit more attractive. I think what we have seen pop up is this insurance fund for protocols that are specific to each protocol rather than this large insurance fund that governs all of deFi. You have seen some instances of insurance projects that have come up, but oftentimes retailers have to purchase this insurance to minimize their losses and potential hex. But that's not a great ux because you don't want to be like, hey, I'm going to deposit to yield farm on this banana protocol, but I'm going to buy, I'm going to spend like 50% of that on insurance. That's not the greatest thing for retail. I think we are starting to see more larger insurance funds pop up.
