00:00:00.240 - 00:00:33.366, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano, and today's the 13 december 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So the last all core devs call of the year was held last week on Friday, and it was a big one. You know how I've been talking about EIP 4488, the one that was gonna reduce the cost of roll ups at layer one Ethereum that has kind of. Sorry, there's kind of been a decision made around when that will actually be going on to Mainnet and it will be post merge now. So after the merge will not be before the merge.
00:00:33.366 - 00:01:06.488, Speaker A: I did speculate before that I thought that it should go, you know, I thought that it could happen before the merge and personally I thought that it should happen before the merge. But there are a lot of kind of like good reasoning given in the old core devs core about why that shouldn't happen. And I mean, the TLDR, you can read this thread, but the TLDR is that the merge should literally be the number one priority. It's what everyone's working towards right now. We really, really need to just get it done and dusted and over with because that's the biggest thing to get done to enable everything else, you know, for a variety of reasons. And we shouldn't just kind of like go off course. Like, you know, we're basically on this course.
00:01:06.488 - 00:01:37.024, Speaker A: We're all kind of like heading down the same lane right now. And if we were to kind of diverge and just do like a detour, then it would obviously delay the merge and kind of like push that back even further. I think the core devs estimated that it would delay the merge much more than a couple of weeks, probably even, you know, up to two months or something like that. So it's obviously not a path that we want to go down. So the decision was made that 4488 can be considered for an upgrade after the merge. It doesn't mean that it's actually gonna be approved or anything like that. It just means that there's gonna be no more upgrades until the merge, essentially.
00:01:37.024 - 00:02:04.856, Speaker A: So. And that's what this thread kind of like describes among a bunch of other things here. But yeah, I mean, that was kind of like the main takeaway and you know, I mean, at the end of the day, like, the core devs have their own opinions and at the end of the day, they're also the ones that code up the upgrades for. For things to go into clients and stuff like that. So, you know, they're kind of like, well, we don't have the time to do growth right now like that. There's not, they're a limited set of people. You know, being a core dev is a very kind of like specialized job.
00:02:04.856 - 00:02:30.576, Speaker A: So they're kind of prioritized doing the merge over this 4488, this is not them saying, we don't want AIP 4488, we don't want this to happen. But it's saying that, well, look, we all, the community already agreed that the merge should be the next upgrade for Ethereum. Let's just stick to that. Let's not kind of derail things. And that's exactly what seems to be going on, going on here. So no kind of like dates given around the merger or anything like that. We did have araglac, which has pushed back the difficulty bomb to June.
00:02:30.576 - 00:03:10.576, Speaker A: And the difficult difficulty bomb is actually going away with the merge. So if we can merge in June, it would actually be ideal because we can kill two birds with 1 st. Because if we don't merge in June, what ends up happening is that we'd have to have a separate network upgrade to push back the difficulty bomb again. Then we'd merge and it just becomes a bit of a, you know, a logistical mess. So if we do the merge in June and we kind of like get rid of the difficulty bomb in June as part of that, it's just kind of like nice and simple and clean. But in saying that they're not going to go ahead with the merge if they don't feel comfortable doing so just, just to kind of like, have that clean transition, I mean, pushing back the difficulty bomb is trivial. Merging the two ethereum networks is not trivial.
00:03:10.576 - 00:03:44.016, Speaker A: Definitely something that's not, not been done before and need to get it right more than kind of like, you know, pushing back a difficulty bomb there. So, yeah, that's another scenario that could happen. But I'm still sticking to my q two kind of prediction for the merge. Nothing has changed on that front just yet. We'll see how it goes. Like, I think that long live Devnet is getting stood up this week, I believe so that'll kind of like run through the holidays and we'll have like a much better idea of timelines, I think, after that. Like, if that all goes well, if no one's able to break it, if it just runs really, really smoothly, then it just gives us a kind of like, much better idea of what the, you know, what the timeline for the merge is going to look like.
00:03:44.016 - 00:04:17.926, Speaker A: So, yeah, that was the update there from the old core devs call. And then Polynya also pulled out a tweet thread after this, you know, after seeing that 4488 is now coming post merge. But this tweet thread basically goes through what the other avenues are to lower fees on roll ups. Now, I've talked about a few of these before, but the main points that Polynya goes through is basically optimizations and call data compression, which arbitram nitro, you know, is coming to basically half fees. Optimism is working on it. And also with the OVM 2.0 upgrade, they've already done a few optimizations, but neither of arbitrum optimism are doing core data compression right now.
00:04:17.926 - 00:04:59.076, Speaker A: I believe while it's supporting BLS signature aggregation, sorry, BLS signatures, arbitrum can enable it easy one k, you know, 1000 gas reduction, which is not negligible there. Basically getting more people to move to roll ups, incentivize, you know, incentivize people to use them, because then the greater usage on roll ups leads to lower fees. So, as I've discussed before, you know, the fees are amortized across users, so it actually works differently to layer one. And basically we all get cheaper fees. The more kind of like usage is up there. And there's a bunch of other things in here that polynar notes, which is obviously pretty cool, like sharding and things like that. You can go give this full thread a read here for kind of like polynos thoughts.
00:04:59.076 - 00:05:34.928, Speaker A: But, yeah, it's not like some people might be thinking, wow, okay, 4488 was such an awesome upgrade. It would make roll ups five times cheaper to use and would benefit everyone. And now, you know, some people might be thinking, oh, damn, like, now we're gonna have to kind of like, wait even longer, I guess. I have like two kind of like, arguments against that one. The merge, I think, is more important, to be honest, as much as, like, high fees, hurting users at layer one, I'm gonna have to, like, if I had to choose, the merge is definitely more important. And the thing is, we had to choose, like, there was no, you couldn't do both. So there was a decision made that the merge is more important.
00:05:34.928 - 00:06:10.274, Speaker A: I believe so for a variety of reasons, and probably the number one reason is that we need to get off proof of work. We, we cannot stay on proof of work. Like, it's been way too long for Ethereum. The merge should have happened, you know, a little while ago, uh, if, if all timelines, you know, in software were, you know, went to, went to schedule. But, uh, yeah, the merge is definitely more important. And the second thing is that I honestly don't think that we're there yet in terms of like getting mass people, mass migrations to roll ups because we don't have all the centralized exchange bridges in just yet. There, there's not a lot of new users pouring into the ecosystem right now because the markets are quiet.
00:06:10.274 - 00:06:44.628, Speaker A: We have time. I think as much as obviously the layer one fees, they're low today. I mean, they're about 30 way right now. But you know, generally they're obviously higher than that as much as they're like really crappy and still way too expensive in terms of like level of importance. I do think the merge is more important because then 4488 can just be kind of implemented after the merge and in a much kind of like calmer and less rushed fashion as well. And by then the l two s will be kind of like, I mean, you know, in six months time, the l two s are going to be way better than what they are today. They can probably going to be in the process of decentralizing themselves.
00:06:44.628 - 00:07:12.054, Speaker A: We're going to have many more of them live. They're probably already doing core data compression. And then this, you know, 44 88 will actually have like a much larger impact than it would have right now, which is, which is also really cool. So, yeah, I mean, there are arguments for and against, but I do believe, I do believe pretty strongly that the merge is the most important thing right now. There is nothing more important for Ethereum. Let's just get that done and then we can kind of like go into all these other upgrades as time goes on. All right, so big news.
00:07:12.054 - 00:08:06.990, Speaker A: Out of optimism, they're finally going to be removing their whitelist very soon. So I've been talking about their whitelist for a while, saying that it's been holding them back, but they announced on Twitter, on, I think this is Saturday, they basically said that the whitelist is going away very soon. Now, obviously it's not gone away yet, but very soon, meaning maybe this week or next week or something like that. I'm sure it'd be nice to get it done before the end of the year. And for those of you who don't know, the whitelist is basically preventing just anyone from deploying onto optimism. You have to go through kind of like signing up, I guess, like signing up on a form or kind of like putting your details in a form in order to launch on optimism, and it just adds overhead, whereas arbitram doesn't have that right now, and our optimism won't have that in the future on optimistic ethereum. So anyone will be able to deploy any kind of like, arbitrary code they want to the network, which is obviously going to lend itself to a lot of, a lot of new activity on there, a lot of new kind of like applications launching, um, and a lot kind of like, uh, faster adoption as well.
00:08:06.990 - 00:08:32.974, Speaker A: I mean, the thing is, arbitrary and optimism, they both obviously don't have tokens right now. They don't have token incentives going on. So the, the adoption is kind of like slow ish because, I mean, it's just still very early. There's a bunch of reasons, but like, I think that's a big reason. But, but the thing is, is that there are other projects that launch that can have their own tokens and incentivize people to bridge across. Arbitrary me has been doing a lot here, optimism as well. I mean, Lyra's been doing liquidity mining and a few other kind of things, a few other kind of like projects and stuff like that.
00:08:32.974 - 00:09:01.948, Speaker A: But once you have no whitelist and once you have arbitrary code deployment, everyone can deploy there and there's no need to kind of like, go through the optimism team as a kind of pseudo gatekeeper here, which is really exciting. So awesome news out of them. I hope it happens before the end of the year. Very soon means, you know, a week to me, maybe it means different, you know, very soon is ambiguous. Right? Like there's a, I guess there's a reason they didn't say kind of like one to two, you know, one to two weeks or put a hard number on it. But I, you know, I'm hoping it's before the end of the year. That'll be really exciting.
00:09:01.948 - 00:09:44.288, Speaker A: And the other thing to talk about with optimism is that, or both optimism and arbitrary, I should say, is that, remember that uni liquidity, kind of like mining votes that I was talking about that Ludo Cohen had been doing? He, he first did one that kind of like failed, and then the second one has had more success. Well, this has passed. So basically this is the consensus check that has passed. So essentially people want it. Like, he's basically saying, okay, well, people want uni liquidity mining on l two and optimism and arbitrum in order to kind of like bootstrap some adoption there or I guess, like turbocharged the adoption there. And then the final on chain vote is coming up soon, and that's where shit gets serious, as Lidocoan says here. And that's when, you know, once that final vote is done and if it passes, that, that's when the liquidity mining will happen.
00:09:44.288 - 00:10:26.958, Speaker A: Just like as I mentioned last week, the, the vote had passed on chain for getting the uniswap v three onto the polygon pos chain. So a lot of cool stuff happening in uniswap land on the scalability front. This is awesome. I mean it's funny because Uniswap is already doing a lot of liquidity at L2 through arbitrary and optimism. But getting liquidity mining rewards on there is just gonna, I think, sorry, I should say, a lot of volume, not a lot of liquidity, but that's gonna bootstrap basically the whole ecosystem, because not only are people gonna bridge across liquidity to use Uniswap, but they're also going to kind of like look and see what else is around. This is exactly what happened with Ethereum. Layer one where people came in, they brought, they brought their assets in, they brought their assets on chain, and they started doing things because of compound liquidity mining or yield farming.
00:10:26.958 - 00:11:00.252, Speaker A: Then more and more apps kind of like came onto the scene and people kind of like interacted with them. And it was just basically a really big kind of like marketing tool for all these ecosystem in Ethereum. Layer one. Now we're going to do the same thing at L2. And could this trigger a true kind of like arbitrary optimism season? I think so. I mean, Ethereum didn't need to issue ETH tokens, right, as liquidity mining rewards as a lot of these other l one networks do. So I don't think l two s necessarily have to do have to have their own token and kind of like issue them as liquidity mining rewards in order to bootstrap liquidity.
00:11:00.252 - 00:11:34.640, Speaker A: I think the app layer can easily handle it if done right. And I think doing it through Uniswap is genius because Uniswap is the biggest app in Ethereum, you know, still to this day, or at least one of the biggest. I mean, I think it's the biggest in terms like depending on what, what metric you metrics you use, but it's huge, obviously. So. And it has the brand awareness. It has kind of like the user base to get people to use it at L2, especially if there's kind of like more uni tokens to be made or unit tokens to be farmed. I'm pretty confident that that would lead to an explosion in liquidity on, for Uniswap, but also an explosion in kind of like activity on all these other apps on these l two.
00:11:34.640 - 00:11:59.164, Speaker A: So very much looking forward to that. So I'll keep, you know, guys updated on this, see what the on chain vote. See what happens with the on chain vote for sure. So Sundeep put out a great tweet before Sundeep from polygon, where he said ethereum is transitioning from a c two u chain to user platform to c two c chain. Two chain platform via L2. As my brother Mahaylo said, ethereum equals web3. Get ready for the mass adoption of web3.
00:11:59.164 - 00:12:44.530, Speaker A: Now this is, I guess, like a really cool, I guess, like this is really a really traditional way of kind of talking about the relationship between ethereum and l two, because obviously with traditional businesses you have like b two b, which is business to business, or b two c business as consumer. Or you can have like, you know, more complex constructions, but those are kind of like the basic stuff there. So c two u being chained to user. So, so ethereum kind of like layer one to user is what we're all kind of like used to and have been using for quite a while. But then there's c two c chain to chain. And this is basically another way of saying that ethereum is the settlement layer for these L2 chains. So the L2 becomes chain to user, all right? But the layer one becomes chain to chain where all the L2s feed into layer one.
00:12:44.530 - 00:13:13.500, Speaker A: They pay it for security and, you know, that's obviously going to price out, you know, every other user in the long term. And then the users basically do their chain to user stuff at L2. So it's just like altering the relationship there where. And in a much better way as well. I mean, you know, even if layer one, ethereum had cheap fees, I still didn't, don't think it'd be something that we could scale to, to the globe because it has, you know, 13 2nd blocks or whatever and twelve second post merge. That's not fast enough. Like no one wants to wait around.
00:13:13.500 - 00:13:54.248, Speaker A: Whereas on the l two s we have like instant confirmation with delayed finality, which I think is amazing. Like, I think that's the proper way to do it because obviously, as I've said before, we get to preserve this decentralization and security of layer one and then push everything else to L2. And that's exactly what we're doing here. We're pushing the chain to use a paradigm to L2, where it makes sense and we're keeping the chain, or introducing, I guess, the chain to chain paradigm of the layer one and L2 kind of relationship there. But it's also the side chains and the commit chains and anything really that can, like, bridge and talk to us. Ethereum is, you know, can fall into that category, but it makes a lot of sense when it comes to L2s because they obviously inherit ethereum security and decentralization. So you could think of it as like, aetherium is a business.
00:13:54.248 - 00:14:43.076, Speaker A: It's selling its services, which, or its product, which is block space to these L2s. And that block space is essentially a very, very scarce assets. And these L2s outbid each other to, like, every other user on l one outbids each other to purchase space in that block. So that's the kind of like, paradigm shift that's happening right now. And, you know, in the long term, as I've said, I believe Ethereum l one will just be a settlement layer for roll ups and for probably some whale transactions and stuff like that, and maybe some high value nfts, but definitely not a regular chain to use a platform that is going to be a L2s. And eventually, you know, people are going to be interacting with these things, just using kind of like interfaces that abstract away all of this. They're still going to be using kind of like a blockchain, so to speak, but they're not even going to be kind of like knowing that they're using it, which I think is going to be, you know, the path to mass adoption, which is.
00:14:43.076 - 00:15:10.242, Speaker A: Which I think is really cool. So I mentioned Polygon Zero last week, which is the new kind of like ZK roll up out of the polygon ecosystem that they acquired Mia protocol for 400 million. This is a sneak peek of Polygon Zero's a sub second ZK recursive proofs. Now, I mentioned this last week where they were doing proofs in 0.17 seconds on a laptop. And in the laptop, in this case, is a MacBook Air M one. This is, as I mentioned last week, this is groundbreaking.
00:15:10.242 - 00:15:57.144, Speaker A: Right? The fact that you can do these proofs, which is, you know, very heavy computational wise, but the fact that you can do them in sub seconds is an amazing innovation. And, you know, I can't like, I can't, like, talk about this enough or talk up this enough. The amount of ZK kind of brain power that Polygon has right now is incredible. I mean, they have three teams, three teams working on ZK stuff. Hermes, Polygon Zero and Polygon Maiden are all working towards kind of like the same goal of scaling ZK tech to the world and making sure that we can build these robust L2 ecosystems that are really kind of like, easy to run. And we can kind of like, get these, I guess, like issues of expensive proofs and. And, you know, taking a long time to get these proofs to kind of generate that we can get them down to, you know, as much as possible, we can improve it here.
00:15:57.144 - 00:16:23.348, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, I'm just so pumped for Polygon, ZK ecosystem. I've been pumped for it for like, you know, since they kind of like, acquired Hermes and then maid and now Polygon zero. You know, I think they're done at this stage. I'm not sure, you know, you guys know, I'm an advisor to Polygon, but I'm not privy to kind of like, the future acquisitions for obvious reasons and stuff like that. But I'm not sure if they're done. In terms of, like, acquiring teams. I would say that if they find another team that they could acquire, they probably would.
00:16:23.348 - 00:17:16.714, Speaker A: But the funny thing is about ZK teams is that there's not many of them. Like, there's Zksync, there's starkware, and then there's polygons and there's scroll, which is part of the Ethereum foundation. But really, ZK teams are some of the scarcest kind of like, assets in this ecosystem because it's such new tech and it's a specialized tech using such kind of like, you know, moon math, that basically you kind of like, either need to kind of do mergers and acquisitions to, or I guess like a merger or an acquisition to get them as part of your ecosystem, or you need to hire people out of it and start up a new team. And Polygons obviously gone the route of kind of like acquiring these teams and giving them basically unlimited funding to do whatever they want, which I think is the proper approach because that way these teams get to build amazing open source software. Amazing kind of like open source ZK tech. And they're not kind of like beholden to kind of like any other kind of like entity, which. Which is obviously amazing.
00:17:16.714 - 00:17:58.892, Speaker A: But yeah, just wanted to highlight here a little teaser of the sub second ZK recursive proofs from Polygon Zero. So Metamask is teasing another feature in this video here. They're saying, just in time for Christmas. This is a feature called transaction Insight, where it will give you more transparency into your transactions details before approving them. Now, this video doesn't really go into any detail about this. It's just like a kind of like teaser screenshot. I did ask for a more detailed blog post, and they did reply saying that more details will be shared in the coming week, which is cool, but this is great to see, because, as I've said before, one of the most dangerous things in kind of like, not just a theorem land, but just like, when you're doing stuff on blockchains, is signing something and not knowing what you're signing.
00:17:58.892 - 00:18:36.570, Speaker A: Because as I've mentioned before, you could be subject to a man in the middle attack, where someone has injected a malicious transaction into your. Into your transaction flow, and then you end up signing something that you shouldn't have, and you basically send money or deposit money into somewhere that you didn't want to, usually a scammers address. So it's good that metamask is giving a lot more details here on the front, obviously, the lattice one that I talk about a lot, the hardware wallet gives you a lot of details. The ledger and Trezor are basically out when it comes to this sort of stuff. Like, I. I wouldn't. Personally, I don't trust them with large kind of transactions, and large is relative, I guess, like, for.
00:18:36.570 - 00:19:18.964, Speaker A: For people, because it's just. It's hard for me to trust them, because I'm like, okay, well, I've got no guarantee that there's not some sort of malware on my pc that somehow got there that's going to do a man in the middle attack. So I check everything that I sign, but metamask doesn't give me enough detail. The lattice one does give me a healthy amount of detail, and the ledger gives me basically nothing. So, it's just scary whenever you're doing that and kind of like, wondering, okay, am I signing a transaction that is just gonna rug my entire portfolio? Right? Like, I don't move around my entire portfolio very often, but, you know, some. A lot of people do. Like, if you're going to cash out a large chunk and, you know, you get man in the middle attack, that's a scary, scary prospect, because what ends up happening is you could send a large chunk of your portfolio to a scammer, and there's no recourse.
00:19:18.964 - 00:20:14.420, Speaker A: So, I'm very glad to see metamask taking this more seriously and introducing more detailed transaction transparency here. And I can't wait to see them detail this and kind of, like, explain how it's all going to work, because I think there's one side of it, which is giving the user the information and the second side is giving the user the information in a way that they can actually understand it because you, you know, at the end of the day, like, most users aren't just going to understand kind of these random variables and random numbers. So there should be kind of like a waste, help them understand it, which I hope there, there is in there. But, yeah, I'll be monitoring this and let you guys know when they publish more details about this. So ETH, TVL and Aztec has been exploding lately. So since September, I guess, like 2021, it's gone from about, what does that look like to me? That looks about 300 ETH, I would say to, I guess, like 2000 ETH now. So pretty, pretty nice growth here on Aztec, which is a privacy L2 protocol, as I've talked about before on the refuel.
00:20:14.420 - 00:20:51.698, Speaker A: Now, it's always funny when I see these kind of like, charts because I kind of think to myself one of two things. Is it adoption of people actually wanting to use what Aztec is kind of building, which is privacy payments? I think, you know, a decent chunk of that would be. But is it kind of like also people farming an airdrop? Right? Because we all know that everyone is airdrop farming these days. I mean, we have a channel for it in the discord server where we basically talk about different apps that haven't got tokens yet and may have a token in the future. As I said before, I think everything's going to have a token in the future. Um, and, like, how do we farm an airdrop for it, essentially? So I think that's what, you know, at least some users are doing. But at the same time, Aztec just keeps kicking goals with their products.
00:20:51.698 - 00:21:10.582, Speaker A: They keep bringing out new products. I mean, Aztec connect, as I detailed last week, is on testnet right now. I'm sure that'll be on main net soon. And just generally, more people would be hearing about Aztec and kind of like onboarding onto there. But, you know, I'd be remiss to say that it's all totally organic. There's a lot of people farming airdrops. Of course, there's a, there's a portion of it where people are farming airdrops.
00:21:10.582 - 00:21:41.004, Speaker A: But, you know, in saying that, I think when it, when it comes to it, it doesn't really matter. At the end of the day, it doesn't matter if people are farming airdrops or not. They're still using the app, they're still using the protocol, and they're still getting use out of it. It's kind of like a sales funnel at the end of the day, like, the prospect of an airdrop is a sales funnel for these kind of apps. And I think that's okay. I don't think that's a bad thing at all because incentives are what get people to use things in. You know, at the end of the day, like, doesn't matter if it's a monetary incentive or a social incentive or some other kind of incentive.
00:21:41.004 - 00:22:12.584, Speaker A: People only use things because they're going to get something out of it. Like, for example, people only sign up to social media apps because they have an incentive, a social incentive to do so. People, a lot of people only use things on chain, on Ethereum because they have a financial incentive to do so. So from that perspective, it's all about incentives, right? So I don't think it's good or bad. I don't make moral judgements on this. And I think it just, you know, the prospect of an airdrop acting as a sales funnel is a funny little, little thing, but I think it makes a lot of sense and I think it's, it's a cool, a cool little thing that happens. You know, a unique thing to our ecosystem that happens.
00:22:12.584 - 00:22:47.386, Speaker A: So Brantley from the ENS team shared kind of like tweet over the weekend where it basically, he's got a bunch of Ens names with profile pictures or NFts on them on display in Times Square in New York, I believe. So you can basically see here that this was displayed on one of the prominent billboards in Times Square and basically showing a bunch of nfts with ETH. This is, this is super cool. I love this stuff. I mean, there's a, there's a video here of it, a better video. I love this sort of stuff. The fact that, like, you have crypto stuff in, in such a prominent place is just crazy to me.
00:22:47.386 - 00:23:33.874, Speaker A: Like, especially from where I came from in crypto, like how small it used to be. And then just like seeing it kind of, like, whenever I see stuff like this, like in the real world and kind of like seeing it bleeding into the real world, I kind of like, take a step back and think to myself, wow, we have come such a long way from the days of people thinking this was just some fringe thing that no one was ever going to use, that it was only used for kind of like drugs and criminal activities. It's just so amazing when I see stuff like that. We really have come such an amazingly long way. And, you know, this isn't the first time something has been up on, you know, in Times Square but it's just awesome that we can keep doing this. Like, it's awesome that it's not a once off thing because there were some things like this during 2017 and I guess, like early 2018 where people thought the bull market was still on, where it was very flashy, but it wasn't. It wasn't like this.
00:23:33.874 - 00:24:05.406, Speaker A: It was more kind of like spammy icos or scammy icos and more kind of like just ugly crap that that was going on in the ecosystem at the time. But now it's more about the vibes, right? It's more about the GM vibes, the ETH vibes, the nfTs, and all that sort of stuff. So, yeah, whenever I see this, I just get a smile on my face, so I just wanted to share it with you guys. All right. Speaking of, I guess, like, what I was talking about before, like, the early days of crypto, there was this meme made by low strife account on Twitter here. And he captioned it. It's a bit sad how much things have changed.
00:24:05.406 - 00:24:54.044, Speaker A: And the meme basically shows a picture of, captioned how I got introduced to crypto in 2013, and it's got a video of Andreas Antonopoulos talking about bitcoin from eight years ago. And then it's got another caption underneath it saying how you get introduced to crypto today. And it's a bunch of those youtubers with kind of, like their mouth wide open and kind of like the thumbnails with text that say alt 100 x or ripple cell after 200% pump and stuff like that. And I saw this and I was just like, wow, like, this hits hard, right? I got into crypto not because of Andreas, but I kind of, like, got into crypto in 2013 through a friend. And then Andreas was, like, really one of the only people back then, if not the only person back then, evangelizing bitcoin in such a really big way. I don't think it was the only one, but he was, like, the most prominent one, I think. And I watched all of his stuff.
00:24:54.044 - 00:25:20.684, Speaker A: Like, I was obsessed with his stuff. He had such a clear way of communicating the value prop of bitcoin, the dream of it, why it's so special. And he just, he did it all for free, right? He was so honest about it. Like, he was not, there's not a dishonest bone in this guy's body, right? And he was just, like, such a champion for bitcoin at the time. And it was just a really, really great way to get introduced to it. Now fast forward to that, to today. And Andreas is still around doing everything he's doing.
00:25:20.684 - 00:25:48.848, Speaker A: You know, I'm. I kind of, like, got inspired by Andreas as well. That's a, you know, it's one of the reasons why I do what I do. In the education front, we have, you know, really cool other ecosystems, like bankless, of course, and the defiant. I mean, there's a bunch of them now, right? A bunch of educational ecosystems out there, not just kind of like Ethereum focused, but also crypto focused. But the sad reality is, is that the biggest accounts on YouTube, biggest crypto accounts at least, are the ones that do this. In the picture, they do the stupid thumbnails, like, bit boy here, for example.
00:25:48.848 - 00:26:44.386, Speaker A: He has, what, over a million subscribers? And I don't even know the other ones really, like, I don't even know what they're called because I don't watch this stuff. But that's what a lot of people get coming to, you know, get introduced to crypto with these days. And that's why you see during the, you know, the really hot bull market periods, the absolute crap just pumps like Shib and doge and all this meme stuff just absolutely goes gangbusters because that's what these people are shilling to their audience and they're doing it because it's what the algorithm rewards. The YouTube algorithm is geared towards kind of like getting. I mean, it's geared towards kind of like getting as many eyeballs on content as possible. But the thing is, is it's got a limited way to do that. So if you want your content to stand out, you need to kind of do a thumbnail like this, right? Because it appeals to people's psychology and, you know, you're more likely, I mean, it's psychologically proven that you're more more likely to click on a thumbnail like this rather than a thumbnail that basically doesn't tell you anything about the video, which I understand, I get that.
00:26:44.386 - 00:27:38.096, Speaker A: But at the same time, it just warps the incentives completely. And it basically drives the incentives to. To kind of like people shilling all this stuff because they know it gets the most clicks and then it ends up in a vicious cycle where even the honest content creators need to do this in order to stay on top, you know, stay on top of the game in order for the YouTube algorithm to reward them because their algorithm rewards content that is popular. And if your content is popular, you kind of get ranked higher. And to get popular content, it's very easy to do that when you've got, like, thumbnails like this, and you're promising riches to people, and you're doing all this kind of, like, other stuff, right? So from that perspective, I don't kind of, like, necessarily blame people for doing it, but I do kind of, like, have a big issue with people kind of doing it. And then just, like, selling people hopes and dreams and stuff. Like, people will shill coins that they have, like, a big bag in, won't disclose it, they'll dump on their followers.
00:27:38.096 - 00:28:04.066, Speaker A: They'll also have kind of, um, I guess, things they're trying to sell you, like trading courses, stuff like that. There's a lot of that stuff going on, and it just kind of, like, muddies the waters, because, say, you're a new person that comes into crypto today. You're completely new. You have zero context about anything. And you, you search, you know, crypto, you search bitcoin, search ethereum on YouTube. The top results are going to be this crap. The top results aren't going to be Andreas Antonopoulos or some, you know, honest, other honest kind of educators.
00:28:04.066 - 00:28:37.856, Speaker A: The top results, more often than not, are going to be these crappy videos here. And you, you're going to watch them, and then you're going to think, well, okay, like, this person knows what they're talking about because you have zero context. And this person sounds like they have a lot of context, especially if they're speaking confidently about it. And you're going to get, like, trapped in that hole, and then you have to kind of, like, dig yourself out of it and kind of, like, make a conscious decision to be like, no, wait. Okay, this seems a bit dodgy, seems a bit fishy. I'm going to ignore this and I'm going to go, you know, find the honest content creators, but it becomes really hard to find the honest ones because they're being drowned out by a sea of dishonest ones. And, you know, I've seen this play out time and time again.
00:28:37.856 - 00:29:16.396, Speaker A: Whenever I talk to people outside of the ecosystem, they have such a warped view of cryptocurrency, and it's dictated by these sorts of videos, the mainstream media coverage, it's so bad. I have to kind of, like, spend so much time convincing them first that crypto isn't just a scam or just, it isn't just a casino and actually has real value behind it. It breaks my heart. Like, it actually, it's gone to the point where I'm kind of like, now when I see people in real life, I just, I don't actually want to tell them what I do. Like, I'm really proud of what I do if people understand crypto. But I kind of, like, don't want to mention it because. Because when I mentioned I'm in cryptocurrency, you know, maybe not all the time, but, like, a lot of the time, I know immediately in their head, they probably like, oh, okay.
00:29:16.396 - 00:29:42.388, Speaker A: I've heard about cryptocurrency from, like, you know, the mainstream media calling it a scam or saying that, you know, pumped and dumped and. And it only, you know, the mainstream media only reports in it. When something, you know, is going on, whether the price is going up or down, um, or there's some kind of, like, big scam that happens, then I have to walk the people through. Well, no, it's not all a scam is actually things being built. And, you know, it's. It's actually, it gets kind of easier for me because I'm, in a theory, I'm like, I can't imagine what it's like for a bitcoin. They'd probably sound crazy to the average person.
00:29:42.388 - 00:30:10.990, Speaker A: I'm sorry, but, like, for them to try and sell bitcoin to the average person being like, oh, you know, it's digital gold. It's kind of, like, protects you against these. Protects you against, like, rogue governments and kind of, like, inflation and stuff like that. To the everyday person, that's not going to mean much to them, right? Whereas with Ethereum, I find it pretty easy to explain to people once I get going, I can basically say to them, well, Ethereum is like a platform that you can build applications on, like, your iPhone or your kind of, like, Android phone, and it just. The analogies click for people. But, yeah, I don't know how bitcoiners, bitcoin is. Do it.
00:30:10.990 - 00:30:46.554, Speaker A: Because really, bitcoin today is really only just like a digital gold, or it's not even really an alternative money anymore, at least to me. But anyway, I think just, like, looking at this, like, meme, I guess you could call it. It was just sad for me, because I really wish that the algorithms rewarded the honest content more. But the problem is the algorithms don't know. They don't know what the content is. They're not smart enough to know that maybe in the future they will, but they don't know the difference between an Andreas Antonopoulos video and a clickbait buy my token video, because the clickbait buy my token video is more popular. So the algorithm's like, okay, well, this thing.
00:30:46.554 - 00:31:21.046, Speaker A: This content must be better than this content because it got more views. And the only reason it got more views was because it had a better thumbnail and had a better title on the video. And that's just how it works. At the end of the day, that's just, that's the only way it actually can work, because in the attention economy, you need to do that in order to get, you know, to get people's attention. As I've, as I've discussed before, attention is the most scarce resource in today's world. And the fastest way to get it is to appeal to people's psychology or to appeal to kind of like their monkey brain, which is exactly what these thumbnails do. And it's been proven time and time again, and it's proven by the market, it's proven by the algorithms that people love this sort of stuff.
00:31:21.046 - 00:31:49.550, Speaker A: And there's actually guides on how to do this. Now, I'm pretty sure YouTube even provides these guides saying, use a, you know, a thumbnail that will attract people to your video because that's the first thing they see before anything else. I don't, you know, they'll see the title, but that'll be after they see the thumbnail. So if you want to get maximum clicks on your videos, that's what you need to do. Now, obviously, for the Daily Gwei, I don't use clickbait titles or thumbnails. I don't want to attract that crowd to the videos. I want to attract people who just want to learn about the fundamentals behind a theorem and, you know, the crypto space more generally.
00:31:49.550 - 00:32:23.868, Speaker A: I'm not trying to sell anyone anything, of course, but the thing is, there's a lot of people that do this, and there's a lot of people that put out these videos, and they've really, really big channels. I mean, bit boy has, what, millions of subscribers, as I said, like, I don't know who most of these people are here. And he will just constantly talk about, like, every kind of, like, token under the sun. He'll get, like, insider allocations to it, he'll get paid to do it, and there's not really disclosures anywhere. And then his followers are the ones who kind of, like, lose money in the end. And that's why you have, like, such extreme bull and bear kind of like, cycles within crypto, because there's just so much money that goes to waste. I actually consider it wasted money.
00:32:23.868 - 00:33:15.136, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, maybe that's how people have to learn. Like, if people learn from that. That's fine, because, I mean, in 2013, I felt even though I was watching Andreas, I still fell for scams and pumping dumps because I was really new to the ecosystem. But I really do hope that we can kind of, like, get to a point where it just gets better, because at the moment, it just seems like it's getting worse. Where we have, like, too many pump and dumps, you have too much money, kind of going to the wrong people, and it just feels like, how is this ever going to stop? Like, how do we ever change this? The only thing we can do is keep building right? Keep building good products, keep building good products and services, keep educating, and make sure we call this stuff out when it kind of, like, becomes prevalent, which is, again, another double edged sword, because if you call it out, you give it attention, and then by giving it attention, it's just even worse. So I don't know what to do here, guys. Like, I'm at a crossroads myself with this sort of stuff, but I did want to just give some color around that because I did write today's Deli Gwei newsletter about this, too.
00:33:15.136 - 00:33:49.208, Speaker A: But it's just something that I think about a lot as well. But definitely don't expect me to do any kind of, like, wide mouth clickbait thumbnails for the Daily Gwei. I will never do that or in, like, any clickbait titles. But, you know, you look at my channel and then you look at, you know, someone else's channel that does that, it's night and day difference, right? So I don't blame kind of the honest content creators for kind of, like, going more towards that, especially if they're, it's their living. Because, like, for me, I do deli wave for free, right? But for a lot of content creators, it's their living. It's what they do to. To kind of, like, they need to make money off of it, so they need to kind of, like, employ those tactics.
00:33:49.208 - 00:34:08.940, Speaker A: So I get that. But it's when it gets to the point of, like, these other kind of, like, youtubers where they've made so much money already and they just really don't need to be doing this kind of crap, but they keep doing it because it's so lucrative for them. But anyway, I'm gonna leave it at that because I've gone on enough about that. So, yeah, that's it for today. Thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give the video a thumbs up.
00:34:08.940 - 00:34:14.004, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter. Join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
