00:00:05.440 - 00:00:27.844, Speaker A: Okay. Hello. Welcome to the mathematics Republic Health Colloquium. I'd like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the land on which the fields Institute operates. For thousands of years, it has been the traditional land of the Huron Wendat, the Seneca, and the Mississaugas of the credit. Today, this meeting place is still the home to many indigenous people from across Turtle island. And we're grateful to have the opportunity to work on this land.
00:00:27.844 - 00:00:34.724, Speaker A: I'm now going to hand you over to one of our principal investigators, Professor Jan Huang Wu, who will introduce our speakers today. Thank you.
00:00:35.304 - 00:02:02.124, Speaker B: Thank you, Sara. So I'm very pleased. Today we have a highly innovative first of Thai in the Mathematical Research Institute organized centers that we have a presentation jointly by a team led by professor alias Caring, from the York University's Disaster Emergency management program, and Nathan Oscar from University Saskatchewan. And both are key project leaders of the mathematical public health Network. And they will be joined by Artisan Blue and a graduate student, but I think a senior partner of this team and with substantial experience working with emergency management department in the past. And as you all know, Ali Ashkaring is. He's our associate director for the Advanced Disasters Emergency Web Response simulation, and he's also directing the unit as United Nations Training center at York University.
00:02:02.124 - 00:03:10.594, Speaker B: And Nathan is well known to this network and to this platform with his significant contribution to the seminar series and also to the network activities. He's a computer scientist with substantial collaboration with the regional, provincial, national, international networks, including the northern communities. So today is a unique way of presenting some research and planning in terms of linking mathematics to the pandemic, real time, the learning experience in drills and in the emergency operation center settings. So with all this, I will pass on this to, I guess it's starting from AlI 1300.
00:03:14.434 - 00:03:22.574, Speaker C: Yes. Thank you very much, Jan Hung. Before I start, Hudson, do you have an introduction to Starvis, or should I go ahead?
00:03:23.714 - 00:03:25.602, Speaker D: No, take it away, professor.
00:03:25.778 - 00:04:06.286, Speaker C: Okay, thank you very much. All right. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you very much for joining us for today. Colloquium presentation. This is a joint presentation among our team, and the plan is to basically start with some introduction about the project and what our team is doing and also some background about emergency operations center. And I then let Professor Osgoode to provide the context for the proposed exercise that we are planning.
00:04:06.286 - 00:06:22.414, Speaker C: And following that, Hudson will be providing you with some details about the exercise that we are designing and hope to test and run it during the next few months collaboratively with some of you and some other professionals in, in the hospital. So I start with basically, this project that we are involved in is one of the twelve projects under the master public health program. It's called EOC training scenario exercises. The idea behind this work and team activities to basically bring together some of those activities, model simulations that our colleagues in other teams are doing into some sort of training exercises that can be used by existing health agencies as well. I mean professionals as well as by future professionals in form of trainings. So, basically, as part of this research, we are trying to first examine what kind of tools and simulation models are being used at the EOCs in Canada. Our focus is mostly in Canada to understand how different they were in terms of using this sort of tools and technologies, and also understand how decisions were made, especially if it's relevant to modeling and simulations, how useful, how supportive, how, how much, in fact, what approaches, what types, all details that we can better understand how decisions were made in the EEOC, especially public health eocs, during COVID using this.
00:06:22.414 - 00:08:06.296, Speaker C: So it has some connections between existing operations of the eocs as well as the technologies, the model and simulations. And finally, as part of this project, that is actually what we are going to discuss more in detail. We are developing disease outbreak exercise scenarios that integrates models and simulations, the way that it can enhance emergency exercises or pandemic or disease training exercises, and also can bring in some of the topics, some of the issues that have not been previously discussed and brought into common emergency training exercises. So that's basically what this project is about. The exercise project, part of our overall team activities includes we follow certain, basically existing models and approaches in developing exercises. We start with designing and exercise scenarios. Exercise scenarios could be, of course, in this case, relevant to public health, disease pandemics and so on, scenarios that are going to help better understand the mechanisms of decision making process and those issues and challenges that we all experience, and also even literature and best practices.
00:08:06.296 - 00:09:13.532, Speaker C: June Covid showed us that we need to bring in for the current and future generations of exercises. Two, three, five years from now, hopefully when Covid subsides, we would be still needing to work on, make exercises, do preparedness about these things. And we are hoping to, now that we are fresh, we know most of the issues, problems, we want to bring them into this training tool. So this is start with designing those key scenarios, and then we turn this to these scenarios into what we call it tabletop exercises. It doesn't have to be tabletop exercises, but for the sake of this, this project, mostly because we are not able to go face to face and do actions based exercises. We create tabletop exercises that are basically more or less discussion based, group meetings, type of activities. If the situation allows, we may do it face to face.
00:09:13.532 - 00:10:39.108, Speaker C: If not, we of course do it online. And it is a good part of it that we can still have that option. And once we created those tabletop exercises or designed those, we are going to integrate them into, or integrate them with modeling and simulation to make sure or to understand and also test how these could be integrated into our current exercise scenarios. Because most of the time, current exercises rarely include simulation and modeling into their processes. We want to add this into a process. Sorry, testing exercise is the next approach, or next thing we want to do is to test these exercises that we developed with some of the professionals who were heavily involved in this current pandemics to get their feedbacks, sort of refine these exercises, correct them, add their insight into these exercises. So it's going to be sort of testing through the development of the exercises.
00:10:39.108 - 00:12:16.624, Speaker C: And once we finished in, added these inputs from the professionals into our exercises, we make them, we test them with our partners here in mass for public health, for further testing and using it in actual training. And once it is approved by us, our colleagues and professionals, we can make it available to wider community for their own use. Because this is going to be like standard exercise that all agencies dealing with pandemics can actually use it in their own trainings, whether the existing organizations or organizations that are responsible for this or those like us in academia want to train our own students. So these exercises that we are developing are actually designed to be for EOC operations. And so this is just a slide showing little bit of background about what an EOC is. I'm sure some of you have already either worked in this or know about this, but in general, this is a facility that is usually handled and managed under public health agencies in different regions and also emergency management agencies at different levels of governments. They all have this facility called emergency Operations center.
00:12:16.624 - 00:13:49.594, Speaker C: It basically during an emergency, it brings together all key professionals, leaders from different respondent agencies into this room where they can evaluate the situation, assess the conditions and make decisions about what to do to respond to emerging or existing emergency. In pandemic case, of course, the pandemic situation and the AOC, as you can imagine, it's a facility. But what is really important about this is training. This involves a lot of training beforehand to make sure that this EOC, this emergency operation center, and all those key personnel connected to this understand each other, know the processes, how it works, how they can work together how they can communicate, how everything is working under those situations. And so whether this training is happening, for example, a group of EOC teams or all of the EOC teams, it's important to be done. And exercises are one of those kind of trainings that need to be done. And in fact, some agencies at different levels, they have mandatory exercise planning, that they have to run certain type of exercises very often and regularly.
00:13:49.594 - 00:15:13.320, Speaker C: And I'm sure, again, you have seen scenes like that this is what is a common type of emergency operation center of different levels. We have these at, you know, universities and public health agencies for provincial level, private sector, etcetera. They follow basically same style and principles in terms of how different teams are organized, how they are, information is communicating between and outside the emergency operations center, but is really well equipped to be able to sustain operations without interruptions during emergencies for whatever time is needed. Most agencies, in fact, all public health agencies, activated their EOC throughout the pandemic and continue working and operating or having this activated for now. And, but their way of using different eocs are different jurisdiction to jurisdiction. But I can say that they use, you know, a common type of platforms that now, as you can see, there are lots of screen, lots of models, lots of data input, maps, etcetera that comes into this place. And they all need to be processed and not to be understood by the teams that are here to make their decisions.
00:15:13.320 - 00:16:11.992, Speaker C: And that's where the modeling part and case come in. Now, I don't want to go into details of the exercise because what Hudson is going to cover would basically cover, cover this element. But as I said before, exercises are really critical for preparing emergency management agencies responding to emergencies. It's essential for many, many different reasons, including, for example, these people knowing each other, because some of these people in the EOC are really politicians, people who may not have been even in the office for more than one week or one month or so. So it's very essential to have this kind of training. And exercises are, of course, different types. We have functional exercise, discussion based exercise drills, we call some of them.
00:16:11.992 - 00:17:25.624, Speaker C: And as I said before, our goal is to focus on tabletop exercises. But essentially, and perhaps in the future in this program, we may actually explore if situation allows some other types of exercises, depending our resources and the situation. Now, I mentioned about the types of exercises. This is a slide basically from FEMA, showing the sequence and types of different exercises, how comprehensive, how small they are. As you can see here in this, exercises could be basically what a seminar could be an exercise or a workshop could be an exercise, or some of the exercises are designed in this format. Our exercise is tabletop exercise, which is here in terms of complexity, this is almost in the middle, and in terms of capability, it is quite also in the middle. The best and probably the most comprehensive, costly and complex exercises are full escalator exercises, where basically you run and operate everything that is needed, as if you are in a real emergency.
00:17:25.624 - 00:19:08.714, Speaker C: So in terms of emergency management cycle, you have probably heard about this mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery exercises fall under the preparedness phase. Basically, that is where most agencies that follow this circle of emergency management fall under. And this is, this is where we also try to develop exercises for this phase, which is basically preparing for future emergency. This is my last slide for my section, and that is basically giving you what it includes in creating an exercise of the type that we talk, or at least in our case, what we are going to do. And that is where we also hope to get input and support and even participation from our colleagues in the mast for public health program. We have already started, and usually every exercise, especially if you want to do a new exercise that includes new elements, new tools, new technologies, starts with a literature review of what, what is available now, what has been done so far, what current exercises include and exclude, etcetera. And then we go into, as I said before, exercise scenario, which is basically thinking about whether this is going to be a pandemic, this is going to be what kind of pandemics, what kind of disease, what kind of situation, what kind of even, et cetera, anything related to how this case that we are working or we want to use as a training is going to unfold.
00:19:08.714 - 00:21:11.212, Speaker C: And once we in the exercise, as I said before, we examine modeling and simulation tools that can be included and also support this training exercise process, because unlike existing exercises, we really want to make sure that we have an opportunity, because of the connection with the modeling and simulation teams, we have the opportunity to really integrate and examine the role of modeling and simulation and how best they can improve the conditions and decision making process. And so after that, we will integrate this model and simulation into our exercises, scenarios, and do a test and refining the exercises. And hopefully we will test our exercises with the team. Our plan is to do it around March, April, the latest, but see how far we can go with the current plan. Sorry, I think this is my last slide, which is talking about what are the problems with the current exercises. I think I already touched on that. And to summarize my portion of the time, I just want to make a comment that most of the existing or traditional exercises are really not able to capture everything in when developing exercises for pandemic because of course, the complexity of situation, and especially because most of the time health emergencies are prolonged and it is really very difficult to include all those elements into, for example, a typical one day exercise that emergency management agencies or for training or for actual test of their plans are doing.
00:21:11.212 - 00:22:01.154, Speaker C: And on the other hand, most of the existing or past exercises have not included the use of technology in their processes. Technology, I mean, all kind of simulation, modeling, visualization, etcetera, especially in the context of communities that are vulnerable. Communities may not have the advantage of having access to these technologies, having used these kind of technologies before. So our challenge is actually to find out what is also the best way to integrate these kind of modelings into a situation where resources are limited and so on. So I stop here. I'm now inviting Professor Osgood to take over. And thank you very much for listening to this section.
00:22:02.254 - 00:22:14.490, Speaker E: Very good. And Ali, would you like to advance the slides or should I show the slides on my side? I guess you've stopped, so I think that's an option. Now, can everyone see my slides here?
00:22:14.642 - 00:22:15.250, Speaker C: Absolutely.
00:22:15.282 - 00:22:15.610, Speaker D: Yes.
00:22:15.682 - 00:25:24.754, Speaker E: Okay, so thanks so much to Hudson and for Ali in setting the stage so amazingly well and in developing such materials, I want to highlight some of the points that Doctor Asghari made, speak about their specific application to the communities at issue here, communities with which I enjoyed the privilege of interaction over the course of previous outbreaks, and speak about the real need, some of the challenges with the current situation, and some of the tremendous opportunities that really come into play here when we're seeking to address the needs of these communities. So as a by way of a segue, Doctor Asghari had noted the challenge of using traditional, traditional modeling type setups with the types of exercises we're anticipating here, with community members, with community stakeholders. And to reiterate, there's two really big problems. One is a lot of the traditional tools are not set up to capture the recognizable texture of these communities that are needed to secure buy in recognition and familiarity on the part of stakeholders who are speaking about the particular localized resources and situation, the particular unique features of their communities. And second of all, the types of remarkably sophisticated EOC setups of which Doctor Asghari spoke are very rarely, if ever, available for, for rural, remote, and often marginalized communities. And the challenge here is that those communities not only have no recourse to ways of representing local challenges and opportunities, but they also lack the resources and the potential for undertaking those exercises with partners. So within this sphere, we're anticipating modeling that is tailored to the particular features of these communities, communities particularly hard hit right now and over the course of this pandemic by Covid-19 there's roughly speaking, about four different ways in which we're seeking the modeling to speak to the needs of these communities.
00:25:24.754 - 00:27:01.548, Speaker E: So we want to tailor our exercises to the communities by way of representing community structures that are recognizable to the stakeholders within the communities, ongoing community challenges and features that will build confidence in the model's capacity to capture some of the salient dynamics. We want data from those communities. We need to have in place interventions for those communities, things like tailored vaccination strategies or specific ways of addressing some of the challenges of community spread when there's very crowded housing, such as community cohorting facilities, or when you have people going back and forth to work sites. And finally, we want to have custom scenario outputs that will be responsive to community questions, the types of questions that are asked by these communities. And all of this makes the exercises more realistic. Now, to address this, we've been exploring ideas for three different levels of abstraction here within our exercises. Not all exercises need to be conducted at a very detailed level, but some should be to communicate findings.
00:27:01.548 - 00:29:19.422, Speaker E: Others might be communicated at a very high level to carry through key insights so they don't get lost in the weeds and can see the forest rather than being caught up in the trees. So at a more detailed level, we do need models that characterize features of the community that stand out in community level decision making concerns, worries and hotspots. I'll speak about a little bit about what those are, but that would involve a level of detail responsive to, say, representing specific structures and facilities, school, for example, the long term care facilities, often smaller scale clinics, testing sites, et cetera, within the community, because often those areas were ones that, if we look historically, were the focus of some questions. Features like particular community gathering places focused were the focus of much discussion. In a case I'll come to in a moment. At a medium level, we want to abstract over some of the specific details, but try to carry away more generalizable principles, things that people from other communities who are also dealing with the challenges of remoteness, challenges of stigmatization, challenges of small scale will also be grappling with without it being so specific to that community, it will still capture the salient features, but in a way that allows other communities to learn a little bit more readily. And at a high level, we'll be seeking to communicate these overall findings in ways that are compelling, that change how stakeholders, and maybe sometimes community members, think about the situation and the need for response, build up those intuitions without the welter of detail that come at the lowest level.
00:29:19.422 - 00:30:45.722, Speaker E: So I'd like to talk specifically about the types of communities that we are seeking to address within this work. It's a sphere of operation that has been, I think, unfortunately, somewhat neglected in the course of the pandemic. It's easy when we're dealing with cases in the hundreds of thousands or the tens of thousands per day. Here in the Omicron era, when we're dealing with large scale ICU utilization and hospital utilization in our major metropolitan areas, it's easy to overlook that so disproportionately, much of the burden of this pandemic is being felt in smaller areas. And from this floor. Just two or so months ago, I spoke about the urgent need, following Doctor Mishra's presentation, about the urgent need to ensure that our models empower and don't dispossess groups that are marginalized, that are in some cases stigmatized, that have less voice at the table. And rural and indigenous communities are one of the most prominent examples of concerns there.
00:30:45.722 - 00:33:12.994, Speaker E: They've been severely impacted by the pandemic, with very high rates of outbreaks early on, such as in one of the communities I was involved in, in Saskatchewan in late spring, early summer 2020, just one or two months after the inception of the pandemic, but also on an ongoing basis, folks will be likely familiar with some of the challenges in northern Ontario communities right now and in Nunavut, there's a severe impact, and there's many reasons for that. There's unique public health challenges associated with distance, associated with slow turnaround on testing, associated with unavailability of trained physicians on site, associated with crowded housing, and associated with concerns about buying into a healthcare system that for too many decades did contribute to stigmatization, use of stigmatizing language that can continue till today, marginalization, and in some cases, a forced settlement and deprivation of ease of children using the language, or the community having access to traditional lifestyles, systemic abuse and neglect. And it's easy to, when we concern, when we talk about such communities, it's easy to turn a deficit lens to the situation and say, look at the crowding, look at the remoteness, look at the high levels of chronic disease and so on. And none of that is untrue, but it's, it leaves out a really key point that I think a lot of people miss. And it was a key point brought home to me by my direct work with such communities over an extended period. There is formidable demonstrated, actualized potential within such small communities to mobilize communities, to engage the community at a level that would simply not be feasible in our major urban centers that are the focus of so much attention, the Montreals, the Toronto, the Vancouvers of the world. I'll mention two examples.
00:33:12.994 - 00:34:50.924, Speaker E: The community I worked with in northern Saskatchewan, those opening months of the pandemic. Following our presentation of modeling results, they showed them to the community on the effectiveness of mask use and that catalyzed a level of mask use that they had never seen before. It was estimated to be 80% or more adherence to mask use around the community. It became a community norm because the community and in the community, everyone knows each other, they know what's at stake, and the modeling convinced them that the outcomes for their community are too grave to risk. Sloppiness in mask use, and that catalyzed, in the course of just a week or two, tremendous change in norms to achieve high levels of mask use which had not been there previously. Below that previously, I think, had been less than half of that rate. Another case in point, some of these same communities, just within the past few weeks, have achieved over 95% vaccination rates within the communities through community engagement with HMO's, with mhos, with other leaders from our health system, working together with community members, they've achieved levels of vaccination that are almost unheard of across Canada, 97% in one community.
00:34:50.924 - 00:36:45.480, Speaker E: Of note, these are reflection of the fact that we're not only dealing here with differences that are ones of deficit, but differences that are assets that offer the potential to turn around in a dime, undertake and sustain community action, and build capacity for rapid action. Now we can represent the features of the communities that they're grappling with that they will end up affecting through their mobilization and engagement to better promote equity in these outcomes, which are often so disproportionately lopsided. And for those who are engaged in emergency management, who are not embedded in those communities, it also helps them realize how general ideas and general intervention strategies need to be tailored and implemented differently for such communities. To tailor them to the specifics of those communities, whether it's outcomes, interventions, or the specific features of the community that form the focus of those interventions and representation, allows a translation of these outcomes to a broader set of individuals. It further allows community empowerment with building capacity within the communities. So I'd like to give a little bit of texture to this, and I'm going to use the example of Lalosh Clearwater. Lalosh Clearwater Lalosh is a predominantly Metis community of size a couple thousand, and Clearwater river dennation immediately abuts.
00:36:45.480 - 00:37:35.036, Speaker E: It is essentially, it's different jurisdictionally, but it's integrated in terms of community life. Now, you may ask, what are the features of this community other than its remoteness, that set it apart? Well, there's a number of things. First of all, individuals in this community have suffered for decades with housing infrastructure that puts them at disadvantage within Lalosh, the southern component of the southern half of the community. We're talking about an average crowding level. It's about ten residents per three bedroom home per household. In the north, it's about 15 per three bedroom home. In Clearwater River Dennis, public health resources are in very limited supply.
00:37:35.036 - 00:38:11.200, Speaker E: There's not a physician on site. Normally they do have a staff nursing station, which puts them compares favorably to many other communities. But the expertise at a public health level is just not there. The ppes, the availability of staffing is not there. Testing was a particular key resource that was absent. Absolutely essential to know when someone needs to isolate or quarantine. Absolutely key when looking at some of the high risk individuals coming back from worksite.
00:38:11.200 - 00:39:01.042, Speaker E: But it had days of delay associated with it, two, three days of delay because samples had to be collected, flown out episodically down to Regina, brought to the provincial lab, and tested, et cetera. And it had a very long turnaround. That meant someone could spread to many of those same people in their household, the 15 people that live in their household, before they get back. News. The isolation also posed a problem in terms of evacuating individuals for care. Once an individual needed any level of care, they had to be brought out, often with a large part of their family, down to urban centers, which raised further risk of dislocation and infection spread. Another issue, though, was a big one.
00:39:01.042 - 00:40:55.444, Speaker E: The isolation is one that requires community members to move to over long distances to major urban centers for certain care needs. This is a community that has, unfortunately, high levels of chronic diseases. These are not accidents. It's because these were predominantly mobile groups that were forced into settlement in these communities, forced to abandon their traditional lifestyles of harvesting on the landscape, the higher levels of physical activity involved, and forced into settlement with in a situation where the costs were such that a single bell pepper might cost $7 $8, and there's a diet predominantly forced by the economics of things that don't perish easily. High sugar, high fat type foods, it's led to a high level of chronic disease, including rates of diabetes, that are upwards of 50% for women above age 50. And this means many individuals have to drive hours and hours, three to 6 hours, to get, say, dialysis care for chronic kidney disease, or to see diabetes specialists, which put them in a medical taxi where there's a high risk of transmittal if either the driver or the passenger is infected. There's also, through decades of stigmatization, people who look down on the ethnicity, who consider them dirty and living in low quality housing, who look down on their socioeconomic status, who look down on low levels of education.
00:40:55.444 - 00:42:42.322, Speaker E: This has led to stigmatizing language. It's led to stigmatization societally that has triggered mental health challenges, substance abuse, and a cycle of poverty that in some cases has spiraled into domestic violence and crowded households, where a child could be exposed to this violence all too easily. This may sound like problems that we can do nothing about in a pandemic, but it makes all the difference for the types of interventions being talked about and the types of interventions that are ruled out. School closures, for example, off the table. Because schools provide healthy diets, they provide a safe haven for the many children in the community. They provide role models, they provide education, clearly, but they provide a safe environment, socially and, in terms of health, safer than a 15 person household at home. If we think about traditional platitudes on needing to have people isolate after a positive diagnosis, how do you isolate if you live with twelve others in your home, effectively in a three bedroom home, how do you social distance in that context in a meaningful way? These were some of the challenges that were brought to us by the community, how to undertake effective door to door screening and resolution if you find a positive case when that person is a caregiver to someone else in that home, an essential caregiver.
00:42:42.322 - 00:44:45.064, Speaker E: And it required unique types of interventions, like bringing trailers to the community, where a grandmother and her two caregivers could go and be isolated from others. The community of Lalosh experienced one of the most severe outbreaks in Saskatchewan that was turned around by community mobilization, made possible in significant part by modeling. And I'm pleased to say that we were the prime modelers involved in that. This infection spread early on, within the opening months of the pandemic, affected almost half of the residents early on, until it was turned around through very high levels of mask use, dealing with community specific issues like homelessness that were leading to large numbers of gatherings and mixings and homes of ill individuals through building a bombless shelter, for example, and dealing with some of the unique challenges with individuals needing, needing support for substance abuse issues in the context of a pandemic where they would otherwise break quarantine. So the unique challenges of the community were front and center in the questions that were asked to us of community members and by the medical health officers involved. It's hard to imagine a question not asked to us which didn't have some unique community feature to it, or where some unique community consideration did not have to be discussed. The public health measures that were arrived at were tailored to that community and needed to be to have credibility, to be actualizable and be implementable and to make sense to the community members.
00:44:45.064 - 00:46:37.484, Speaker E: So what can we learn to this? Well, managing that outbreak and managing some of the community mobilization, since we're still in touch with the mhos involved, has really given the community and regional management and public health officials a unique skillset. There's been capacity building and perspective building that's been formidable. And these individuals, including community members who understanding what modeling can bring to the table, is a valuable resource for building resilience in other communities. It provides a generalizable case of the importance of this work. And by taking the tailored features of some of these communities and placing them in exercises, what we can do is further refine their understanding of how to respond to similar challenges in the future. And when I was speaking from this floor two months back about the importance of empowering those who are traditionally neglected, helping to address inequities and disparities in health, I spoke about the need to help ensure that the lived experience and the features of the circumstances of individuals from the lowest rungs of society is brought to the table. The types of exercises we're talking about here can be an important step, I think, towards equitable representation of regional and northern communities in emergency management.
00:46:37.484 - 00:47:56.030, Speaker E: It can also help make up for decades of neglect. In cases where these communities have been the kind of poster boy of a community that people love to say is the problem when it comes to outbreaks. Blaming the victim for an outbreak, which has all too often been the case, including during the Covid-19 pandemic by some politicians, where they'll trot out complaints about low levels of vaccination in the north as a cause for continued outbreaks, or they'll say the outbreaks are in indigenous communities in a way that's stigmatizing. So working with community management and public health professionals, community emergency management, we're hoping to really ensure that these communities have have exercises that are tailored to the features of their community so they can learn most effectively from it, and so that they are purposely resourced to go through these exercises in a way that will lead to broad capacity building and help these communities shape their health futures. So I think I'll stop here and turn it over to Hudson. Thanks.
00:47:56.222 - 00:48:03.942, Speaker D: Thanks. And Doctor Osgood, if you actually don't mind just continuing to share, I have a bit of. No, that's okay. I just. Weird technical thing with the sound on this computer.
00:48:04.038 - 00:48:07.270, Speaker E: Happy to do that. Just tell me when you want me to advance it.
00:48:07.422 - 00:49:11.772, Speaker D: Okay, great. Thank you. So, hi everyone. So just building on what we've talked about already, I'm now going to talk a little bit about the specifics of the exercise design and what this actually means in terms of combining, modeling, combining lived experience and combining previous exercise design knowledge into something that can accomplish all the goals that we're setting out to accomplish. First off, I just want to make one thing clear when I'm talking about exercises. As Doctor Asghari mentioned early in the presentation, the exercise that we're developing right now is basically meant to give the people with the lived experience, the emergency managers, the community leaders, the public health professionals in the communities, the opportunity to actually represent their lived experience in something that can be tangible, can train other people. It can leverage that knowledge that they have to basically improve the resilience of people in general, but also just in other similar communities, and also is a great way to represent their experience in the broader emergency management context, in the broader emergency management discussion.
00:49:11.772 - 00:49:51.948, Speaker D: So basically what we're doing, this exercise that we're designing, we are going to be ideally going through with them and then they're going to be giving us some feedback on this so we, we can refine it. But basically the initial exercise is going to be set up to be a one day event. As previously mentioned, this is going to be a tabletop exercise. So this is going to be a lot of discussion based, a lot of talking about what the correct solutions are, what the different options are for given different scenarios. So the time phrase, the exercise is going to be about 8 hours. The geographical area. We would like to have this in person, but unfortunately it's looking like right now we'll, we'll need to start running the exercise virtually.
00:49:51.948 - 00:50:30.572, Speaker D: But that's not inherently a bad thing because that has some interesting opportunities along with it as well. It's going to be a tabletop exercise. I previously mentioned, our main hazards of focus essentially break down into two categories. So these are the infectious disease outbreak. So these are all the things that would be associated with an infectious disease outbreak in general. And then there's also that additional level of texture to the community into the scenario. And this is one of the great things that modeling allows us to do that where previous more kind of normal in the field exercise, exercise procedure doesn't totally allow for that organizations and personnel that we would like to have in the exercise.
00:50:30.572 - 00:51:24.360, Speaker D: So we'd like to get the input from community leadership, from the Saskatchewan Health Authority, from the Northern Tribal Health Authority, obviously expertise from our own skilled folks at York University, the medical officers of health, population health unit and Northern medical Services. So if you can move to the next slide, please. Thank you. So the basic scenario function. So this is sort of that first category that I mentioned, the fundamental kind of things that are going to be in the scenario, that would essentially be in the scenario regardless. These are the infectious disease components of this. So these are going to be countermeasures such as PPE and social distancing, testing strategies, vaccination strategies, contact tracing and isolation, adaptation to resource shortages, excuse me, strategy, providing normal care during pandemic conditions and public education.
00:51:24.360 - 00:52:30.480, Speaker D: So while these might be normal things that you would expect to see in any disease outbreak exercise, because of the unique setting of this scenario and because of the unique skillset of the people that we'll be including as participants and as advisors who can give us some feedback on this, these will have some really unique and interesting solutions, and this is something that we're really looking forward to including in the exercise and representing in the broader emergency management field. If you can move to the next slide, please. Thank you. So now the additional areas of focus. So these are those additional areas of community texture. So these are things that we really want to include in the exercise because they are, you know, they're really a feature of these communities and their experience, but they also really have a lot of learning potential for improving resilience moving forward, not just in rural and northern indigenous communities, but in communities in general, within emergency management, within the broader society. So crowding in households, door to door screening, public health measures and compliance, community cohort isolation.
00:52:30.480 - 00:53:35.884, Speaker D: So that's what Doctor Osgood talked about with some of the different options for isolation aren't necessarily options because of these factors and because of, you know, that texture and all, everything going on within the community. So contact tracing between households, again, is very challenging given the crowding, but also the tight couple nature of the community you have. This is a community in the truest sense. This is a group of people that largely because of the limited resources, really do have to depend on one another for a lot of day to day components of life. So it's a very tightly coupled community, which means contact tracing is extremely important in dealing with disease outbreaks and informal gatherings, because again, with a facet of living in rural areas is that a lot of the time your entertainment and your. A really important thing of community life is not even just for entertainment purposes, but just a really important part of community life is gathering with other people from the community that's challenging the pandemic, and it presents a really big risk in terms of perpetuating the disease spread. So that's another thing that we really want to include in the scenario.
00:53:35.884 - 00:54:06.820, Speaker D: Next slide, please. All right, so model and scenario integration. So, talked a bit about what the scenario actually is, but now I'll talk about how that's going to work with the model. So it's a common practice in exercise design and emergency management to include what's called a Sim cell. So, or a simulation cell. This is a group of people whose whole job it is to adapt the exercise to the actions taken by the participants. So this is great, but it's inherently limited by the people who are acting in the Sim cell.
00:54:06.820 - 00:55:02.272, Speaker D: So as a person, there's only so much you can keep track of, no matter how experienced you are, how smart you are. Modeling allows us to augment that by basically creating a situation where the model is providing you with all this information that you wouldn't on your own be able to keep track of in terms of people interacting with one another, features happening within the community. This also in terms of an exercise design component, gives us a really great opportunity to visually represent a lot of things that are happening in the scenario rather than just describing them. So you meant you would have likely noticed in the pictures we had earlier of eocs. A really common thing in eocs is you have screens where you can visually represent information. Being able to work with that gives a really immersive and gives a really realistic, in many ways, example of what people will be dealing with in the field that goes into passing on that knowledge. This is also really valuable because pandemics and disease outbreaks are largely invisible in their impacts.
00:55:02.272 - 00:55:41.264, Speaker D: And that goes beyond just people who are sick and we don't know it yet, but that also goes to all of the additional factors we talked about, such as domestic violence, mental health impacts, the impact it has on people accessing healthcare. All these things might not be inherently visible, but are really critical for the well being and the resilience of a community. So if you can move to the next slide, please. So now just to represent, because everyone loves a flowchart. So just understanding how this will actually work minute by minute for the participants in the exercise. So, like a lot of people my age, I love video games. A common thing in video games, or really any game design, is the idea of a game loop.
00:55:41.264 - 00:56:26.814, Speaker D: So that's a feature that also works its way into exercise design, which is that you basically want to have a process that participants are going to work through where you have a consistent sort of loop that progresses the scenario. So how that works here is basically you're going to have an initial inject. So this is an instruction, given the facilitator, that sets the stage for the scenario and actually introduces the components that the participants are going to be dealing with. Then you have an initial modeling scenario which goes along with the initial inject. Again, this is the initial presentation of the scenario that the participants are going to have to adapt to. At this point, participants will have the opportunity to take actions and to manage this scenario as if it was a real disease outbreak. These inputs will be then input into the model.
00:56:26.814 - 00:57:10.196, Speaker D: These actions will be taken into account, and then based on this, another inject will be given, and we'll be able to get model outputs on that, that adapt that modeling scenario to what the participants have actually done. So it's a really interactive, and it's a really good way to actually understand the implications of persistent actions going far beyond just directly, just directly health impacts in terms of the disease, but also impacts on the community by and large. So we move on to the next slide, please. All right, so for participants. So the actual participants will be organized according to the IMS structure. This is a common structure for eocs. The injects will be given about every 30 minutes.
00:57:10.196 - 00:58:27.044, Speaker D: This will be about the length of time for our looping process about giving injects and participant actions. So it's good to have that ongoing, fairly fast pace scenario, because it forces participants to plan ahead, and it also forces them to adapt based on limited resources and limited knowledge, which is really something that is important to capture that happens in the real world. So each inject will move the timeline forward approximately one week, and then over the course of the exercise, we want to cover about three months of a disease outbreak in a rural and northern indigenous community is the goal, because we found that in looking at literature and looking at previous outbreaks, this is kind of a good span of time to understand the different components of this. So just conscious of time, we can move on to the next slide. We can get this finished off and possibly go to some questions. So in conclusion, this is going to, this project now is going to form the basis of future work as we improve the model, as we work with people with the lived experience. We want to basically use this to expand work in exercise design and modeling outside of just this project, but in the field as a whole, this will also present a great training opportunity.
00:58:27.044 - 00:58:48.144, Speaker D: And then we also really think that this is really in line with the mathematics for public health mission, which is combining mathematics, modeling and technology with objectives of public health and to generally make people's lives better. So I'll leave it off there. Thank you everyone for your time. And if anyone has any questions, we'll be more than happy to answer. Thank you.
00:58:49.124 - 00:59:39.564, Speaker B: Thank you. The team Ali, Pattinson and Oscar. This is very unique combination of talks from your different perspective and really nice introduction of the EOC operation. So any other, any questions, comments from the audience? You can, you can raise your hand, you can just unmute yourself and ask questions directly. Maybe one of the questions I can ask is the students can also scale up in many different ways to take care of different settings and potentially different issues.
00:59:42.354 - 01:00:20.444, Speaker D: Yeah, for sure. And that's one of the things that really is what we mean when we say this is going to be forming the basis of other work and other opportunities, because all of this work can really be scaled up as we improve, as we improve the exercise design and as we improve the actual modeling component of it. So some really exciting opportunities to apply this in not just, not just this context, but a whole bunch of different contexts for other public health concerns. That central ransom, for example, you could do this around impacts of clean drinking water. You could adapt this methodology to a whole lot of public health concerns. It's really interesting, it's a really interesting accommodation that I think has a lot of good potential.
01:00:23.224 - 01:01:39.706, Speaker B: I noticed there are a number of young students and trainees and posters here. I just want to share some of my experience working close relationship with the disaster emergency management group here at York. And they call it excises, sometimes they call it drills. And I participate in one of the case related to the subway opening. A subway station opening in New York assumes some emergency situation happened. How the university handle start to that emergency semination. And I just want to say that it's a, it's a humble word from the community when the co exercises for me is both research but it's also operational management and it's a different way of research and development, and it requires really substantial creative ideas and interdisciplinary interactions and improving this case, the communities.
01:01:39.706 - 01:02:03.904, Speaker B: I honestly just tweeted out this lecture series and just hope some of our provincial cabinet meetings can really have gone through some of those kind of excises and drills and with this kind of community engagement directly in the rapid decision making process.
01:02:07.164 - 01:02:50.074, Speaker C: Now, I don't know if there are questions. We are open to questions, but I also want to add another thing that is probably relevant to this and especially for group who are present here, that we hope to actually run these exercises at our emergency operations center, the other Simon Emergency operations center that is under construction right now at York University. And it's going to be finished hopefully by this summer. And hopefully you will have some of you may have chance to get into this facility and hopefully together we run one of these exercises together next year or next fall. Hopefully. Thank you.
01:02:57.544 - 01:03:26.874, Speaker B: Do you want to call for participants as well? I just find any, remember my experience in participating some of the drills and in addition to the invited participants from the stakeholders here, I know you involving quite a number of communities and public health unions. And are you calling for ordinary participants?
01:03:27.654 - 01:03:56.174, Speaker C: Of course. I mean, this is participation in different ways. One is when we run this kind of exercises as a training for our own students and team, and also when we let agencies from outside, like public health or other emergency agencies to use this facility for their own training, and we and our students actually observe and, you know, monitor and do research on those kind of exercises.
01:04:07.314 - 01:04:16.354, Speaker B: So you are hoping to be able to, to have the first try somehow by the end of, in the spring.
01:04:17.334 - 01:04:22.514, Speaker C: I leave it to Hudson. That's our plan. But he knows more details about the timing.
01:04:23.854 - 01:04:47.024, Speaker D: That's the hope, ideally, yeah. I'm hoping March sometime would be ideal. But again, it's always tricky with COVID It's always tricky because everyone has a lot of other important work that comes up along with doing this. So, you know, as every, as life has been for the last two years, timeline is always a little bit of flux, but that's what we're shooting for and that's what we're working towards.
01:04:48.364 - 01:06:15.932, Speaker E: Yeah. It bears noting that not only has Covid imposed for everyone and complicate scheduling, the individuals that we are talking about involving here are key members of, you know, stick handling their communities through the risks right now of Omicron, and there's quite a lot of interest in how to do that effectively and learn from modeling for that right now. So I think a lot of the details of the timing will be influenced by that. Having said that, I will say it's an asset as well. The communities have come a really long way over the past year and a half in terms of engaging with infectious disease. And while we had a lot of great questions from them a year and a half ago, so much has happened since then that I think it will lead to a very rich set of encounters and a greater capacity of community members and, and community leaders to and associated mhos to take advantage of an exercise like this. So while it may need to be deferred by weeks or whatever, those weeks will actually come in useful in terms of extra lived experience, I think.
01:06:16.068 - 01:06:43.942, Speaker B: Right. Thank you very much. I'm also concerned about, could these be a public, if really some of the data involving specific information, and there are some issues or concerns which are more private to the individual, to the community.
01:06:44.078 - 01:07:27.470, Speaker E: So, yeah, maybe I could just say a word or two about that. There's two. In general, I love public events. I will, and I'm sure Doctor Asghari and Hudson have another depth of understanding of implications of that capacity wise and script wise, et cetera. But I will just, maybe I'll add three things. Number one, we're dealing with issues here that are unfortunately somewhat hot button societal issues. And there is the risk of trolling and all that sort of stuff whenever you have a public discussion of this or people pushing pet theories.
01:07:27.470 - 01:08:21.414, Speaker E: But more than that, I will just say that the texture of these communities, I tried to speak about it, but the communities have certain features that when you first engage with them, you can tell that there's a certain reticence to discuss openly all the issues, because they don't want to be viewed through a stigmatizing lens. And that's not a small matter. When it comes to housing. They don't want to be blamed as limited access to good ventilation, or limited access of those on the streets to sanitation. They don't want to be blamed as a bunch of dirty hovels or something like that. They don't want to be stigmatized. And during this pandemic, they have been repeatedly stigmatized.
01:08:21.414 - 01:09:11.814, Speaker E: And sometimes disadvantage can be turned into a point of looking down on a community. And so it might be open to public from the communities, from the northern communities, but I think there'd be a certain reticence to bring in just anyone from any old community around Canada who might take some of the learnings about the community and talk about how poor these communities are, or how poor their resources are, or poor their ability to cope, or what have you. So there is that risk, and that's on my mind as well. So I'll just mention.
01:09:19.434 - 01:11:07.754, Speaker B: All right, I make a final comment, and it's part of history. Remember, in early, I think, February of 2019, under the strong leadership of the branch loss, the Ontario minister of health, the emergency management branch, organized a special event to bring mathematic modelers across the province, along with medical special infection control experts and some of the decision makers in the programs at that time. And many of the models now are becoming the major players now in today's Covid-19 modeling. And really to talk about how mathematic modeling can be informed, to inform the pandemic management at that time was for pandemic flow. So I made a proposal which was laughed after out, and I said, maybe I should run a drill at that time to see what's the gap between the mathematical modeling and the real decision making. Of course, it was, it was pretty premature at that time. So what's been left? And however, the pandemic flow started in April, so many of the participants of that work were engaged in many of the decision making excesses through the Ontario Middle Ontario Emergency Management leadership team.
01:11:07.754 - 01:12:18.486, Speaker B: And I think the way we go, and Brian Schwartz were leading that team. And so we went to really kind of decision making process, engage modeling, but not without these excess betrayals. And of course, then waited for so long, we did not go through this excess, the Covid-19 so I hope we'll be much better prepared for the next public health emergencies. So we just know that once again, on behalf of the network and on behalf Institute, I want to thank again and Nathan, Ali, and Harrison for your presentation leading this discussion and design. This is very time consuming, hopefully. I think it's a very rewarding exercise to launch the first EOC trail. So this is not only our research project, it's also our major knowledge mobilization activities.
01:12:18.486 - 01:12:19.754, Speaker B: Thank you all.
01:12:21.334 - 01:12:24.558, Speaker C: Thank you very much, everybody.
01:12:24.606 - 01:12:26.006, Speaker D: Thank you everyone for your time.
01:12:26.190 - 01:12:29.934, Speaker E: Thanks so much. Bye.
