00:00:00.090 - 00:00:29.234, Speaker A: Alright, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co host today are their personal views and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve.
00:00:29.234 - 00:00:34.040, Speaker A: For this one, you've got Mike and Miles. Miles, we're doing the little solo episode, just the two of us.
00:00:35.770 - 00:00:40.150, Speaker B: I think I think the week's news makes it very appropriate.
00:00:40.810 - 00:01:45.774, Speaker A: We've readjusted our plans for the last two episodes of the season. It's like that old saying, right? If you want to make God laugh, just tell him your plans. And this week there was a big announcement, right? Everyone's very focused on Base, which is the new layer two that Coinbase launched from the beginning of the season. You and I have been very interested in kind of this idea that both Ethereum and Cosmos are kind of on a collision course, right? And that ultimately they're trying to solve the same problem just from two very different starting you know, in addition to the Base announcement this week from Coinbase that's being built kind of on a version of the Op stack, there's also kind of a rebrand that optimism has done. So they're now talking about this thing called the superchain, right? That's what they're calling it. I think from our standpoint, it kind of looks like this idea we've been really curious about, which is this app chain or app space thesis playing out on Ethereum. And we actually created some slides here for all of you to kind of visually walk you all through this.
00:01:45.774 - 00:01:57.458, Speaker A: So I'm going to try to share my screen, but do you want to kind of explain, Miles, while I'm struggling with technology? What is this idea of the superchain here? Why has Ethereum or has optimism kind.
00:01:57.464 - 00:03:36.370, Speaker B: Of rebranded to I think, you know, as we've talked about this collision course idea before, which is that Ethereum and Cosmos are both building towards a future with app specific block space. And I think the superchain is a version of really what the Cosmos thesis is also trying to achieve, but sharing a common security layer in Ethereum l one, right? And so this is somewhat of an admission or really embracing the idea that there are going to be thousands of app specific block space or app specific chains. And I think a big part of this rebrand is calling them chains now instead of roll ups, but doing so in a secure Ethereum first way. So, yeah, if we just look at the language here, right, so we have superchain is a horizontally scalable network of chains that share security, a communication layer and an open source development stack. Two out of the three of those things sound exactly like the Cosmos thesis. Basically, you have the Cosmos SDK is an open source development stack that allows a lot of these chains to interact more frictionlessly together because they share certain standards. A communication layer that sounds very similar to a communication standard that IBC provides.
00:03:36.370 - 00:04:52.120, Speaker B: The communication layer could also refer to really the original thesis of the Cosmos hub which was to be really a messaging hub so that each chain doesn't need to maintain point to point connections. So you could see the optimism bridge serving as somewhat of either like a communication standard or a communication hub between all of these app specific op chains. And then, yeah, the only big difference here is that the op chains are secured at the end of the day by Ethereum. There's one final source of truth that all the op chains share, which is what is actually posted to Ethereum, l one. And that's the big difference here. Right in the Cosmos version of this thesis, every chain has its own final source of truth. And you rely on kind of, I guess, the credibility of each chain to believe that final source of truth which enables IBC to work.
00:04:52.120 - 00:05:37.398, Speaker B: And so I think there's a lot of parallels to draw here. I think it's really worth paying attention to the language that they're using because it is a big change, I think. And I don't think Base itself, we can get into it later represents the app chain thesis playing out because Base is still a general purpose l two. But we're starting to see the broader vision here, which is thousands of these app specific chains that are sharing the same stack, share the same communication standards and interact with each other. So I see a lot of parallels here.
00:05:37.564 - 00:06:07.466, Speaker A: I think it's kind of you've historically seen sort of example of this as well. This is not meant in a derogatory way at all to Ethereum, but definitely elements of some of the focus and new ideas that get birthed in kind of the Cosmos ecosystem have kind of found their way into the Ethereum roadmap here. And I'm not sure this represents total sea change, but lot it's really hard to ignore this language here that even is being used right on the optimism website to basically indicate what this is.
00:06:07.508 - 00:07:11.190, Speaker B: I would point out one more thing if you go back to that last slide, just in terms of ideas from Cosmos being ported over. So the new revenue model that rewards application developers for the fees that their chains generate. I could be wrong, but I believe I saw that that was taken from Kanto, which is a new, fairly recently launched chain in Cosmos that basically intends to reward developers for use of their smart contracts by paying them a portion of the gas fees that leverage the contracts they develop. The broader vision, I think, is kind of being ported over here. The main tools that make this possible are being recreated, not ported over. And then some of the more nuanced pieces, like this revenue model for protocol developers, you can see that's getting mapped over as well.
00:07:11.260 - 00:07:38.670, Speaker A: Here's the thing about you got to hand it to them. Look at this branding and look at that word, the super chain. What a powerful meme that is. This is one of the things that I think what I would kind of call and this was, I think, your sort of framework for looking at it, just give credit where credit is due. But it's kind of like that core Ethereum kind of group right there's. ETH as a brand. And that's very closely aligned, probably on the deck side with Uniswap and on the L two side with optimism.
00:07:38.670 - 00:08:20.570, Speaker A: They really do get how to disperse a compelling message. And a good meme. You're going to see probably a bunch of memes about the super chain, where really the Cosmos version of this is the Internet of blockchains. But I want to get into some of the more specifics here. And again, I apologize if you're not looking at video, but just to kind of describe what we're looking at here, these are a couple of diagrams, basically of a high level version of the optimism sort of model, right? And what you're seeing is a big purple bar on the top, Ethereum. Then there's a connector, smaller bar, optimism bridge. And then you have a bunch of vertical kind of op chains, op chain 1234, et cetera.
00:08:20.570 - 00:09:02.114, Speaker A: And then on the right, you kind of have the Cosmos version of things, which on the bottom you've got one block, which is networking consensus. That's kind of tendermint. There's Communication Rails, which is ABCI. And then there's an application layer, which is the Cosmos SDK and a smart contracting layer. The Cosmosm last thing actually on the Ethereum or the optimism diagram is this cross chain messaging protocol. So, Miles, maybe could you help kind of connect this diagram on the left? Where does base kind of fall there? Where does Optimism mainnet fall? And just kind of give us an overview here of what we've got?
00:09:02.252 - 00:09:40.434, Speaker B: Absolutely. Again, this is still very early. We still haven't seen what this looks like. So we could be wrong here. But essentially to answer that question around, where is Optimism, Mainet, and where is Base? I think that those are op chain one and op chain two. And I think they are just sort of laying the foundations for what can be built on top that enables this broader vision to play out. I think that they basically serve as an onboarding tool through Coinbase.
00:09:40.434 - 00:10:56.720, Speaker B: And eventually, I think, optimism mainnet will transition to more of a communication hub similar to Adam. But just to give maybe a higher level overview of what the similarities are here is you're giving developers a set of out of the box tools that enable them to build their own blockchains securely and interoperable with each other. With the Cosmos stack, you have tendermint, which gives you networking and consensus engine right out of the box. So you have the tools, but you still need to go, obviously, recruit your own validator set to run this software. And the security of your networking and consensus layer is based off of your own token, right? And so that maps over basically to Ethereum L One to some extent. So that's not really part of the Op stack. But the Op stack does have sequencers which do play a similar role to validators in terms of ordering transactions and sending them to Ethereum L One.
00:10:56.720 - 00:12:11.880, Speaker B: And so you get those out of the box, you could still have to either run that sequencer yourself or recruit a network of sequencers to run a multi sequencer network. Or you could potentially rent security from a shared sequencer network, which I think we can get into later. And then on top, you need a set of modules, a set of tools that basically every single developer who wants to build their own Op chain or their own Cosmos chain. They're not reinventing the wheel. They've got the core capabilities right out of the box that they can plug in, but you want to make them modular enough so that they can plug and play different configurations. They can take whatever the out of the box version is and customize it more for their use case. And so the goal here is basically, with both stacks, is to reduce the amount of time as much as possible from start of development to launch, and then once they are launched, give them a set of tools that allow these chains to communicate with each other.
00:12:11.880 - 00:13:13.960, Speaker B: Because that, to me, is the big missing piece here. And so, yeah, it's interesting. I think we were talking about this all season long, but Ethereum and Cosmos are building towards the same shared vision, but have very different starting. So, you know, I view the Op stack as Ethereum now trying to build their own Cosmos SDK, right? And instead of this is for allowing lots of L ones to use the same stack, these were all going to be L two chains, or roll ups, as we used to call them. And then on the Cosmos side, they basically really focused on the interoperability, the IBC piece they've built out. The Cosmos SDK has tons and tons of modules, which the more people use it, the more app chain developers that adopt it, they start contributing themselves. And so there's lots of network effects there.
00:13:13.960 - 00:13:29.150, Speaker B: But at the end of the day, these stacks are basically just to enable developers to get from zero to one as fast as possible. And they both achieve that in different ways.
00:13:29.300 - 00:14:10.986, Speaker A: So we're going to get into some more details of what is in that stack and kind of compare the Op stack versus the Cosmos SDK. But before we do. I think one other highlight that's just worth flagging and mentioning is you and I have kind of laid out this gosh blanking on the word for it, but this spectrum right where you've got kind of a full stack app chain like Osmosis all the way over here on the left and then kind of like a roll app. Layer three on the right here on Ethereum. And then there's something like kind of Celestia in the middle which is more modular approach. What we're talking about here is kind of laying the base. These are all, just to be totally clear, generalized block space.
00:14:10.986 - 00:14:59.162, Speaker A: Layer twos, right? So this isn't necessarily that layer three yet. Although we'll get to a slide later on where they're specifically saying that's a problem that they're trying to solve for. I think another just something to highlight the approach that optimism has taken that's a little bit different from some of the other folks that we've spoken to such as Sovereign Lab, certainly. But also Celestia is they're highly aligned with Ethereum, right? It's all over their language. It seems like from a developer standpoint, they're really trying to make it as easy as possible for Ethereum developers to build on optimism as well. Whereas especially the Sovereign Labs has taken the approach where it doesn't really matter sort of the base l one that we plug into. We're kind of a one size fits all.
00:14:59.162 - 00:15:03.260, Speaker A: It's just a very different kind of strategy for scaling this part.
00:15:03.710 - 00:16:02.414, Speaker B: It plays into the BD side as well because I think the goal of this rebrand is when you think of Ethereum scaling, you think of optimism. When you think of the future of basically a multi chain world, you're thinking of the optimism stack and you're thinking of all of these chains that share all the same qualities because they're using the you know, I think optimism has done this really well. Uniswap does it really well in terms of aligning themselves. So when you think of Ethereum, you also think of them that's very different from Sovereign Labs and very different from the Cosmos approach which is really bottoms up and focusing on it's called Sovereign Labs for a reason, right? It's focusing on sovereignty and embracing that. So, yeah, I think that's an interesting point there.
00:16:02.452 - 00:16:44.426, Speaker A: Yeah. And I think the trade offs, if I was sitting in the seat of preston, who we spoke to last week, or maybe ben, who's the leader or one of the co founders at optimism is, you know, on the ethereum side of things, you plug into distribution. Right. You have access to. Or first of all, you kind of have the inherit the shared security of Ethereum. So it's not something you have to worry about, but you kind of plug into this sea of users. But the challenge, right, is obviously if Ethereum were to slow or adoption doesn't go along the path that they wanted or there's some kind of technical reason why the chain was less feasible than we think it's going to be today, then they're limited, right? Sort of they've kind of tied their fate to Ethereum.
00:16:44.426 - 00:16:57.518, Speaker A: Whereas the approaches of, say, a Sovereign Labs, you are not limited to the success of the layer one. But also you do kind of lack that pipeline and funnel into users.
00:16:57.614 - 00:16:58.066, Speaker B: Right?
00:16:58.168 - 00:17:32.954, Speaker A: And we'll see how each of those two things trade off. But that's the way that I would be thinking about kind of the trade off. I'd love to get your thoughts on that. But also, before we go to the next slide, I do want to get your thoughts on this kind of cross chain messaging, which could be kind of one of two things. This is the much less likely, but there was a paper that the Ethereum Foundation published, I think back in September or October of this year, which was, what would IBC on Ethereum look? What that? That's certainly the messaging solution in the Cosmos ecosystem. Much more likely. Right.
00:17:32.954 - 00:17:41.438, Speaker A: This is probably a shared set of sequencers. So could you just kind of comment on the distribution approach and then let's just talk about what some of the.
00:17:41.444 - 00:18:49.126, Speaker B: Trade offs are of the sequencers, the communication side. The challenge right now with roll ups is that for you to bridge from one roll up to another or at least optimistic roll ups, there's basically a challenge period of I think it's anywhere up to seven days before your transaction is guaranteed to be basically valid. And then you can bridge over to that other roll up. So you're still going down to the L One, basically to the Ethereum bridge contract on L One, waiting for that challenge period and then going up to Op chain two. And so I think ways that they can get around this, it does lead. I think the most obvious route is to have basically this shared sequencer network so that the different roll ups, if they use the same sequencer, they can trust each other. Right.
00:18:49.126 - 00:20:07.854, Speaker B: The whole point of that seven day period is because there's one sequencer that knows the truth on one roll up, there's another sequencer that is not willing to directly trust that other roll up. And so it has to wait, basically, for their ultimate source of truth, which is L One, Ethereum L One to tell them, okay, it's totally valid. So where I think this starts playing out is, you know, definitely a shared sequencer network and then, you know, potentially this idea of these L Three S that settle to optimism, main net or settle to base, that's another way that you could get around this without having to wait, like, the seven days. So, yeah, I think that there's a lot more work to be done there in order to make that multi chain super chain future possible. Whereas with Cosmos, every chain is its ultimate source of truth. Right? And so as long as you trust that other chain, you can trust what they're telling you via IBC. I think that that's kind of the biggest missing piece here.
00:20:07.854 - 00:20:37.670, Speaker B: And the biggest question I have is can they figure out a way to replicate the benefits of IBC between L two to L two to L two? Or is this really going to look more like is there another layer missing in this picture where most of the super chains or most of the op chains in the super chain world are actually L three S? That to me would make a lot more sense.
00:20:37.740 - 00:21:26.230, Speaker A: This is just more of like a market structure question here. But I am very curious to see how many of these op chains are really necessary. Right. And one question that I'm kind of asking myself, we haven't really got into Base in general, but it'll be interesting to see who ends up attracting more of the kind of users and activity right between optimism mainnet versus Base, because what Base has going for it. We talked about it kind of in detail on the roundup edition of Bell Curve that came out on Friday was it has users. There's 108,000,000 users that Coinbase can funnel into this chain. And frankly, 108,000,000 is like an order of magnitude larger than even the most successful.
00:21:26.230 - 00:22:12.230, Speaker A: It's much larger even than Ethereum, right. So that level of users is unprecedented. The disadvantages that Base has is, I think, the biggest one, ultimately that it's going to have to overcome is, okay, there's some regulatory stuff, right? So in terms of flexibility, Coinbase is limited, right. Critically, they didn't launch with a token, right? They're not going to be monetizing mev right off the bat. I think there's opportunity once they decentralize the sequencer set, but they can't do some of that stuff already. I think the other thing too, is that even though Coinbase has, frankly, one of the best brands in crypto, it risks still being seen as like a corporate chain, right, as opposed to something like optimism, which is kind of this retail, grassroots, authentic to Ethereum kind of feeling. Also, it has a token.
00:22:12.230 - 00:22:32.234, Speaker A: So I think, frankly, watching where activity sort of flows in between just those two to begin with will be very interesting. And then to your earlier point, I'm very curious to see how many of these generalized kind of layer two spaces do we ultimately need before we start seeing a bunch of kind of layer threes.
00:22:32.282 - 00:23:21.680, Speaker B: I totally agree. I think the role of these general purpose or let's just call it optimism main net and Base will shift over time. And the reason I say that is because I think general purpose L two S are not all that different than general purpose L ones. Once they get a ton of users in traction and specific applications that are dominating that activity will eventually want to move to their own space because they'll deal with congestion. They'll deal with fees, they'll still be you're kind of struggling with value capture. You don't basically have your own app specific environment. Right.
00:23:21.680 - 00:24:17.146, Speaker B: And so I think that the role of Optimism, mainet and Base will be basically serving as the easiest place to stand up a smart contract app, find PMF iterate, and then eventually move to your own L Three. Now, the pace of that really depends on just how fast they can make some of this friction of living on your own L three. Mainly the cross chain messaging friction, how fast they can solve that. But I do think that Optimism and Base will serve as onboarding tools for users and easy launch opportunities for new projects. But over time, I think that they will shift to being more of a communication hub between the different L Three S that they can all leverage.
00:24:17.338 - 00:24:59.446, Speaker A: Yeah, so I want to bookmark that exact language they use, a communication hub, and I want to return to that later. But next I kind of want to go into what actually is the Op stack. So again, if you're following along via video, you'll bear with me here. We'll kind of describe these different layers. But basically what we're looking at on the left of this chart is kind of all of the different layers of the Op stack, which at the know, starting at the top and then going down, there's the Governance layer, there's the Settlement layer, there's the execution layer, the derivation layer, the sequencing layer and data availability. They've also got different sort of solutions. In the Governance layer, there's kind of multi SIG and then this Broad, which sort of Governance module.
00:24:59.446 - 00:25:21.822, Speaker A: In settlement. There's attestations. There's also these are proposed, right. So not in Stone, Canon and ZK proofs execution layer is the EVM derivation layer. Is there's roll ups today there's a proposed indexer sequencing layer is Optimism. And then I guess this is the circle optimist. That's a decentralized network of sequencers and optimism.
00:25:21.822 - 00:25:48.826, Speaker A: Data availability, ethereum and then EIP 4844 on the right we've got the Cosmos kind of stack and that's where we've got Consensus and Networking, which is tendermint. Then there's the ABCI into this sort of application part. There's the cosmos. SDK at the center. And then around know, sort of in this fanning out is you've got Staking, Slashing, IBC and Governance, all the SDK modules, basically.
00:25:48.928 - 00:25:49.302, Speaker B: Yep.
00:25:49.366 - 00:25:54.714, Speaker A: Right, exactly. So how do you, kind know, compare and contrast these two stacks?
00:25:54.762 - 00:27:16.402, Speaker B: Miles yeah, so, I mean, first of all, the Cosmos stack is truly the full stack, where the Op stack is basically plugging into existing parts of the full stack, which includes Ethereum down at the very bottom of the Base layer. Right? And so maybe starting with Cosmos, they basically give you a way to a consensus and networking engine at the bottom. Obviously you're not inheriting any security, so that is only as valuable as the validator set that you can recruit and the value of your token then they're giving you basically the SDK, which is a set of application modules. And what's not shown here is Cosmosm, which is a virtual machine similar to the EVM. And so I think the Cosmos SDK, the Cosmos stack really did start from scratch here and that's why it has taken a long time to build. Whereas the Op stack is leveraging a lot of existing tools like leveraging the network effects of the EVM. It's not saying we're going to build a new VM, it's saying we're going to port basically what all the apps are using already the Op stack.
00:27:16.402 - 00:28:06.886, Speaker B: What's really being introduced here is like the sequencing layer. I think that's still giving a set of tools to have different options for how you want your roll up or your chain to be handle. Sequencing, that's a big piece of this, I think. And you're basically trying to again make it as easy as possible to get from zero to one here. I do think that the Op stack is reusing a lot of what Ethereum has given it and that's why it is so aligned with Ethereum as well. But maybe I think important here to talk about why a shared stack is.
00:28:07.068 - 00:29:23.338, Speaker A: Really powerful before you go through that because I think I know where you're going with that and I want to pick apart one difference that I sort of see in the stacks we've spent a lot of the conversations about in this season. There's been an extreme focus kind of on the execution layer, right? And the Op stack very noticeably on this diagram. There are multiple different either solutions that exist today or proposed solutions. But around the execution layer there's just the EVM, which we know has its own set of limitations. And this to me gets at kind of the cultural difference here that you might not even see reflected in sort of the technology, which is Cosmos has been kind of laser focused on day one for the product whereas Ethereum has approached it from very different kind of challenge set. So it's just interesting to me to look at even if you go to the optimism website they see optimism mainnet really concentrating around kind of the data availability layer and being much more loose and vague around the governance layer. And you see that reflected in kind of the dialogue from people who are deeply involved in ETH or scaling in ETH.
00:29:23.338 - 00:29:53.770, Speaker A: They're always talking about these kind of data availability sort of questions. In cosmos, it's very different. Right. A, the governance is much more contentious and dramatic as we kind of saw from some of their proposals this week, or maybe it was last week. And then also there's this extreme focus on the execution layer and highlighting why that's an important layer to focus on. So I just think it's important to, again, kind of on this idea of the collision course there still are cultural differences even though they're kind of merged.
00:29:54.270 - 00:31:40.460, Speaker B: I agree with that. And I think it does get into kind of the Op stack I think is extremely powerful for scaling and I think the Cosmos stack is extremely powerful for really deep innovation, where innovation that is only possible when the chain understands what's happening at the application layer. We've talked about this a little bit, but these are things like true full stack privacy through threshold encryption or other sort of encryption mechanisms that really require a dedicated validator set or things that again, have to happen at the validator set, like duidx's order book matching system. That to me is where I think it'll be interesting to see what sort of decision an application developer would make when they're looking at, okay, I basically get all the scaling properties I need through building on the Op stack, I get all the users. Right? So maybe that's a good place to start. And then at a certain point, will they run into any sort of, I would say, inability to innovate to the product because they don't own the full stack. I think that that's where it will be interesting to see just how many products need their full chain need to own the full stack, basically in order to deliver what they.
00:31:42.750 - 00:32:45.194, Speaker A: A that's that's a limitation of no matter how exciting this and this is, right. I think optimism in coinbase, they deserve a huge pat on the back. This is amazing news. But also that is still the limitation of this particular design architecture, right? If you have a shared set of sequencers, there isn't that understanding or this idea that's kind of sonny and Dave were talking to us about what your validators can do for you and having the validators at the very base of consensus understand what's going on on the application layer. But I sort of interrupted you before. You were kind of talking about, I think, kind of starting to get into the original role of the Hub here and I want to maybe tee this up by this is the very first FAQ, which is what happens to optimism mainnet, right? Because this is where they launched the superchain and in their words, the optimism mainnet isn't going anywhere and for now it's business as usual in the long run. We envision it as an important coordination hub, one of the most critical pieces of the superchain.
00:32:45.194 - 00:32:56.920, Speaker A: So that wording is pretty interesting. Can you kind of get into I think it would be good to kind of do like a little bit of a history lesson about the Hub and what its original intended purpose was.
00:32:57.530 - 00:33:59.290, Speaker B: When I read this and I also was thinking about with base in mind, my mind immediately went to the Cosmos Hub and really the role of the Hub just as a little history. Right? So the Cosmos had an ICO, which got funding basically to build out all of the parts of. The Cosmos stack to help grow the Cosmos ecosystem. And the specific role of the Hub at that point was to be really a messaging hub so that each of the chains did not need to maintain point to point connections and take on that risk and instead could basically connect to the Hub. And then from the Hub they can route to any other chain that's in the ecosystem. The Hub's other role was really user onboarding because the Hub was the atom. The token is really the only Cosmos ecosystem token that was listed on centralized exchanges.
00:33:59.290 - 00:35:15.426, Speaker B: And I see Base and optimism mainnet playing a similar role. Here you have base, which is going to facilitate onboarding, and then you have optimism mainnet, which I think, over time transitions from less of a hub sorry. Less of the home of all the applications and the majority of usage happening on optimism main net to being really how all these L Three S built on top of using the Op stack can communicate more frictionlessly, rather than having to basically wait for the challenge periods on L One, et cetera, et cetera. And so, yeah, I think it is interesting because Op like optimism. Optimism, I think is playing a similar role to the Hub here. Their original role was basically to build out the stack and eventually facilitate communication between all these different chains that use its stack. And Base is kind of filling that role of being the onboarding tool by having going to users where they are.
00:35:15.528 - 00:36:19.186, Speaker A: Yeah, one question that I have for you is one of the challenges right, initially is kind of this idea of value accrual. So even when I hear you describe base as being kind of the onboarding but eventually these application developers, the one that are successful, once they've gotten kind of the easy onboarding and they've gotten the users and the distribution, that kind of this optimism ethereum pipeline give them, eventually they'll kind of want more control of the application. Move to l three. In a way, it's kind of a rising tide lifts all boats, but there's also a little cooperation going on in between optimism main net and Base. And you could almost see like a user journey, right, going right from Coinbase to Base and then to their own L three and sort of skipping optimism main net. And one of the challenges for the Hub or Atom in general, which is the ICO that they raised the funds in, is there was never much thought given to value accrual. Right.
00:36:19.186 - 00:36:26.914, Speaker A: That was always kind of the challenge for that. So not that we really want to speculate on kind of token prices here, but can you kind of dig into that a little bit further?
00:36:26.962 - 00:38:20.800, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that eventually you could see somewhat of a value accrual tension between apps on optimism main net versus launching their own L three to get closer, more control of their block space, get basically a closer relationship with the user, I would say by having your own L Three. So what is optimism? If optimism isn't really the home of all this activity that's driving where the actual apps live, that's driving transaction fees and all the normal value accrual methods, what is it going to be? And I think that's kind of where Adam found know, or the hub found itself over the past year, or, you know, the majority of all the activity right, is not the Hub doesn't do anything but the activity know on these different app chains. And the app chains turned out to prefer point to point connections for the most part. So the original thesis around being like the messaging hub, there's really no value accrual and it wasn't really playing out here. I could see optimism kind of being at a similar place at some point. But the big difference is if it is all these L Three s are using optimism main net as a shared communication layer, that there probably is some mev there that optimism will have or Adam never will have. Think there are parallels, but the role is really to build out the Stack, find a way to onboard users and then let the application developers basically take these tools and continue to innovate on it themselves.
00:38:20.800 - 00:39:05.530, Speaker B: So I think that's the other piece here that will be interesting is similar to the Cosmos Stack, how the app chains are now sort of the biggest contributors to the Stack, to the Cosmos SDK. When do the L Three start contributing to this as well? Because that's when the network effects really pick up, when it's not all on optimism and their team to drive this forward. Your biggest users of the Stack are also the ones that are continuing to innovate. I think that's really kind of what we've seen in terms of the network effects of the SDK. And if optimism succeeds here, then that's what will start to happen on that side.
00:39:05.600 - 00:39:50.006, Speaker A: Can we maybe dig into that idea more on sort of the network effects that accrue to these SDKs that get escape velocity? It's something that we've been talking about quite a bit this season. And one of the things that stuck out to me about the launch of Base is that they said they've considered launching a chain twice before in the past. And one of the analog that I'm sure that they were looking at was Binance smart chain, right? And that was actually originated in the Cosmos ecosystem. So you kind of described give us again, I'm having you be our history lesson here again, but just on kind of the experience that Binance has had.
00:39:50.028 - 00:41:17.970, Speaker B: With its smart chain, I think that stuck out to me too, because I actually didn't know that they had considered launching their own chain before. And I'm sure that they were looking at Binance and saying, look at all this activity and it's not a truly decentralized blockchain, but it's closer to onboarding users to decentralized applications than just letting them speculate on coins within a centralized exchange. Right? And then, so they have to figure out, okay, if we're going to launch our own blockchain, what's the best way to do it. And basically going back to BNB, they took the Cosmos stack with Tendermint and the SDK on top and basically forked it and then built basically a mini EVM chain that is secured by just, I think, like 20 or 30 validators. And then they use a fork of IBC to bridge between those two chains. And I think it stuck out to me that they chose to take this open source software, rebrand it as their own, and then really kind of just forget any sort of alignment to the Cosmos community. What ended up happening earlier this year, or maybe it was last year, was that the Binance bridge was hacked.
00:41:17.970 - 00:43:04.150, Speaker B: And that's because that they were using an old version of IBC that had not been patched yet. And so you can kind of see some of the lessons that Coinbase has maybe taken from that and to say, okay, let's definitely reuse existing software, we're going to fork optimism, essentially, but we're going to launch this in alignment with optimism and its broader community. And that way if you are saying we're going to upgrade our base chain in alignment with any upgrades to the Op stack, you're essentially outsourcing a lot of that maintenance and development that Binance clearly would have benefited from because you're guaranteed to be using the latest version of whatever software of that stack that you've picked. And so I think that they probably had looked at Cosmos chains before. They probably thought about something that we haven't even thought of, but picking okay, ethereum. So we have alignment with the broader community. That's very strategic then picking a stack that's somewhat battle tested but in optimism and building an alignment with them so that you're not basically reinventing the wheel building from scratch and then kind of sitting out on your own island hoping that none of the technology you forked from whatever the original launch was, has broken or had bugs that you never identified.
00:43:04.150 - 00:43:22.094, Speaker B: So, yeah, I think it's really I appreciate the strategy and appreciate that we're probably taking some lessons from BNB, but are building definitely a better version of it that's more aligned with the community.
00:43:22.292 - 00:43:39.042, Speaker A: Yeah, it's an important point to highlight, I think, because we've sort of been talking about the network effects that accrue to an SDK in one very specific sense, but there's also this kind of crowdsourcing upgrades sense that's very important to.
00:43:39.176 - 00:44:16.174, Speaker B: Yeah, I'd say that it's sharing a communication standard. That's an incredibly powerful network effect, and we'll see just how that plays out. Maybe the other point is that once more and more developers start using this, they'll start contributing to the stack themselves. And so Coinbase is not only outsourcing maintenance and development of the stack to Optimism the team. But hopefully at some point it will be Optimism's team as well as these app specific roll ups teams that are leveraging the stack and improving it.
00:44:16.292 - 00:44:46.870, Speaker A: Yeah. By the way, I think even just thinking about this right now, it is interesting that Binance Smart chain, for whatever reason, kind of inherited the brand of its kind of corporate overlord, right. In the sense that when I kind of think about this idea of crypto being a 24/7 global casino, finance is the embodiment of that. Right. And so is Binance smart chain. Right. I'm not sure, to be honest.
00:44:46.870 - 00:45:12.110, Speaker A: It's probably one of the corners I know least about crypto, but I know it actually has a lot of users and organic usage and it's really just speculating on kind of meme projects overall. So it'll be interesting to see if that happens. Similarly with Coinbase and Base, the chain inherits the brand of Coinbase, and it's unclear to me what exactly that will be within a Web Three kind of context.
00:45:13.570 - 00:46:00.800, Speaker B: Yeah. The big difference, again, I think BNB has its own ecosystem of apps, and most of them are also forks of existing Ethereum apps like Compound and Uniswap V. Two, I think Base, again, similar to the way that they have aligned with Optimism to build this, they're going to be, I think, pulling in the blue chip applications. I don't think you're going to see a lot of I think you'll have some Coinbase products like CBE will launch there, and I'm sure they have many more in mind. But I do think it's not going to be a bunch of new names in terms of the leading applications on Base, whereas with BNB, it's Pancake swap. It's not uniswap. Right.
00:46:00.800 - 00:46:04.770, Speaker B: I think that will be a big difference as well.
00:46:04.840 - 00:46:42.566, Speaker A: Maybe we can start to wind down here just by talking about what is left to build. Right. So Optimism has kind of outlined this new thesis of the superchain, but it's still very early days, as you pointed out earlier in this discussion. So for those of you who are following along via video, we're kind of looking at what is still needed to formalize this vision. And they've got six things. So one is withdrawal claims, or withdrawal claims rely on a trusted set of chain attesters. Two, cross chain transactions are slow because they require waiting a challenge period.
00:46:42.566 - 00:47:11.046, Speaker A: Three, cross chain transactions are async breaking the ability to perform atomic crosschain transactions like flash loans. Four, posting transactions to the superchain is not scalable because the transaction data must be submitted to the layer. One, which has limited capacity. Five, there are no easy frameworks for building scalable DApps, which utilize many op chains. And six, there's no easy wallet for managing assets and DApps across many op chains. So what kind of sticks out at you? I guess from yes, I think this.
00:47:11.068 - 00:47:46.734, Speaker B: Is again, what sticks out to me is that these are a lot of the same problems that Cosmos has been focusing on because it's saying, okay, we have this network of chains now. It's no longer everything living in one place. What needs to be built in terms of infrastructure to make those products the best versions of themselves? And I think it has a lot to do with first, can you enable fast bridging between them, so not full interoperability, but not seven day waiting periods.
00:47:46.782 - 00:47:47.380, Speaker A: Right.
00:47:48.150 - 00:49:03.626, Speaker B: Then second is, okay, how do you recreate or something as close to recreating the composability that yearn? Finance has with compound because they live in the same execution environment. And so that's when you start to get into, okay, when can we make contract calls on another chain? Which is where IBC has evolved to now from know transfers to actually controlling accounts on other chains. And I think that they're going to get there eventually. That's where they're kind of talking about at number three. Right. You can't basically have a Flash loan type thing that's leveraging a contract on one chain to use another application on another because they don't trust each other. Basically, they're building towards, okay, we've embraced this app chain vision and now they're, I think, solving for a lot of the same problems that we've seen IBC start to address.
00:49:03.808 - 00:50:08.720, Speaker A: Yeah. You know what's funny, actually, this reminds me of a little bit is one of the things that jumps out is it seems funnily enough. Like cosmos and ethereum align a lot on kind of their roadmap, but they also sort of align on the design trade offs that they've chosen with the big difference being that there will always be more optionality and flexibility in terms of your apps in cosmos when you control a full sovereign, full stack app chain. But in general, the superchain is kind of just another shift towards having the same sort of vision. If you look at something like Solana, I think this creates a little bit of positioning opportunity for them because they are still trying to do this all on one layer. And one of the big advantages there is you can do these sorts of atomic transactions and composability just works a lot better with much less friction. So it's just interesting.
00:50:08.720 - 00:50:24.370, Speaker A: And frankly, I don't know what kind of use cases are enabled outside of Flash loans by being able to do things atomically or not asynchronously, but it is curious to just see that.
00:50:24.440 - 00:51:19.670, Speaker B: Yeah, I agree. I think the value of synchronous composability versus async composability is still very TBD. And I think that's because we have not seen the infra that enables really effective async composability interchange accounts, again via IBC will be the first version of this. But, yeah, I do see what you're saying. In terms of a positioning opportunity for Solana, if they keep the chain stable, then they should lean into this, basically, and think about what can we basically build on Solana? Because everything's living in the same place is not possible on Ethereum or Cosmos if this is where Ethereum is going.
00:51:19.740 - 00:51:53.842, Speaker A: So let me ask you this, I guess just to really dig into this idea of Cosmos and Ethereum being on similar roadmaps. It seems to me an idea that we've talked about earlier in this episode, but also on the season, that the Ethereum roadmap kind of continues to borrow some of the best ideas that come out of Cosmos, right? Whether it's kind of, I think lazy ledger. You could probably draw a pretty straight line in between the announcement of that white paper in 2019 and this new kind of roadmap, the superchain being the last demonstrable data point of ideas that.
00:51:53.896 - 00:52:08.574, Speaker B: Originated in the Cosmos ecosystem, essentially communication hubs as well, right? The role of optimism mainnet changing to be a communication hub similar to what we've seen Adam's kind of role in Cosmos. Yeah, totally agree.
00:52:08.632 - 00:53:01.000, Speaker A: Yeah. What does that look like in reverse? Why haven't we seen some of the ideas or the proofs or whatever it is that is being kind of pioneered in efland kind of flow the other way into the Cosmos ecosystem? Because what I think the challenge there looks like to me and now having thought a little bit about it for the season is there isn't that kind of a subset of users, right? There isn't that unique shared security. There are competing models for how security might work, but I think that the bottom part of the stack which has not been the focus of Cosmos for a long time. There's still a lot of work to be done there and I'm just curious why the Ethereum solution hasn't flowed back into Cosmos. And I'm curious how you think shared security is going to work in a Cosmos world.
00:53:02.250 - 00:54:30.962, Speaker B: I would push back a little bit on that because I do think that some concepts from Ethereum are now taking hold in Cosmos. So the one that I would say is probably less impactful has been the EVM coming to Cosmos. And so many chains in Cosmos use an EVM instead of Cosmosm and don't really leverage the capabilities of the Cosmos SDK all that much further applications. The other piece is I think a lot of the shared security concepts from Ethereum are coming to Cosmos. And so you're starting to see with consumer chains on The Hub, which I believe is up for a vote right now, whether for that Hub upgrade to see the concept of hey, maybe as an early stage app with no users. We should rent security from a high market cap chain like the Hub, find PMF and then decide if we really need our own validator set. I think mesh security is part of that as well, but definitely a more bottoms up view.
00:54:30.962 - 00:54:59.514, Speaker B: But in general, I would say that the reason it hasn't really flowed. A ton of ideas have not flown in the reverse from Ethereum to Cosmos is really because I think things are built on Ethereum with L one consensus, censorship, resistance. Everything is being built in a way that is still valuing. That the most right.
00:54:59.552 - 00:55:02.198, Speaker A: That ethos, that design choice sits at the center of.
00:55:02.384 - 00:55:47.110, Speaker B: And they're almost finding ways to build powerful applications in spite of that design choice. Right. Whereas with Cosmos, it's saying, we're going to build as best applications we possibly can, and then the architecture will be based off of what enables that product to be built. And I think now they're seeing, okay, we can build amazing products, but it's not a good situation if there's more TVL on your chain than the market cap of your token. Right. That leads to very dangerous situations. And so they're saying, okay, we're going to actually scale this to hundreds and thousands of app chains.
00:55:47.110 - 00:56:28.470, Speaker B: We need to figure out a shared security method. And that's going to be a combination of ICS and mesh security. And, Frank, I could even see Eigen layer coming over and having E three Staking as a portion of Cosmos security for these app chains. So I think you could see a world with app chains that are secured by a combination of their native Staking token, closely aligned other chains through mesh security. Maybe they're also renting from the Hub, and maybe they're also secured by some restaked ETH. Right. Very non correlated asset.
00:56:28.470 - 00:56:40.586, Speaker B: And, yeah, I would say that that's the one piece where I do think it is flowing in that direction, whereas Cosmos is looking at starting to see the benefits of shared security.
00:56:40.688 - 00:56:49.898, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. Well, it's very timely, right, that this is sort of rolling out at the same time that you and I are kind of thinking deeply about it this season.
00:56:49.994 - 00:57:33.982, Speaker B: I think it will be validated when we see a big Ethereum application or maybe just a lot of new applications being built as L three S. I agree. They'll want to make that distinction that Base and optimism main net are effectively general purpose chains, right? And they're building the stack to enable a future with thousands of app specific chains or sector specific chains. But I think that I don't want to confuse viewers because base is not an app chain itself. Whenever we get Uniswap l three on optimism, that's when we can say we were right.
00:57:34.116 - 00:58:12.006, Speaker A: Yeah. And it's mean. Daniel Alzhe wrote a piece about this, why UniChain is Inevitable, and he had a bunch of arguments, right, for why uniswap might want to have its own chain. And the kind of discussion was, well, maybe they'll go over into the Cosmos ecosystem when really there's sort of a door number three in that scenario, which is to launch their own layer three built on either optimism or some other sort of solution. And that makes a lot of sense because they're already so aligned with kind of that core Ethereum community that I think leaving that would feel pretty silly.
00:58:12.198 - 00:59:15.402, Speaker B: Yeah, I agree. I totally agree. And I think that a lot of apps will have that same line of thinking and then the kind of decision point will basically be something like where Doidx was, they were saying, well, okay, we still can't make this product without our full stack, or if it's like something like that. Right? Because you are getting a lot of the benefits of an app chain with an L three, but there's still going to be a category or a bunch of types of capabilities that require a full stack app chain. But yeah, it's a powerful value prop, right. Basically get as close as possible to the benefits of an app chain, but you don't lose alignment with Ethereum, you don't have to pay for security, and you still have all of these tools from the Op stack that you can leverage. So you're not basically creating a new blockchain or roll up from scratch.
00:59:15.466 - 00:59:51.206, Speaker A: It's fascinating. And I guess probably the best way to conclude this is just congratulations to both optimism and Coinbase. Pretty brave move of them to do this, especially launching at a time when regulation is kind of front and center for them, certainly. And it kind of seems like they're under attack from a bunch of different vectors. This is just very cool. Also, it's that 108,000,000 number. That is a big number and even if you look at I made this observation in the roundup, but also I'm not trying to pick on them, but MetaMask has like 6 million no daily active users.
00:59:51.206 - 01:00:06.750, Speaker A: I mean, there's a huge might be one play, actually, but yeah, that's a huge difference in scale here, right? If Coinbase is only successful in moving even a small portion of users into this layer too, I mean, it's still huge.
01:00:06.900 - 01:00:28.502, Speaker B: Yeah, I could not agree more. They're really leaning into kind of the evolution of their role in the ecosystem, right? From being just facilitating the speculation of this technology to being a core part of how people use the technology. And so hats off to them. Totally great.
01:00:28.556 - 01:00:31.250, Speaker A: All right, partner, this was a fun one. Hope you all enjoyed.
