00:00:00.880 - 00:00:53.944, Speaker A: We're here to talk about liquid staking and restaking. So what is liquid staking infrastructure? Liquid staking infrastructure is basically this solution that's kind of come into theme right now that allows anyone to create their own solution, their own custom ethereum staking solution. And there's various different flavors and manners of this. We've got us Geode, we have stakewise, v three with their vault system. We have tenderize, and I'm sure various others coming into play. One of the main things about liquor staking infrastructure that's kind of different to your traditional ast solutions is it's a tooling offering. It's a factory where you can basically deploy instances of smart contract infrastructure that can basically, in effect, forks and creates multiple copies and vaults or pools.
00:00:53.944 - 00:02:19.266, Speaker A: And the idea is that it kind of acts as a software, as a service kind of solution, or a factory, really, to create a new standard. And one of the benefits of this is if you think of traditional staking as a service, every single provider creates it differently. Everyone has a different tech stack, everyone has a different design. And how do you know which design is better than others? And do you really want to go around doing tons of due diligence across the different LST providers to work out what makes the most sense, what's the most secure, and what's the best for you? Whereas with these infrastructure providers, well, if you know the stack is through Geode, or you know the stack is through stakewise, then you know every single version of that infrastructure is the same, or at least it's through the same smart contract infrastructure, and therefore has a base kind of standard which is set across that particular protocol or industry. Now, why is staking infrastructure important? The main thing for me is improved security. As I mentioned before, by providing this kind of benchmark standard, we have less versions of different types of code where code could go wrong. If you have one, then, as I said, it allows you to pick one, and then, you know, that's secure.
00:02:19.266 - 00:03:29.030, Speaker A: Every single version is through the same stack. Increases competition within the space. And as you know, within the LST market right now, we need, we need diversification. And I personally think switching from a paradigm of using a third party, which we currently see today, that is Lido and others, to running your own solution, where you have full control of your own infrastructure, you have control of your own keys, might make a dent in the current monopoly market we see within liquid stake. So I guess a bit of a shill here, but like, I wanted to kind of give a good example before I get into restaking of how liquid staking infrastructure really works. So how Geode works is we are a library or a developer tool that enables anyone to build their own fully custom ethereum staking solution in a manner that gives you the control and ownership as if you built it yourself, but without any of the work. So you can build your own lido public pool, you can build your own fracs with synthetic minting, you can build your own private pool accessible only to yourself and specified whitelisted addresses, literally.
00:03:29.030 - 00:04:13.020, Speaker A: The point is, it is a library, fully customizable. We just add modules to our stack that gives more and more functionality over time. So to do that, you tell us your custom parameters. So what do you want within your staking pool? Do you want a token? Do you not? Do you want it to be rebasing? Do you want to be value accrual? Do you want no token at all? And what do you want to call it? And various other factors that you choose within the pool. You then have the opportunity to deploy your own instance of your smart contracts. So this is, think of it like a Uniswap pool. When you deploy a Uniswap pool, you choose the different tokens you want to trade against, you choose your fee, and then you deploy that pool into the nether.
00:04:13.020 - 00:04:48.134, Speaker A: And this is the same. So this is like the summary page where it shows you all the different information you've chosen. And then you just click deploy or click. In this example, it's one transaction, and then your pool is spun up. And then we have this competitive node operator marketplace where you can delegate ETH to node operators of your choice in increments of 32. So you can totally manage your risk profile by going right, I want to delegate five validators to stakelead, 20 validators to blockscape, 50 to block daemon totally as you see fit. And then you stake your ether.
00:04:48.134 - 00:06:22.616, Speaker A: So this is either your own assets you can stake within your pool, or you connect your front end to our smart contracts, or rather your instance of our smart contracts. And then suddenly you have a full staking offering to your users on your front end of your website under your own brand, etcetera. And this is what I mean by setting a standard and helping diversify Ethereum stake. Because imagine basically removing this kind of infrastructure removes the barriers to entry that comes with staking to allow anyone, whether it's myself as a personal individual with my friends, and I have a multisig, I want to create a squad staking for me and my friends all the way through to an aave or a compound or even a JPMorgan could in theory, use infrastructure like this to spin up their own staking solution to offer to their users. So how does staking infrastructure come into restaking? Restaking is a really interesting industry, and liquid staking infrastructure is really primed to kind of capture and take advantage of the benefits that come with restaking. Not only does it provide additional yield opportunities for users, like you can increase the apy of your pool, which alone is pretty compelling, but it also allows you to generate more revenue from your LSD system. So with your own pool, you can charge your own staking as a service fee, just like any other LST provider.
00:06:22.616 - 00:07:09.258, Speaker A: And that's based off the yield on the particular pool. So if you can increase that yield, that is through restaking, then suddenly you're generating more revenue because you're taking a slice of a bigger pie. And then you can provide more governance as well. So you can actually allow your community to vote on the various different restaking opportunities that come in within this, this solution. However, with restaking, there comes more risk. And risk isn't just from the additional slashing costs you take on board by accessing restaking, but more from an ecosystem and a network standpoint as well. So when it comes to the risks, we need to make sure we have solid diversification across restaking networks we want to avoid.
00:07:09.258 - 00:08:07.144, Speaker A: Or rather, we want to learn from the lessons we've had so far around the LST space. We have huge monopolies within LST with, I think Lido has 77% of market share and nearly 33% of ETH staked. So what we don't want to have is the same thing happen to the restaking industry. Why is monopolies bad within restaking? Well, okay, let's think of an example. You can't have restaking with one particular AV's. If you have all of your restake consolidated to one or two avss or one or two providers, then suddenly you kind of have a huge amount of ethereum collateral that is like subject into risk of slashing from the rest from that particular AV's or that particular restating provider. So a good example of this is like cross chain bridging insurance.
00:08:07.144 - 00:09:13.934, Speaker A: If you take up cross chain bridging insurance through an AV's and that cross chain bridge gets hacked, then all of the collateral within that AV's gets drained. And imagine if, say 20% of ETH stake was under that particular AV's in this monopolistic kind of scenario, then that is pretty catastrophic. For ethereum security. Right? So we need to make sure that restaking is. Or rather we just need to make sure that we learn from our mistakes that we've had so far in the LST industry and not just let it go wild with one provider having, you know, guys like block swap with the restaking, cloud, eigenlayer and hopefully more providers coming in in the future. I think it's going to be really healthy for the wider network and we need to make sure as a wider community that we actually be careful with restaking and not just get carried away with the new tech and the new yield opportunities and actually consider, well, how are we going to make this diverse? Because if we don't make this diverse, we are going to just have one provider with a select few Avss that take the majority of the collateral within Ethereum and then we're going to be potentially in a lot of trouble. And I think this kind of goes across.
00:09:13.934 - 00:09:34.654, Speaker A: It's a constant theme within Ethereum generally, to be honest. And I think it's something we always need to remember. Restaking is new enough at the moment that we should really take heed to this and try and do something from the beginning before it gets too big. And that's everything from me. Thank you.
